{"id": "2272979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272979", "title": "Charles Edward Jennings", "text": "Charles Edward Jennings\n\nGeneral Charles Edward Saul Jennings (19 October 1751 – 11 December 1799), sometimes romanticised as Brave Kilmaine, was an Irish soldier and revolutionary who served France in the eighteenth century. He was committed to the cause of Irish independence and an active supporter of the French Revolution. Jennings is known to have been an associate of Theobald Wolfe Tone and served as a brigade and division commander under Napoleon I.\n\nJennings served in the American War of Independence and the French Revolutionary Wars. He played a minor role in the Irish independence movement. Jennings was known for his personal reserve and as one of the most charismatic Irish generals of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic period. Though he was not ennobled, he is sometimes referred to as de Kilmaine and Baron de Kilmaine in reference to the Jennings' ancestral home in Kilmaine, County Mayo.\n\nJennings was born on 19 October 1751 at Saul's Court, Temple Bar, Dublin, Ireland. His father, Dr. Theobald Jennings, of Polaniran (Ironpool), Tuam, County Galway (see Soraca Jonin) was a prominent physician who married a cousin, Eleanor Saul, daughter of Laurence Saul, a wealthy Dublin distiller. In 1738, Dr. Jennings and Eleanor left Ireland and settled in Tonnay-Charente in south-west France. In 1751, when Eleanor became pregnant, she left France for Dublin in order that her child might be born in Ireland. Jennings spent his early boyhood in Saul's Court with his relatives. When he was 11 years old, he left Ireland and joined his father in France. Jennings was educated in Tonnay-Charente and quickly became proficient in French.\n\nJennings began his military career in 1764 at the age of 14 when he entered the Austrian army. After seven years' service as a junior officer in Austria, he entered the French army in 1774. In September, 1778 Kilmaine was appointed adjutant of the Volontaires-étrangers de Lauzun (Lauzun's Legion), a mercenary unit owned and commanded by the Duc de Lauzun, Armand Louis de Gontaut. He served with this unit in Senegal in 1779 and in America under Rochambeau (1780–83), and remained after it was reorganized as a hussar regiment.\n\nIn 1780, Jennings was appointed sous-lieutenant of Lauzun's Legion. He served under Rochambeau and the Marquis de Lafayette during the American Revolutionary War. He was deeply affected by his experiences in America. This, combined with the impressions made upon him during his youth in Ireland and the teachings of his father, caused Jennings to imbibe strongly the revolutionary ideals of the era. He developed strong republican principles and upon his return to France he became an energetic supporter of the French Revolution.\n\nIn 1786, he was awarded the title lieutenant in command, and took control of the regiment of Hussars of Duc de Lauzun. Two years later he attained the rank of captain. A growing military reputation brought him further promotion to chef d'escadron.\n\nOn 21 March 1791, seven months shy of his 40th birthday, he honorably retired from the army, was given the title of Baron and took the civic oath, sworn by all persons as a pre-condition for French citizenship. This was especially important leading up to and during the French revolution, particularly among foreigners and nobility. For almost a year he pursued family life and philanthropic interests. In 1792, by personal invitation of Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette, Jennings rejoined the French Army when war broke out between France and monarchic Europe.\n\nReinstated as a chef d'escadron, Jennings served in the French Revolutionary Wars. He was a Corps Commander under Charles François Dumouriez and Lafayette. He performed with great valor at the Battle of Valmy in September 1792, when a unit of hussars under his command saved a whole French division from annihilation. In November 1792 at the Battle of Jemappes, he fought with remarkable bravery. When that battle seemed lost, Kilmaine and the Duke of Chartres (Louis Philippe) turned apparent defeat into victory. On the field he was raised to the rank of Chief Colonel, and from that day was ever afterwards known as \"le brillant et courageux Kilmaine\".\n\nKilmaine continued to serve with the Army of the North, and proved to be one of its ablest officers. Following the victory at Jemappes, the Army of the North comprised 48 infantry battalions and 3,200 cavalrymen. By December, 1792, thanks to the neglect of the Revolutionary Government, these troops were shirtless, shoeless, starving and in rags. Fifteen hundred men deserted. Kilmaine's cavalry were critically short of boots, saddles, weapons and horses. Nearly 6,000 troop and baggage horses died at Lisle and Tongres for want of forage. Honourable testimony has been given to the unceasing efforts of Kilmaine to preserve order among his soldiers amid these horrors. He frequently endeavoured by private contribution to provide subsistence for his men, who roved about in bands, robbing the villages around their cantonments at Aix-la-Chapelle. Many of Kilmaine's soldiers were murdered by vengeful peasants when found straggling alone away from their billets. Kilmaine was named general of brigade on 8 March 1793.\n\nAfter the defection and flight of Dumouriez in April 1793, Kilmaine adhered to the National Convention, and was rewarded with a promotion to general of division on 15 May 1793. He now redoubled his energies to restore order in the army, which by the defection of its leader was almost disbanded. Auguste Marie Henri Picot de Dampierre took command. He was so ably seconded by Kilmaine, that within one month after he assumed command discipline was completely restored.\n\nKilmaine commanded Dampierre's advance-guard in the campaign against the allied powers after the failure of the Congress of Antwerp on 8 April 1793. Dispatches testified to Kilmaine's gallantry during the \"murderous affairs of the 1st and 2nd May\" in which, according to the official report, he had two chargers killed from under him as he managed to fight off a determined attack. Six days of incessant skirmishing followed. Kilmaine displayed extraordinary valour on 8 May during the Battle of Raismes, fought by Dampierre to deliver Condé-sur-l'Escaut. The French were defeated with heavy losses. Dampierre was slain, and Kilmaine was ordered to fight a rearguard action to cover the retreat. The infuriated and disorderly army fell back to the barrier town of Condé, which was at that time under the nominal lordship of the unfortunate Duke d'Enghien.\n\nFrançois Joseph Drouot de Lamarche succeeded Dampierre and sent Kilmaine with his division to the \"Army of Ardennes.\" He remained there only a short time before being recalled to the main army, which he found in the most critical circumstances.\n\nThe fall of de Dampierre and the arrest of Adam Philippe, Comte de Custine acted fatally on the Army of the North. It was now reduced to about thirty thousand rank and file soldiers. These men remained in a disorderly state, without a proper chief, and without aim or object. The Army's manoeuvrings were committed to chance or directed by ignorance, for, with the exception of Kilmaine, its leaders were destitute of skill, experience, and energy. Quitting the camp of Caesar, they returned to their fortified position at Famars, three miles distant from Valenciennes, the approach to which it covered. Here they were attacked on 23 May, driven back, and obliged to abandon the city to its own garrison under Jean Henri Becays Ferrand.\n\nKilmaine was named Commander-in-Chief of the \"Army of the North\" on 17 July 1793. He rejoined the army with his division from the \"Army of Ardennes\", and his position became almost desperate. Kilmaine's presence for a time appeased the disorder in the army. The Army of the North occupied positions on the banks of the Scheldt, facing a much larger opposing force jointly commanded by the Duke of York and Albany and the Prince of Coburg. Kilmaine, with only 24,000 ill-appointed troops, dared not attack them. Only 40 leagues lay between Kilmaine's position and Paris. If he fought and lost the day, he could thereafter assume no position of sufficient strength to prevent the allies from penetrating to Paris and crushing the Convention. Kilmaine's position was untenable. He dared not abandon the capital or retire beyond the Loire, as the tides of war and politics were setting in against him. Kilmaine was forced to withdraw. Although he carried out a masterly retreat, the Convention styled it (at the time) \"completely mutinous.\"\n\nEven at this epoch of deception and duplicity, and when political insanity and revenge were rampant, Kilmaine, who had rendered such gallant services to that new and most faithless Republic, had by a judicious retreat (executed against the advice of the meddling and presumptuous representatives of the people, and in consequence thereof perilled his life), preserved to France her most important Army. Some say that it was precisely for this reason he was denounced to the Convention. It didn't help that he had also become the object of suspicion on account of his foreign birth and his relations abroad. He was immediately relieved of his command, discharged from the army and sent into exile to Luxembourg. He accepted it all with calm dignity, saying, \"I am ready, to serve the cause of the Republic in whatever rank I am placed, and wherever set I shall do my duty.\"\n\nIn a short time, Kilmaine returned to Paris under cover, and retired with his wife to the Parisian suburb of Passy. There they lived quietly for some months. When the Reign of Terror began, he and his wife were arrested and imprisoned. One would think that being imprisoned as a foreigner was an act of injustice which would weigh heavily on an officer who had given 30 years of unselfish devotion to France, served gallantly in 9 campaigns, fought in 46 battles. However, in the obscurity of his dungeon, Kilmaine got his reward, however strange, in that he had not perished on the scaffold like the gallant Custine, his predecessor in the command, like his old colonel and protector Biron, and like Jean Nicolas Houchard, who for the brief period of fifteen days had been his successor, and who, after winning a signal and decided victory over the Duke of York and Albany, was nevertheless executed. Kilmaine narrowly escaped the guillotine and recovered his liberty after the fall of Robespierre in July, 1794. He and his wife were released on an order signed personally by Lazare Carnot and remained for some time in Paris.\n\nKilmaine was involved in quelling the Jacobin Uprising in May, 1795. He assisted Jean-Charles Pichegru in the defense of the National Convention against excited mobs of Parisian faubourgs. Kilmaine continued to fight for the Convention until the 13th Vendemiaire, 1796, actively co-operating with Napoleon Bonaparte and the Revolutionary Party.\n\nEarly in 1796 he set out with Bonaparte on the Italian Campaign. He fought at the Battle of Lodi on 10 May and contributed to the victory by leading a cavalry charge. In September, he was appointed Commander of Northern Italy. This campaign significantly increased his reputation throughout Europe as a truly brilliant officer.\nIn October, Kilmaine was one of Napoleon's subordinate commanders during the Siege of Mantua. The Austrians, who were commanded by Dagobert Sigmund von Wurmser, attempted to breakout and were repulsed with the loss of 1,100 men and five pieces of cannon. Kilmaine played a key role in repulsing them. Bonaparte, in his dispatch to the Directory on 1 October 1796 wrote:\nGeneral Kilmaine, who commands the two divisions which press the siege of Mantua, remained on the 29th ultimo in his former position, and was still in hopes that the enemy would attempt a sortie to carry forage into the place, but instead they took up a position before the gate of Pradello, near the Carthusian convent and the chapel of Cerese. The brave General Kilmaine made his arrangements for an attack, and advanced in two columns against these two points, but he had scarcely begun to march when the enemy evacuated their camps, their rear having fired only a few musket-shots at him. The advanced posts of General Vaubois have come up with the Austrian division which defends the Tyrol, and made one hundred and ten prisoners\"\nEarly in December, Wurmser attempted another breakout. The Austrians began their operation just before dawn advancing under a furious cannonade. However, as Bonaparte noted, \"Kilmaine made him return, as usual, faster than he came out, and took from him two hundred men, one howitzer, and two pieces of cannon. This is his third unsuccessful attempt.\"\n\nKilmaine energetically and ably commanded troops involved in the Siege of Mantua for over 5 months. Wurmser finally surrendered on 3 February 1797. In a dispatch notifying the Minister of War about this important victory Kilmaine wrote:\n\"Kilmaine, General de Division and Commandant of Lombardy, to the Minister of War. Milan, 17 Pluviose, 1797\"\n\nCitizen Minister,\n\nI avail myself of a courier which general Bonaparte sends from Romagna (in order to\"\nannounce to the Directory the defeat of the Papal troops), to acquaint you with the capture of Mantua, the news of which I received yesterday evening by a courier from Mantua itself I thought it necessary to announce this circumstance, because General Bonaparte, who is occupied in Romagna annihilating the troops of his Holiness, may probably have been ignorant of this fact when his courier departed. Tho garrison are our prisoners of war, and are to be sent into Germany in order to be exchanged. I have not yet received the articles of capitulation, but the commander-in-chief will not fail to send them by the first courier.\nThe capture of Mantua was celebrated in Paris by the firing of cannon and the erection of arches in honour of Bonaparte and Kilmaine 'the Irish Commandant of Lombardy', and a grand joy was diffused through every heart in the city on the fall of what they styled the Gibraltar of Italy, while Bonaparte, loaded with the diamonds of the vanquished corrupt Pope, and the spoils of our Lady of Loretto, pushed on to seek fresh conquests and new laurels. Kilmaine briefly remained in command in Mantua after its capitulation. Upon returning to Paris, he was awarded the title Baron de Kilmaine.\n\nIn the spring of 1798, the French were preparing to invade Britain and Ireland. In the February of that year, a grand march to the coast of the Channel took place. The invasion force consisted of forty demi-brigades of infantry, thirty-four regiments of cavalry, two regiments of horse artillery, two regiments of foot artillery, six companies of sappers and pioneers, and six battalions of miners and pontooniers. This task force was led by eighteen distinguished generals of division, and forty-seven generals of brigade the most brave and able in France. Among the former were Kilmaine, Louis Alexandre Berthier, Jean Baptiste Kléber, André Masséna, Jacques MacDonald, Michel Ney, Claude Perrin Victor, and others whose names were to become famous in future wars as the marshals of the empire. Headed by bands blaring martial music, the soldiers marched through Paris, displaying black banners inscribed with slogans such as \"Descent upon England, long live the Republic! May Britain perish\" \n\nOn St. Patrick's Day, Kilmaine hosted a great banquet in Paris. Along with many Irish generals, O'Cher, Colonel O'Shee, and all the Irishmen in Paris. Other guests in attendance were Irish rebels James Bartholomew Blackwell, William Corbet and Napper Tandy, also there was the notorious American radical and intellectual Thomas Paine (then a political fugitive and pseudo-anarchist, who had been invited to attend by Kimaine). Irish republican Wolfe Tone had not been present at the banquet. He was hiding in Paris around this time and had been holding secret meetings with Napoleon (set up through Kilmaine) to discuss an Irish Revolution, as he detested many of the Irishmen in Paris, describing them as \"sad, vulgar wretches, and I have been used to rather better company in all respects\" he stayed well away. However, all the corresponding members of the Irish clubs and malcontent party at home were also present. Many fierce end stirring political toasts were drunk, amid vociferous enthusiasm, among these, one in particular,\n\n\"Long live the Irish Republic, long live the Republic\"\nSpeeches were made expressive of the rapid progress which republicanism had made in their native country, and of the strong desire of the Catholics and Dissenters to throw off the yoke of England, (that yoke which Kilmaine in his boyhood had been taught by his father to abhor and to hate). Irish rebel leader Napper Tandy, was in the chair for most of the night, on his left sat none other than Thomas Paine, and on his right sat Kilmaine, who, immediately after the banquet, had to leave Paris to rejoin his column of the army on the coast.\n\nThe future Irish Republic was enthusiastically saluted by Kilmaine that night, and every confidence (though merry) expressed in the accomplishment of his most ardent desire for the magnificent emancipation of Ireland.\n\nWithin days hundreds of gunboats were ordered to be prepared, and transports were to be collected at Dunkirk, to be protected from the British fleet by a Dutch squadron then at the mouth of the Scheldt. All of Britain was up in arms on hearing of an armament so formidable.\n\nMeanwhile, the condition of France was then absolutely desperate and wild. In April, Kilmaine returned to Paris, after having executed, by order of the government, a survey of all the coasts of France and Holland (then reduced to a province of the former). He was promptly appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Armée dAngleterre destined for the invasion of British Isles. The position of which had been meant for Louis Desaix, the hero of Marengo, was now bestowed upon him. As the supreme chief of command of this famous militia force, the eyes of all Europe were now fixed firmly on him.\n\nFrench whispers throughout Europe at the time asserts that this expedition was destined, not for Britain, but in fact for Egypt, and that Kilmaine received the command of it, not so much for his great military skill, but as to deceive the ministry, supposing that the name of an Irishman would cause them to believe that the armament was destined for Ireland and so they named him General in Chief of the Armee d'Angleterre, which never existed at all. Even if this was the case Kilmaine didn't know it. The number of transports was soon increased to over a thousand, and all the naval and military resources of Holland were pressed into the French service and managed by Kilmaine.\n\nColonel Shee, Wolfe Tone, General Clarke, General Humbert and Kilmaine, were by this time hard at work planning an Irish invasion. They were well acquainted with the extent of the military organization of the United Irishmen, and knew that by the close of the preceding year the people were well provided with arms, and knew the use of them. In the beginning of 1797, great quantities were discovered and seized by the British Government, who, in Leinster and Ulster alone, captured 70,630 pikes, with 48,109 muskets. If the Irish managed their projected rising, one cannot for a moment doubt what the result would be, once Kilmaine's formidable expedition landed in Ireland.\n\nMeanwhile, Kilmaine's health was slowly declining. The duties of a 47-year-old Kilmaine were alike harassing and arduous, as he had to superintend the equipment and organization of this vast force, composed of men of all arms and several nations, and he was repeatedly summoned to Paris, even in the middle of the night, by couriers who overtook him in his progresses, thus, though suffering under severe ill health. The Directory once brought him on the spur from Bruges early in July, and again from Brest about the end of the same month only to bring him back a few days later.\n\nDuring the summer of 1798, the European press were full of words expressing admiration for Kilmaine.\n\nCitizen d'Arbois, an officer on Kilmaine's staff, sent a glowing account of Kilmaine's mission to the Paris newspapers, where it was published on 7 August 1798. He wrote:\n\"The eagerness with which our troops, both by sea and land, await the moment when, under the brave and brilliant warrior Kilmaine, they will engage the English, is the best pledge of our approaching success, and the defeat of our enemies.\" \n\nAround this time too, a Brussels newspaper stated, \"We are assured that the French republicans shall be able to make a successful descent upon Ireland, the Belgian youth will be employed in that country under General Kilmaine, who, being a native of it, will there have the command of the French and Irish forces.\" \n\nDoubts hovered in the minds of the Directory, even if there were none in the hearts of their soldiers and generals, and long delays ensued. General Hoche, who was the mainspring of the projected movement in favor of Ireland, died. And Bonaparte, to whom Kilmaine, Tone, Shee, and others of the Irish patriots turned, no longer had any sympathy for their cause, as all his efforts were now focused on war in the East.\n\nIn 1798 the Directory began breaking up the Armee d'Angleterre, and withdrew Kilmaine's troops. Kilmaine went to Paris to plead with the government and the Minister of Marine concerning the embarkation of the troops and departure of the fleet. His questions were waived, or left unanswered. They had more important plans for him.\n\nThe fate of Chef-commander Kilmaine's forces that 'independently' sailed to Ireland was sealed from the onset.\n\nThe first attempt, from Brest on 22 August, initially got off to a good start. Approximately 1,000 French soldiers under General Humbert landed in the north-west of the country, at Kilcummin in County Mayo. They joined up to 5,000 local rebels and drove the British from Castlebar, setting up a short-lived \"Republic of Connaught\". They were defeated at the battle of Ballinamuck, in County Longford, on 8 September 1798. The French troops who surrendered were repatriated to France in exchange for British prisoners of war, but hundreds of captured Irish rebels were executed.\n\nA second attempt in September, accompanied by Napper Tandy, came to disaster on the coast of Donegal and was unable to land, before eventually returning to France.\n\nThe third and final attempt, on 12 October 1798, under Admiral Bompard, with General Hardy in command of a larger force of about 3000 men, including Wolfe Tone himself, never had a chance. They attempted to land in County Donegal near Lough Swilly, but were intercepted by a bigger Royal Navy squadron, and eventually surrendered after a three-hour battle without ever landing in Ireland. Tone was captured, taken prisoner and was tried in court-martial.\n\nFor some time all of Britain supposed the troops were led by the commander-in-chief in person and all the press of England and Scotland teemed with blustering or scurrilous remarks on \"Paddy Kilmaine and his gang\". In truth General Kilamine never embarked, although he certainly wanted to, as commander in Chef, a master tactician and without the blessing of his commander Napoleon, he superintended the departure of 6,000 of his troops from Rochfort and Brest.\nBy the end of 1798, the army of England and its expedition were alike completely dissolved, and The Directory turned their ambition totally eastwards and to the middle East. Napoleon now wished to give Kilmaine command of the forces assembled for the great war in Egypt. But for the present his career finished on the coasts of France and Holland, looking out toward fighting Ireland.\n\nThe Directory's outright decision to abandon the project completely shattered all of Kilmaine's hopes of helping to achieve the independence of his native land. For some years an intimate friendship had existed between him and fellow Irishman Wolfe Tone (while the latter lived in Paris) and upon hearing of his friends arrest in Ireland, he strongly urged the French government to intervene in his case and to hold for Tones safety, hostages of equal rank chosen from the British military prisoners then in France. He assembled a petition and wrote a brilliant letter to the President of the Executive Directory, it reads,\n\n\"Head-Quarters at Rouen\n27th Brumaire, 7th year of the Republic.\nKilmaine, General in Chief of the Army of England to the President of the Executive Directory\n\nCitizen President,\n\nFrom the assurances which the executive Directory has given, that the Adjudant General Smith, taken on board the Hoche, shall be claimed in a peremptory manner, it would be superfluous in me to request your interference a second time. But, as Commander in Chief of the Army, in which he served with such distinction, I consider myself as in duty bound to acquaint the Directory more particularly with that officer. His real name is Tone; that of Smith was assumed to conceal from the English Government his residence in France, and spare to his family in Ireland those persecutions which would infallibly inflicted upon them. \nObliged, as he had been one of the most zealous and respectable apostles of the cause of liberty in his country, to seek a refuge from its tyrants in North America, he was called from thence, on the demand of the French Government, to co-operate with General Hoche in his first expedition to Ireland. He was then promoted to the rank of Adjutant General, and served the Republic in that capacity in the Army of England, where he was known to me in the most advantageous light, and had acquired, by his talents and social qualities, the esteem and friendship of all the Generals with whom he served. \nHe was employed in the expedition of General Hardy, merely as a French officer, and ought to be acknowledged in that character; he had adopted France as his country; his right to be considered as a French prisoner of war is undoubted, and no one can regard him in any other light. \nI know not what treatment the British Government may reserve for him, but if it were other than such as any French officer, in a similar situation, has a claim to expect, I am clearly of the opinion that the Directory should designate some British prisoner of superior rank to serve as a hostage, and to undergo precisely the same treatment that Adjutant General Smith may suffer from the British Government. \nBy this measure you may save to the Republic one of its most distinguished officers; to liberty, one of her most zealous and most enlightened defenders, and a father to one of the most interesting families which I have ever known.\n\nHealth and respect,\nKilmaine.\"\n\nEven though he garnered much support from prominent Frenchmen and even Napoleon, his appeal was strangely ignored, much to Kilmane's profound disapproval. Subsequently Tone was found guilty and was sentenced to be hanged. He pleaded in virtue of his status as a French officer to die by the musket instead of the rope. Denied his wish, and before the sentence was carried out, he cheated and attempted suicide by slitting his own throat and died of his severe wounds days later.\n\nAt the beginning of 1799, Kilmaine's health was now further deteriorating. He also had become greatly saddened by his friend, Wolfe Tone's death. In the spring of that year, the Directory appointed him supreme generalissimo of the army of Helvetii, as they chose to designate Switzerland, thus reviving the ancient name of the people whom Julius Caesar conquered. The French troops already occupied Lombardy on one side, and the Rhenish provinces on the other. Thus they never doubted their ability to conquer the Swiss and remodel the Helvetic constitution.\n\nThe 48-year-old Kilmaine accepted the command, and ignored his condition for quite some time, until his rapidly failing health forced him to give up his baton to Massena, and he was compelled to retire from active service for good.\n\nWith a sorrow which he could not conceal, he saw that army march which penetrated into the heart of the Swiss mountains, and imposed on their hardy inhabitants a constitution in which Bonaparte, under the plausible title of Mediator, secured the co-operation of the valiant descendants of the Celtic tribe of Helvetii in his further schemes of conquest and ambition.\n\nIn a fragile condition Kilmaine left Switzerland and returned to Passy in Paris, where his domestic griefs and chagrins added to the poignancy of his bodily sufferings, for his constitution was now completely broken up.\n\nHe died of dysentery on 11 December 1799, at the age of 48.\n\nHe was interred with all the honors due to his rank and immense bravery, and a noble monument was erected in his memory. He had surely been the greatest of officers of all The Wild Geese.\n\nKilmaine is historically honored at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, where his name can be seen on the inside triumphal arch, on the Northern pillar, Column 05. Underneath the Arc is the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier (World War I).\n\nIn the memoirs of Captain Landrieux, his aide-de-camp, Kilmaine is described as\n\"the only officer in whom Napoleon ever placed complete and utter confidence.\"\n\nIn the Memoirs published by General Charles Tristan, Marquis de Montholon, he wrote of Jennings,\n\n\"Brave and noble Kilmaine, being an excellent cavalry officer, had coolness and foresight, he was well fitted to command a corps of observation, detached upon those arduous or delicate commissions which require spirit, discernment, and sound judgment. He rendered important services to the army, of which he was one of the principal generals notwithstanding the delicacy of his health. He had a great knowledge of the Austrian troops, familiar with their tactiques, he did not allow himself to be imposed upon by those rumors which they were in the habit of spreading in the rear of an army, nor to be dismayed by those heads of columns which they were wont to display in every direction, to deceive as to the real strength of their forces. His political opinions were brilliantly moderate.\"\nWolfe Tone wrote of Kilmaine in his private journal. One of his diary entries read, \"Clarke then said there were some Irish officers yet remaining in France, who might go, and he mentioned Jennings, who used to call himself Baron de Kilmaine, God knows why. I answered, that in Ireland we had no great confidence in the officers of the old Irish Brigade, so many of them had either deserted, or betrayed the French cause, that, as to Jennings, he had had the unfortunate misfortune to command after Custine, and had been obliged to break up the famous \"Camp de Caesar\", that, though this might probably have been no fault of his, it had made an impression, and, as he was at any rate not a fortunate general but a typical Irish soldier of fortune, I thought it would maybe better to have a Frenchman.\"\nThere is a personal portrait of General Kilmaine in the 'Hotel de Ville' (City Hall) at Tonnay-Charente, where his father Dr. Theobald Jennings practiced as a physician.\n\nA monument was erected in his memory in Tonnay-Charente in the 19th century.\n\nRue du Général Kilmaine, a street in Tonnay-Charente, was named in his honor in the 19th century.\n\nKilmaine married when he was relatively young and had at least one child. There is reason to believe that his wife 'Baroness de Kilmaine' died a few years before he did. There are likely numerous descendants of Jennings in Ireland, and as the pseudo-surname \"de Kilmaine\" (minus Jennings) survives to this day, also too in France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2272982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272982", "title": "QUT Business School", "text": "QUT Business School\n\nThe QUT Business School is one of six faculties at the Queensland University of Technology. It is home to the QUT Graduate School of Business, as well as four-discipline focused schools; the School of Accountancy, the School of Advertising, Marketing and Public Relations, the School of Economics and Finance, and the School of Management. In 2015, the QUT Business School had enrolled a total of 8,971 students across the faculty, including 2,962 international students.\n\nThe school is located at the Gardens Point campus in the central business district of Brisbane, in the state of Queensland, Australia. Gardens Point is situated next to Queensland Parliament and the Brisbane City Botanic Gardens. The School offers courses which are available on or off campus, or through a combination of both.\n\nQUT Business School is accredited by AACSB, AMBA and EQUIS, making it one of two triple-accredited schools in Australia and one of only 75+ in the world. On account of its 'Triple Crown Accreditation', QUT Business School is placed among the top 1% of Business Schools globally.\n\nThe Business School was ranked 29th in 2013 and 30th in 2014 in the entire \"Asia-Pacific\" region by the \"QS World University Rankings\" as per the report published by the QS Global 200 Business Schools 2014-15 under the Top Business Schools by Region, Asia-Pacific category.\n\nIn 2013, the QUT Business School was the first in Queensland to be included in the \"Financial Times\" Top 100 Global MBA programs and was ranked 1st in Australia and 40th worldwide in the Master of Business (Applied Finance) pre-experience programme. In 2016, the Business School was ranked again by the \"Business school rankings from the Financial Times\" as 1st in Australia and 44th globally in the same Master of Business (Applied Finance) pre-experience programme.\n\nAs of 2015, the Business School was ranked 3rd in Australia and 63rd internationally by the Financial Times in the Business school rankings from the Financial Times under the category 'Executive Education - Customised'. In 2016, it was ranked again by the Financial Times as 2nd in Australia and 71st worldwide in the Business school rankings from the Financial Times under the same 'Executive Education - Customised' category.\n\nIn 2017, the Business School was ranked 11th in the whole of Asia-Pacific and 4th in Australia by the QS World University Rankings according to the report published by the QS Global EMBA Rankings 2017 under the QS Global 100 EMBA Rankings by Region 2017, Asia-Pacific category. The QUT Graduate School of Business was ranked 1st in Australia in 2017 in the Executive MBA (EMBA) category by the BOSS Executive MBA Schools Rankings.\n\nIn 2018, QUT Business School was ranked in the top 125 universities of the world at 101-125th position and 7th in Australia in the subject areas of Business and Economics by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings by Subject 2018.\n\nCourses offered through the QUT Graduate School of Business include a Bachelor of Business, Master of Business Administration, Executive MBA (EMBA), Graduate Diploma in Business, Graduate Certificate in Business, Graduate Certificate in Business Administration, the discipline-based Master of Business, Master of Business - Executive under the 'Executive Education - Customised' category, Professional doctorates, Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Business, and a Public sector management and leadership course for the enhancement of management and/or leadership skills.\n\nIts MBA program can be completed in one and a half years full-time or in three years part-time. Each unit of an MBA program is delivered in seven week modules with six weeks of teaching periods followed by a final assessment in the last week. Students get to study a broad range of core units and can concentrate on particular areas by way of choosing electives. The Graduate Certificate of Business Administration can be completed in two teaching periods full-time or four teaching periods part-time. Students who complete the GCBA can articulate into the MBA.\n\nThe Business School's professional doctorate programs consist of units from its MBA course followed by units in research methodology and several research projects. The professional doctorates differ from the traditional Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) by way of incorporating a practical approach, business focus and real-world learning into both research and coursework components.\nIts Master of Business program offered in multiple disciplines is delivered on a semester basis in 13 weeks, divided into 3 study periods (13 teaching weeks per semester) and can be completed in 18 months. The Master of Business course is designed particularly for students who prefer to specialise in specific disciplinary areas such as Professional Accounting, Strategic Advertising, or Applied Finance. From 2009 onwards, a more flexible approach to learning took place by the combined offering of internal contact hours, online studies and internal intensive study for certain units.\n\nStudents may articulate from the Graduate Certificate in Business, which takes one semester full-time to complete, to the Master of Business program. Students may also articulate to the two-year Master of Business (Advanced) course, which takes one more semester full-time equivalent study to complete in addition to the Master of Business program.\n\nStudents who enter either the MBA or Master of Business programs may exit with a Graduate Certificate after approximately one semester full-time equivalent (FTE) study. Students may also articulate from the Graduate Certificate program to the Masters and then the advanced Masters or MBA (Major) with full advanced standing (credit).\n\n"}
{"id": "2272988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272988", "title": "FC Ordabasy", "text": "FC Ordabasy\n\nFC Ordabasy (, \"Ordabasy Fýtbol Klýby\") is a football club from Kazakhstan based at the K. Munaitpasov Stadium in Shymkent. Ordabasy was formed in July 2000 as \"FC Dostyk\", following the merger of two existing Kazakhstan Premier League sides, \"FC Zhiger\" and \"FC Tomiris\".\n\nFollowing the formation of the club during the middle of the 2000 season, \"FC Dostyk\" was renamed \"FC Ordabasy\" prior to the start of the 2003 season,\n\nOn 5 February 2017, Aleksei Petrushin replaced Bakhtiyar Bayseitov as the club's manager.\n\nOrdabasy holds the history of both \"Zhiger\" and \"Tomiris\":\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2272997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272997", "title": "Jamie's Kitchen", "text": "Jamie's Kitchen\n\nJamie's Kitchen is a five-part British documentary television series that aired on Channel 4 from 5 November to 10 December 2002. It follows chef Jamie Oliver as he attempts to train a group of 15 disadvantaged youth, who will—if they complete the course—be offered jobs at Oliver's new restaurant Fifteen. The series was executive produced by Peter Moore for Talkback Productions, and has since spawned several others along similar lines. The show was cancelled due to low ratings.\n\nOf the original 15 chefs, five went on to secure cooking careers. Elisa Roche (the only girl to graduate), Ralph Johnson, Tim Siadatan, Ben Arthur and Warren Fleet all ended up working in some of London's best restaurants. Johnny Broadfoot, one of the younger original Fifteen chefs (who graduated after the previous five), returned to Sydney, Australia as head chef of his co-owned restaurant/bar El Beau Room in Manly, which opened in July 2013, and closed in 2016.\n\nAn article about bullying in the catering industry, written by Elisa Roche for \"The Guardian\", now forms part of the national curriculum.\n\nOne, Kevin Boyle, died at the age of 26.\n\nFifteen is the name of the restaurants and the supporting charitable foundation. The foundation's mission is to inspire disadvantaged youth, including those with drug or alcohol problems, the unemployed and the homeless, to believe in themselves and the possibility of becoming chefs.\n\nThe foundation aims to turn Fifteen into a global social enterprise brand. December 2004 saw the opening of a second restaurant in Amsterdam, with others following in Cornwall (May 2006) and Fifteen Melbourne, Australia (September 2006).\n\nBenny Se Teo, a Singaporean ex-convict, heard of the foundation while on an internship with Jamie Oliver and was inspired to start Eighteen Chefs in Singapore along similar lines.\n\nThe two-part \"Return to Jamie's Kitchen\" aired on Channel 4 on 16 September and 23 September 2003, and follows the fortunes of the restaurant after its opening.\n\n\"Jamie's Kitchen Australia\" premiered on Network Ten on 14 September 2006. Oliver visited Australia briefly to launch the series, and then returned to London, retaining overall control, but delegating management of the project in Melbourne to old friend, Melburnian chef Tobie Puttock. The series followed the training of a group of 16- to 24-year-old Australians to become chefs in the new Melbourne Fifteen restaurant.\n\nThe four-part \"Jamie's Chef\" premiered on Channel 4 on 31 January 2007. Five years and 50 trainees since \"Jamie's Kitchen\", this series aims to help the winning trainee establish their own restaurant at The Cock, a pub near Braintree in Essex. The charitable Fifteen Foundation retains ownership of the property and has provided a £1000,000 loan for the winner, Aaron Craze, to refurbish the establishment. Prior to airing, this was announced in the press as \"Cutting the Apron Strings\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2273001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273001", "title": "David Gordon, 4th Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair", "text": "David Gordon, 4th Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair\n\nMajor David George Ian Alexander Gordon, 4th Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair (21 January 1908 – 13 September 1974) was a British peer, soldier, and the son of Dudley Gordon, 3rd Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair.\n\nGordon attended Harrow School and graduated from Balliol College, Oxford, in 1930 with a Bachelor of Arts, then with a Masters in 1968. He attained the rank of Major in the service of the 5th/7th Battalion of the Gordon Highlanders and fought in the Second World War.\n\nHe became Deputy Lieutenant of Aberdeenshire in 1949, Vice-Lieutenant of Aberdeenshire in 1959, and Lord-Lieutenant of Aberdeenshire in 1973. He was also a County Councillor for Aberdeenshire in 1950 and Justice of the Peace for Aberdeenshire in 1955.\n\nHe was admitted to Royal Company of Archers in 1955 and invested as a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1963. He was invested as a Knight of the Order of St John in 1964 and was a director of Northern Area Clydesdale Bank in 1968.\n\nOn 29 April 1939, he married Beatrice Mary June Boissier, the daughter of Arthur Boissier, Headmaster of Harrow School (1939–1942). They had four (adopted) children:\n\n\nUntil 2004, adopted children of peers had no right to any courtesy title. However, as a result of a Royal Warrant dated 30 April 2004, adopted children are now automatically entitled to such styles and courtesy titles as their siblings. Therefore, on that date, Gordon's children automatically become lords and ladies.\n"}
{"id": "2273003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273003", "title": "FC Taraz", "text": "FC Taraz\n\nFC Taraz () are a Kazakhstani football club based at the Taraz Central Stadium in Taraz. A leading club in the early years of the Kazakhstan Premier League, they were champions in 1996, and Kazakhstan Cup winners in 2004.\n\nAfter initially being relegated from the Premier League at the end of the 2016 season, Taraz were reinstated on 3 February 2017 after the Football Federation of Kazakhstan ruled that Altai Semey did not meet the required entry requirements for the Premier League.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273006", "title": "Columbian mammoth", "text": "Columbian mammoth\n\nThe Columbian mammoth (\"Mammuthus columbi\") is an extinct species of mammoth that inhabited North America as far north as the northern United States and as far south as Costa Rica during the Pleistocene epoch. It was one of the last in a line of mammoth species, beginning with \"Mammuthus subplanifrons\" in the early Pliocene. The Columbian mammoth evolved from the steppe mammoth, which entered North America from Asia about 1.5 million years ago. The pygmy mammoths of the Channel Islands of California evolved from Columbian mammoths. The closest extant relative of the Columbian and other mammoths is the Asian elephant.\n\nReaching at the shoulders and in weight, the Columbian mammoth was one of the largest species of mammoth. It had long, curved tusks and four molars, which were replaced six times during the lifetime of an individual. It most likely used its tusks and trunk like modern elephants—for manipulating objects, fighting, and foraging. Bones, hair, dung, and stomach contents have been discovered, but no preserved carcasses are known. The Columbian mammoth preferred open areas, such as parkland landscapes, and fed on sedges, grasses, and other plants. It did not live in the Arctic regions of Canada, which were instead inhabited by woolly mammoths. The ranges of the two species may have overlapped, and genetic evidence suggests that they interbred. Several sites contain the skeletons of multiple Columbian mammoths, either because they died in incidents such as a drought, or because these locations were natural traps in which individuals accumulated over time.\n\nFor a few thousand years prior to their extinction, Columbian mammoths coexisted in North America with Paleoamericans – the first humans to inhabit the Americas – who hunted them for food, used their bones for making tools, and depicted them in ancient art. Columbian mammoth remains have been found in association with Clovis culture artifacts; these remains may have stemmed either from hunting or scavenging. The Columbian mammoth disappeared at the end of the Pleistocene around 11,500 years ago, most likely as a result of habitat loss caused by climate change, hunting by humans, or a combination of both.\n\nThe Columbian mammoth was first scientifically described in 1857 by naturalist Hugh Falconer, who named the species \"Elephas columbi\" after the explorer Christopher Columbus. The animal was brought to Falconer's attention in 1846 by Charles Lyell, who sent him molar fragments found during the 1838 excavation of the Brunswick–Altamaha Canal in Georgia, in the southeastern United States. At the time, similar fossils from across North America were attributed to woolly mammoths (then \"Elephas primigenius\"). Falconer found that his specimens were distinct, confirming his conclusion by examining their internal structure and studying additional molars from Mexico. Although scientists William Phipps Blake and Richard Owen believed that \"E. texianus\" was more appropriate for the species, Falconer rejected the name; he also suggested that \"E. imperator\" and \"E. jacksoni\", two other American elephants described from molars, were based on remains too fragmentary to classify properly. More complete material that may be from the same quarry as Falconer's fragmentary holotype molar (which is cataloged as specimen BMNH 40769 at the British Museum of Natural History) was reported in 2012, and could help shed more light on that specimen, since doubts about its adequacy as a holotype have been raised.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the taxonomy of extinct elephants became increasingly complicated. In 1942, paleontologist Henry Fairfield Osborn's posthumous monograph on the Proboscidea was published, wherein he used various generic and subgeneric names that had previously been proposed for extinct elephant species, such as \"Archidiskodon\", \"Metarchidiskodon\", \"Parelephas\", and \"Mammonteus\". Osborn also retained names for many regional and intermediate subspecies or \"varieties\", and created recombinations such as \"Parelephas columbi felicis\" and \"Archidiskodon imperator maibeni\". The taxonomic situation was simplified by various researchers from the 1970s onwards; all species of mammoth were retained in the genus \"Mammuthus\", and many proposed differences between species were instead interpreted as intraspecific variation. In 2003, paleontologist Larry Agenbroad reviewed opinions about North American mammoth taxonomy, and concluded that several species had been declared junior synonyms, and that \"M. columbi\" (the Columbian mammoth) and \"M. exilis\" (the pygmy mammoth) were the only species of mammoth endemic to the Americas (as other species lived both there and in Eurasia). The idea that species such as \"M. imperator\" (the imperial mammoth) and \"M. jeffersoni\" (Jefferson's mammoth) were either more primitive or advanced stages in Columbian mammoth evolution was largely dismissed, and they were regarded as synonyms. In spite of these conclusions, Agenbroad cautioned that American mammoth taxonomy is not yet fully resolved.\n\nThe earliest known members of Proboscidea, the clade that contains the elephants, existed about 55 million years ago around the Tethys Sea area. The closest living relatives of the Proboscidea are the sirenians (dugongs and manatees) and the hyraxes (an order of small, herbivorous mammals). The family Elephantidae existed six million years ago in Africa, and includes the living elephants and the mammoths. Among many now extinct clades, the mastodon (\"Mammut\") is only a distant relative, and part of the distinct family Mammutidae, which diverged 25 million years before the mammoths evolved. The Asian elephant (\"Elephas maximus\") is the closest extant relative of the mammoths. The following cladogram shows the placement of the Columbian mammoth among other proboscideans, based on characteristics of the hyoid bone in the neck:\n\nSince many remains of each species of mammoth are known from several localities, reconstructing the evolutionary history of the genus is possible through morphological studies. Mammoth species can be identified from the number of enamel ridges (or lamellar plates) on their molars; primitive species had few ridges, and the number increased gradually as new species evolved to feed on more abrasive food items. The crowns of the teeth became taller in height and the skulls became taller to accommodate this. At the same time, the skulls became shorter from front to back to reduce the weight of the head. The short, tall skulls of woolly and Columbian mammoths are the culmination of this process.\n\nThe first known members of the genus \"Mammuthus\" are the African species \"M. subplanifrons\" from the Pliocene, and \"M. africanavus\" from the Pleistocene. The former is thought to be the ancestor of later forms. Mammoths entered Europe around 3 million years ago. The earliest European mammoth has been named \"M. rumanus\"; it spread across Europe and China. Only its molars are known, which show that it had 8–10 enamel ridges. A population evolved 12–14 ridges, splitting off from and replacing the earlier type, becoming \"M. meridionalis\" about 2.0–1.7 million years ago. In turn, this species was replaced by the steppe mammoth (\"M. trogontherii\") with 18–20 ridges, which evolved in eastern Asia around 2.0–1.5 million years ago. The Columbian mammoth evolved from a population of \"M. trogontherii\" that had crossed the Bering Strait and entered North America about 1.5 million years ago; it retained a similar number of molar ridges. Mammoths derived from \"M. trogontherii\" evolved molars with 26 ridges 400,000 years ago in Siberia and became the woolly mammoth (\"M. primigenius\"). Woolly mammoths entered North America about 100,000 years ago.\n\nA population of Columbian mammoths that lived between 80,000 and 13,000 years ago on the Channel Islands of California, away from the mainland, evolved to be less than half the size of the mainland Columbian mammoths. They are, therefore, considered to be the distinct species \"M. exilis\", the pygmy mammoth (or a subspecies, \"M. c. exilis\"). These mammoths presumably reached the islands by swimming there when sea levels were lower, and decreased in size due to the limited food provided by the islands' small areas. Bones of larger specimens have also been found on the islands, but whether these were stages in the dwarfing process, or later arrivals of Columbian mammoths is unknown.\n\nA 2011 study of the complete mitochondrial genome (inherited through the female line) showed that two examined Columbian mammoths, including the morphologically typical \"Huntington mammoth\", were grouped within a subclade of woolly mammoths. This suggests that the two populations interbred and produced fertile offspring. One possible explanation is introgression of a haplogroup from woolly to Columbian mammoths, or vice versa. A similar situation has been documented in modern species of African elephant (\"Loxodonta\"), the African bush elephant (\"L. africana\") and the African forest elephant (\"L. cyclotis\"). The authors of the study also suggest that the North American type formerly referred to as \"M. jeffersonii\" may have been a hybrid between the two species, as it is apparently morphologically intermediate. These findings were not expected by scientists; nuclear DNA and more specimens will have to be examined to clarify the situation.\n\nA 2015 study of mammoth molars confirmed that \"M. columbi\" evolved from Eurasian \"M. trogontherii\", not \"M. meridionalis\" as had been suggested earlier, and noted that \"M. columbi\" and \"M. trogontherii\" were so similar in morphology that their classification as separate species may be questionable. The study also suggested that the animals in the range where \"M. columbi\" and \"M. primigenius\" overlapped formed a metapopulation of hybrids with varying morphology. In 2016, a genetic study of North American mammoth specimens confirmed that \"M. columbi\" and \"M. primigenius\" interbred extensively, were both descended from \"M. trogontherii\", and concluded that morphological differences between fossils may, therefore, not be reliable for determining taxonomy. The authors also questioned whether \"M. columbi\" and \"M. primigenius\" should be considered \"good species\", considering that they were able to interbreed after supposedly being separated for a million years, but cautioned that more specimens need to be sampled.\n\nThe Columbian mammoth was about tall at the shoulder and weighed about . It was about the same size as the earlier mammoth species \"M. meridionalis\" and \"M. trogontherii\", and was larger than the modern African elephant and the woolly mammoth, both of which reached about . Males were generally larger and more robust. The best indication of sex is the size of the pelvic girdle, since the opening that functions as the birth canal is always wider in females than in males. Like other mammoths, the Columbian mammoth had a high, single-domed head and a sloping back with a high shoulder hump; this shape resulted from the spinous processes (protrusions) of the back vertebrae decreasing in length from front to rear. Juveniles, though, had convex backs like Asian elephants. Other skeletal features include a short, deep rostrum (front part of the jaws), a rounded mandibular symphysis (where the two halves of the lower jaw connected) and the coronoid process of the mandible (upper protrusion of the jaw bone) extending above the molar surfaces.\nApart from its larger size and more primitive molars, the Columbian mammoth also differed from the woolly mammoth by its more downturned mandibular symphysis; the dental alveoli (tooth sockets) of the tusks were directed more laterally away from the midline. Its tail was intermediate in length between that of modern elephants and the woolly mammoth. Since no Columbian mammoth soft tissue has been found, much less is known about its appearance than that of the woolly mammoth. It lived in warmer habitats than the woolly mammoth, and probably lacked many of the adaptations seen in that species. Hair thought to be that of the Columbian mammoth has been discovered in Bechan Cave in Utah, where mammoth dung has also been found. Some of this hair is coarse, and identical to that known to belong to woolly mammoths; however, since this location is so far south, it is unlikely to be woolly mammoth hair. The distribution and density of fur on the living animal is unknown, but it was probably less dense than that of the woolly mammoth due to the warmer habitat. An additional tuft of Columbian mammoth hair is known from near Castroville in California, the hair was noted to be red-orange and was described as being similar in colour to a Golden Retriever.\n\nColumbian mammoths had very long tusks (modified incisor teeth), which were more curved than those of modern elephants. The largest known mammoth tusk, long, belonged to a Columbian mammoth, and others range from long. Columbian mammoth tusks were usually not much larger than those of woolly mammoths, which reached . The tusks of females were much smaller and thinner. About a quarter of the tusks' length was inside the sockets; they grew spirally in opposite directions from the base, curving until the tips pointed towards each other, and sometimes crossed. Most of their weight would have been close to the skull, with less torque than straight tusks would have generated. The tusks were usually asymmetrical, with considerable variation; some tusks curved down, instead of outwards, or were shorter due to breakage. Columbian mammoth tusks were generally less twisted than those of woolly mammoths. At six months of age, calves developed milk tusks a few centimeters long, which were replaced by permanent tusks a year later. Annual tusk growth of continued throughout life, slowing as the animal reached adulthood.\n\nColumbian mammoths had four functional molar teeth at a time, two in the upper jaw and two in the lower. About of the crown was within the jaw, and was above. The crowns of the lower jaw were pushed forward and up as they wore down, comparable to a conveyor belt. The teeth had separated ridges of enamel, which were covered in \"prisms\" directed towards the chewing surface. Wear-resistant, they were held together with cementum and dentin. A mammoth's molars were replaced five times over the animal's lifetime. The first molars were about the size of those of a human, ; the third ones were long, and the sixth ones were about long and weighed . With each replacement, the molars grew larger and gained more ridges; the number of plates varied between individuals. Growing of ridge took about 10.6 years.\n\nLike that of modern elephants, the mammoth's sensitive, muscular trunk was a limb-like organ with many functions. It was used for manipulating objects and social interaction. Although healthy adult mammoths could defend themselves from predators with their tusks, trunks, and size, juveniles and weakened adults were vulnerable to pack hunters such as wolves and big cats. Bones of juvenile Columbian mammoths, accumulated by \"Homotherium\" (the scimitar-toothed cat), have been found in Friesenhahn Cave in Texas. Tusks may have been used in intraspecies fighting for territory or mates and for display, to attract females and intimidate rivals. Two Columbian mammoths that died in Nebraska with tusks interlocked provide evidence of fighting behavior. The mammoths could use their tusks as weapons by thrusting, swiping, or crashing them down, and used them in pushing contests by interlocking them, which sometimes resulted in breakage. The tusks' curvature made them unsuitable for stabbing. On Goat Rock Beach in Sonoma Coast State Park, blueschist and chert outcrops (nicknamed \"Mammoth Rocks\") show evidence of having been rubbed by Columbian mammoths or mastodons. The rocks have polished areas above the ground, primarily near their edges, and are similar to African rubbing rocks used by elephants and other herbivores to rid themselves of mud and parasites. Similar rocks exist in Hueco Tanks, Texas, and on Cornudas Mountain in New Mexico.\n\nAccumulations of modern elephant remains have been called \"elephants' graveyards\", because these sites were erroneously thought to be where old elephants went to die. Similar accumulations of mammoth bones have been found; these are thought to be the result of individuals dying near or in rivers over thousands of years and their bones being accumulated by the water (such as in the Aucilla River in Florida), or animals dying after becoming mired in mud. Some accumulations are thought to be the remains of herds that died at the same time, perhaps due to flooding. Columbian mammoths are occasionally preserved in volcanic deposits such as those in Tocuila, Texcoco, Mexico, where a volcanic lahar mudflow covered at least seven individuals 12,500 years ago. How many mammoths lived at one location at a time is unknown, but the number likely varied by season and lifecycle. Modern elephants can form large herds, sometimes consisting of multiple family groups, and these herds can include thousands of animals migrating together. Mammoths may have formed large herds more often than modern elephants, since animals living in open areas are more likely to do this than those in forested areas. Although to what extent Columbian mammoths migrated is unclear, an isotope analysis of Blackwater Draw in New Mexico indicated that they spent part of the year in the Rocky Mountains, away. The study of tusk rings may aid further study of mammoth migration.\n\nLike modern elephants, Columbian mammoths were probably social and lived in matriarchal (female-led) family groups; most of their other social behavior was also similar to that of modern elephants. This is supported by fossil assemblages such as the Dent Site in Colorado and the Waco Mammoth National Monument in Waco, Texas, where groups consisting entirely of female and juvenile Columbian mammoths have been found (implying female-led family groups). The latter assemblage includes 22 skeletons, with 15 individuals representing a herd of females and juveniles that died in a single event. The herd was originally proposed to have been killed by a flash flood, and the arrangement of some of the skeletons suggests that the females may have formed a defensive ring around the juveniles. In 2016, the herd was suggested to have died by drought near a diminishing watering hole; scavenging traces on the bones contradict rapid burial, and the absence of calves and the large diversity of other animal species found gathered at the site support this scenario. Another group, consisting of a bull and six females, was found at the same site; although both groups died between 64,000 and 73,000 years ago, whether they died in the same event is unknown. At the Murray Springs Clovis Site in Arizona, where several Columbian mammoth skeletons have been excavated, a trackway similar to that left by modern elephants leads to one of the skeletons. The mammoth may have made the trackway before it died, or another individual may have approached the dead or dying animal—similar to the way modern elephants guard dead relatives for several days.\n\nMany specimens also accumulated in natural traps, such as sinkholes and tar pits. The Hot Springs Mammoth Site in South Dakota is a 26,000-year-old, roughly -long sinkhole that functioned for 300 to 700 years before filling with sediment. The site is the opposite scenario of that in Waco; all but one of the at least 55 skeletons—additional skeletons are excavated each year—are male, and accumulated over time rather than in a single event. Like modern male elephants, male mammoths primarily are assumed to have lived alone, to be more adventurous (especially young males), and to be more likely to encounter dangerous situations than the females. The mammoths may have been lured to the hole by warm water or vegetation near the edges, slipping in and drowning or starving. Isotope studies of growth rings have shown that most of the mammoths died during spring and summer, which may have correlated with vegetation near the sinkhole. One individual, nicknamed \"Murray\", lies on its side, and probably died in this pose while struggling to get free. Deep footprints of mammoths attempting to free themselves from the sinkhole's mud can be seen in vertically excavated sections of the site.\nSince the early 20th century, excavations at the La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles have yielded 100 tons of fossils from 600 species of flora and fauna, including several Columbian mammoths. Many of the fossils are the remains of animals that became stuck in asphalt puddles that seeped to the surface of the pits, 40,000 to 11,500 years ago. Dust and leaves likely concealed the liquid asphalt, which then trapped unwary animals. Mired animals died from hunger or exhaustion; their corpses attracted predators, which sometimes became stuck, themselves. The fossil record of the tar pits is dominated by the remains of predators, such as large canids and felids. Fossils of different animals are found stuck together when they are excavated from the pits. The tar pits do not preserve soft tissue, and a 2014 study concluded that asphalt may degrade the DNA of animals mired in it after an attempt was made to extract DNA from a Columbian mammoth.\n\nAn adult Columbian mammoth would have needed more than of food per day, and may have foraged for 20 hours a day. Mammoths chewed their food using their powerful jaw muscles to move the mandible forward and close the mouth, then backward while opening; the sharp enamel ridges thereby cut across each other, grinding the food. The ridges were wear-resistant, enabling the animal to chew large quantities of food that contained grit. The trunk could be used for pulling up large tufts of grass, picking buds and flowers, or tearing leaves and branches from trees and shrubs, and the tusks were used to dig up plants and strip bark from trees. Digging is indicated on preserved tusks by flat, polished sections of the surface that would have reached the ground. Isotope studies of Columbian mammoths from Mexico and the United States have shown that their diet varied by location, consisting of a mix of C3 (most plants) and C4 plants (such as grasses), and they were not restricted to grazing or browsing.\n\nStomach contents from Columbian mammoths are rare, since no carcasses have been found, but plant remains were discovered between the pelvis and ribs of the \"Huntington mammoth\" when it was excavated in Utah. Microscopy showed that these chewed remains consisted of sedges, grasses, fir twigs and needles, oak, and maple. A large amount of mammoth dung has been found in two caves in Utah. The dry conditions and stable temperature of Bechan Cave (\"bechan\" is Navajo for \"large faeces\") has preserved 16,000- to 13,500-year-old elephant dung, most likely from Columbian mammoths. The dung consists of 95% grasses and sedges, and varies from 0 to 25% woody plants between dung boluses, including saltbush, sagebrush, water birch, and blue spruce. This is similar to the diet documented for the woolly mammoth, although browsing seems to have been more important for the Columbian mammoth. The cover of dung is thick, and has a volume of 227 m³ (8,000 cubic ft), with the largest boluses in diameter. The Bechan dung could have been produced by a small group of mammoths over a relatively short time, since adult African elephants drop an average of of dung every two hours and each day.\n\nGiant North American fruits of plants such as the Osage-orange, Kentucky coffeetree and honey locust have been proposed to have evolved in tandem with now-extinct American megafauna such as mammoths and other proboscideans, since no extant endemic herbivores are able to ingest these fruits and disperse their seeds. Introduced cattle and horses have since taken over this ecological role.\n\nThe lifespan of the Columbian mammoth is thought to have been about 80 years. The lifespan of a mammal is related to its size; Columbian mammoths are larger than modern elephants, which have a lifespan of about 60 years. The age of a mammoth can be roughly determined by counting the growth rings of its tusks when viewed in cross section. However, ring-counting does not account for a mammoth's early years; early growth is represented in tusk tips, which are usually worn away. In the remainder of the tusk, each major line represents a year, with weekly and daily lines found in between. Dark bands correspond to summer, making determining the season in which a mammoth died possible. Tusk growth slowed when foraging became more difficult, such as during illness or when a male mammoth was banished from the herd (male elephants live with their herds until about the age of 10).\n\nMammoths continued growing during adulthood, as do other elephants. Males grew until age 40, and females until age 25. Mammoths may have had gestation periods of 21–22 months, like those of modern elephants. Columbian mammoths had six sets of molars in the course of a lifetime. At 6–12 months, the second set of molars would erupt, with the first set worn out at 18 months of age. The third set of molars lasted for 10 years, and this process was repeated until the sixth set emerged at 30 years of age. When the last set of molars wore out, the animal would be unable to chew, and would die of starvation.\n\nAlmost all vertebrae of the \"Huntington mammoth\", a very aged specimen, were deformed by arthritic disease, and four of its lumbar vertebrae were fused; some bones also indicate bacterial infection, such as osteomyelitis. The condition of the bones suggests the specimen died of old age and malnutrition.\n\nColumbian mammoths inhabited the southern half of North America, ranging from the northern United States across Mexico as far south as Costa Rica. One Costa Rican specimen, a molar, was reported in 1963, but has since been lost. The environment in these areas may have had more varied habitats than those inhabited by woolly mammoths in the north (the mammoth steppe). Some areas were covered by grasses, herbaceous plants, trees, and shrubs; their composition varied from region to region, and included grassland, savanna, and aspen parkland habitats. Wooded areas also occurred; although mammoths would not have preferred forests, clearings in them could provide the animals with grasses and herbs.\n\nThe Columbian mammoth shared its habitat with other now-extinct Pleistocene mammals (such as \"Glyptodon\", \"Smilodon\", ground sloths, \"Camelops\", and mastodons), horses, and buffalos. It did not live in Arctic Canada, which was inhabited by woolly mammoths. Fossils of woolly and Columbian mammoths have been found in the same place in a few areas of North America where their ranges overlapped, including the Hot Springs Site. Whether the two species were sympatric and lived there simultaneously, or if the woolly mammoths entered southern areas when Columbian mammoth populations were absent is unknown. The Columbian mammoth coexisted with the other extinct proboscideans \"Stegomastodon mirificus\" and \"Cuvieronius tropicus\" at sites in Texas and New Mexico during the early Irvingtonian.\n\nHumans entered the Americas through Beringia, and evidence documents their interactions with Columbian mammoths. Tools made from Columbian mammoth remains have been discovered in several North American sites. At Tocuila, Mexico, mammoth bones were quarried 13,000 years ago to produce lithic flakes and cores. At the Lange-Ferguson Site in South Dakota, the remains of two mammoths were found with two 12,800-year-old cleaver choppers made from a mammoth shoulder blade; the choppers had been used to butcher the mammoths. At the same site, a flake knife made from a long mammoth bone was also found wedged against mammoth vertebrae. At Murray Springs, archaeologists discovered a 13,100-year-old object made from a mammoth femur; the object is thought to be a shaft wrench, a tool for straightening wood and bone to make spear-shafts (the Inuit use similar tools).\n\nThe earliest suggested evidence of Columbian mammoth butchering in America (from Lovewell, Kansas) dates from 18,000 to 21,000 years ago. Paleoamericans of the Clovis culture, which arose roughly 7,000 years later, may have been the first humans to hunt mammoths extensively. These people are thought to have hunted Columbian mammoths with Clovis pointed spears which were thrown or thrust. Although Clovis points have been found with Columbian mammoth remains at several sites, archaeologists disagree about whether the finds represent hunting, scavenging dead mammoths, or are coincidental. A female mammoth at the Naco-Mammoth Kill Site in Arizona, found with eight Clovis points near its skull, shoulder blade, ribs, and other bones, is considered the most convincing evidence for hunting. In modern experiments, replica spears have been able to penetrate the rib cages of African elephants with reuse causing little damage to the points.\n\nOther sites show more circumstantial evidence of mammoth hunting, such as piled bones bearing butcher marks. Some of these sites are not closely associated with Clovis points. The Lehner Mammoth-Kill Site and the Dent Site, where multiple juvenile and adult mammoths have been found with butcher marks and in association with Clovis points, were once interpreted as the killing of entire herds by Clovis hunters. However, isotope studies have shown that the accumulations represent individual deaths at different seasons of the year, so are not herds killed in single incidents. Many other such assemblages of bones with butcher marks may also represent accumulations over time, so are ambiguous as evidence for large-scale hunting.\n\nPetroglyphs in the Colorado Plateau depict either Columbian mammoths or mastodons. A 13,000-year-old bone fragment from Vero Beach, Florida, possibly the earliest known example of art in the Americas, is engraved with either a mammoth or a mastodon. Some 11,000–13,000-year-old petroglyphs from the San Juan River in Utah are thought to include depictions of two Columbian mammoths; the mammoths' domed heads distinguish them from mastodons. They are also shown with two \"fingers\" on their trunks, a feature known from European depictions of mammoths. The tusks are short, which may indicate they are meant to be females. A carving of a bison (possibly the extinct \"Bison antiquus\") is superimposed on one of the mammoth carvings and may be a later addition. Other possible depictions of Columbian mammoths have been shown to be either misinterpretations or fraudulent.\n\nThe Columbian mammoth is the state fossil of Washington and South Carolina. Nebraska's state fossil is \"Archie\", a Columbian mammoth specimen found in the state in 1922. \"Archie\" is currently on display at Elephant Hall in Lincoln, Nebraska, and is the largest mounted mammoth specimen in the United States.\n\nColumbian and woolly mammoths both disappeared during the late Pleistocene and early Holocene, alongside most of the Pleistocene megafauna. The most recent Columbian mammoth remains have been dated around 10,900 years ago. This extinction formed part of the Quaternary extinction event, which began 40,000 years ago and peaked between 14,000 and 11,500 years ago. Scientists do not know whether these extinctions happened abruptly or were drawn out. During this period, 40 mammal species disappeared from North America, almost all of which weighed over ; the extinction of the mammoths cannot be explained in isolation.\n\nScientists are divided over whether climate change, hunting, or a combination of the two, drove the extinction of the Columbian mammoths. According to the climate-change hypothesis, warmer weather led to the shrinking of suitable habitat for Columbian mammoths, which turned from parkland to forest, grassland, and semidesert, with less diverse vegetation. The overkill hypothesis attributes the extinction to hunting by humans. This idea was first proposed by geoscientist Paul S. Martin in 1967; more recent research on this subject has varied in conclusions. A 2002 study concluded that the archaeological record did not support the overkill hypothesis, given that only 14 Clovis sites (12 with mammoth remains and two with mastodon remains) out of 76 examined provided strong evidence of hunting. In contrast, a 2007 study found that the Clovis record indicated the highest frequency of prehistoric exploitation of proboscideans for subsistence in the world, and supported the overkill hypothesis. Whatever the actual cause of extinction, large mammals are generally more vulnerable than smaller ones due to their smaller population size and low reproduction rates.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273009", "title": "Nikolai Ishutin", "text": "Nikolai Ishutin\n\nNikolai Andreyevich Ishutin (; 3 (15) April 1840 – 5 (17) January 1879) was one of the first Russian utopian socialists, who combined socialist propaganda with conspiratorial and terrorist tactics.\n\nIshutin was a hereditary noble in his hometown of Serdobsk. He was raised in Penza by the family of his cousin Dmitry Karakozov. In 1863, he became a lecturer at Moscow State University, where he propagandized among the students. That same year Ishutin organized a secret revolutionary society, which would come to be known as the Ishutin Society.\n\nOn April 8, 1866, he was arrested in connection with his cousin Karakozov's assassination attempt on Tsar Alexander II. The Supreme Criminal Court sentenced Ishutin to death by hanging, which was commuted to exile for life shortly before his scheduled execution. Ishutin was placed in solitary confinement in Shlisselburg Fortress until May 1868, when he was transferred, mentally ill, to Algachi prison in Eastern Siberia. In 1871, Ishutin's place of exile was changed to Nerchinsk and, in 1875, to Kara katorga, where he died in 1879.\n"}
{"id": "2273016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273016", "title": "Hurricane Adrian", "text": "Hurricane Adrian\n\nThe name Adrian has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273019", "title": "FC Tobol", "text": "FC Tobol\n\nFC Tobol (, \"Tobyl Fýtbol Klýby\") is a Kazakh football club based at the Central Stadium in Kostanay. They have been members of the Kazakhstan Premier League since its foundation in 1992. They won the Kazakhstan Premier League in 2010, and finished no lower than fourth place between the 2002 and 2010 seasons.\n\nFollowing a surprise defeat to Kyzylzhar in the 2016 Kazakhstan Cup, manager Dmitriy Ogai left the club by mutual consent, with Oleg Lotov being appointed as interim manager on 30 April 2016. Lotov was replaced with Omari Tetradze as the club's manager on 30 May 2016.\n\nPrior to the start of the season, Vladimir Nikitenko was appointed as Tobol's manager following the expiration of Robert Yevdokimov's contract. On 1 August, Vladimir Nikitenko resigned as manager after Tobol were eliminated from the Europa League. Andrei Miroshnichenko was appointed as Caretaker manager before Marek Zub was announced as Tobol's new manager on 6 August 2018. \nOn 31 December 2018, Zub left Tobol after his contract wasn't renewed, and Vladimir Gazzayev was appointed as the club's new manager. Gazzayev resigned as manager on 21 July 2019 after Tobol were eliminated from the 2019–20 UEFA Europa League by Jeunesse Esch.\n\nOn 14 December 2019, Grigori Babayan was appointed as manager of FC Tobol.\n\n\nTobol performed remarkably in their first European appearance, reaching the third round of the Intertoto Cup 2003. They beat Polonia Warszawa and Sint-Truiden, and lost to SV Pasching. In UEFA Cup 2006-07 FC Basel were hard nuts to crack for Tobol. They won the Intertoto Cup 2007, defeating FC Zestafoni, Slovan Liberec and OFI Crete and advanced to 2nd qualifying round of UEFA Cup 2007-08.\n\nLegend: GF = Goals For. GA = Goals Against. GD = Goal Difference.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273025", "title": "Bob Goen", "text": "Bob Goen\n\nRobert Kuehl Goen (born December 1, 1954) is an American game show emcee and television personality, best known for his work on \"Entertainment Tonight\" between 1993 and 2004. He hosted \"GSN Radio\", an internet radio game show, with his wife Marianne Curan.\n\nGoen was born in Long Beach, California, but was raised in the Los Angeles suburb of Lakewood, California. In a 2009 interview at the Game Show Awards Red Carpet, he stated when he was 5, he always dreamed of becoming a game show host, with the encouragement of: Bob Barker, Bill Cullen, Bob Eubanks, Tom Kennedy, Geoff Edwards, Wink Martindale, Monty Hall, among many others, and his dream came true as a young adult. Goen graduated from Lakewood High School in 1972, and from San Diego State University in 1976 with a degree in telecommunications and film. In 1977, he used his college radio experience to land a part-time job at KFOX radio in his native Long Beach, which led to his first full-time job as a disc jockey/producer for KPRO in Riverside, where he was promoted to work as a director. In 1981, he came to television, becoming a sports anchor at KESQ-TV, the ABC affiliate in Palm Springs.\n\nIn the early 1980s he served as ESPN's desert-area correspondent. After almost four years in that role, he came to Hollywood, where he has hosted several game shows, including \"Perfect Match\" (syndicated, 1986), \"Home Shopping Game\" with co-host Bob Circosta (syndicated, 1987), \"Blackout\" (CBS, 1988), \"The Hollywood Game\" (CBS, 1992), \"Born Lucky\" (Lifetime Television, 1992) and \"That's the Question\" (GSN, 2006–2007), which was based on a format from the Netherlands. His greatest success in this area came as the final host of the daytime network version of \"Wheel of Fortune\" (CBS, 1989–1991; NBC, 1991).\n\nHe had a small role in the opening of the 1988 series premiere episode of \"Freddy's Nightmares: A Nightmare On Elm Street: The Series\", \"No More Mr. Nice Guy\", as a nightly news anchorman and on-scene reporter at the Springwood Municipal Courthouse for the pre-trial hearing of accused mass-murderer Fred Krueger.\n\nHe served as host for the \"Name That Tune\" video game released for the Philips CD-i in 1993.\n\nHe also hosted several Miss Universe pageants in 1994 (Manila, Philippines), 1995 (Namibia), and 1996 (Las Vegas, Nevada).\n\nGoen now trains celebrities on the art of being interviewed. He works for Media Training company, J2 Strategic Communications, alongside Steve Kmetko, Jon Kelley and Terry Murphy.\n\nGoen also hosts the annual AKC/Eukanuba National Championship, broadcast on Animal Planet and other channels owned by Discovery Communications.\n\nGoen was co-host of GSN Radio with Marianne Curan, his wife. The show debuted on August 18, 2008 and aired its last episode on November 13, 2009. He and Curan moved to Cincinnati, Ohio in 2012 to work at Warm 98.\n\nGoen has hosted live traveling versions of \"Family Feud\" and \"The Price Is Right\". In 2012, he hosted The Price is Right LIVE in Branson, MO. \n\nGoen has hosted a locally produced version of \"Let's Ask America\" called \"Let's Ask Cincinnati\" for Scipps' WCPO-TV in Cincinnati, Ohio featuring local Cincinnati celebrities and personalities playing for local charities in 2014.\n\nOn April 12, 1993, he joined \"Entertainment Tonight\" as a substitute anchor and a reporter. When John Tesh left \"ET\" on May 30, 1996, to pursue his music career, Goen was promoted to nightly anchor alongside Mary Hart.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1996, he hosted the worldwide telecasts of \"Miss Universe\", \"Miss USA\" and \"Miss Teen USA\" Pageants, all for CBS (replacing Dick Clark. In 1988, Clark's CBS game show \"The $25,000 Pyramid\" was replaced by Goen's game show \"Blackout\" and 13 weeks later, \"Pyramid\" returned and replaced \"Blackout\").\n\nAs \"ET\" host, he made guest appearances on two separate movies in 1999. On September 11, 2001, he covered the attacks on the World Trade Center. In 2003, he interviewed Suzanne Somers about the death of actor John Ritter.\n\nIn April 2005, Goen voiced a cartoon version of himself on an episode \"The Fairly OddParents\". Goen, playing a character named Bob Glimmer, appeared with Mary Hart (whose character was named \"Fairy Hart\") as anchors of a show named \"Fairytainment Tonight\". Goen also appeared as an interviewee on a 1997 episode of the cartoon mock-talk show \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\".\n\nIn August 2004, after 11 years of serving as \"ET\" anchor, he left to spend more time with his new wife and to pursue other projects. Mark Steines succeeded him.\n\nGoen was married to Sabrina in 1988, and had a son in 1994. The couple divorced in 1997. In 2004, he married fellow television personality Marianne Curan.\n\nIn his spare time, Goen does annual charity work for his golfing tournament, The Bob Goen Lexus Invitational, which benefits the Make-A-Wish Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "2273027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273027", "title": "Ferrum College", "text": "Ferrum College\n\nFerrum College is a private college in Ferrum, Virginia. The college itself is on the Virginia Historic Register. Roberts Hall and Beckham Hall are part of the Ferrum College Historic District and listed in the Virginia Landmarks Register and the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nFerrum was founded in 1913. It is a liberal arts institution related to the United Methodist Church. Ferrum's official mission is to educate students in the disciplines of higher learning and to help them be thoughtful and perceptive, to be articulate and professionally capable, and to be caring and concerned citizens of their community, nation, and world.\n\nThe branch schools closed as public education took hold in the area. The elementary division closed in the early 1940s, followed by the high school division in 1955 to allow the program to concentrate on its junior college offerings. The junior college received accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools in 1960.\n\nThe college experienced growth and facilities improvement in the 1960s and 1970s and began offering bachelor's degrees in several human service fields in 1977. The college was accredited as a four-year institution by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools in 1976.\n\nToday, Ferrum College offers bachelors degrees in thirty major degree programs, and began offering graduate programs in 2020. The college’s environmental science program is the second oldest in the country, and Ferrum is the only private college in Virginia to offer a bachelors degree in Agricultural Science.\n\nThe college is affiliated with the Virginia Annual Conference of the United Methodist Church and the United Methodist Women of the Virginia Annual Conference.\n\n\nThe Ferrum campus is located on near the town of Ferrum, Virginia. The nearest large cities are Roanoke, Virginia ( northeast) and Greensboro, North Carolina (70 miles south).\n\nThe Blue Ridge Institute and Museum, designated as the State Center for Blue Ridge Folklore by the Virginia General Assembly in 1986, is on the main campus near the Blue Ridge Farm Museum.\n\nThe Institute holds the annual Blue Ridge Folklife Festival on the fourth Saturday in October to showcase regional traditions. In 1999, the museum's collection of Great Road Pottery was featured on an episode of the American version of Antiques Roadshow.\n\nFerrum College is an NCAA Division III school competing in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference (since the fall 2018 season), formerly having played in the USA South Athletic Conference from 1988 through 2018. Its football team played in the Atlantic Central Football Conference from 1998 to 2000. \n\nFerrum joined the NCAA Division III in 1985 after being previously classified as a junior college. Under head coach W. H. \"Hank\" Norton, Ferrum won the National Junior College Athletic Association national football championship four times (1965, 1968, 1974, 1977). Norton's last great team, in 1989, finished third overall in the NCAA Division III. This team featured future AFC leading rusher Chris Warren and Freddie Stovall. \n\nSeven members of the Panthers' 1968 championship team—all of whom had transferred to Marshall University—died in the 1970 plane crash which also claimed the lives of 37 Marshall University Thundering Herd players and 30 others, including the team's coaches, 25 boosters and the entire flight crew.\n\nFerrum was the first college in Virginia to offer collegiate women’s wrestling. In March 2019, Ferrum College hosted the NCAA Division III men’s wrestling championships, held at the Berglund Center in Roanoke, Virginia.\n\nIn January 2020, the College announced plans to launch both women’s and men’s track & field programs beginning in the fall 2020 season.\n\nThe spring 2020 athletics season was abruptly canceled in March of that year, due to the COVID-19 global pandemic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273029", "title": "Alex Kerr (Japanologist)", "text": "Alex Kerr (Japanologist)\n\nAlex Kerr (born 1952) is an American writer and Japanologist.\n\nOriginally from the Bethesda area in Montgomery County, Maryland, Kerr's father, a naval officer, was posted in Yokohama from 1964 to 1966. Kerr returned to the states and studied Japanese Studies at Yale University. After studying Chinese Studies at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, Kerr moved back to Japan full-time in 1977. He lived in Kameoka, near Kyoto, working with the Oomoto Foundation, a Shintō organisation devoted to the practice and teaching of traditional Japanese arts.\n\nAn expert on Japanese culture and art, he frequently writes and lectures in Japanese. Through his experiences in Japan, as related in his books, he has become an avid art collector and patron of Japan's traditional theatre and other arts. He also worked in business, working for Trammell Crow in the 1980s. Kerr currently has several residences. He lives in Bangkok, Thailand for half of the year, and Kyoto for the other half, visiting and staying at Chiiori as well.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Kerr purchased a decomposing, abandoned, two-hundred-year-old Japanese house in the Iya Valley, a remote mountainous area of Tokushima prefecture on the island of Shikoku. He restored the house to a liveable state, including re-thatching the kayabuki roof using traditional materials. The house was given the name Chiiori, or \"House of the Flute\". The restoration of Chiiori began a project by Kerr and others to preserve Japan's vanishing arts, culture and traditional lifestyle.\n\nIn 2007, Kerr decided to become more personally involved in Iya. He expanded and reorganized the board of directors of the project, and closed the house for a few months for renovations. It reopened in November 2007.\n\nIn his book \"Lost Japan\" (1993), he describes what he saw as the sorry modern state of the country in which he has spent more than 35 years of his life. It was originally written and published in Japanese as \"Utsukushiki Nihon no Zanzō\" (美しき日本の残像, \"Last Glimpse of Beautiful Japan\"). He was the first foreigner to be awarded the Shincho Gakugei Literature Prize for the best work of non-fiction published in Japan in 1994 for this work. His later work \"Dogs and Demons\" (2002) addressed the same issues of degradation and loss of native culture in the wake of modernization and Westernization. In \"Another Kyoto\" (2016), Kerr and co-author Kathy Arlyn Sokol draw on decades of living in Kyoto and reflect on the architecture of the city’s famous monuments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273031", "title": "Hurricane Agatha", "text": "Hurricane Agatha\n\nThe name Agatha has been used for ten tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273034", "title": "FC Vostok", "text": "FC Vostok\n\nFC Vostok (, \"Vostok Fýtbol Klýby\") is a Kazakh football club from Oskemen (Ust-Kamenogorsk), and a founding member of the Kazakhstan Premier League in 1992. The club's best finish in the league was 5th place in 1997 and again in 1998.\n\nOn 19 September 2008, FC Shakhter and FC Vostok were found guilty of one count of match fixing. Coaches and management involved were banned from football for 60 months and both clubs were expelled from the Kazakhstan Premier League On 2 October 2008, the Football Federation of Kazakhstan revised these decisions. FC Vostok's expulsion was upheld, while FC Shakhter's punishment was reduced to a deduction of nine points. The result of the fixed match was annulled, and all remaining Vostok games were to be counted as won 3–0 by their opponents. However, the expulsion of FC Vostok from the Kazakhstan Cup 2008 was revoked.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273044", "title": "Matt Birk", "text": "Matt Birk\n\nMatthew Robert Birk (born July 23, 1976) is a former American football center. He was drafted by the Minnesota Vikings in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL Draft, and later played for the Baltimore Ravens. He played college football at Harvard. Birk is a two-time All-Pro, six-time Pro Bowl selection, and a Super Bowl champion.\n\nBirk attended Cretin-Derham Hall High School in St. Paul, Minnesota, and was a letterman and standout in football, basketball, and track & field. He was an All-St. Paul Conference honoree, an Academic All-State honoree, and an All-State honoree in both football and basketball. Birk brags that he was able to hold Sam Jacobson to 29 points in the 1994 section basketball finals. Birk graduated from Cretin-Derham in 1994.\n\nBirk graduated from Harvard University in 1998 with a degree in economics. While playing for the Harvard Crimson, he attained All-Ivy League, All-New England and Division I-AA All-ECAC first team football honors.\n\nRanked as the No. 16 offensive tackle available, Birk was drafted by the Minnesota Vikings in the 6th round (173rd overall) of the 1998 NFL Draft. He was described by \"Sports Illustrated\" as \"maybe the best Ivy League prospect to come along in several years\", who \"could be a nice developmental type pick\". Birk was the first Harvard Crimson lineman to be selected in an NFL draft since Roger Caron in 1985.\n\nDuring his first two seasons with the Vikings, he appeared in 22 games as a backup offensive lineman. In 2000, he took over the starting center position for the Vikings, starting all 16 games and was named to his first Pro Bowl team. Birk started every game for the Vikings at center from 2000-2003.\n\nIn 2004, Birk missed the last 4 games of the season due to surgery to treat a sports hernia. He missed the entire 2005 season with a hip injury that required surgery.\n\nBirk returned to form in 2006, anchoring the Vikings offensive line from the center spot and earning his fifth career Pro Bowl selection. In 2007, Birk was named Minnesota Vikings Man of the Year for the sixth year in a row. He also earned his sixth Pro Bowl selection, tying Mick Tingelhoff for most Pro Bowl appearances by a Vikings center.\n\nAn unrestricted free agent in the 2009 offseason, Birk signed a three-year, $12 million contract with the Baltimore Ravens on March 4. The deal included $6 million guaranteed.\n\nOn March 16, 2012, Birk signed a new three-year deal with the Ravens. He won his first career championship during Super Bowl XLVII against the San Francisco 49ers. Birk announced his retirement on February 22, 2013.\n\nOn July 10, 2014, Birk was named the NFL director of football development.\n\nBirk established the HIKE Foundation in 2002, which seeks to \"impact the lives of at-risk children by providing interactive programs and resources needed to guide a child through the key educational transitions between elementary, middle, high school and college.\" The foundation launched \"Ready, Set, Read!\" in select Baltimore area public schools in the fall of 2010. The program works with about 100,000 Baltimore students on improving their reading skills through an incentive-based system. Birk received the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award in 2011 for his commitment to improving literacy among at-risk youth.\n\nHe was named the sixth-smartest athlete by the \"Sporting News\" in 2010. Birk scored a 46 on the Wonderlic Test, the seventh-highest score in NFL history.\n\nBirk is an anti-abortion activist. His wife volunteers at a crisis pregnancy center and he participated in the Maryland March for Life in 2011. He is also a practicing Catholic and father of eight.\n\nIn October 2012, Birk publicly spoke out against gay marriage before a Maryland ballot referendum on the Civil Marriage Protection Act which eventually passed. He also penned an op-ed, published in the \"Star Tribune\" on October 2, 2012, calling for passage of the Minnesota Marriage Amendment that would amend that state's constitution to prohibit gay marriage; it was defeated in the fall election and gay marriage was legalized in Minnesota in 2013.\n\nBirk announced in February 2013 his intentions to eventually donate his brain to Boston University’s School of Medicine for research into concussions.\n\nAfter the Ravens won Super Bowl XLVII, Birk chose not to attend the celebratory meeting with President Barack Obama, saying \"I wasn't there. I would say this, I would say that I have great respect for the office of the presidency, but about five or six weeks ago, our president made a comment in a speech and he said, 'God bless Planned Parenthood.' Planned Parenthood performs about 330,000 abortions a year. I am Catholic, I am active in the pro-life movement and I just felt like I couldn't deal with that. I couldn't endorse that in any way.\" On January 19, 2018, Birk spoke at the 45th annual March for Life in support of being pro-life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273045", "title": "Lord Grey Academy", "text": "Lord Grey Academy\n\nLord Grey Academy is a comprehensive co-educational Academy in West Bletchley, Milton Keynes.\n\nLord Grey has four school houses: Lorenz, Enigma, Colossus and Turing, whose names relate to World War II code-breaking work at Bletchley Park. The first two of the house names refer to German enciphering machines and the third to the world's first programmable electronic digital computer that helped 'crack' their codes. Alan Turing was a British scientist at Bletchley Park who developed the principles that led to the creation of Colossus. He also laid the groundwork for modern computing and artificial intelligence.\n\nLord Grey opened in 1973 as a community comprehensive school following the amalgamation of Bletchley Grammar and Wilton Secondary schools. New accommodation was provided to supplement the existing facilities. The school was incorporated as a Grant Maintained School on 1 April 1993 and moved to Foundation status on 1 September 1999, under the New Framework for Schools.\n\nOn 1 April 2018 the school changed its name to Lord Grey Academy and became part of the Tove Learning Trust, which is also part of the SWAN Teaching School Alliance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe school was judged Good by Ofsted in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273046", "title": "Hurricane Aletta", "text": "Hurricane Aletta\n\nThe name Aletta has been used for nine tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273048", "title": "Charles-Ange Laisant", "text": "Charles-Ange Laisant\n\nCharles-Ange Laisant (1 November 1841 – 5 May 1920), French politician and mathematician, was born at Indre, near Nantes on 1 November 1841, and was educated at the École Polytechnique as a military engineer.\n\nHe defended the fort of Issy at the Siege of Paris, and served in Corsica and in Algeria in 1873. In 1876 he resigned his commission to enter the Chamber as deputy for Nantes in the republican interest, and in 1879 he became director of the \"Le Petit Parisien\". For alleged libel on General Courtot de Cissey in this paper he was heavily fined.\n\nIn the Chamber he spoke chiefly on army questions; and was chairman of a commission appointed to consider army legislation, resigning in 1887 on the refusal of the Chamber to sanction the abolition of exemptions of any kind. He then became an adherent of the revisionist policy of General Boulanger and a member of the League of Patriots. Laisant published two political pamphlets, \"Pourquoi et comment je suis Boulangiste\" (1887) and \"L'Anarchie bourgeoise\" (1887). He was elected Boulangist deputy for the 18th Parisian arrondissement in 1889.\n\nLaisant did not seek re-election in 1893, but devoted himself thenceforward to mathematics. Already in 1874, he published a survey on hyperbolic functions as well as a French translation of Giusto Bellavitis main paper on equipollences into which Laisant added a chapter on hyperbolas. He published two works in geometric algebra, \"Introduction à la Méthode des Quaternions\" (1881) and \"Théorie et applications des equipollences\" (1887). He also co-founded a mathematical journal, \"L'Intermédiaire des Mathématiciens\" with Émile Lemoine in 1894, and was in 1888 the president of the Société Mathématique de France.\nThe quaternion textbook was an abridgement of one by Jules Hoüel, and the text on equipollence further expanded on Bellavitis' methods.\n\nHe was attached to the staff of the École Polytechnique, and in 1903–1904 was president of the French Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nThe pedagogical journal, L'Enseignement Mathématique, founded by Laisant and Henri Fehr in 1899, became the official organ of the International Commission on Mathematical Instruction in 1909.\n\n\n (The 1911 article has the typographical error \"Anne\" for the correct \"Ange\".)\n"}
{"id": "2273052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273052", "title": "FC Astana-1964", "text": "FC Astana-1964\n\nFC Astana-1964 (, \"Astana-1964 fýtbol Klýby\") is a Kazakhstani football club based at the K.Munaitpasov Stadium in Nur-Sultan. Founding members of the Kazakhstan Premier League, they were relegated to First Division for the first time in 2009 after being declared bankrupt. The club has won the national championship on three occasions.\n\nIn January 2015, Astana-1964 dropped out of the Kazakhstan First Division to the regional \"Astana Championship\".\n\n\nAstana-1964 has already played in qualifying stages of European cups. Last time they lost in the second qualifying round of the 2007/8 Champions League to Norway's Rosenborg after overcoming Georgian champions FC Olimpi Rustavi in the first qualifying round 3–0 on aggregate.\n\nAstana-1964 played their home games at the 12,350 capacity Kazhymukan Munaitpasov Stadium.\n\n\n\nThe following managers won at least one trophy when in charge of Astana:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273058", "title": "Nevado de Toluca", "text": "Nevado de Toluca\n\nNevado de Toluca () is a stratovolcano in central Mexico, located about west of Mexico City near the city of Toluca. It is the fourth highest of Mexico's peaks, after Pico de Orizaba, Popocatépetl and Iztaccíhuatl. The volcano and the area around it is now a national park.\n\nIt is often called by the Nahuatl name Xinantecatl which is usually translated as The Naked Lord, \"Señor Desnudo\" in Spanish, although other etymologies have been suggested such as \"Lord of the Corn Stalks\", Tzinacantecatl or Zinacantepec (Mountain of the Bats). Further evidence regarding the etymologies of this mountain has surfaced after many archeology discoveries in and around the area. It has been concluded that its correct etymology is Chicnauhtecatl meaning \"nine lakes\" as the top of the cone has various deep lakes.\n\nThe volcano has a wide summit caldera which is open to the east. The highest summit, the Pico del Fraile (Friar's Peak), is on the southwest side of the crater and the second highest, the Pico del Aguila (Eagle's Peak), is on the northwest. \n\nThere are two crater lakes on the floor of the basin at about , the larger Lago del Sol (Sun Lake) and the smaller, but deeper, Lago de la Luna (Moon Lake).\n\nA road formerly ran into the caldera to the lakes, but is now gated 2 km before the lakes.\n\nFrom the southeast, Nevado de Toluca looks flat-topped, like shoulders without a head. A Nahuatl legend (recounted as part of the legend of Popocatépetl and Iztaccíhuatl) provides a mythical explanation.\n\nIt is believed that Nevado de Toluca may once have been as tall as Popocatépetl, until an enormous eruption nearly 25,000 years ago blasted the top of the cone off and reduced its height by as much as . The same eruption generated thick lahars, or mudflows, which coated the sides of the mountains. An eruption approximately 500 years later deposited layers of pumice on the mountain's east and northeast slopes.\n\nThe last major eruption of Nevado de Toluca occurred about 10,500 years ago (10.5 ka BP), as the volcano erupted a total estimated volume of 14 km for a VEI strength of 6 (comparable to the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo). The eruption emplaced of pebble-sized pumice in the City of Toluca region and ~ of medium to fine sand in the Mexico City region. Distal lahar deposits derived from the Upper Toluca Pumice event incorporated mammoth bones and other mammals in the basin of Mexico. \n\nThe volcano became inactive after a volcanic plug formed in the volcano's vent. The plug eventually became known as El Ombligo (\"the Navel\").\n\nNear the summit, Nevado de Toluca has a cold alpine climate (Köppen climate classification \"ET\") with cold temperatures year round. There is little variation in the temperatures and frost and snow can occur in any month. The dry season covers from November to March and precipitation is low, averaging in March, the driest month. Temperatures during this time are cold, averaging in January. The wet season spans from May to October and precipitation is very high, averaging in July. The summit is often foggy, averaging 110 days with fog, most of it during the rainy season. The wettest record month was July 2008 when of precipitation fell and the wettest recorded day was July 16, 1999 when of precipitation fell. The highest temperature ever recorded was on August 16, 1993 and the lowest temperature recorded was on February 2, 2004.\n\nThere are 18 registered archeological sites in the park, as this was a ritual center during pre-Hispanic periods. Bernardino de Sahagún wrote about the lakes as a place where the indigenous held ceremonies and sacrifices. The lakes themselves are considered to be two sites, as a large number of offerings, especially copal, were deposited in the lakes. These deposits can be found all over the lakebed as the burning copal was set adrift on the lakes’ waters until it sank. Other objects have been found such as ceramics and sculpted stones. Divers used to sack many of the pieces found here but now authorities carefully monitor those who dive.\n\nMost of the other sites are found on the crater's walls and peaks. One of the sites is called Xicotepec which is at the top of a rocky dome known as the Cerro de Ombligo (Spanish for \"the navel\"). Principally green obsidian blades and multicolored ceramic has been found here. On the north side of the crater is Pico Sahagun, with ceramic pieces, Picos Heilprin North and South in which various types of objects have been found, and El Mirador, which is thought to be related the marking of the zenith of the sun. A stele found here seems to indicate this. The site at the highest altitude is Pico Noreste at 4,130 meters above sea level. It is a small platform with drainage on which has been found highly deteriorated ceramic pieces. On the west side is the Cerro Prieto Cave, which is really a rock shelter which is more than 60 meters high. Not only does it contain evidence of pre-Hispanic visits but also has been a shrine to the Archangel Michael since the colonial period.\n\nThere have been intermittent archeological excavations here with the most recent occurring in 2010 sponsored by INAH which found artifacts dating from the Epi-Classic (650-900 AD) and Post-Classic (900-1200 AD) periods and showed that the crater was a meeting place for astronomer priests to predict the growing season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273060", "title": "Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia", "text": "Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia\n\nThe Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia is an American chamber orchestra based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Its principal concert venue is the Perelman Theater of the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, of which the orchestra is a founding resident company. The orchestra's current music director is Dirk Brossé, since 2010. The orchestra's current executive director is Anne Hagan, since December 2018.\n\nIn 1963, Marc Mostovoy had the idea of establishing a chamber orchestra in Philadelphia to collaborate on recording with Marcel Tabuteau, a retired oboist with The Philadelphia Orchestra. Tabuteau expressed enthusiasm for Mostovoy's idea, but died before the recording collaboration could occur with Mostovoy and the orchestra. Continuing this concept of a new chamber orchestra for Philadelphia, and with an initial name of the Wynnefield Concerto Orchestra, Mostovoy formally founded the orchestra under the new name Concerto Soloists 16, in 1964. In its early years, the orchestra's primary performing venue was the Harrison Auditorium of the University of Pennsylvania. Along with the initial plans for recording with Tabuteau, Mostovoy had also intended this chamber orchestra to provide performance opportunities to young professional musicians emerging from the Curtis Institute of Music, the University of Pennsylvania, Temple University, the New School of Music, and the Philadelphia Musical Academy. One specialist feature of this orchestra was to have orchestra musicians stand during performance where appropriate, in a nod to earlier baroque and classical era traditions. \n\nThe orchestra has a core roster of 33 musicians. The ensemble has had several names over its history, which have included:\n\nRenovations to the Harrison Auditorium forced the orchestra to discontinue concerts at the University of Pennsylvania. The orchestra continued to perform around Philadelphia, including service as the accompanying orchestra for baroque opera, in 17 different venues. These venues included the Walnut Street Theatre, where the orchestra had residence from 1975 to 1983, and again from 1990 to 1996. In 2000, the orchestra changed its name to The Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia, and took up permanent residence at the Perelman Theater of the Kimmel Center upon the formal opening of the center. \n\nIn 1982, Mostovoy invited Max Rudolf to appear as a regular conductor. The orchestra granted Rudolf the title of conductor laureate, and Rudolf continued to appear with the orchestra until 1993. Mostovoy concluded his tenure as music director in 2004.\n\nIn 1994, Ignat Solzhenitsyn, a concert pianist and conducting graduate from the Curtis Institute of Music, joined the ensemble as assistant conductor. In 1998, he was named principal conductor, and he became music director in 2004. During Solzhenistyn's tenure, financial concerns led to the reduction of its 10-concert season to 4 concerts in 2009. Solzhenitsyn stepped down as music director in 2010, and became conductor laureate.\n\nThe Belgian conductor and composer Dirk Brossé had guest-conducted the orchestra in 2008 and in 2009. In September 2010, Brossé became the orchestra's music director. In January 2017, the orchestra extended Brossé's contract through the 2021-2022 season.\n\nThe orchestra has also performed new music, with a focus on regional Philadelphia composers. The orchestra has premiered over seventy new works. In 2017, COP began their Composer-in-Residency through generous support of the American Composers Forum - Philadelphia Chapter and the Steven R. Gerber Trust. \n\nPast executive directors of the orchestra have included Peter Gistelinck and Janelle McCoy. In July 2016, the orchestra announced Bill Rhoads as its new executive director, and he formally assumed the post in September 2016. Anne Hagan began her tenure as executive director in December 2018.\n\n\nIn 2017, by generous support of the ACF Philadelphia Chapter and the Steven R. Gerber Trust, the Chamber Orchestra began an annual season-long Composer-in-Residence. This residence was designed to not only create composition output for composers, but, to engage the composers to perform workshops with various community-driven student groups to usher in the next generation of musicians. Through a rigorous application process by ACF, the Chamber Orchestra announced Adam Vidiksis as their first Composer-in-Residence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273064", "title": "Hurricane Andres", "text": "Hurricane Andres\n\nThe name Andres has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "2273065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273065", "title": "Yoshiaki Fujiwara", "text": "Yoshiaki Fujiwara\n\nFujiwara was the first graduate of the New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) dojo (Mr. Pogo was the first debutante in the promotion, but he and Gran Hamada had trained with Tatsumi Fujinami before he and Antonio Inoki left the Japanese Wrestling Association). A former judoka, Fujiwara was easily able to absorb and apply the \"Strong Style\" of professional wrestling taught by Inoki and Karl Gotch, and he eventually became Inoki's bodyguard and sparring partner. In 1975, Fujiwara won the Karl Gotch Cup (a tournament for rookies named after Karl Gotch and forerunner to the later Young Lion Cup). In the late 1970s, Fujiwara became embroiled in a feud with Allen Coage (a former Olympic judo bronze medal winner who had debuted as a pro wrestler in NJPW, and one of the first gaijins to be trained at the NJPW dojo) over the petty issue of who had the strongest head. Fujiwara would bang his head repeatedly against the ring's corner post's metal face to provoke Coage, and behind the scenes, Coage would advise him not to do so repeatedly, in fear of suffering permanent real-life damage.\n\nAll the while, Fujiwara remained a strong member of the undercard, but rarely would he get opportunities for big singles matches or tag teams with better-known stars. In February 2, 1984, however, all that would change when Fujiwara appeared before a match to attack Riki Choshu, then the promotion's main villain. The sight of Choshu beaten and bleeding turned Fujiwara into one of the most popular babyface wrestlers in the promotion and a mainstay in the rivalry against Choshu and his Ishi Gundan faction. In storyline, it was suspected Inoki himself had arranged for Fujiwara's attack. The same year, Fujiwara was among the defectors who created the Japanese UWF.\n\nWhen he and most of them returned in 1986, they formed their own stable, indicating they would battle major New Japan wrestlers and receive recognition on their own terms. As a member of the UWF stable, Fujiwara, along with Akira Maeda, focused on Inoki's IWGP Heavyweight Championship, pushing him to the limit in the annual IWGP tournaments. But at heart, Maeda and Fujiwara were also rivals - when unable to get the IWGP title, Maeda and Nobuhiko Takada went for and won the IWGP tag team title, Fujiwara and Kazuo Yamazaki split from the main UWF stable, and feuded with them over the title, eventually winning it. This split, also in the wake of Riki Choshu's return to NJPW after leaving in circumstances similar to Maeda and the rest of the UWF roster, eventually weakened the UWF stable.\n\nWhen Maeda was fired from New Japan for a shoot attack on Choshu during a match in late 1987, all the other UWF stable members except for Fujiwara and Osamu Kido left NJPW to reform the UWF. Kido and Fujiwara attempted to get back into the good graces of the rest of the NJPW roster - and for a time, Fujiwara seemed to go back into the NJPW undercard, although with more respect from his peers. Inoki had already gained respect for him enough to be his tag team partner in 1986 for the annual tag team tournament (despite being affiliated with the UWF stable). In the meantime, Fujiwara trained rookies Masakatsu Funaki and Minoru Suzuki. In 1989, however, Fujiwara felt the need to continue shoot-style wrestling, also due to the rise of Choshu in backstage politics, so he moved to the UWF with Funaki and Suzuki.\n\nIn Newborn UWF, Fujiwara was clearly seen as the senior peer to Maeda, but eventually jobbed to him. After Newborn UWF collapsed in December 1990, Fujiwara, Funaki, Suzuki and rookie Yusuke Fuke formed Pro Wrestling Fujiwara Gumi (\"Gumi\" [] in Japanese means \"group\", but it is used in the underworld lingo to mean \"organized crime family\". Fujiwara styled himself \"kumichō\" [], literally, the gang leader). Although it was a shoot style promotion, Fujiwara had agreements with SWS, W*ING and Universal Lucha Libre, whereupon he would send talent to compete in them (but not vice versa, in order to keep the shoot-style feel to his promotion). Fujiwara Gumi had a big supercard at the Tokyo Dome in 1992, involving all the great talents in the promotion: Fujiwara, Funaki, Suzuki, Fuke, Yoshiki Takahashi, Yuki Ishikawa, and others.\n\nProblems involving the collapsing Japanese economy and the essence of Fujiwara Gumi's wrestling, however, forced its roster to assess their individual futures. Funaki, Suzuki, Fuke and Takahashi, apparently unsettled by the \"performing\" direction Fujiwara was taking, abandoned him in late 1993 to form Pancrase. Fujiwara already had back-up talent - Ishikawa, Daisuke Ikeda, Katsumi Usuda, Minoru Tanaka, Mamoru Okamoto, Muhammad Yone, and Shoichi Funaki. In need of funds, however, Fujiwara proposed to cooperate with their root promotion, New Japan. Fujiwara and the rest of the roster began having a small feud with NJPW, Fujiwara challenging the heavyweights (he challenged future partner Shinya Hashimoto for the IWGP title, but failed again), and the rest the junior heavyweight division. The NJPW-PWFG feud, however, did not have the star-studded impression on fans that the NJPW-UWFI feud later had.\n\nIn late 1995, Ishikawa and the rest of the Fujiwara Gumi roster abandoned Fujiwara and formed their own promotion, BattlARTS, citing problems with Fujiwara's management team. Since 1996, Fujiwara, the only remaining member of Fujiwara Gumi and thus a free agent (as the promotion no longer operates), has competed in several promotions, mostly in legends matches. He has wrestled for NJPW, All Japan Pro Wrestling, Pro Wrestling ZERO-ONE, WAR, and several independents into 2017.\n\nFujiwara is also an actor who has had a few parts in Japanese movies and dramas. In 1995, he had a major role in the Toshihiro Sato movie \"Roppongi Soldier\" along with Satoru Sayama and Itsumi Osawa, playing an eccentric kickboxer named Sabu.\n\nHe is also a prolific artisan potter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273069", "title": "Ayer Tawar", "text": "Ayer Tawar\n\nAyer Tawar (Chinese: 爱大华; Pinyin: Ài Dàhuá) is a small town of 30,000 people in Manjung District, Perak, Malaysia. \"Air Tawar\" literally means \"fresh water\" in the Malay language. The town is less well-known than its immediate and larger neighbour Sitiawan, which is 12 kilometres away.\n\nAyer Tawar is about 60 km west of the state capital, Ipoh, and about 22 km from Lumut, where the largest Malaysian naval base is situated. You can reach the town from the North South Highway via Penang to Taiping to Pantai Remis, via Ipoh or the coastal road from Telok Intan to Sitiawan.\n\nAyer Tawar includes a number of new villages e.g. Kampong Raja Hitam, Kampong Merbau, Kampong Jering, and the largest of all, Ayer Tawar New Village.\n\nThe town is divided into two sections known as Old Town and New Town by the Ayer Tawar River. Ironically, certain buildings in the Old Town are even newer than those in the New Town due to redevelopment, from repeated fires which gutted the original thatched wooden shophouses. Today, development is going on in the New Town along the row of shophouses next to Jalan Sekolah, the road leading to the Min Te Chinese Primary School, which is the oldest school of the town.\n\nBesides that, there are a few other primary schools within the township. For example, Ayer Tawar Tamil Primary School, Pei Min Primary School in Kampong Raja Hitam, Merbau Primary School in Kampong Merbau and Ayer Tawar Primary (C)school.\n\nNotable landmarks in Ayer Tawar include: the Chinese Methodist Church, Taoist Nine Emperor Gods Temple, a Hindu Krishna Temple, 2 Buddhist monasteries Guang Ji Gong and Nan Hai Guangying, and the Kutien Association Building.\n\nLike many other rural townships, Ayer Tawar is economically dependent on its agro-based industries. The town is surrounded by plantations and small holdings of commercial crops, such as oil palms, rubber trees, cocoa, coconut trees and, recently, fruit plants such as durian and mango.\n\nFrom 1910 to 1970, rubber was the sole commercial crop cultivated by the farmers and the British plantation owners. The economic well-being of the population invariably fluctuated in tandem with the price of rubber. In the early 1970s, the town suffered a devastating economic slump due to prolonged low rubber prices. This led to 3 significant developments: the emigration of the younger populace to major cities such as Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Penang and even the United Kingdom, to seek a better living; the migration of many farming families to new settlements such as Sri Jaya in Pahang and southern part of Thailand where the Gutian dialect is still spoken; and lastly the diversification of cultivation to include other commercial crops, the most important of which is the planting of oil palms. The latter now dominates land use in the vicinity.\n\nEthnic Chinese, mostly from the Gutian sub-clan of the Fuzhou dialect group, comprise the majority of Ayer Tawar's population. Most of them work in rubber estates and oil palm plantations, or participate in the retail industry. Outlying villages are populated by Malay people, mainly paddy and fruit farmers. Ayer Tawar currently faces a problem of emigration of its younger residents to other bigger towns and cities.\n\nThere are 3 secondary schools (SMK Ambrose, SMK Methodist, SMJK Ayer Tawar) and a dozen primary schools consisting of 3 Tamil primary school, 2 National (Malay) and 7 Chinese. The secondary schools are non-communal. However, Chinese students are the majority in two of the three secondary schools, due to the demography of the town. About 6 kilometers away, there is the Nan Hua Chinese Independent Secondary School.\n\nAyer Tawar is noted for its Chinese Fuzhou cuisine and especially its oven baked rounded onion/lard biscuit called kong pian ().\n\n"}
{"id": "2273072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273072", "title": "French battleship Dunkerque", "text": "French battleship Dunkerque\n\nDunkerque was the lead ship of the of battleships built for the French Navy in the 1930s. The class also included . The two ships were the first capital ships to be built by the French Navy after World War I; the planned and es had been cancelled at the outbreak of war, and budgetary problems prevented the French from building new battleships in the decade after the war. \"Dunkerque\" was laid down in December 1932, was launched October 1935, and was completed in May 1937. She was armed with a main battery of eight 330mm/50 Modèle 1931 guns arranged in two quadruple gun turrets and had a top speed of .\n\n\"Dunkerque\" and \"Strasbourg\" formed the French Navy's \"1ère Division de Ligne\" (1st Division of the Line) prior to the Second World War. The two ships searched for German commerce raiders in the early months of the war, and \"Dunkerque\" also participated in convoy escort duties. The ship was badly damaged during the British attack at Mers-el-Kébir after the Armistice that ended the first phase of France's participation in World War II, but she was refloated and partially repaired to return to Toulon for comprehensive repairs. \"Dunkerque\" was scuttled in November 1942 to prevent her capture by the Germans, and subsequently seized and partially scrapped by the Italians and later the Germans. Her wreck remained in Toulon until she was stricken in 1955, and scrapped three years later.\n\nThe French Navy's design staff spent the decade following the 1922 Washington Naval Treaty attempting to produce a satisfactory design to fill 70,000 tons as allowed by the treaty. Initially, the French sought a reply to the Italian s of 1925, but all proposals were rejected. A 17,500-ton cruiser, which could have handled the \"Trento\"s, was inadequate against the old Italian battleships, however, and the 37,000-ton battlecruiser concepts were prohibitively expensive and would jeopardize further naval limitation talks. These attempts were followed by an intermediate design for a 23,690-ton protected cruiser in 1929; it was armed with guns, armored against guns, and had a speed of . Visually, it bore a profile strikingly similar to the final \"Dunkerque\".\n\nThe German s became the new focus for French naval architects in 1929. The design had to respect the 1930 London Naval Treaty, which limited the French to two 23,333-ton ships until 1936. Drawing upon previous work, the French developed a 23,333-ton design armed with 305 mm guns, armored against the German cruisers' guns, and with a speed of . As with the final \"Dunkerque\", the main artillery was concentrated entirely forward. The design was rejected by the French parliament in July 1931 and sent back for revision. The final revision grew to 26,500 tons; the 305 mm guns were replaced by 330mm/50 Modèle 1931 guns, the armor was slightly improved, and the speed slightly decreased. Parliamentary approval was granted in early 1932, and \"Dunkerque\" was ordered on 26 October.\n\n\"Dunkerque\" displaced as built and fully loaded, with an overall length of , a beam of and a maximum draft of . She was powered by four Parsons geared steam turbines and six oil-fired boilers, which developed a total of and yielded a maximum speed of . Her crew numbered between 1,381 and 1,431 officers and men. The ship carried a pair of spotter aircraft on the fantail, and the aircraft facilities consisted of a steam catapult and a crane to handle the floatplanes.\n\nShe was armed with eight 330mm/50 Modèle 1931 guns arranged in two quadruple gun turrets, both of which were placed in a superfiring pair forward of the superstructure. Her secondary armament consisted of sixteen /45 dual-purpose guns; these were mounted in three quadruple and two twin turrets. The quadruple turrets were placed on the stern, and the twin turrets were located amidships. Close range antiaircraft defense was provided by a battery of eight guns in twin mounts and thirty-two guns in quadruple mounts. The ship's belt armor was thick amidships, and the main battery turrets were protected by of armor plate on the faces. The main armored deck was thick, and the conning tower had thick sides.\n\n\"Dunkerque\" was modified several times throughout her relatively short career. In 1937, a funnel cap was added and four of the 37 mm guns, which were the Modèle 1925 variant, were removed. These were replaced the following year with new Modèle 1933 guns. The 13.2 mm guns were also rearranged slightly, with the two mounts that were located abreast of the second main battery turret moved further aft. A new rangefinder was installed in 1940 on the fore tower.\n\n\"Dunkerque\" was laid down in the Arsenal de Brest, on 24 December 1932, in the graving dock number 4. The hull was completed except for the forward-most section, since the dock was only long. She was launched on 2 October 1935 and towed to graving dock number 8, where the bow was fitted. After that was completed, she was towed out to the \"Quai d'Armement\" to have her armament installed and begin fitting-out. Sea trials were carried out, starting on 18 April 1936, at which time her superstructure was not yet complete, and many of her secondary and anti-aircraft guns had not been installed. Two days later, she returned to Brest and had her machinery inspected before further trials through May. Her formal evaluation began on 22 May and continued until 9 October. On 4 February 1937, \"Dunkerque\" got underway for shooting trials to test the ship's secondary guns; she had aboard \"Vice-amiral\" (\"VA\"—Vice Admiral) Morris and \"Contre-amiral\" (\"CA\"—Rear Admiral) Rivet to observe the tests. Main battery tests were delayed by bad weather from 8 February to 11–14 February. \"VA\" François Darlan, the Chief of the Naval General Staff, came aboard on 3 March to observe further gunnery tests. The tests continued through April.\n\n\"VA\" Devin, the \"Préfet maritime de la 2 région\" (Prefect of the 2nd Maritime Region), came aboard \"Dunkerque\" on 15 May to take the ship to represent France at the Naval Review marking the coronation of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. The ship left Brest on 17 May for the review and arrived back on 23 May. She participated in another review off the Île de Sein on 27 May, where she hosted Darlan and Alphonse Gasnier-Duparc, the Naval Minister. Gunnery testing resumed after the review and continued into mid-June, at which point she returned to the shipyard in Brest for further work. In late July, she went to sea for further trials before returning to Brest for additional work that lasted from 15 August to 14 October. In early 1938, the crew prepared the ship for her first major cruise to test her ability to operate at extended ranges, which began on 20 January. The voyage took the ship on a tour of French colonial possessions in the Atlantic; ports of call included Fort-de-France in the Antilles (from 31 January to 4 February) and Dakar, Senegal (from 25 February to 1 March). She returned to Brest on 6 March, thereafter conducting more gunnery testing on 11 March.\n\n\"Dunkerque\" underwent another period of equipment inspections and gunnery testing after her return from the voyage that continued into May. From 1 to 4 July, she steamed to the English Channel to visit her namesake town, returning to Brest on 6 July by way of a stay in Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue on 4–5 July. George VI and Elizabeth were visiting Boulogne on 16 July, so \"Dunkerque\" left Brest that day in company with a group of warships to visit the British monarch there. \"Dunkerque\" got underway again on 22 July, bound for Calais, where she the British Royal Family as they left for home. On 1 September, \"Dunkerque\" was finally pronounced ready for service and was assigned to the Atlantic Squadron, becoming the flagship of its commander, \"Vice-amiral d'Escadre\" (Squadron Vice Admiral) Marcel-Bruno Gensoul.\n\nAfter entering service, \"Dunkerque\" continued her training program, though she was now included in exercises with the rest of the squadron. At the time, the squadron included the three s (the 2nd Battle Division), three cruisers (the 4th Cruiser Division), the aircraft carrier , and numerous destroyers and torpedo boats. From 18 to 20 October, she took part in maneuvers with \"Béarn\", two torpedo boats, and a sloop off the coast of Brittany. \"Dunkerque\" departed Brest on 8 November in company with \"Béarn\" and the 4th Cruiser Division for a visit to Cherbourg to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the Armistice with Germany that ended World War I. The ships thereafter got underway for training exercises that concluded with a return to Brest on 17 November. \"Dunkerque\" then used the wreck of the old battleship as a target before returning to the shipyard for maintenance that lasted until 27 February 1939.\n\nThe next day, \"Dunkerque\" sortied to take part in maneuvers with the Atlantic Squadron off the Brittany coast; another stint in the shipyard for repairs followed from 17 March to 3 April. Gunnery training off the coast of Brittany from 4 to 7 April. In response to the Sudetenland Crisis over Nazi Germany's demand to annex the Sudetenland region of Czechoslovakia, the French naval command sent elements of the Atlantic Squadron, including \"Dunkerque\", three light cruisers, and eight large destroyers, on 14 April to cover the training cruiser as it returned from a cruise to the French West Indies; at the time, a German squadron centered on the large heavy cruiser was off the coast of Spain. The ships returned to port two days later. On 24 April, the squadron was joined by \"Dunkerque\"s sister ship ; the two ships were designated the 1st Battle Division. The ships received identification stripes on their funnels, one for \"Dunkerque\" as division leader, and two for \"Strasbourg\".\n\nThe squadron went to sea again the next day for exercises that lasted until 29 April. On 1 May, \"Strasbourg\" joined \"Dunkerque\" for the first time for a cruise to Lisbon, Portugal on 1 May, arriving there two days later for a celebration of the anniversary of Pedro Álvares Cabral's discovery of Brazil. The ships left Lisbon on 4 May and arrived in Brest three days later. There, they met a British squadron of warships that were visiting the port at the time. The two \"Dunkerque\"-class ships sortied on 23 May in company with the 4th Cruiser Division and three destroyer divisions for maneuvers held off the coast of Great Britain. \"Dunkerque\" and \"Strasbourg\" then visited a number of British ports, including Liverpool from 25 to 30 May, Oban from 31 May to 4 June, Staffa on 4 June, Loch Ewe from 5 to 7 June, Scapa Flow on 8 June, Rosyth from 9 to 14 June, before stopping in Le Havre, France from 16 to 20 June. The ships arrived back in Brest the next day. The squadron conducted more training off Brittany through July and into early August.\n\nIn August, as tensions with Germany were again heightened, this time over territorial demands on Poland, the French and British navies discussed coordination in the event of war with Germany; they agreed that the French would be responsible for covering Allied shipping south from the English Channel to the Gulf of Guinea in central Africa. To protect shipping from German commerce raiders, the French created the \"Force de Raid\" (Raiding Force), with \"Dunkerque\" and \"Strasbourg\" as its core. The group, which was under Gensoul's command, also included three light cruisers and eight large destroyers, and was based in Brest. British observers informed the French Navy that the German \"pocket battleships\" of the \"Deutschland\" class had gone to sea in late August, bound for the Atlantic, and that contact with the vessels had been lost. On 2 September, the day after Germany invaded Poland, but before France and Britain declared war, the \"Force de Raid\" sortied from Brest to guard against a possible attack by the \"Deutschland\"s. Upon learning that the German ships had been spotted in the North Sea, Gensoul ordered his ships to return to point after they met the French passenger liner in the Azores. The \"Force de Raid\" escorted the liner back to port and arrived in Brest on 6 September.\n\nBy this time, the German raiders had broken out into the Atlantic, so the British and French fleets formed hunter groups to track them down; the \"Force de Raid\" was split, with \"Dunkerque\" and \"Strasbourg\" operating individually as Force L and Force X, respectively. \"Dunkerque\", \"Béarn\", and three cruisers remained in Brest while \"Strasbourg\" and two French heavy cruisers joined the British aircraft carrier , based in Dakar. On 22 October, \"Dunkeque\" and two cruisers sortied with their destroyer screen to cover Convoy KJ 3 to Kingston, Jamaica, arriving back in Brest three days later. On 25 November, they again went to sea, joining the battlecruiser for a patrol to try to catch the German battleships and , which had just sunk the British armed merchant cruiser . While cruising off Iceland, \"Dunkerque\" ran into very heavy seas; her bow was repeatedly submerged by the large waves, and she had to slow to to avoid damage. The Germans had by this time returned to port, so the Anglo-French force returned to its ports.\n\nOn arriving in Brest on 3 December, \"Dunkerque\" was docked for repairs to her bow. The experience off Iceland had highlighted defects with her design, including insufficient freeboard and insufficiently strong construction. These problems could not be easily corrected, however, leaving the \"Dunkerque\"s vulnerable to storm damage. On 11 December, \"Dunkerque\" and the cruiser carried a shipment of part of the Banque de France's gold reserve to Canada. The ships arrived on 17 December and covered a convoy of seven troop ships that was also escorted by the battleship on the return voyage. While still at sea on 29 December, the convoy met the local escort forces in the Western Approaches, which took over responsibility of the convoy, allowing \"Dunkerque\" and \"Gloire\" to detach for Brest. After arriving there on 4 January 1940, \"Dunkerque\" underwent another period of maintenance that lasted until 6 February. The ship then conducted sea trials and training maneuvers from 21 February to 23 March.\n\nFaced with increasingly hostile posturing by Italy during the spring of 1940, the \"Force de Raid\" was dispatched to Mers-el-Kébir on 2 April. \"Dunkerque\", \"Strasbourg\", two cruisers, and five destroyers left that afternoon and arrived three days later. The squadron was quickly ordered to return to Brest just a few days later in response to the German landings in Norway on 9 April. The \"Force de Raid\" left Mers-el-Kébir that day and arrived in Brest on the 12th, with the intention that the ships would cover convoys to reinforce Allied forces fighting in Norway. But the threat of Italian intervention continued to weigh on the French command, which reversed the ships' orders and transferred them back to Mers-el Kebir on 24 April; \"Dunkerque\" and the rest of the group left that day and arrived on 27 April. They conducted training exercises in the western Mediterranean from 9 to 10 May but saw little activity for the next month. On 10 June, Italy declared war on France and Britain. \n\nTwo days later, \"Dunkerque\" and \"Strasbourg\" sortied to intercept reported German and Italian ships that were incorrectly reported to be in the area. The French had received faulty intelligence that had indicated that the Germans would attempt to force a group of battleships through the Strait of Gibraltar to strengthen the Italian fleet. After the French fleet got underway, reconnaissance aircraft reported spotting an enemy fleet steaming toward Gibraltar. Supposing the aircraft to have spotted the Italian battle fleet steaming to join the Germans, the French increased speed to intercept them, only to realize that the aircraft had in fact located the French fleet. The fleet then returned to port, marking the end of \"Dunkerque\"s last wartime operation. On 22 June, France surrendered to Germany following the Battle of France; during the truce negotiations, the French Navy proposed demilitarizing \"Dunkerque\" and several other warships in Toulon. Under the terms of the Armistice, \"Dunkerque\" and \"Strasbourg\" would remain at Mers-el-Kébir.\n\nThe only test in battle for \"Dunkerque\" came in the attack on Mers-el-Kébir on 3 July. The British, misinterpreting the terms of the armistice as providing the Germans with access to the French fleet, feared that the ships would be seized and pressed into service against them despite assurances from Darlan that if the Germans attempted to take the vessels, their crews would scuttle them. Prime Minister Winston Churchill then convinced the War Cabinet that the fleet must be neutralized or forced to re-join the war on the side of Britain. The British Force H, commanded by Admiral James Somerville and centered on HMS \"Hood\" and the battleships , and , arrived off Mers-el-Kébir to coerce the French battleship squadron to join the British cause or scuttle their ships. The French Navy refused, as complying with the demand would have violated the armistice signed with Germany. To ensure the ships would not fall into Axis hands, the British warships opened fire at 17:55. \"Dunkerque\" was tied alongside the mole with her stern facing the sea, so she could not return fire.\n\n\"Dunkerque\"s crew loosed the chains and started to get the ship underway just as the British opened fire; the ship was engaged by HMS \"Hood\". The French gunners responded quickly and \"Dunkerque\" fired several salvos at \"Hood\" before being hit by four shells in quick succession. The first was deflected on the upper main battery turret roof above the right-most gun, though it shoved in the armor plate and ignited propellant charges in the right turret half that asphyxiated all the men in that half; the left half remained operational. The shell itself was deflected off the turret face and failed to explode when it landed around away. Fragments of armor plate that had been dislodged by the impact destroyed the run-out cylinder for the right gun, disabling it. The second shell passed through the unarmored stern, penetrating the armor deck and exiting the hull without exploding. Though it did little damage, the shell did cut the control line for the rudder, forcing the ship to use manual control, which hampered the crew's ability to steer the ship as they attempted to get underway.\nThe third shell hit the ship shortly after 18:00; this projectile struck the upper edge of the belt on the starboard side; since the belt had only been designed to defeat German shells, the much more powerful British shell easily perforated it. The shell then passed through the handling room for the starboard secondary turret No. III, igniting propellant charges and detonating a pair of 130 mm shells as it did so. The 15 in round then penetrated an internal bulkhead and exploded in the medical storage room. The blast caused extensive internal damage, allowing smoke from the ammunition fire to enter the machinery spaces, which had to be abandoned, though debris from the explosion had jammed the armored doors shut. Only a dozen men were able to escape using a ladder at the forward end of the room. The fourth shell struck the belt aft of the third hit and at the waterline. It also defeated the belt and the torpedo bulkhead and then exploded in boiler room 2, causing extensive damage to the propulsion machinery. \"Dunkerque\" rapidly lost speed and then all electrical power; unable to get underway or further resist the British ships, \"Dunkerque\" was beached on the other side of Mers-el-Kébir roadstead to prevent her from being sunk.\n\nThe British fire ceased after less than twenty minutes, which limited the damage inflicted; Somerville hoped to minimize the damage done to Franco-British relations. Work on the ship began almost immediately; at 20:00, Gensoul ordered the crew to recover the dead and wounded while damage control teams stabilized the ship. Those not engaged in either work—some 800 men—were sent ashore. Half an hour later, he radioed Somerville that the ship had been largely evacuated. By the next morning, the fires had been suppressed and work to plate over the shell holes in the hull had begun. Wounded crewmen had been evacuated to a local hospital. Gensoul expected that the ship would be ready to sail for Toulon for permanent repairs within a few days and informed his superior, Admiral Jean-Pierre Esteva (\"Amiral Sud\", the commander of naval forces in North Africa) as much. Esteva in turn issued a statement to that effect to the press in Algeria, which had the unintended effect of informing the British that \"Dunkerque\" had not been disabled permanently. Churchill ordered Somerville to return and destroy the ship; Somerville, hoping to avoid civilian casualties now that the ship was beached directly in front of the town of Saint André, secured permission to attack using only torpedo bombers.\n\nThe second attack took place on 6 July. A flight of twelve Fairey Swordfish torpedo bombers, armed with torpedoes modified for use in shallow water, were launched from the carrier in three waves of six, three, and three aircraft. They received an escort of three Blackburn Skua fighters. The French had failed to erect torpedo nets around the ship, and Gensoul, who had hoped to reinforce the idea that the ship had been evacuated, ordered that her anti-aircraft guns not be manned. Three patrol boats were moored alongside to evacuate the remaining crew aboard in the event of another attack, and these vessels were loaded with depth charges. The first wave scored a hit on the patrol boat \"Terre-Neuve\", and though it failed to explode, the hole it punched in her hull caused her to sink in the shallow water. Another torpedo hit the wreck in the second wave and exploded, leading to a secondary explosion of fourteen of her depth charges, which was the equivalent of of TNT, equal to eight Swordfish torpedoes. The explosion caused extensive damage to \"Dunkerque\"s bow and likely would have resulted in a magazine detonation had her captain not ordered the magazines be flooded as soon as the Swordfishes appeared. The blast killed another 30, bringing the total killed in both attacks to 210.\n\n\"Dunkerque\" had been badly damaged in the attack, far more so than the 3 July bombardment; some of water had flooded the ship through a hole opened in the hull, and a length of her hull, double bottom, and torpedo bulkhead had been deformed by the blast. The forward armor belt was also distorted and her armored decks had been pushed up. A survey of the damage was conducted on 11 July, but the scale of the damage was beyond what the local shipyard could repair, as it lacked a drydock of sufficient size. Engineers from Toulon were sent to assist the repair work, which began with the fabrication of a sheet of steel that was bolted over the hull from 19 to 23 August and then sealed with of concrete between 31 August and 11 September. The hull was then pumped dry and re-floated on 27 September, thereafter being towed to a quay in Saint André for further repairs. At this time, torpedo nets were set up around the ship and her anti-aircraft guns were manned. One of the workers accidentally started a serious fire with a welding torch on 5 December. \n\nWork continued well into 1941, and in April she conducted stationary trials with her machinery. Her crew returned on 19 May and she was ready to return to Toulon by July, but heavy fighting during the Mediterranean Campaign forced the French to wait to avoid being caught in the cross fire. On 25 January 1942 another fire broke out from a short circuit. \"Dunkerque\" was finally ready to cross the Mediterranean on 19 February; she got underway at 04:00, escorted by the destroyers , , , , and . Some 65 fighters, bombers, and torpedo bombers covered the ships while they made the crossing. \"Dunkerque\" reached Toulon at 23:00 on 20 February; her crew was reduced to comply with the terms of the armistice on 1 March, and on 22 June, she entered the large Vauban dock for permanent repairs.\n\nRepair work proceeded slowly, owing to a shortage of material and labor. After the Wehrmacht occupied the Zone libre in retaliation for the successful Allied landings in North Africa, the Germans attempted to seize the French warships remaining under Vichy control on 27 November. To prevent them from seizing the ships, their crews scuttled the fleet in Toulon, including \"Dunkerque\", which still lay incomplete in the Vauban drydock. Demolition charges were placed on the ship and she was set on fire. Her commanding officer, \"Capitaine de vaisseau\" (Captain) Amiel, initially refused to sink his ship without written orders, but was finally convinced to do so by the commanding officer of the nearby light cruiser . Since she was still in the dry dock, the locks had to be opened to flood the ship, which would have taken two to three hours. Since she was in the far side of the dockyard, it took the Germans over an hour to reach the vessel, and in the confusion, they made no attempt to close the locks.\nItaly received control of most of the wrecks, and they decided to repair as many ships as possible for service with the Italian fleet, but to scrap those that were too badly damaged to quickly return to service. The Italians deemed \"Dunkerque\" to be a total loss, and so began to dismantle \"in situ\". As part of this process, the ship was deliberately damaged to prevent the French from being able to repair her if she was recaptured; the Italians cut down the main battery guns to render them unusable. The partially scrapped hulk was in turn seized by the Germans when Italy surrendered to the Allies in September 1943. In 1944, the Germans removed the ship's bow to float her out of the drydock to free up the dock and continue the scrapping process. While in Axis possession, she was bombed several times by Allied aircraft. The hulk was condemned on 15 September 1955 and renamed \"Q56\". Her remains, which amounted to not more than , were sold for final demolition on 30 September 1958 for 226,117,000 francs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273074", "title": "Tropical Storm Barbara", "text": "Tropical Storm Barbara\n\nThe name Barbara has been used for two tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean, seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean, one tropical cyclone in the Western Pacific Ocean, two tropical cyclones in the Southwest Indian Ocean, and one tropical cyclone in the South Pacific Ocean. The name has also been used once in the UK and Ireland's windstorm naming system.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273077", "title": "FC Zhetysu", "text": "FC Zhetysu\n\nJetisu Taldykorgan (, \"Jetisý Taldyqorǵan Fýtbol Klýby\") is a Kazakh football club based at the Zhetysu stadium in Taldykorgan. They are founding members of the Kazakhstan Premier League, they missed five seasons because of relegations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273079", "title": "Red river hog", "text": "Red river hog\n\nThe red river hog (\"Potamochoerus porcus\"), also known as the bush pig (but not to be confused with \"P. larvatus\", common name \"bushpig\"), is a wild member of the pig family living in Africa, with most of its distribution in the Guinean and Congolian forests. It is rarely seen away from rainforests, and generally prefers areas near rivers or swamps.\n\nThe red river hog has striking orange to reddish-brown fur, with black legs and a tufted white stripe along the spine. Adults have white markings around the eyes and on the cheeks and jaws; the rest of the muzzle and face are a contrasting black. The fur on the jaw and the flanks is longer than that on the body, with the males having especially prominent facial whiskers. Unlike other species of pig native to tropical Africa, the entire body is covered in hair, with no bare skin visible.\n\nAdults weigh and stand tall, with a length of . The thin tail is long and ends in a tuft of black hair. The ears are also long and thin, ending in tufts of white or black hair that may each in length. Boars are somewhat larger than sows, and have distinct conical protuberances on either side of the snout and rather small, sharp tusks. The facial protuberances are bony and probably protect the boar's facial tendons during head-to-head combat with other males.\n\nRed river hogs have a dental formula of , similar to that of wild boar. Both sexes have scent glands close to the eyes and on the feet; males have additional glands near the tusks on the upper jaw and on the penis. There is also a distinctive glandular structure about in diameter on the chin, which probably has a tactile function. Females have six teats.\n\nThe red river hog lives in rainforests, wet dense savannas, and forested valleys, and near rivers, lakes and marshes. The species' distribution ranges from the Congo area and Gambia to the eastern Congo, southwards to the Kasai and the Congo River. The exact delineation of its range versus that of the bushpig is unclear; but in broad terms, the red river hog occupies western and central Africa, and the bushpig occupies eastern and southern Africa. Where the two meet, they are sometimes said to interbreed, although other authorities dispute this. Although numerous subspecies have been identified in the past, none are currently recognised.\n\nThe species is omnivorous, eating mainly roots and tubers, and supplements its diet with fruit, grasses, herbs, eggs, dead animal and plant remains, insects, and lizards. It uses its large muzzle to snuffle about in the soil in search of food, as well as scraping the ground with their tusks and fore-feet. They can cause damage to agricultural crops, such as cassava and yams.\n\nRed river hogs are often active during the day, but are primarily nocturnal or crepuscular. They typically live in small groups of approximately six to ten animals, composed of a single adult male, and a number of adult females and their young. However, much larger groups, some with over 30 individuals, have been noted in particularly favourable habitats. The boar defends its harem aggressively against predators, with leopards being a particularly common threat.\n\nThey communicate almost continuously with grunts and squeals with a repertoire that can signal alarm, distress, or passive contact.\n\nRed river hogs breed seasonally, so that the young are born between the end of the dry season in February and the midpoint of the rainy season in July. The oestrus cycle lasts 34 to 37 days. The male licks the female's genital region before mating, which lasts about five to ten minutes. Gestation lasts 120 days.\n\nThe mother constructs a nest from dead leaves and dry grass before giving birth to a litter of up to six piglets, with three to four being most common. The piglets weigh at birth, and are initially dark brown with yellowish stripes and spots. They are weaned after about four months, and develop the plain reddish adult coat by about six months; the dark facial markings do not appear until they reach adulthood at about two years of age. They probably live for about fifteen years in the wild.\n"}
{"id": "2273081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273081", "title": "Archbishop of Suceava", "text": "Archbishop of Suceava\n\nList of Orthodox Archbishops of Suceava of the Romanian Patriarchate:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273084", "title": "Battle of Busan (1592)", "text": "Battle of Busan (1592)\n\nThe Battle of Busan of 1592, or the Battle of Busanpo (Battle of Busan Bay) (釜山浦 海戰) was a naval bombardment of anchored Japanese ships at Busan. Yi Sun-sin managed to destroy over 100 Japanese ships and retreated with minimal casualties.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Hansan Island, the Japanese navy retreated to Busan and focused on protecting and rebuilding their positions.\n\nMeanwhile reconstruction of the Joseon fleet brought its strength up to 166 vessels. With this fleet Yi Sun-sin and Yi Eok-gi set sail from Yeosu on 29 September. Won Gyun's small flotilla joined them the following day and together they advanced towards Busan. They reached the estuary of Nakdong River on 4 October and received news of 500 Japanese vessels anchored at Busan.\n\nOn 4 October, the Koreans caught a strong eastern wind and reached the waters of Busan, where they encountered some Japanese vessels. These were caught and destroyed, 24 in all.\n\nIn Busan harbor they found 470 Japanese ships. As they approached them, the Japanese jumped from their ships and rushed to fortifications on the heights overlooking the shore. The Korean ships fired on the Japanese fleet and burned them using fire arrows while the Japanese fired on them from above in their forts. Even with cannons captured at Busan, the Japanese did little damage to the Korean warships. By the time the day had ended, 130 Japanese ships had been destroyed. I Sunsin gave orders to withdraw, ending the battle.\n\nYi Sun Shin originally intended to destroy all the remaining Japanese ships, however, he realized that doing so would effectively trap the Japanese soldiers inside the Korean Peninsula, where they would travel inland and slaughter the natives. Therefore, Yi left a small number of Japanese ships unharmed and withdrew his navy to resupply. And just as Yi suspected, under the cover of darkness, the remaining Japanese soldiers boarded their remaining ships and retreated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273087", "title": "Kai-Fu Lee", "text": "Kai-Fu Lee\n\nKai-Fu Lee (; born December 3, 1961) is a Taiwanese-born American computer scientist, businessman, and writer. He is currently based in Beijing, China.\n\nLee developed the world's first speaker-independent, continuous speech recognition system as his Ph.D. thesis at Carnegie Mellon. He later worked as an executive, first at Apple, then SGI, Microsoft, and Google.\n\nHe became the focus of a 2005 legal dispute between Google and Microsoft, his former employer, due to a one-year non-compete agreement that he signed with Microsoft in 2000 when he became its corporate vice president of interactive services.\n\nOne of the most prominent figures in the Chinese internet sector, he was the founding director of Microsoft Research Asia, serving from 1998 to 2000; and president of Google China, serving from July 2005 through September 4, 2009. He created a website, () dedicated to helping young Chinese people achieve in their studies and careers, and his \"10 Letters to Chinese College Students\" have spread widely on the web. He is one of the most followed micro-bloggers in China, in particular on Sina Weibo, where he has over 50 million followers.\n\nIn his 2018 book \"AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley, and the New World Order\", Lee describes how China is rapidly moving forward to become the global leader in AI, and may well surpass the United States, because of China's demographics and its amassing of huge data sets. In a 28 September 2018 interview on the PBS \"Amanpour\" program, he stated that artificial intelligence, with all its capabilities, will never be capable of creativity or empathy.\n\nLee was born in Taipei, Taiwan. He is the son of Li Tianmin, a legislator and historian from Sichuan, China. Lee has detailed his personal life and career history in his autobiography in both Chinese and English, \"Making a World of Difference\", published in October 2011.\n\nIn 1973, Lee emigrated to the United States and attended high school in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" from Columbia University, earning a B.S. degree in computer science in 1983. He went on to earn a Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie Mellon University in 1988.\n\nAt Carnegie Mellon, Lee worked on topics in machine learning and pattern recognition. In 1986, he and Sanjoy Mahajan developed \"Bill\", a Bayesian learning-based system for playing the board game Othello that won the US national tournament of computer players in 1989. In 1988, he completed his doctoral dissertation on Sphinx, the first large-vocabulary, speaker-independent, continuous speech recognition system.\n\nLee has written two books on speech recognition and more than 60 papers in computer science. His doctoral dissertation was published in 1988 as a Kluwer monograph, \"Automatic Speech Recognition: The Development of the Sphinx Recognition System\" (). Together with Alex Waibel, another Carnegie Mellon researcher, Lee edited \"Readings in Speech Recognition\" (1990, ).\n\nAfter two years as a faculty member at Carnegie Mellon, Lee joined Apple Computer in 1990 as a principal research scientist. While at Apple (1990–1996), he headed R&D groups responsible for Apple Bandai Pippin, PlainTalk, Casper (speech interface), GalaTea (text to speech system) for Mac Computers.\n\nLee moved to Silicon Graphics in 1996 and spent a year as the Vice President of its Web Products division, and another year as president of its multimedia software division, Cosmo Software.\n\nIn 1998, Lee moved to Microsoft and went to Beijing, China where he played a key role in establishing the Microsoft Research (MSR) division there. MSR China later became known as Microsoft Research Asia, regarded as one of the best computer science research labs in the world. Lee returned to the United States in 2000 and was promoted to corporate vice president of interactive services division at Microsoft from 2000 to 2005.\n\nIn July 2005, Lee left Microsoft to take a position at Google. The search company agreed to compensation worth in excess of $10 million, including a $2.5 million cash 'signing bonus' and another $1.5 million cash payment after one year, a package referred to internally at Google as 'unprecedented'.\n\nOn July 19, 2005, Microsoft sued Google and Lee in a Washington state court over Google's hiring of its former Vice President of Interactive Services, claiming that Lee was violating his non-compete agreement by working for Google within one year of leaving the Redmond-based software corporation. Microsoft argued that Lee would inevitably disclose proprietary information to Google if he was allowed to work there.\n\nOn July 28, 2005, Washington state Superior Court Judge Steven González granted Microsoft a temporary restraining order, which prohibited Lee from working on Google projects that compete with Microsoft pending a trial scheduled for January 9, 2006. On September 13, following a hearing, Judge González issued a ruling permitting Lee to work for Google, but barring him from starting work on some technical projects until the case went to trial in January 2006. Lee was still allowed to recruit employees for Google in China and to talk to government officials about licensing, but was prohibited from working on technologies such as search or speech recognition. Lee was also prohibited from setting budgets, salaries, and research directions for Google in China until the case was to go to trial in January 2006.\n\nBefore the case could go to trial, on December 22, 2005 Google and Microsoft announced that they had reached a settlement whose terms are confidential, ending a five-month dispute between the two companies.\n\nAt Google China, Lee helped establish the company in the market and oversaw its growth in the country. He was responsible for launching the Google.cn regional website, and strengthened the company's teams of engineers and scientists in the country.\n\nOn September 4, 2009, Lee announced his resignation from Google. He said \"With a very strong leadership team in place, it seemed a very good moment for me to move to the next chapter in my career.\" Alan Eustace, senior Google vice-president for engineering, credited him with \"helping dramatically to improve the quality and range of services that we offer in China, and ensuring that we continue to innovate on the Web for the benefit of users and advertisers\". Several months after Lee's departure, Google announced that it would stop censorship and move its mainland China servers to Hong Kong.\n\nOn September 7, 2009 he announced details of a $115m venture capital (early-stage incubation and seed money business model) fund called \"Innovation Works\" (later changed to \"Sinovation Ventures\") that aims to create five successful Chinese start-ups a year in internet and mobile internet businesses or in vast hosting services known as cloud computing. The Innovation Works fund has attracted several investors, including Steve Chen, co-founder of YouTube; Foxconn, the electronics contract manufacturer; Legend Holdings, the parent of PC maker Lenovo; and WI Harper Group.\n\nIn September 2010, Lee described two Google Android projects for Chinese users: Tapas, a smart-phone operating system tailored for Chinese users and Wandoujia (SnapPea), a desktop phone manager for Android.\n\nIn December 2012, Innovation Works announced that it had closed a second US$275 million fund.\n\nIn September 2016, the company announced its corporate name change from Innovation Works to \"Sinovation Ventures,\" closing US$674 million (4.5 billion Chinese yuan) capital injection. Total fund size of Sinovation Ventures exceed US$1 billion. In April 2018, Sinovation Ventures announced its US dollar Fund IV of $500 million. To date, Sinovation Ventures' total asset under management with its dual currency reaches US$2 billion and has invested over 300 portfolios primarily in China.\n\n\n\n\n\nLee was barred from Weibo for three days after he used Weibo to complain about China's Internet controls. A February 16, 2013, post summarized a \"Wall Street Journal\" article about how slow speeds and instability deter overseas businesses from locating critical functions in China. In January 2013, he also posted support for staff of a Guangzhou-based newspaper during a standoff with government censors.\n\nLee posted on Weibo on 5 September 2013 that he had been diagnosed with lymphoma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273089", "title": "Hurricane Beatriz", "text": "Hurricane Beatriz\n\nThe name Beatriz has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273091", "title": "Hamdan v. Rumsfeld", "text": "Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\n\nHamdan v. Rumsfeld, 548 U.S. 557 (2006), is a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that military commissions set up by the Bush administration to try detainees at Guantanamo Bay lack \"the power to proceed because its structures and procedures violate both the Uniform Code of Military Justice and the four Geneva Conventions signed in 1949.\" Specifically, the ruling says that Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions was violated.\n\nThe case considers whether the United States Congress may pass legislation preventing the Supreme Court from hearing the case of an accused combatant before his military commission takes place, whether the special military commissions which had been set up violated federal law (including the Uniform Code of Military Justice and treaty obligations), and whether courts can enforce the articles of the Geneva Conventions.\n\nAn unusual aspect of the case was an amicus brief filed by Senators Jon Kyl and Lindsey Graham, which presented an \"extensive colloquy\" added to the Congressional record as evidence that \"Congress was aware\" that the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 would strip the Supreme Court of jurisdiction to hear cases brought by the Guantanamo detainees. Because these statements were not included in the December 21 debate at the time, Emily Bazelon of \"Slate\" magazine has argued that their brief was an attempt to mislead the court.\n\nOn June 29, 2006, the Court issued a 5–3 decision holding that it had jurisdiction, and that the administration did not have authority to set up these particular military commissions without congressional authorization, because they did not comply with the Uniform Code of Military Justice and the Geneva Conventions (which the court found to be incorporated into the Uniform Code of Military Justice).\n\nThe plaintiff was Salim Ahmed Hamdan, a citizen of Yemen who worked as a bodyguard and chauffeur for Osama bin Laden. Hamdan had formerly worked in Afghanistan on an agricultural project that Bin Laden had developed. Hamdan was captured by militia forces during the invasion of Afghanistan in the fall of 2001 and turned over to the United States. In 2002, he was sent by the US to its new Guantanamo Bay detention camp at its naval base in Cuba.\n\nIn July 2004, Hamdan was charged with conspiracy to commit terrorism, and the Bush administration made arrangements to try him before a military commission, established by the Department of Defense under Military Commission Order No. 1 of March 21, 2002. He was assigned a defense counsel, LCDR Charles D. Swift from the Navy JAG, who with a legal team filed a petition for Hamdan in US District Court for a writ of habeas corpus, challenging the constitutionality of the military commission, and saying that it lacked the protections required under the Geneva Conventions and United States Uniform Code of Military Justice.\n\nFollowing the United States Supreme Court ruling in \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\" (2004), which established that detainees had the right of \"habeas corpus\" to challenge their detention, Hamdan was granted a review before the Combatant Status Review Tribunal. It determined that he was eligible for detention by the United States as an enemy combatant or person of interest.\n\nThe defendants in this case included many United States government officials allegedly responsible for Hamdan's detention; the short name of the case includes only the first-named defendant, then-Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld.\n\nAfter reviewing Hamdan's habeas petition, Judge James Robertson of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ruled in the detainee's favor. He found that the United States could not hold a military commission unless it was first shown that the detainee was not a prisoner of war.\n\nOn July 15, 2005, a United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit three-judge panel: A. Raymond Randolph, John Roberts and Stephen F. Williams, unanimously reversed the decision of the District Court. Judge Randolph, who wrote the decision, cited the following reasons for the legality of the military commission:\n\nOn November 7, 2005, the Supreme Court issued a writ of certiorari to hear the case. The petition was filed on behalf of Hamdan by Neal Katyal of Georgetown University Law Center and Lt. Commander Charles Swift of the U.S. Navy, an alumnus of Seattle University School of Law. The Seattle law firm Perkins Coie provided the additional legal counsel for Hamdan.\n\nThe case was argued before the court on March 28, 2006. Katyal argued on behalf of Hamdan, and Paul Clement, the Solicitor General of the United States, argued on behalf of the government. Chief Justice Roberts recused himself because he had previously ruled on this case as part of the three judge panel on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Critics called for Justice Antonin Scalia to recuse himself, since he had made allegedly improper comments about the decision of the case prior to hearing oral arguments (\"I'm not about to give this man who was captured in a war a full jury trial. I mean it's crazy\") but he chose not to do so.\n\nThe Supreme Court announced its decision on June 29, 2006. The Court reversed the ruling of the Court of Appeals, holding that President George W. Bush did not have authority to set up the war crimes tribunals and finding the special military commissions illegal under both military justice law and the Geneva Conventions.\n\nAssociate Justice John Paul Stevens wrote the opinion for the Court, which commanded a majority only in part.\n\nThe Stevens opinion began with the issue of jurisdiction, denying the U.S. government's motion to dismiss under Section 1005 of the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 (DTA), which gave the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals \"exclusive\" jurisdiction to review decisions of cases being tried before military commissions. Congress did not include language in the DTA that might have precluded Supreme Court jurisdiction, making the government's argument to the Court unpersuasive. The government's argument that \"Schlesinger v. Councilman\" 420 U.S. 738 (1975) precludes Supreme Court review was similarly rejected. \"Councilman\" applied to a member of the U.S. military who was being tried before a military \"court-martial\". In contrast, Hamdan is not a member of the U.S. military, and would be tried before a military \"commission\", not a court-martial. To the court, the more persuasive precedent was \"Ex parte Quirin\", in which the court recognized its duty to enforce relevant Constitutional protections by convening a special Term and expediting review of a trial by military convention. The opinion explicitly stated that, because DTA did not bar it from considering the petition, it was unnecessary to decide whether laws unconditionally barring habeas corpus petitions would unconstitutionally violate the Suspension Clause.\n\nThe opinion then addressed the substantive issues of the case. It explicitly did not decide whether the President possessed the Constitutional power to convene military commissions like the one created to try Hamdan. Even if he possessed such power, those tribunals would either have to be sanctioned by the \"laws of war\", as codified by Congress in Article 21 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or authorized by statute. As to the statutory authorization, there is nothing in the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) \"even hinting\" at expanding the President's war powers beyond those enumerated in Art. 21. Instead, the AUMF, the UCMJ, and the DTA \"at most acknowledge\" the President's authority to convene military commissions only where justified by the exigencies of war, but still operating within the laws of war.\n\nAs to the laws of war, to the majority these necessarily include the UCMJ and the Geneva Conventions, each of which require more protections than the military commission provides. The UCMJ, Art. 36 (b), requires that rules applied in courts-martial and military commissions be \"uniform insofar as practicable\". Stevens found several substantial deviations, including:\n\nThese deviations made the commissions violate the UCMJ.\n\nThe majority also found that the procedures in question violate the \"at least\" applicable Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. It found that the D.C. Court of Appeals erred in concluding that the Conventions did not apply:\nBecause the military commission does not meet the requirements of the Uniform Code of Military Justice or of the Geneva Convention, it violates the laws of war and therefore cannot be used to try Hamdan.\n\nThe Court did not hear the question that had decided the district court opinion, namely that Hamdan was entitled to a GCIII Art. 5 hearing instead of a Combatant Status Review Tribunal.\n\nBecause Justice Anthony Kennedy did not join Stevens' opinion as to several parts, largely on the grounds of judicial parsimony (that is, having decided that the military commissions had no foundation, the core question of the case was decided and the Court did not need to go further), those sections were without a majority in support.\n\nIn one of these sections, Stevens addressed the issue of whether military commissions can try conspiracy charges. He argued that military commissions are not courts of general jurisdiction, which are able to try any crime; that the court has traditionally held that offenses against the law of war are triable by military commission only when they are clearly defined as war crimes by statute or strong common law precedent (cf. \"Quirin\"). Finally, he found that there was no support in statute or court precedent for law-of-war military commissions trying charges of \"conspiracy\", either in the Geneva Conventions, in the earlier Hague Conventions or at the Nuremberg Trials.\n\nAs is common in opinions to which there are dissents, Stevens' opinion addressed the major arguments in dissent. For example:\n\nJustice Breyer wrote a one-page concurring opinion, joined by Justices Kennedy, Souter, and Ginsburg. Breyer contended that the commissions are not necessarily categorically prohibited, as long as Congress approves them:\n\nJustice Kennedy wrote an opinion concurring in part, joined as to parts I and II by Justices Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer.\n\nIn Part One of Kennedy's concurrence, he raises his concern for the separation of powers; specifically, how one branch can control all the elements of a case, including avenues of review and appeal.\n\nPart Two describes the differences between the procedures of the military commissions and the procedures prescribed by the UCMJ (fewer jury members, different rules of evidence, etc.). These differences demonstrate that the commissions do not operate under the rules of military courts-martial, and raise issues of neutrality with respect to the military judges involved. The negation of fairness safeguards renders the commission a judicial entity which is not a \"regularly constituted court\", as required in the Geneva Convention. In sum, Kennedy writes that the commission exceeds congressional bounds, though the Congress is free to re-write the law as they see fit.\n\nThe third and final Part lists some of Kennedy's reservations. He would not say that the defendant must be present at all stages of the trial. There should be a reluctance to consider the applicability of Article 75 of Protocol I, since the U.S. never signed it and thus it is not binding. Kennedy writes that he feels it was not necessary to delve into the validity of the conspiracy charge, and he expresses no view on the merits of the other limitations of the commission noted in Part V of the Decision.\n\nJustice Scalia wrote a dissenting opinion that focuses primarily on issues of jurisdiction, and was joined by Justices Thomas and Alito.\n\nScalia calls the Court's conclusion to hear the case \"patently erroneous\". His first argument relies on the part of the Detainee Treatment Act (DTA) (effective December 30, 2005) that states \"[N]o court, justice, or judge shall have jurisdiction to hear or consider an application for a writ of habeas corpus filed by or on behalf of an alien detained by the Department of Defense at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.\" §1005(e)(1), 119 Stat. 2742. Scalia's opinion is that this clause suffices to deny the Supreme Court jurisdiction over the case, calling the majority's reading of the effectiveness provisions of §1005(h), a \"mess\". He cites \"Bruner v. United States\" and other cases granting \"immediate effect in pending cases, absent an explicit statutory reservation\". He wrote that in interpreting the language in the DTA, the majority ignored Supreme Court precedents which established that a statute excluding jurisdiction applies to pending cases unless it has clear language saying it does not. Scalia claimed that the majority had made this interpretation \"for the flimsiest of reasons\". He was referring to the majority's use of Senate floor debate records to bolster their interpretation, writing that it \"makes no difference\" that the language in support of his position was inserted into the Congressional Record after the law was voted upon. He also accuses the majority of ignoring the President's Signing Statement.\n\nFurthermore, he anticipates that expanding the jurisdictions able to hear writs of habeas corpus from Guantanamo Bay would create excessive load on the court system.\n\nIn addition, Scalia states that the original military tribunal was not shown to be inadequate. Regarding the application of the Suspension Clause of the Constitution, Scalia points to \"Johnson v. Eisentrager\".\n\nIn its second major argument, Scalia's opinion argues that petitioners such as Hamdan held outside the territorial jurisdiction of the United States lack the right to the writ of \"habeas corpus\". He points in a footnote to \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\", under which he claims Hamdan \"is already subject to indefinite detention\" \"after an adverse determination by his CSRT\".\n\nFinally, Justice Scalia chastises the Court for taking equity jurisdiction of the case and draws an analogy with \"Schlesinger v. Councilman\", 420 U.S. 738 (1975). In that case, the Supreme Court declined passing judgment on the decision of a military court-martial before it finished its work; Scalia argues that likewise, the military commissions in Cuba have not yet ended their work regarding Hamdan and therefore should not be subject to judicial oversight.\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas read his dissent from the bench when the decision was announced, the first time he did so since his dissent in \"Stenberg v. Carhart\", 530 U.S. 914 (2000).\n\nIn his dissent he asserted that the courts had no jurisdiction for this case for the reasons described in Scalia's dissent above; that Hamdan is an illegal combatant and therefore not protected by the Geneva convention; that the Geneva convention does not prohibit the special court council proposed; and that the President already had authority to set up the special court council proposed.\n\nCiting his dissent in \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\", Thomas briefly reprised the roles granted by the Constitution to the three different branches in time of war. He argued that under the framework established in \"Ex parte Quirin\" and \"Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer\", President Bush's decision to try Hamdan before a military commission \"is entitled to a heavy measure of deference\", inasmuch as Congress had authorized the President to use all necessary and appropriate force to prevent future acts of terrorism when it passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force.\n\nThomas disagreed strongly with the plurality's determination that the legality of the charges against Hamdan are doubtful because he was charged \"not with an overt act for which he was caught redhanded ... but with an 'agreement' the inception of which long predated ... the [relevant armed conflict]\". He lambasted the plurality for second-guessing the Executive's judgment, arguing that the Court's disagreement was based upon \"little more than its unsupported assertions\" and constituted \"an unprecedented departure from the traditionally limited role of the courts with respect to war and an unwarranted intrusion on executive authority\". Thomas further disagreed with the plurality's assumption that the date of the enactment of the AUMF constituted the start of war, suggesting that Osama bin Laden's declaration of jihad in August 1996 could be considered a declaration of war. Under this view, the enactment by Congress of the AUMF did not mark the beginning of the conflict with al Qaeda, but rather authorized the Executive to use force to combat it. Additionally, Thomas wrote that under the common law of war, which is \"flexible and evolutionary in nature\", war courts are permitted a degree of latitude in their jurisdiction. In holding otherwise, the plurality failed to properly defer to the judgment of the Executive and military commanders.\n\nReferring to the Court's recent decision in \"Rapanos v. United States\", Thomas noted with some incredulity that while the Justices in the instant decision \"disregard[ed] the commander-in-chief's wartime decisions\", they had no trouble deferring to the judgment of the Corps of Engineers in upholding the agency's \"wildly implausible conclusion that a storm drain is a tributary of the waters of the United States\". He added that \"It goes without saying that there is much more at stake here than storm drains.\"\n\nThomas likewise disagreed with the plurality's holding that even if the government had charged Hamdan with a crime that was clearly cognizable by military commission, the commission would still lack power to proceed because it does not comply with the terms of the UCMJ and the four Geneva Conventions signed in 1949. He again emphasized that the jurisdiction of military commissions is not prescribed by statute but is rather \"adapted in each instance to the need that called it forth\". Thomas argued that the Court's conclusion that Article 36 of the UCMJ amounts to an attempt by Congress to curb the Executive's power is \"contrary to the text and structure of the UCMJ\" and also inconsistent with prior decisions of the Court. Addressing Hamdan's claims under the Geneva Convention, Thomas argued that these are foreclosed by the Court's holding in \"Johnson v. Eisentrager\", where the majority noted that the respondents could not assert \"that anything in the Geneva Convention makes them immune from prosecution or punishment for war crimes\". Further, even if Hamdan's claim under Common Article 3 was not foreclosed by \"Eisentrager\", it is nevertheless meritless insofar as the President has accepted the determination of the Department of Justice that Common Article 3 of Geneva does not extend to al Qaeda detainees. Thomas asserted that the Court's duty in this instance to \"defer to the President's understanding of the provision at issue\" is made even more acute by the fact that he is acting pursuant to his authority as Commander-in-Chief.\n\nIn a seven page dissent, Alito sided with Thomas and Scalia's explanation of why they believe the courts had no jurisdiction for this case. He explained why he believed the military commission in this case was legal. Alito disagreed with the holding of the Court which found that military commissions did not meet the definition of \"a regularly constituted court\" as required in Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. Alito argued that Common Article 3 was satisfied in \"Hamdan\" because the military commissions:\n\nAlito specifically disagreed with the opinions supporting the judgment which held that the military commission before which Hamdan would be tried is not \"a regularly constituted court\", and that the military commission is \"illegal\", because the commission's procedures allegedly would not comply with . Alito wrote that the military commission was \"regularly\" or \"properly\" constituted, using the example of the various types of local, state, federal and international courts and how \"although these courts are 'differently constituted' and differ substantially in many other respects, they are all 'regularly constituted.'\"\n\nAlito stated that Geneva Convention Common Article 3 does not specifically rule out military commissions, and further points to the commentary in Article 66, which was the article the Court used in support of its opinion. Alito argued that even if Common Article 3 recognizes a prohibition on \"special tribunals\", which Article 66 does prohibit, such a prohibition is not applicable to Hamdan's tribunal because the military commissions were \"regular\". Further, because the Bush Administration might conduct the hundreds of such tribunals according to the same procedures, Alito concluded that \"it seems that petitioner's tribunal, like the hundreds of others respondents propose to conduct, is very much regular and not at all special.\"\n\nAlito wrote that \"the commissions were appointed, set up, and established pursuant to an order of the President, just like the commission in \"Ex parte Quirin\", 317 U. S. 1 (1942), and the Court acknowledges that \"Quirin\" recognized that the statutory predecessor of 'preserved' the President's power 'to convene military commissions.'\" Alito disagreed with Kennedy's assertion that \"an acceptable degree of independence from the Executive is necessary to render a commission 'regularly constituted' by the standards of our Nation's system of justice\", arguing that Kennedy \"offers no support for this proposition (which in any event seems to be more about fairness or integrity than regularity)\", and further arguing that the commission in \"Quirin\" was no different from the present case.\n\nFinally, Alito wrote that the commission procedures as a whole do not provide a basis for deeming the commissions to be illegitimate. He points to two procedural rules, which the Court found fault with: First, the rule \"allowing the Secretary of Defense to change the governing rules 'from time to time; and second, the rule that \"permits the admission of any evidence that would have 'probative value to a reasonable person. Alito asserts these rules cannot make the commissions illegitimate.\n\nOn the first rule Alito argued that not all changes during the course of a trial prejudice the defendant, and that some may even help the defendant. In addition, \"If a change is made and applied during the course of an ongoing proceeding and if the accused is found guilty, the validity of that procedure can be considered in the review proceeding for that case.\"\n\nOn the second rule, Alito argued that this rule does not violate the international standard incorporated into Common Article 3, because \"rules of evidence differ from country to country\" and \"much of the world does not follow aspects of our evidence rules, such as the general prohibition against the admission of hearsay\".\n\nThe impact of the decision on the petitioner (Hamdan) was that he can still be tried; however, his trial must be in a court, such as a military court-martial, or possibly a commission that has court-like protections.\n\nShortly thereafter, the Military Commissions Act of 2006 may have raised again the issue of which court would hear cases such as Hamdan's. The U.S. Department of Justice has filed notice with several federal judges, and given notice to hundreds of detainees, that the habeas petitions of alien unlawful enemy combatants (or those whose status is to be determined) are not within the jurisdiction of those courts.\n\nThe passage and signing of the Act follows through on President Bush's expressed intention to get explicit Congressional authorization to use military tribunals. Press Secretary Tony Snow echoed the plan to appeal to Congress.\n\nHowever, even among Senate Republicans, there were conflicting views. Senators Arlen Specter and Lindsey Graham (the latter a former military prosecutor) indicated Congress would work quickly to authorize tribunals, while influential Senator John Warner suggested a cautious and deliberative response. The potential for Congressional action also provided an avenue for politicking, as Republicans threatened Democratic members of Congress with being labeled weak on terrorism if they did not authorize tribunals.\n\nOn July 7, 2006, the Secretary of Defense issued a memo \"Application of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions to the Treatment of Detainees in the Department of Defense\". This may be the basis of a July 11, 2006, statement by the Bush administration that all detainees at Guantanamo Bay and in U.S. military custody everywhere are entitled to humane treatment under the Geneva Conventions. This declaration appears not to cover CIA detainees and is ambiguous with respect to the interpretation of Common Article 3 and the definition of \"humane treatment\".\n\nThere were some indications that the other detainees being held at facilities throughout the world (e.g., Bagram Air Base and black sites), might use the Supreme Court's ruling to challenge their treatment. Their reasoning may be that since the Geneva Conventions afforded protection to Hamdan, its other protections might be effective for them as well. Commentators expressed mixed opinions about the strength of this argument.\n\nThe decision may have important implications for other disputes relating to the extent of executive power and the unitary executive theory. In particular, it may undermine the Bush administration's legal arguments for domestic wiretapping by the National Security Agency without warrants as required by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.\n\nOn June 5, 2007, Hamdan and Canadian youth Omar Khadr, had all charges against them dismissed. The judges presiding over their military commissions ruled that the Military Commissions Act did not give them the jurisdiction to try Hamdan and Khadr, because it only authorized the trial of \"unlawful enemy combatants\". Hamdan and Khadr's Combatant Status Review Tribunals, like those of all the other Guantanamo captives, had confirmed them as \"enemy combatants\".\n\nIn December 2007, a tribunal determined that Hamdan was an \"unlawful enemy combatant\". In August 2008, he was convicted by the military commission of the lesser of two charges and received a sentence of 66 months, reduced by time served to five and a half months. In November 2008, the US transferred him to Yemen, where he served his last month. After release, he joined his family in Sana. In October 2012, the US Appeals Court for the District of Columbia, overturned Hamdan's conviction, acquitting him of the charge.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273092", "title": "Music from the Motion Picture Pulp Fiction", "text": "Music from the Motion Picture Pulp Fiction\n\nMusic from the Motion Picture Pulp Fiction is the soundtrack to Quentin Tarantino's 1994 film \"Pulp Fiction\". No traditional film score was commissioned for \"Pulp Fiction\". The film contains a mix of American rock and roll, surf music, pop and soul. The soundtrack is equally untraditional, consisting of nine songs from the movie, four tracks of dialogue snippets followed by a song, and three tracks of dialogue alone. Seven songs featured in the movie were not included in the original 41-minute soundtrack.\n\nThe album reached No. 21 on the \"Billboard\" 200, while Urge Overkill's cover of the Neil Diamond song \"Girl, You'll Be a Woman Soon\" peaked at No. 59 on the Billboard Hot 100.\n\nTarantino used an eclectic assortment of songs by various artists. Notable songs include Dick Dale's now-iconic rendition of \"Misirlou\", which is played during the opening credits. Tarantino chose surf music for the basic score of the film because, \"it just seems like rock 'n' roll Ennio Morricone music, rock 'n' roll spaghetti Western music.\"\n\nMany of the songs on the soundtrack were suggested to Tarantino by musician Boyd Rice through their mutual friend Allison Anders, including Dick Dale's \"Misirlou\". Other songs were suggested to Tarantino by his friends Chuck Kelley and Laura Lovelace, who were credited as music consultants. Lovelace also appeared in the film as Laura the waitress.\n\nIn addition to the surf-rock rendition of \"Misirlou\", other notable songs include \"Jungle Boogie\" by Kool & the Gang, Dusty Springfield's version of \"Son of a Preacher Man\", \"Flowers on the Wall\" by the Statler Brothers and \"Bustin' Surfboards\" by The Tornadoes, from 1962, which had been one of the first instrumental surf songs to hit the United States music charts after notables such as \"Walk--Don't Run\" by the Ventures.\n\nExcerpts of dialogue include Jules' \"Ezekiel 25:17\" speech and the \"Royale with Cheese\" exchange between Jules and Vincent.\n\nA two-disc collector's edition of the album was issued in 2002 — the first disc contained the songs, including four additional tracks; and the second disc was a spoken-word interview with Tarantino.\n\nWoody Thorne's 1961 song \"Teenagers in Love\" and Link Wray's 1965 single \"Rumble\" are two of the three songs missing from the collector's edition soundtrack. The last song is unique to the movie: it is Ricky Nelson's \"Waitin' In School\" as performed by the actor Gary Shorelle, which plays as Vincent and Mia enter Jackrabbit Slim's.\n\nThe soundtrack reached No. 21 on the Billboard 200, and at the time, went platinum (100,000 units) in Canada alone. By November 12, 1994, total sales of more than 1.6 million were reached and by 1996 over 2 million units had been sold. In 1995 the soundtrack reached No. 6 on the charts according to SoundScan.\n\nThe soundtrack helped launch the band Urge Overkill, which covered Neil Diamond's \"Girl, You'll Be a Woman Soon\" (produced by Kramer) in 1993, into a mainstream market. Sony \"received a nice sum\" for \"Son of a Preacher Man\" and Kool & The Gang enjoyed a resurgence when \"Jungle Boogie\" was released on the soundtrack.\n\n\"The Orange County Register\" described why the soundtrack of \"Pulp Fiction\" stood out from all the others: \"Unlike so many soundtracks, which just seem to be repositories for stray songs by hit acts regardless of whether they fit the film's mood, Tarantino's use of music in \"Reservoir Dogs\" and \"Pulp Fiction\" exploded with a brash, Technicolor, pop-culture intensity that mirrored the stories he was telling.\" Karyn Rachtman was the music supervisor on both \"Reservoir Dogs\" and \"Pulp Fiction.\"\n\nAnalyzing the success of Tarantino's marketing, \"Billboard\" chalked up MCA's compilation to identifying the market niche: \"\"Pulp Fiction\"...successfully spoke to those attuned to the hip, stylized nature of those particular films.\" The eclectic \"mix-and-match strategy\" is true to the film. \"In some cases, like \"Pulp Fiction\" and \"Reservoir Dogs\", which were not geared toward any specific demographic, the soundtracks were still very focused albums,\" said Kathy Nelson, senior VP/general manager at MCA Soundtracks. \"In both cases, the body of work — both the music and the film — has a specific personality.\"\n\nIn 1997, Gary Thompson of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" said that \"Pulp Fiction\" \"reinvigorated surf rock\". That statement would be defining for Del-Fi Records, owned by legendary producer Bob Keane; the \"Pulp Fiction\" soundtrack contained two songs that were originally released on Del-Fi: \"Bullwinkle Pt II\" by The Centurions, and \"Surf Rider\" by The Lively Ones. Del-Fi Records released a compilation CD in 1995 entitled \"Pulp Surfin\"' featuring songs by those bands plus sixteen other surf tracks from the vaults. The cover artwork was yet another parody of the \"Pulp Fiction\" movie poster.\n\nInspired by the soundtrack, advertisers started to use surf music in their commercials \"to help sell everything from burritos to toothpaste\", making surf music hugely popular again.\n\nMore than two years after the film was released, the influence and monetary success was still being felt in the industry. \"Mundane commercials using Dick Dale '60s surf licks, the kind made popular again by the \"Pulp Fiction\" soundtrack...following a trend — in this case, a two-year-old hit movie.\"\n\nA collector's edition version of the soundtrack was released in 2002. It features remastered versions of the original sixteen tracks, along with five bonus tracks, including an interview with director Quentin Tarantino. There are single and two-disc releases of this version, with the track listings being identical; the two-disc version has the Tarantino interview on the second disc. The additional tracks are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273096", "title": "Didier Auriol", "text": "Didier Auriol\n\nDidier Auriol (born 18 August 1958) is a French former rally driver.\n\nBorn in Montpellier, and initially an ambulance driver, Auriol made his name as a French rally driver in the World Rally Championship throughout the 1990s. He became World Rally Champion in 1994, the first from his country to do so. He was a factory candidate for Lancia, Toyota and Peugeot among others, before losing his seat at Škoda at the end of 2003.\n\nAt the age of 21, Auriol started rallying in an old Simca 1000. He drove the Simca 2 Years, then he got a Renault 5 Turbo, With this car, he drove in the French Rallye Championship. In 1986 he competed in a Metro 6R4. With this car, he won his first French Rallye Championship. He contested it again the following year, the first of the Group A years, in a Ford Sierra RS Cosworth and with his car he was French Rallye Champion 1987 and 1988.\n\nAuriol won his first World Championship event, the 1988 Tour de Corse, whilst driving a works Ford Sierra RS Cosworth. It was the only time that season when Lancia were beaten in a straight fight, and the Lancia team duly signed him for the following year. He remained with the team for four seasons, driving three successive versions of the then-dominant Lancia Delta Integrale. In 1992, driving the final evolution of the car, he won six events in one season (a record until beaten by Sébastien Loeb in 2005), but poor results on other rounds and retirement on the last event of the season, the RAC Rally, handed the world championship to Carlos Sainz.\nIn 1993 Auriol switched to Toyota, and won his first event for the team, the Monte Carlo Rally. He did not win again that season, but the following year he won the Corsica, Argentina and San Remo rallies and went into the final round, in Great Britain, vying again with Sainz for the championship. Despite a poor showing on the rally he emerged as World Champion after the Spanish driver went off the road on the final day. In 1995, he took the first win for the Celica GT-Four ST205 in Tour de Corse. However, later in the same season, on the Rally Catalunya, Toyota were found to have used an illegal device in the turbocharger to increase the power of the engine, and were excluded from the results of the 1995 championship and banned for next year. 1996 Auriol contested only two World Championship events. He drove for Subaru in Sweden and for Mitsubishi in San Remo. 1997 he entered in Monte Carlo with private Ford, and drove couple of rallies with Toyota's new Corolla WRC. Auriol drove for Toyota two next years, gaining two wins. When Toyota retired from World Rally Championship after 1999, Auriol moved to SEAT on board of the SEAT Córdoba WRC E2. With Auriol's experience, SEAT managed to grab the third podium place at the Safari Rally in Kenya, and later that season to launch their third evolution of the Córdoba WRC. However at the end of the season the Spanish manufacturer retired from WRC to focus on the development of a special series of high performance cars. Auriol still managed to deal with Peugeot for 2001 season, but in only asphalt-rallies where Auriol managed to be quicker than his teammate, Marcus Grönholm. Auriol's only win that year came from Catalunya. 2002 was kind of gap year for Auriol, but he made contract with Skoda team for 2003. Auriol was responsible for the development work of the Škoda Fabia WRC.\n\nAnother notable achievement in Auriol's repertoire is being a six-time winner of the Tour de Corse, level record holder with Bernard Darniche. Even as late as 2001 Auriol was still racking up podiums there.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273100", "title": "Vittorio the Vampire", "text": "Vittorio the Vampire\n\nVittorio the Vampire (1999) is the second novel in Anne Rice's \"New Tales of the Vampires\" series. It is the only vampire novel by Rice besides \"Pandora\" in which the lead character of her series \"The Vampire Chronicles\", Lestat de Lioncourt, does not appear; although Vittorio references him briefly.\n\nIn the twentieth century, from his castle in the northern part of Tuscany, Vittorio writes the tragic tale of his life.\n\nIn 1450, Vittorio di Raniari is a sixteen-year-old Italian nobleman, when his family is murdered by a powerful and ancient coven of vampires. The image of his siblings' severed heads with eyes staring fixedly at him strikes him permanently. Vittorio, however, escapes such a dreadful ending because of a vampire's intervention.\n\nAfter taking care of his family's burial, Vittorio gathers what riches he can and prepares himself for adventure as he flees towards Florence, away from the perilous crowd of vampires, under the sun's protecting wing.\n\nBy nightfall, Vittorio arrives at the most strange of villages, for there are no beggars at the street, no elderly, no sick or dying. Yet his mournful spirit prevents him from taking notice of it. He soon realizes that someone is stalking him, and, worried enough, he seeks shelter at an inn.\n\nUrsula, the vampire who prevented the other members of her coven from killing Vittorio, lurks behind his room's window. She continues to seduce him, all while draining blood from him, and giving him some of her own.\n\nVittorio is led by Ursula to the coven's lair, as she attempts to make him part of their gatherings. It is an ancient castle, where he discovers its many gardens filled with old people and sick children; he suddenly realizes that some of these people he had met at the village. Vittorio then witnesses an important feast that is carried on as a ritual by the leader of the vampires' group. In it, some people who were selected from the gardens are sacrificed to satisfy their thirst for blood.\n\nAfter refusing the dark gift, the vampires do not kill him (thanks to Ursula), but rather leave him in a village. As he is walking, he sees two Angels arguing in a doorway, Ramiel and Setheus. The angels are just as surprised as he that Vittorio can see them (he later learns that they are the guiding angels of his idol, Fra Filippo Lippi). With their help, the help of his own angels, and a very powerful armor-wearing angel, Mastema, Vittorio plots his revenge against the vampires, who are invading the lands and killing innocents (incidentally, Vittorio's own guiding angels do not play much of a part; whilst they are often present, they are insubstantial and shadowy, and we do not know their names).\n\nThe attack takes place in the day and involves decapitating the vampires as they sleep. The heads are then thrown into the sunlight where they wither and die. When it comes time to behead Ursula, Vittorio finds that he cannot do this even as the angels urge him on. Instead, he frees Ursula in the hopes of saving her soul. Within minutes, Vittorio is tricked into becoming a vampire and a yearning for blood conquers everything he knows.\n\nIn the closing pages we find Ursula and Vittorio performing as an age old Bonnie and Clyde, killing and drinking until they had their fill. These two lovers stay with each other for many years to come.\n\nVittorio is unique in two ways: he can see angels and departing human souls. At the end of the book, he is left with the \"gift\" to see human souls, which appear from every person as an intense shining light. Mastema tells him that he will never be able to rid himself of this, and that every time he takes a human life he will bear witness to the extinguishing of the soul.\n"}
{"id": "2273119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273119", "title": "University of Providence", "text": "University of Providence\n\nThe University of Providence (UP) (renamed from University of Great Falls in July 2017) is a private Roman Catholic university in Great Falls, Montana. It is accredited by the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges.\n\nThe University of Providence was founded in 1932 as Great Falls Junior College for Women by Edwin Vincent O'Hara, the Catholic Bishop of Great Falls, in collaboration with the Sisters of Charity of Providence and the Ursuline Sisters. It became coeducational in 1937.\n\nA year later, Sister Lucia Sullivan established the Great Falls Normal School to educate teachers. At the time there were two schools, each operating under a different Catholic religious community. The union of the two schools was one of convenience and legality. In 1942, the institution was a single entity under the direction of the Sisters of Providence, and was renamed the Great Falls College of Education. By the early 1950s it became simply the College of Great Falls, and in 1995 was renamed the University of Great Falls. It was renamed University of Providence in July 2017.\n\nOver the years UP has been involved in several outreach education efforts. For many years, it has had a resident center on the Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, and in Lewistown, as well as a continuing education program at Malmstrom Air Force Base. In addition to its campus offerings, UP serves 31 sites in Montana, southern Alberta and Wyoming through its Telecom Distance Learning Program, and is able to serve students around the world. The University of Providence offers undergraduate degrees in more than 20 programs and several master's degree programs.\n\nThe student body consists of approximately 1,100 undergraduate students and 200 graduate students.\n\nThe UP undergraduate program consists of two schools:\n\nSome of the more popular programs are criminal justice, human services, elementary education, counseling psychology, and paralegal studies. The school also offers teaching certificates.\n\nThe university offers two master's degrees:\n\nUP's calendar consists of four-month semesters in the fall and spring, and a 12-week summer term.\n\nProvidence teams, nicknamed athletically the Argonauts, are part of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing in the Frontier Conference. Men's sports include basketball, cross country, golf, hockey, rodeo, soccer, track & field and wrestling; women's sports include basketball, cross country, golf, hockey, rodeo, soccer, softball, track & field, volleyball, and wrestling. Co-ed sports include the spirit squad.\n\nThe University of Providence has a rolling admission policy. Applications are considered without regard to race, gender, age, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, financial status, physical or mental disabilities, or national origin. Applicants may apply for admission at any time; however, they are strongly urged to apply at least one month prior to the first day of classes for the term they intend to begin. Required documents must be submitted before a student can be admitted. It is particularly important that the UP Placement Test be taken prior to registration. Prospective students must complete an admission application, which has no application fee, and provide an official high school transcript or official certificate of high school equivalency with scores from the General Education Development Test (GED). Results of ACT or SAT are recommended for academic advising and consideration for merit/no-need scholarships, but not required. To register, proof of two immunizations for measles and one immunization for rubella must be supplied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273120", "title": "Hurricane Blanca", "text": "Hurricane Blanca\n\nThe name Blanca has been used for ten tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273121", "title": "Looking for Alaska", "text": "Looking for Alaska\n\nLooking for Alaska is John Green's first novel, published in March 2005 by Dutton Juvenile. Based on his time at Indian Springs School, Green wrote the novel as a result of his desire to create meaningful young adult fiction. The characters and events of the plot are grounded in Green's life, while the story itself is fictional.\n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" follows the novel's main character and narrator Miles Halter, or \"Pudge,\" to boarding school where he goes to seek the \"Great Perhaps,\" the famous last words of François Rabelais. Throughout the first half of the novel, Miles and his friends Chip \"The Colonel\" Martin, Alaska Young, and Takumi Hikohito grow very close and the section culminates in Alaska's death. In the second half of the novel, Miles and his friends work to discover the missing details of the night Alaska died. While struggling to reconcile Alaska's death, Miles grapples with Simón Bolivar's last words and the meaning of life, leaving the conclusion to these topics unresolved.\n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" is a coming-of-age novel that touches on themes of meaning, grief, hope, and youth-adult relationships. The novel won the 2006 Michael L. Printz Award from the American Library Association, and led the association's list of most-challenged books in 2015 due to profanity and a sexually explicit scene. Schools in Kentucky, Tennessee, and several other states have attempted to place bans on the book. In 2005, Paramount Pictures received the rights to produce a film adaption of \"Looking for Alaska\"; however, the film failed to reach production. \"Looking for Alaska\" premiered as a Hulu Original on October 18, 2019.\n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" is based on John Green's early life. Growing up, Green always loved writing, but when it came to his middle school experience, he classified life as a middle schooler as \"pretty bleak\". As a student, Green describes that he was \"unbearable\" to parents and teachers; however, he always worked hard to fit in with his peers. Green's situation did not improve after his transition to high school, so he asked his parents if he could attend Indian Springs School, a boarding school outside of Birmingham, Alabama. His parents agreed, and he spent the remainder of his time in high school at Indian Springs School forming valuable relationships with teachers, relationships that Green says still exist today. Green's experience at boarding school inspired him to write \"Looking for Alaska.\" Many of the characters and events that take place in the novel are based on what Green experienced at Indian Springs, including the death of a central character in the novel.\n\nDuring a book talk at Rivermont Collegiate on October 19, 2006, Green shared that the idea of Takumi's \"fox hat\" in \"Looking for Alaska\" originated from a Filipino friend who wore a similar hat while playing pranks at the school. He also noted that his inspiration for the possessed swan in Culver Creek derived from a similar swan he remembers at Indian Springs. The two pranks that occur in the book are similar to pranks that Green pulled at school, but Green emphasizes that while the setting is based on his life, the novel is entirely fictional.\n\nAs a child, Green became infatuated with famous last words, specifically those of John Adams. His fascination with last words lead him to finding other famous last words, including those of Emily Dickinson, Oscar Wilde, and Simón Bolívar. Green passes this love of last words onto the main character, Miles, and uses Bolivar's last words to inspire a search for meaning in the face of tragedy for the characters of his novel.\n\nMiles Halter, a teenage boy obsessed with last words, leaves his normal high school in Florida to attend Culver Creek Preparatory High School in Alabama for his junior year. Miles' reasoning for such a change is quoted by François Rabelais's last words: \"I go to seek a Great Perhaps\". Miles' new roommate, Chip \"The Colonel\" Martin, nicknames Miles \"Pudge\" and introduces Pudge to his friends: hip-hop emcee Takumi Hikohito and Alaska Young, a beautiful but emotionally unstable girl. Learning of Pudge's obsession with famous last words, Alaska informs him of Simón Bolívar's: \"Damn it. How will I ever get out of this labyrinth!\" The two make a deal that if Pudge figures out what the labyrinth is and how to escape it, Alaska will find him a girlfriend. Alaska sets Pudge up with a Romanian classmate, Lara. Unfortunately, Pudge and Lara have a disastrous date, ending with a concussed Pudge throwing up on Lara. Alaska and Pudge grow closer and he begins to fall in love with her, although she insists on keeping their relationship platonic because she has a boyfriend at Vanderbilt University whom she insists she loves.\n\nOn his first night at Culver Creek, Pudge is kidnapped and thrown into a lake by the \"Weekday Warriors,\" a group of rich schoolmates who blame the Colonel and his friends for the expulsion of their friend, Paul. Paul's expulsion created tension between Pudge's friends and the Weekday Warriors. Takumi claims that they are innocent because their friend Marya was also expelled during the incident. However, Alaska later admits that she told on both Marya and Paul to the dean, Mr. Starnes, to save herself from being expelled.\n\nThe gang celebrates a successful series of pranks by drinking and partying, and an inebriated Alaska confides about her mother's death from an aneurysm when she was eight years old. Although she didn't understand at the time, she feels guilty for not calling 911. Pudge figures that her mother's death made Alaska impulsive and rash. He concludes that the labyrinth was a person's suffering and that humans must try to find their way out. Afterwards, Pudge grows closer to Lara, and they start dating. A week later, after another 'celebration', an intoxicated Alaska and Pudge spend the night with each other, when suddenly Alaska receives a phone call which causes her to go into hysterics. Insisting that she has to leave, Alaska drives away while drunk with Pudge and the Colonel distracting Mr. Starnes. They later learn that Alaska was driving under the influence and died.\n\nThe Colonel and Pudge are devastated and blame themselves, wondering about her reasons for undertaking the urgent drive and even contemplating that she might have deliberately killed herself. The Colonel insists on questioning Jake, her boyfriend, but Pudge refuses, fearing that he might learn that Alaska never loved him. They argue and the Colonel accuses Pudge of only loving an idealized Alaska that Pudge made up in his head. Pudge realizes the truth of this and reconciles with the Colonel.\n\nAs a way of celebrating Alaska's life, Pudge, the Colonel, Takumi, and Lara team up with the Weekday Warriors to hire a male stripper to speak at Culver's Speaker Day. The whole school finds it hilarious; Mr. Starnes even acknowledges how clever it was. Pudge finds Alaska's copy of \"The General in His Labyrinth\" with the labyrinth quote underlined and notices the words \"straight and fast\" written in the margins. He remembers Alaska died on the morning after the anniversary of her mother's death and concludes that Alaska felt guilty for not visiting her mother's grave and, in her rush, might have been trying to reach the cemetery. On the last day of school, Takumi confesses in a note that he was the last person to see Alaska, and he let her go as well. Pudge realizes that letting her go doesn't matter as much anymore. He forgives Alaska for dying, as he knows Alaska forgives him for letting her go.\n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" is divided into two halves and narrated by main character Miles Halter. Rather than the typical numerical system, each chapter is denoted through the number of days before Alaska's death or the number of days after. The genesis of this structure resulted from John Green's influence of public reactions to the events on September 11, 2001. In an interview with Random House Publishing, Green recalled that newscasters stated that people would now view the world through the lens of either before or after 9/11. Green says in the same interview, “We look back to the most important moment in our history, and that becomes the dividing line between what we were and what we are now. So I wanted to reflect on the way we measure and think of time.” For the characters in \"Looking for Alaska\", Alaska's death proved a life-altering moment, and Green wanted to reflect this importance by creating the structure of the novel around the axis of Alaska's death.\n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" is classified as \"young adult fiction\". While Green used his own life as a source of inspiration, the novel itself is entirely fictional. In an interview with Random House Publishing, Green states that the intended audience for the novel is high-school students. In a separate interview, Green comments that he wrote the novel intending it to be young adult fiction because he wished to contribute to the formation of his readers’ values in a meaningful way. Furthermore, themes of sex, drugs, alcohol, first love, and loss classify the book as young adult fiction.\n\n\nAfter Alaska's death, Pudge and Colonel investigate the circumstances surrounding the traumatic event. While looking for answers, the boys are subconsciously dealing with their grief, and their obsession with finding answers transforms into a search for meaning. Pudge and Colonel want to find out the answers to certain questions surrounding Alaska's death, but in reality, they are enduring their own labyrinths of suffering, a concept central to the novel. When their theology teacher Mr. Hyde poses a question to his class about the meaning of life, Pudge takes this opportunity to write about it as a labyrinth of suffering. He accepts that it exists and admits that even though the tragic loss of Alaska created his own labyrinth of suffering, he continues to have faith in the \"Great Perhaps,'\" meaning that Pudge must search for meaning in his life through inevitable grief and suffering. Literary scholar from the University of Northern British Columbia Barb Dean analyzes Pudge and the Colonel's quest for answers as they venture into finding deeper meaning in life. Because this investigation turns into something that is used to deal with the harsh reality of losing Alaska, it leads to Pudge finding his way through his own personal labyrinth of suffering and finding deeper meaning to his life.\n\nWhen Alaska dies unexpectedly, the repercussions in the lives of her friends are significant, especially for Pudge and the Colonel. Barb Dean concludes that it is normal to seek answers about what happened and why. She also points out that in writing \"Looking for Alaska\", John Green wished to dive deeper into the grieving process by asking the question \"how does one rationalize the harshness and messiness of life when one has, through stupid, thoughtless, and very human actions, contributed to that very harshness?\" Pudge and the Colonel blame themselves for Alaska's death because they do not stop her from driving while intoxicated. Because of this, their grieving process consists of seeking answers surrounding her death since they feel that they are responsible. Ultimately, Miles is able to come to the conclusion that Alaska would forgive him for any fault of his in her death and thus his grief is resolved in a healthy way.\n\nThroughout the book, the events that Miles and other characters experience are typical coming-of-age situations. Book reviews often note this theme, bringing up the instances in the book such as grief that cause the characters to look at life from a new and more mature perspective. Reviews also mention that the characters themselves resemble coming-of-age figures as they are relatable to readers going through similar experiences. Barb Dean also concludes that the characters grow up faster than expected while investigating Alaska's death because exploring the concept of the labyrinth of suffering is Miles' \"rite of passage\" into adulthood, and he learns more about himself through grieving for Alaska. Reviews also note activities such as drinking and smoking, which, though controversial, are often viewed as rites of passage by the teenagers in this novel.\n\nThe theme of hope plays a major role in \"Looking for Alaska\". Even though some of the novel's prominent themes are about death, grief and loss, Green ties hope into the end of the novel to solve Pudge's internal conflict that is incited by Alaska's death. In Barb Dean's chapter about the novel, she takes a closer look into Mr. Hyde's theology class where he discusses the similarity of the idea of hope between the founding figures of Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism. Mr. Hyde also asks the class what their call for hope is, and Pudge decides his is his escape of his personal labyrinth of suffering. For Pudge, his call for hope is understanding the reality of suffering while also acknowledging that things like friendship and forgiveness can help diminish this suffering. Dean notes that Green has said that he writes fiction in order to \"'keep that fragile strand of radical hope [alive], to build a fire in the darkness.'\" \n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" is a novel that exposes readers to the interpersonal relationships between the youth and adult characters in the novel. Green presents specific adult characters, like The Eagle who is the dean of students, whose main focus is to eliminate the rebellious tendencies of various students. On the contrary, certain characters, like Dr. Hyde, the school's religious studies teacher, express positive beliefs in his students, while still maintaining an authoritative role within the classroom environment. The relationship that exists between Dr. Hyde and his students' illustrates how mutual respect can lead to positive interpersonal relationships between the youth and adults.\n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" has received both positive reviews and attempts at censorship in multiple school districts. Positive reviews include comments on the relatable high school characters and situations as well as more complex ideas such as how topics like grief are handled. Overall, many reviewers agree that this is a coming-of-age story that is appealing to both older and younger readers. Reviews also highlight the unique way John Green wrote the novel as each chapter is divided chronologically leading to the climax of the plot. There has been much controversy surrounding this novel, however, especially in school settings. Parents and school administrators have questioned the novel's language, sexual content, and depiction of tobacco and alcohol use. \"Looking for Alaska\" has been featured on the American Library Association's list of Frequently Challenged Books in 2008, 2012, 2013, 2015, and 2016. The novel was awarded the Michael L. Printz award in 2006 and has also won praise from organizations such as the American Library Association, \"School Library Journal\", and the \"Los Angeles Times\" among others.\n\nPositive reviews of \"Looking for Alaska\" have been attributed to Green's honest portrayal of teenagers and first love. The novel's review in \"The Guardian\" describes the story's honesty, writing that \"the beauty of the book is that it doesn't hide anything.\" Others cite Green's success as a result of his candidness in portraying death, loss, and grief. In a journal article titled “Although Adolescence Need not be Violent..” scholars Mark A. Lewis and Robert Petrone comment on the novel's ability to portray loss in a format relatable to high-school readers. They write that many teenagers experience loss throughout adolescence and Green's portrayal of real characters aids in this relatability.\n\nAdditionally, many educators and librarians recommend \"Looking for Alaska\" to their students because of the powerful themes it addresses. Don Gallo, English teacher and editor for the English Journal writes that \"Looking for Alaska\" is “the most sophisticated teen novel of the year.” As a result of these reviews, \"Looking for Alaska\" appears on many recommended reading lists.\n\n\"Looking for Alaska\" has won and been nominated for several literary awards. The novel has also appeared on many library and newspaper recommended booklists. In 2006, \"Looking for Alaska\" won the Michael L. Printz Award, which is awarded by the American Library Association. The annual award honors the best Young Adult novel written each year. Additionally, \"Looking for Alaska\" was a finalist in 2005 for the \"Los Angeles Times\" Book Prize, which recognizes new and noteworthy writers. \"Looking for Alaska\" has been featured on the 2006 Top 10 Best Book for Young Adults, 2006 Teens' Top 10 Award, and 2006 Quick Pick for Reluctant Young Adult Readers. It has also been noted as a New York Public Library Book for the Teen Age, a Booklist Editor's Choice Pick, Barnes & Noble Discover Great New Writers Selection, and Borders Original Voices Selection.\n\nIn March 2012, the \"Knoxville Journal\" reported that a parent of a 15-year-old Karns High School student objected to the book's placement on the Honors and Advanced Placement classes' required reading lists for Knox County, Tennessee high schools on the grounds that its sex scene and its use of profanity rendered it pornography. Ultimately, students were kept from reading the novel as a whole, but \"Looking for Alaska\" was still available in libraries within the district. In May 2012, Sumner County in Tennessee also banned the teaching of \"Looking for Alaska\". The school's spokesman argued that two pages of the novel included enough explicit content to ban the novel.\n\nTwo teachers at Depew High School near Buffalo, New York, used the book for eleventh grade instruction in 2008. \"Looking for Alaska\" was challenged by parents for its sexual content and moral disagreements with the novel. Despite the teachers providing an alternate book, parents still argued for it to be removed from curriculum due to its inappropriate content such as offensive language, sexually explicit content, including a scene described as \"pornographic\", and references to homosexuality, drugs, alcohol, and smoking. The book was ultimately kept in the curriculum by the school board after a unanimous school board vote with the stipulation that the teachers of the 11th grade class give the parents a decision to have their children read an alternate book. \"Looking for Alaska\" was defended by the school district because they felt it dealt with themes relevant to students of this age, such as death, drinking and driving, and peer pressure.\n\nFurther controversy came from the cover art. In August 2012, Green acknowledged that the extinguished candle on the cover leads to \"an improbable amount of smoke\", and explained that the initial cover design did not feature the candle. Green said that certain book chains were uncomfortable with displaying or selling a book with a cover that featured cigarette smoke, so the candle was added beneath the smoke. In Green's box set, released on October 25, 2012, the candle has been removed from the cover. Further paperback releases of the book also have the candle removed.\n\nIn 2016, the West Ada School District in Meridian, Idaho removed \"Looking for Alaska\" from all of its middle school libraries. The school district found the content of the book to be too inappropriate for middle school students. The school district originally received a complaint from a parent on the grounds of the presence of foul language and mentions of actions like smoking and suicide. The district librarian looked into parental complaints along with reviews of the novel suggesting that it was best suited for high schoolers and made the decision to pull the book from the middle school library.\n\nIn 2016 in Marion County, Kentucky, parents urged schools to drop it from the curriculum, referring to it as influencing students \"to experiment with pornography, sex, drugs, alcohol and profanity.\" Although the teacher offered an opt-out book for the class, one parent still felt as though the book should be banned entirely and filed a formal complaint. After the challenge, students were given an alternate book for any parents who were not comfortable with their children reading the book. One parent still insisted on getting the book banned and filed a Request for Reconsideration on the basis that \"Looking for Alaska\" would tempt students to experiment with drugs, alcohol, and sex despite the decisions made after the challenge.\n\nGreen defended his book in his vlog, Vlogbrothers. The video, entitled \"I Am Not A Pornographer\", describes the Depew High School challenge of \"Looking for Alaska\" and his frustration at the description of his novel as pornography. Green explains the inclusion of the oral sex scene in \"Looking for Alaska\" stating, \"The whole reason that scene in question exists in \"Looking for Alaska\" is because I wanted to draw a contrast between that scene, when there is a lot of physical intimacy, but it is ultimately very emotionally empty, and the scene that immediately follows it, when there is not a serious physical interaction, but there's this intense emotional connection.\" Green argues that the misunderstanding of his book is the reason for its controversy, and urges people to understand the actual literary content before judging specific scenes. He also disagrees with the way that groups of parents underestimate the intelligence of teenagers and their ability to analyze literature. He ends with encouraging his viewers to attend the Depew School Board hearing to support the choice of parents, students, and teachers to have \"Looking for Alaska\" included in public schools.\n\nThe film rights to the novel were acquired by Paramount Pictures in 2005. The screenplay was potentially going to be written and directed by Josh Schwartz (creator of \"The O.C.\") but, due to a lack of interest by Paramount, the production had been shelved indefinitely. It had been reported that Paramount was putting the screenplay in review due to the success of the film adaptation of John Green's breakout novel, \"The Fault in Our Stars\". On February 27, 2015, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" announced that Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber, screenwriters for Temple Hill Entertainment who had worked on adaptations for \"The Fault in Our Stars\" and \"Paper Towns\", would be writing and executive producing for the film. Paramount was actively casting the latest version of the screenplay, which was written by Sarah Polley. Rebecca Thomas was set to direct. Green also confirmed that Neustadter and Weber were still involved with the film. In August 2015, it was announced filming would begin in the fall in Michigan. It was later announced that filming would begin in early 2016 because of lack of casting decisions. Later in 2016, Green announced in a Vlogbrothers video and on social media that the film adaptation had once again been shelved indefinitely. Green explained, \"It has always fallen apart of one reason or another.\"\n\nOn May 9, 2018, it was announced that Hulu would be adapting the novel into an 8-episode limited series. On October 30, 2018, Green announced the lead cast: Kristine Froseth as Alaska, and Charlie Plummer as Miles.\n\nThe series premiered on October 18, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273129", "title": "North Corporation Primary School", "text": "North Corporation Primary School\n\nThe North Corporation Primary School 151 Bevington Bush, Vauxhall, Liverpool, was a Grade II listed building. It was listed on 14 April 1975 and delisted on 30 November 2001. It has since been demolished.\n"}
{"id": "2273135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273135", "title": "William H. Pitsenbarger", "text": "William H. Pitsenbarger\n\nWilliam Hart Pitsenbarger (July 8, 1944 – April 11, 1966) was a United States Air Force Pararescueman who flew on almost 300 rescue missions during the Vietnam War to aid downed soldiers and pilots.\n\nOn April 11, 1966, he was killed aiding and defending a unit of soldiers pinned down by an enemy assault during the Vietnam War. Before his death he helped save over 60 men in the battle. He was posthumously awarded the Air Force Cross, which was later upgraded to the Medal of Honor.\n\nPitsenbarger was born in 1944 and grew up in Piqua, Ohio, a small town near Dayton. When Bill was a junior in high school, he tried to enlist in the U.S. Army as a Green Beret, but his parents refused to give their permission. After he graduated from high school, he decided to join the U.S. Air Force, and on New Year's Eve 1962, he was on a train bound for basic training in San Antonio.\n\nDuring his basic training in early 1963, he volunteered for Pararescue. His training included U.S. Army parachute school, survival school, a rescue and survival medical course, and the U.S. Navy's scuba diving school. More Air Force rescue training and jungle survival school followed. His final training was in air crash rescue and firefighting. He completed the qualifying requirements and was one of the first group of airmen to qualify for Pararescue right out of basic training. After completing pararescue training, he was assigned to the Rescue Squadron assigned to Hamilton AFB, California.\n\nPitsenbarger was later sent on Temporary Duty (TDY) to Vietnam. Upon completing his first TDY assignment, he volunteered to return and received orders in 1965 to report to Detachment 6, 38th Air Rescue and Recovery Squadron at Bien Hoa Air Base near Saigon. His unit was composed of five aircrews that flew three Kaman HH-43F Huskie helicopters. His commander, Major Maurice Kessler, called him \"One of a special breed. Alert and always ready to go on any mission.\"\n\nPitsenbarger completed more than 250 missions, including one in which he hung from an HH-43's cable to rescue a wounded South Vietnamese soldier from a burning minefield. This action earned him the Airman's Medal and the Republic of Vietnam's Medal of Military Merit and Gallantry Cross with Bronze Palm.\n\nOn April 11, 1966, the Joint Rescue Center dispatched two Huskies from Detachment 6 to extract a half-dozen or more Army casualties pinned down in a battle near Cam My, east of Saigon. Upon reaching the site of the ambush, he was lowered through the trees to the ground where he attended to the wounded before having them lifted to the helicopter by cable. After six wounded men had been flown to an aid station, the two U.S. Air Force helicopters returned for their second load.\n\nAs one of the helicopters lowered its litter basket to Pitsenbarger, who had remained on the ground with the 20 infantrymen still alive, it was hit by a burst of enemy small-arms fire. When its engine began to lose power, the pilot realized he had to get the helicopter away from the area as soon as possible. Instead of climbing into the litter basket so he could leave with the helicopter, Pitsenbarger elected to remain with the Army troops under enemy attack and he gave a \"wave-off\" to the helicopter which flew away to safety. With heavy mortar and small-arms fire, the helicopters couldn't return to rescue Pitsenbarger.\n\nFor the next hour and a half, Pitsenbarger tended to the wounded soldiers, hacking splints out of snarled vines and building improvised stretchers out of saplings. When the others began running low on ammunition, he gathered ammunition from the dead and distributed it to those still alive. Then, he joined the others with a rifle to hold off the Viet Cong. Pitsenbarger was killed by Viet Cong snipers later that night. When his body was recovered the next day, one hand still held a rifle and the other clutched a medical kit. Although Pitsenbarger did not escape alive, 60 other men did, partially thanks to his courage and devotion to duty.\nHe is buried in Miami Memorial Park Cemetery Covington, Ohio. His grave can be found in plot 43-D, grave #2.\n\nSoon after Pitsenbarger was killed, his Air Force commanders nominated him for the Medal of Honor. An Army general recommended that the award be downgraded to the Air Force Cross, apparently because at the time there was not enough documentation of Pitsenbarger's actions. Pitsenbarger received the Air Force Cross on June 30, 1966. After review and nearly 35 years later, the original award was upgraded.\n\nOn December 8, 2000, at the National Museum of the United States Air Force, the airman's father, William F. Pitsenbarger, and his wife, Alice, accepted the Medal of Honor from Secretary of the Air Force Whit Peters. During the same ceremony he was also posthumously promoted to the rank of Staff sergeant. The audience included battle survivors, hundreds of pararescue airmen, a congressional representative and the Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force.\n\nPitsenbarger was the 59th Medal of Honor recipient, and sixth enlisted recipient, from the Air Force and its predecessor organizations.\n\nThe President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3, 1963 has awarded in the name of the Congress the Medal of Honor posthumously to:\n\nA1C WILLIAM H. PITSENBARGER\nUNITED STATES AIR FORCE\nfor conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty near Cam My, April 11, 1966:\n\nRank and organization: Airman First Class, U.S. Air Force, Detachment 6, 38th Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Squadron, Bien Hoa Air Base, Republic of Vietnam.\n\nPlace and date: Near Cam My, April 11, 1966\n\nEntered service at: Piqua, Ohio\n\nBorn: July 8, 1944, Piqua, Ohio\n\nCitation:\n\nAirman First Class Pitsenbarger distinguished himself by extreme valor on April 11, 1966 near Cam My, Republic of Vietnam, while assigned as a Pararescue Crew Member, Detachment 6, 38th Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Squadron. On that date, Airman Pitsenbarger was aboard a rescue helicopter responding to a call for evacuation of casualties incurred in an on-going firefight between elements of the United States Army's 1st Infantry Division and a sizable enemy force approximately 35 miles east of Saigon. With complete disregard for personal safety, Airman Pitsenbarger volunteered to ride a hoist more than one hundred feet through the jungle, to the ground. On the ground, he organized and coordinated rescue efforts, cared for the wounded, prepared casualties for evacuation, and insured that the recovery operation continued in a smooth and orderly fashion. Through his personal efforts, the evacuation of the wounded was greatly expedited. As each of the nine casualties evacuated that day were recovered, Pitsenbarger refused evacuation in order to get one more wounded soldier to safety. After several pick-ups, one of the two rescue helicopters involved in the evacuation was struck by heavy enemy ground fire and was forced to leave the scene for an emergency landing. Airman Pitsenbarger stayed behind, on the ground, to perform medical duties. Shortly thereafter, the area came under sniper and mortar fire. During a subsequent attempt to evacuate the site, American forces came under heavy assault by a large Viet Cong force. When the enemy launched the assault, the evacuation was called off and Airman Pitsenbarger took up arms with the besieged infantrymen. He courageously resisted the enemy, braving intense gunfire to gather and distribute vital ammunition to American defenders. As the battle raged on, he repeatedly exposed himself to enemy fire to care for the wounded, pull them out of the line of fire, and return fire whenever he could, during which time, he was wounded three times. Despite his wounds, he valiantly fought on, simultaneously treating as many wounded as possible. In the vicious fighting which followed, the American forces suffered 80 percent casualties as their perimeter was breached, and airman Pitsenbarger was finally fatally wounded. Airman Pitsenbarger exposed himself to almost certain death by staying on the ground, and perished while saving the lives of wounded infantrymen. His bravery and determination exemplify the highest professional standards and traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States Air Force.\n\nPitsenbarger was the first enlisted recipient of the Air Force Cross medal, receiving the award posthumously in 1966.\n\nThe United States Navy Container Ship MV A1C \"William H. Pitsenbarger\" (T-AK-4638) was christened in his honor, but was decommissioned and returned to its original owner in 2008 with the new name \"Black Eagle\".\n\nIn addition several buildings have been named in his honor including William H. Pitsenbarger Dining Hall, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio; William H. Pitsenbarger Professional Military Education Center, Beale Air Force Base, California; William H. Pitsenbarger Airman Leadership School, Spangdahlem Air Base, Germany; Pitsenbarger Hall, Randolph Air Force Base, Texas and Pitsenbarger Fitness Center, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas.\n\nHis name can be found on Panel 06E Line 102 of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.\n\nCivilian authorities have also honored his name. The city of Piqua, Ohio, renamed a recreational park (which includes the municipal swimming pool) the \"Pitsenbarger Sports Complex.\" In 2005, the State of Ohio designated State Route 48 as the \"U.S.A.F. Pararescue Memorial Parkway.\" The highway runs near the hometowns of four pararescuemen who died in service to their country. This includes Pitsenbarger; Sgt. Jim Locker of Sidney, Ohio; Master Sgt. William McDaniel II of Greenville, Ohio; and Airman 1st Class James Pleiman of Russia, Ohio.\nIn addition to being designated Main Street through the city of Dayton—where the Wright Brothers designed their airplane—state route 48 also runs along Miami Memorial Park north of Covington, Ohio, where all four are buried.\n\nEdison Community College in Piqua, Ohio, awards the Pitsenbarger Scholarship to two full-time students per year who can show financial need.\n\nThe drill team of the AFJROTC unit at Martinsburg High School, Martinsburg WV is known as the Pitsenbarger Rifles.\n\nThe Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) awards a $500 Pitsenbarger Scholarship to the top 5% of each graduating class that is currently enrolled in a Bachelors program and submits a competitive award nomination package.\n\nAirlift/Tanker Association Hall of Fame Award for 2012.\n\nThe 2019 film \"The Last Full Measure\" depicting Pitsenbarger's life stars Jeremy Irvine as Pitsenbarger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273137", "title": "Hurricane Blas", "text": "Hurricane Blas\n\nThe name Blas has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273139", "title": "International Harvester Scout", "text": "International Harvester Scout\n\nThe International Harvester Scout is an off-road vehicle produced by International Harvester from 1961 to 1980. A precursor of more sophisticated SUVs to come, it was created as a competitor to the Jeep, and it initially featured a fold-down windshield. The Scout and second-generation Scout II were produced in Fort Wayne, Indiana, as two-door trucks with a removable hard top with options of a full-length roof, half-cab pickup, and/or soft top.\n\nInternational Harvester began building trucks and pickups in 1907. In 1953, it added a truck-based people carrier, the Travelall. In the late 1950s, it began to design a competitor for the two-door Jeep CJ 4x4. The 1961 model year Scout 80 made its debut in late 1960.\n\nLater, chief designer Ted Ornas recalled:\n...the market potential for a four-wheel drive recreational vehicle was an unknown quantity in the early 1950s. The only such vehicle offered in the post-war period was the Willys Jeep, a version of the military jeep produced for World War II. It was a flat-sided bare-bones product, and American military personnel learned to appreciate its ability to maneuver over rough terrain. Sales volume was very low. In early 1958, we were directed to develop a concept proposal to enter this small market of that time. So help me, Mr. Reese, manager of engineering, said 'design something to replace the horse.' There was no product definition to use as a guide. It was even proposed to use the defunct Henry J body tooling. Compound body surfaces were considered too far out for this type of vehicle. The military jeep was thought to have the correct appearance. Our design sketches with the flat-side, no-contour look never excited the executive committee. The program began to die. One night while sitting at our kitchen table (full of frustration and desperation), I dashed off this rough sketch on a piece of scrap mat board. It had contoured sides and was designed for plastic tooling. The next morning it was shown to a committee member. He reviewed it with controlled enthusiasm, but revived interest in the program. We were off and running. Goodyear produced many plastic parts for WWII and had formed a large plastic engineering group. We entered a program with them, a scale model was vacuum formed to simulate body assembly. This model received executive approval for appearance. By July 1959, Goodyear completed their costing, and because of the high costs, the plastic program was cancelled. By this time, the contoured design met with executive approval and a decision was made to convert the body design to steel. Starting in late July 1959, a full-sized clay model was completed, and in November 1959, it was approved. Looking back, it was a remarkable program with fast-paced engineering and manufacturing developments. The total development time of 24 months was an heroic achievement considering the concept was unique and no in-house engine or manufacturing was available or even considered when the program started.\n\n\"The first Scout was introduced in 1960. A concept for its replacement was initiated in 1964 and approved for production in mid-1965. The Scout II was introduced in 1971. The basic sheet metal remained unchanged until production stopped on October 21, 1980. During the 20-year period (1960–1980), 532,674 Scouts were produced. The Scout, introduced as a commercial utility pickup in 1960, set the stage for future four-wheel drive recreational vehicles of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s.\n\nScout models include the:\n\nScout 80s were built between 1960 and 1965. These models were identifiable by removable sliding side windows in 1960–1961 and even some very early 1962 models, a fold-down windshield, vacuum windshield wipers mounted to the top of the windshield, and an IH logo in the center of the grille. The Scout 80 had the gasoline-powered 152 four-cylinder as its standard engine.\nThe first special package was the \"Red Carpet\" series, celebrating the 100,000th Scout manufactured by IH, and only 3,000 were produced. This model had a red interior with a white exterior, full-length headliner, full floor mats, and a special medallion that was silver plated affixed to the door which read \"Custom\". This Scout was a step up from regular ones; it was marketed to attract more people, and was often advertised with women in mind. Each International dealer in the United States received one Red Carpet series Scout to be used in parades, in the showroom, and for promotional purposes.\n\n\nIn the early 1960s, International experimented with a camper body permanently mounted to the Scout 80. The roof was raised to nearly double the original height (to allow standing upright inside), tented sleeping bunks folded out of the sides, and the rear of the body was extended significantly. The tailgate/liftgate system was replaced with one large ambulance-style swinging door. Plans included that the unit could be purchased as a stripped-down shell ($960 installed), or as a \"deluxe\" unit, which included a dinette set, stand-up galley, and a screened chemical toilet that retracted into the wall ($1850 installed). The May 1963 issue of \"Mechanix Illustrated\" contains a full-color advertisement for the Scout Camper on the inside cover, which features two artist's renderings of the unit and a form to fill out and send in for free literature. The camper showed up again in the May 1963 issue of \"Popular Science,\" this time in an actual photo as part of a two-page article about pickup campers. Production of these units was low due to limited orders, and they are rare today.\n\n\nIt is known that Scout 80s were built in 1965 and 66 saw the rise of the new 800. However, some scouts built later in the year 1965 are considered a Scout 800 as indicated by the vin tag and Line Setting Ticket (LST). An assumed 3000 of these 65 1/2 Scouts exist which make them interesting to study and how manufacturers will use what's left in the parts bin from the previous model to build the new model. Some notable parts used in the piecing together these new 800 models were the hood that carried over the tie down loop that would hold down the folding windshield. The reason this is significant is because the new 800 windshield doesn't fold down. Also, the front grill was that of 80 but now used on the new 800. it featured a gold plated IH emblem on a black backing piece secured to a durable and stylish wire mesh grill. Axles is a big detail as well, the new 800 featured a stronger Dana 44. However, these early 800 models still got the weaker Dana 27 that was more prone to axle shafts breaking during heavy use off-road. Although the Dana 27 was still available if desired vs the Dana 44. The Dana 27 in Scouts was obsolete by 1968. By this time, these new 800 models were 4 wheel drive and standard equipment at that.\n\nFrom here on, the world saw the new Scout known as the Scout 800.\n\nThe Scout 800 replaced the Scout 80 in 1965. The new 800 model was built from 1965 to 1968. These models had many improvements in comfort and design, including bucket seats, better instrumentation and heating systems, updated dashboard, optional rear seats, and optional 196 four-cylinder (from 1966), or 232 inline-six. Beginning in March 1967, a 266 ci V8 engine was also offered. Externally, changes were limited to an anodized aluminum grille with a rectangular \"International\" logo paced on the grille, the IH badge was moved to the hood, the door handles became the button type, and the tailgate no longer included the \"hooks\". The base engine was a naturally aspirated \"Comanche\" 152 four-cylinder with , of which a turbocharged version with (the 152-T) was also offered. In August 1966, the turbo version was complemented by the bigger 196 which used less fuel with exactly the same power. The 196 motor achieved 20 mpg. The turbo version was dropped in early 1968. The fold-down windshield was still available, code 16536, but few were ordered because this was not advertised. The vacuum-powered wipers were moved to the bottom of the windshield frame with the fixed windshield.\nBeginning in early 1966, IH also offered the Scout 800 Sportop, which had an upgraded interior and a unique fiberglass top (also available as a convertible) with a slanted rear roof and a continental spare tire kit. The \"Champagne Series\" Scout was an upscale model offered in the Scout 80 and later Scout 800 models that featured a headliner, door panels, and carpet.\n\nNovember 1968 had the introduction of the 800A, which replaced the 800. Improvements included more creature-comfort options, a slightly different front-end treatment, drivetrain upgrades (heavier rear axle and quieter Dana 20 transfer case), and the options of a 196 four-cylinder, 232 six-cylinder, 266 V8, or 304 V8. The inline-six was only offered for a short period in early 1969. The 800A's grille was in three segments: the center grill and two matte-black headlight bezels. The Light Line of pickup trucks received bodywork similar to that of the Scout in late 1969.\n\nThe 800A could still be ordered with the Sportop (a slanted sporty top made of canvas or fiberglass), and later in Aristocrat and SR-2 packages. The Aristocrat was the final version of the original-bodied Scout. These trucks had a blue, vinyl interior, were painted blue and silver, and had a chrome roof rack; four-wheel drive was standard on most models.\n\nThe last of the 800 series was the 800B, available for less than eight months, from August 1970 until March 1971, before it was replaced with the Scout II. Other than minor cosmetic details (primarily chrome headlight bezels instead of matte black), it was identical to the 800A. It was only produced until the Scout II was in production.\n\nThe 800B was available with the Comanche package. This package included special paint and decals, chrome trim, sliding travel-top windows, and other \"high dollar\" options such as roof racks, chrome wheels, and upgraded interiors. Line tickets of the special-package Scouts (and some nonpackage units) were stamped. After the factory assembles the vehicle and the vehicle is shipped and sold, the line ticket identifies such things as the engine type, transmission type, drive line, paint codes, gear ratio, and standard and optional equipment, specific to that vehicle. This was, and still is, a very valuable tool when ordering parts later at the dealership by the customer. A variety of parts was used on these vehicles, so the expression \"no two are quite the same\" is not that far off. Late in 1970, the Sno-Star package appeared (only with the six-cylinder engine), developed especially for snow-plow usage.\n\nScout IIs were manufactured from April 1971 to 1980. The design was frozen much earlier, with a version nearly identical to the production model shown to management in December 1967.\n\nThe Scout II is most identifiable by its different front grilles. The 1971–1972 Scout IIs shared the same grille, three horizontal bars between the headlights and chrome rings around the headlights. The 1973 Scout IIs had 14 vertical bars between the headlights, a split in the middle, seven bars on each side surrounded by chrome trim pieces and an \"International\" model plate low on the left side. The 1974–75 Scout II grilles were the same as 1973, with the addition of a vertical bar trim overlay. The 1975 had chrome and black, square trim rings around the headlights; 1976 had the same headlight trim rings as 1975, and a chrome center grille of 15 horizontal bars split into three sections was used in this year only. The 1977–79 Scout IIs used the same grille between the same headlight bezels the new chrome grille had two large horizontal bars with three vertical support lines and the \"International\" nameplate moved up to the center of the grille on the left side. \n\nIn 1980, the final year of production for the Scout, the grille was a very distinctive design, available with black or silver, a one-piece grille with square headlights, made of ABS plastic. Both grille color options had imprinted chrome trim around the headlights and an \"International\" name located on the left side.\nStarting with late 1974 Scout IIs, disc and power brakes were standard features. Early 1974 models had disc brakes as a rarely selected option. A three-speed A727 automatic made by Chrysler was optional.\n\nThe Terra and Traveler were produced from 1976 to 1980. Terras and Travelers had fiberglass tops; half top for the Terra or full top with hatchback-type liftgate on the Traveler. Most notably different, these models were extended by in the region between the door and the front of the rear wheel well.\n\nThe SSII (Super Scout II) was a stripped-down, off-road version introduced in February 1977. It was intended to compete directly with the Jeep CJ, and was built until 1979. This model included a soft top with soft doors, Jeep-style mirrors, plastic door inserts, special plastic grille, and a roll bar, among other options. Several SSIIs were champions on the off-road racing circuit during the late 1970s.\n\nThe Shawnee Scout was to be a trim type and special-feature package model produced by Hurst Performance. This model was built by dressing up a black SSII with special tomahawk and feather decals, special seats, a black targa-style top, hard tonneau bed cover, and of course a Hurst shifter. Only three Shawnee Scouts were produced.\n\nCVI: Custom Vehicles Incorporated (also associated with Good Times, Inc.) was a company located around the corner from the Ft. Wayne Scout Assembly Plant (Good Times was located in Arlington, Texas) that produced special models for IH dealers in 1979 and 1980. The special models were dressed-up Scouts with unique exterior decals and trim, center console coolers, and hood scoops. Some editions had plastic window louvers on the rear side glass, fender flares, and two different plastic tailgate inserts. Model names included the Midnitestar, Terrastar, Travelstar, Shadow, Raven, two Classic models, GMS (Green Machine Sport), GMS (Gold Medallion Scout), Hot Stuff, Trailstar, Sportstar, 5.6-Liter, and 3.2-Liter models.\n\nThis was a special package available from the factory. The 1978–79 package order code on the line ticket was 10992. The package included special gold accent stripes, gold-spoke wheels with Goodyear Tracker A-Ts, SSII black grille insert, and Sport Steering wheel. Other options available: Choice of powertrain, seats, interior, radios, cruise control, tow packages, air conditioning, all available in exterior colors 1032 Dark Brown, 6027 Dark Blue, 001 Black, or 5013 Green. This was available on the Travel Top, Traveler, and Terra models.\n\nFor the US Bicentennial in 1976, IH produced the Spirit of 76 and the Patriot models. The Spirit of 76 had a special blue soft top and blue/red side applique, and was only available on the Scout II. The Spirit also had blue interior, racing-type steering wheel, and 15x7-inch chrome rally wheels. IH data only show 384 Spirit models ever being built. Line ticket codes included: \n10876 for the side applique \n18696 to omit the hard top \n16928 deluxe interior \n16872 blue interior color \n9219 winter white exterior paint\n885102 10-15 front tires \n925102 10-15 rear tires with spare \n29091 7-in chrome wheels\n\nThe Patriot had a hard top and the same blue/red side applique, but was available in a Scout II, Terra, or Traveler. Sales figures on the Patriot only show one Terra, seven Travelers, and 50+ Scout IIs were manufactured. However, another undetermined number of Patriots were built without line ticket code designations (the applique was applied at the Truck Sales Processing Center), making how many were actually built difficult to determine. Nevertheless, both models can be considered extremely rare.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1980, IH contracted with Midas Van Conversion Co. of Elkhart, Indiana, to build special luxury models to be offered through its dealers. These vehicles had swivel bucket seats, shag carpet, color-keyed interiors, door panels, headliner, grille guards, dual sunroofs, overhead clocks, third seats, reading lights, tinted windows, fender flares, and special side appliques and paint designs. Models included the Family Cruiser (or just Cruiser), the Street Machine, and Off-Road Vehicle. Another company called Van American (Goshen, Indiana) offered similar options to compete with Midas; however, these vehicles were only offered for a short time, making them very rare today. \nSee one here.\n\nProbably one the rarest models ever produced by IH was the 1980 RS: the Special Limited Edition RS Scout. This package was only available on the Traveler in Tahitian Red (metallic). It had special extras inside and out, including polycast wheels with Tahitian Red (metallic) accent, luxurious plush all-velour russet interior including headliner and visors, special pin striping, wood-grain trim instrument panel and shift console, chrome bumpers, tinted glass, and more. Two other special packages offered in 1980 were the 844 and 434 Gold Star models. The 844 offered standard equipment plus a 345 V-8, HD clutch, T428 four-speed manual transmission, 2.72 rear axle ratio, AM radio, rear seat, hub caps, special black side applique and paint on lower body, and black carpet, while the 434 offered standard equipment plus 4-196 engine, T332 three-speed transmission, 3:73 rear axle ratio, black vinyl interior, AM radio, rear seat, hub caps, special black side applique and paint on lower body, and black carpet.\n\nThe last International Scout rolled off the assembly line on October 21st 1980.\n\nThe Monteverdi Safari was made by Monteverdi, the Swiss brand of luxury cars, who used Scout IIs to produce well-equipped luxurious off-road station wagons. Two models were made in the late 1970s, the Safari, which had most of the bodywork changed, and the Sahara, which featured more limited changes, i.e. new grille and a more luxurious interior. Both were available with IH's SV-345 engine or Chrysler's LA 318 (5.7 or 5.2 l). The Safari was also offered with Chrysler's 7.2 l \"440 RB\" engine, while the lesser Sahara could be had with the Nissan SD33 diesel engine.\n\nEngine produced by International Harvester:\n\nBuilt by American Motors Corporation\nTo tell the AMC engine from IH's own V8s, look at the thermostat housing. AMC is round. IH is rectangular. Other differences occur, but this is the quickest method.\n\nBuilt by Nissan \n\nInternational offered the Scout with a variety of engines over its years of production. The Scout 80 (1961–1965) had the gasoline-powered 152 four-cylinder as its standard engine. From 1965 to 1971 (Models 800, 800A, and 800B), engine options were the gasoline-powered 196 four-cylinder, AMC 232 six-cylinder, 266 V-8, and the 304 V-8. A turbocharged version of the 152 four-cylinder engine was offered from 1965 to 1967.\n\nA few early Scouts are rumored to have left the factory with Perkins diesel engines, but these would have been special-order trucks and not a standard option. The Scout II (made between 1971 and 1980) had the following engine options: the 196 4-cylinder, 232 6-cylinder (early production), 258 6-cylinder (later production), 304 V-8, and 345 V-8. At the time, International did not manufacture a diesel engine small enough to be used in the Scout, and so starting in 1976 used the Nissan SD33 diesel engine as an option. This engine was replaced by the SD33T turbodiesel engine in 1980.\n\nDana 27 axles were used for the front and rear wheels in the 80 and 800 models until around 1968. Both front and rear differentials were offset to the passenger side for the purpose of lining up the driveshafts with the Dana 18 transfer case. With the transition to the 800A model, the rear axle was upgraded to a Dana 44, with a centered differential mated to the Dana 20 transfer case (which had replaced the Dana 18). Some Scouts from this transitional time are a mix of old and new designs, with the rear driveshaft running at an angle. The front axle was still a Dana 27 model, though if the buyer ordered the 3500-lb axle option, the front axle was upgraded to a hybrid unit built from a Dana 30 center section and 27 tubes. The V8 engine option included an automatic upgrade to the heavier-duty Dana 30 axle. The rear axle shafts changed from two pieces to one piece around 1968 or 1969. A Powr-Lok limited-slip differential was provided as an option for both front and rear axles. Common gear ratios are 3.31, 3.73, or 4.27, though nearly any ratio was available by special order (in at least one instance, a Scout 800 was shipped with a 5.71).\n\nIn Scout IIs, Dana 30 front axles and Dana 44 rear axles were standard until 1974, with front Dana 44 axles as a special order. After 1974, Dana 44 front and rear axles became standard on all Scout IIs. Available gear ratios were 2.72, 3.07, 3.31, 3.54, 3.73, 4.09, 4.27, and 4.54. Trak-Lok limited-slip differentials were optional.\n\nAxles originally had a tag bolted to their differential cover stamped with their gear ratio, but this tag often rusted off over time or was intentionally removed. The line ticket can be checked to identify the axle model, gear ratio, and whether it is equipped with a traction device, using an International parts code book.\n\nScout SSIIs took top honors in off-road racing during the late 1970s. In 1977, Jerry Boone, of Parker, Arizona, finished first among 4x4 production vehicles in the Baja 1000. Boone completed the run in 19 hours 58 minutes, crossing the finish line at Ensenada almost 2 hours ahead of his closest competitor: a Jeep CJ7. Only 9 of 21 vehicles that started the race finished the course. Boone ran even faster than Class IV modified 4x4 racers. Mr. Boone later revealed that they only had a month to prep a stock SSII for the race and they were not sponsored by IH until after the race. Boone also won in 1978 at Riverside, California.\n\nSherman Balch, among many other accomplishments in off-road racing, won the off-road \"world championship\" in 1977 (the SCORE event in Riverside, California). Three other finishers along with Balch also drove Scouts. Balch also won the Baja 1000, the Mint 400, and three events in the fall of 1978 at Lake Geneva Raceway.\n\nSherman Balch and co-driver James Acker, driving a Scout SSII, went on to win virtually all major off-road races in 1982 offered on the West Coast/Mexico circuit by winning the Baja 250, the Baja 500, the Baja 1000, the Mint 400, and the Parker (Arizona) 400.\n\nWhen an IH vehicle was ordered, a factory build or construction sheet was created (when the order was sent to the factory) with the new vehicle's VIN or ID number, and all the codes for standard equipment and options that the salesman used to create this vehicle for his customer or inventory. This sheet was used to assemble the vehicle from beginning to finish. After the factory assembled the vehicle and the vehicle was shipped and sold, the line [setting] ticket identified such things as the engine type, transmission type, drive line, paint codes, gear ratio, and standard and optional equipment specific to that vehicle. Different parts used on the same model in the same year. A very small copy of the line ticket was attached to each vehicle during the building process at the factory. The location of the ticket varied: 1971–1976 Scout IIs had their copies mounted under their hoods, attached to the cowl cover panels. The 1977–1980 Scout IIs had their copies on the inside of the glove box doors, and 1969–1975 pickups and Travelalls had them attached to the back of the glove boxes; depressing the keeper tabs on each side of the box lets the box swing down to reveal the ticket. If lost, line tickets can be ordered through several Scout parts specialists, due to their diligence in maintaining these valuable resources.\n\nIH developed a concept prototype for the next version of the Scout in 1979 called the Scout III SSV, but due to the company's decision to discontinue the Scout product line, it was never put into production. The second prototype of the concept vehicle is on display at the Auburn Cord Duesenberg Automobile Museum in Auburn, Indiana. It was a two-door with a sloped back window, built on a 100-in chassis with 162-hp V8.\n\nMany people call this THE 1981 Scout. The SSV meant Scout Supplemental Vehicle, meant to be a limited production supplement to the regular model to help promote it, much as the Corvette supplements the Chevrolet line. While the SSV may have appeared in 1981 if it had reached production, designs existed for a new model in 1981 to replace the Scout II. Clay models of this showed an evolution of the Scout II into a more rounded body somewhat resembling the Chevrolet S-10 Blazer. The demise of the Scout line killed the SSV; the company continues to this day, having changed its name to Navistar in 1985 after selling off the farm machinery business along with the International Harvester name.\nIn 2010, Case IH started production of a UTV side by side utility ATV called the Scout and Scout XL, also sold as New Holland Rustler. These UTVs were built by Club Car.\n\nhttp://www.superscoutspecialists.com/store/t-faq.aspx\n\n"}
{"id": "2273142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273142", "title": "Rogožarski IK-3", "text": "Rogožarski IK-3\n\nThe Rogožarski IK-3 was a 1930s Yugoslav monoplane single-seat fighter, designed by Ljubomir Ilić, Kosta Sivčev and Slobodan Zrnić as a successor to the Ikarus IK-2 fighter. Its armament consisted of a hub-firing autocannon and two fuselage-mounted synchronised machine guns. It was considered comparable to foreign aircraft such as the Messerschmitt Bf 109E and came into service in 1940. The prototype crashed during testing; twelve production aircraft had been delivered by July 1940.\n\nSix IK-3s were serviceable when the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia began on 6 April 1941. All six were in service with the 51st Independent Fighter Group at Zemun near Belgrade. Pilots flying the IK-3 claimed 11 Axis aircraft had been shot down during the 11-day war. According to one account, to prevent them from falling into German hands, the surviving aircraft and incomplete airframes were destroyed by their crews and factory staff. Another account suggests that one aircraft survived the invasion and was later destroyed by sabotage. The IK-3 design was the basis for the post-war Yugoslav-built Ikarus S-49 fighter.\n\nIn the late 1920s, the Royal Yugoslav Air Force (, VVKJ) and the Royal Aero Club of Yugoslavia helped send aspiring aeronautical engineers to France to gain knowledge. It was intended that after this advanced training, they would return to Yugoslavia and be offered specialist roles in the VVKJ or in the aeronautical industry. Ljubomir Ilić and Kosta Sivčev went through this program but, when they returned to Yugoslavia, both were employed in administrative work. Frustrated by this, they decided in 1931 to design a replacement for the Czechoslovakian-built Avia BH-33E biplane fighter in service with the VVKJ. Working in a basement in Belgrade, and later in Ilić's apartment in Novi Sad, they secretly devoted their spare time to work on their design. They originally planned a low-wing monoplane with retractable landing gear. Contemporary thinking within the VVKJ led them to evolve their initial ideas into a strut-braced gull-wing monoplane armed with a hub-firing autocannon and fuselage-mounted synchronised machine guns. The design concept for what became the Ikarus IK-2 was submitted to the VVKJ on 22 September 1933. With this work completed, Ilić and Sivčev had time to start preliminary development of a new low-wing monoplane that could better meet and defeat the high-performance bomber prototypes then in development by potential adversaries.\n\nIlić and Sivčev's new streamlined low-wing monoplane design had a retractable undercarriage. Like the IK-2 it was initially developed privately by the two men. A scale model was tested in the Eiffel-built wind tunnel in Paris, but the pair soon realised that they needed a third engineer to help evaluate the design and determine the structural details. Slobodan Zrnić, the head of construction at the Yugoslav State Aircraft Factory in Kraljevo, was recruited, as he had worked as a specialist aircraft engineer in France. The project name for the IK-2 was changed from IK, standing for (Ljubomir) Ilić and Kosta (Sivčev), to IKZ, to include Zrnić. This name was changed, possibly due to the similarities between the Cyrillic \"З\" (Z) and the Arabic numeral \"3\", and the aircraft became known as the IK-3. The aircraft was to be powered by a Hispano-Suiza 12Y29 engine, generating at an altitude of . The designers favoured manoeuvrability over speed, trying to find a compromise between the German and British concepts of a modern monoplane fighter. The design had a smaller wing area than the Hawker Hurricane and the Supermarine Spitfire, to achieve a higher speed for the engine power. In comparison to the Messerschmitt Bf 109, the Yugoslav design had a shorter fuselage and smaller turning radius. It differed from British and German design concepts in that its proposed armament was concentrated in the fuselage.\n\nThe designs were delivered to the VVKJ in time for approval by mid-1936, but a general reluctance to adopt new concepts delayed the IK-3, and a contract for the production of the prototype was not signed until March 1937. The company selected for construction was Rogožarski A.D. in Belgrade. The first flight of the prototype was carried out by the VVKJ Test Group towards the end of May 1938 and the aircraft was then flown by a group of VVKJ officers who were to determine the best employment for it within the VVKJ, along with tactics to be used in Yugoslav conditions. These pilots observed that the controls were highly sensitive; the only real criticisms related to the visual distortion caused by the curved panels of the canopy. Some pilots believed that the fuselage-mounted armament should be supplemented by two wing-mounted machine guns. The test pilots also had to compare the performance of the IK-3 with the Hawker Fury, Heinkel He 112, Morane-Saulnier M.S. 405 and Hawker Hurricane. They concluded that the IK-3 most closely matched the Morane-Saulnier; the Yugoslav aircraft was faster. In November 1938, the VVKJ placed an order with Rogožarski for 12 aircraft.\n\nOn 19 January 1939, test pilot \"Kapetan\" Milan Pokorni put the prototype into a steep dive. When he reached , the windscreen detached from the aircraft; Pokorni pulled up hard and the strain broke off half of the starboard wing. The aircraft crashed, and Pokorni was killed. An inquiry determined that modifications to the windscreen had contributed to the accident. Engineers recalculated the stress factors on the airframe and they were found to be safe, and the main factor had been the pilot's handling of the highly sensitive controls.\n\nThe loss of the prototype and some changes in the construction of the production model delayed the fulfilment of the contract. Further tests were conducted on the wing and it was found to withstand a g-force of 14. Modifications were made for the production model, including the use of flat plexiglass panels in the windscreen and the canopy to provide better visibility. The instrument layout was improved and the upper rear fuselage behind the pilot's seat was re-shaped. The folding undercarriage leg covers were replaced by single plates. The main changes were the replacement of the engine with a modified version of the Hispano-Suiza 12Y engine made under licence by the Czechoslovak company Avia and the replacement of the Hispano-Suiza HS.404 cannon by a Swiss-made Oerlikon FF 20 mm cannon. The replacement engine was less powerful, generating at . German-made Telefunken radios were to be installed but delays meant that only the first aircraft was delivered with a radio. The production aircraft were numbered 2–13; the prototype was number 1. The aircraft were built at the Rogožarski factory in Belgrade and assembled at the company hangar at Zemun. The first six aircraft were delivered by late March 1940; delivery of the rest of the order was delayed until July due to delays by foreign suppliers. The first production aircraft was delivered to the VVKJ Test Group, where it was confirmed that the production aircraft were free of the faults in the prototype. The Test Group determined that the maximum speed, previously estimated at , was , at an altitude of . By July 1940, a further series of 25 IK-3s had commenced construction at the Rogožarski factory.\n\nA shortage of engines was a major obstacle to mass production and development of the IK-3, so tests were conducted with more powerful engines, including the Daimler-Benz DB 601, Rolls-Royce Merlin II and Hispano-Suiza 12Y51. The tests were incomplete at the time of the Axis invasion, and the only prototype to be fitted with a non-production engine was deliberately destroyed by factory personnel during the invasion, along with the incomplete production aircraft. Development of a dual-control two-seat trainer variant of the IK-3 had commenced but pressure on the design team had delayed the completion of the project when the invasion intervened.\n\nThe development of the IK-3 encouraged the three designers to pursue the idea of a twin-engined fighter, capable of long-range reconnaissance, photographic reconnaissance and operation as a \"destroyer\" or heavy fighter similar to the Messerschmitt Bf 110. The concept included both one-seater and two-seater versions. Development of this new aircraft, designated IK-5, was commenced on the back of the success of the IK-3. The VVKJ ordered a one-seater prototype in early July 1939, with its first flight scheduled for late 1941. At the time of the invasion, the production of the IK-5 prototype was well advanced, but it was not pursued either during or after the war. The advanced Yugoslav Ikarus S-49 fighter, produced after World War II, was based on the IK-3.\n\nWhen they entered service, the IK-3 suffered from minor equipment and instrument faults, largely caused by deficiencies in the Yugoslav aeronautical industry which had resulted in a mixture of foreign and Yugoslav-made instruments being fitted to the aircraft. The Yugoslav Minister of War approved the acquisition of a further 48 IK-3s to be delivered in 1941–42. The operational aircraft were allocated to the 51st Independent Fighter Group at Zemun, six each to the 161st Fighter Squadron (\"Kapetan\" Savo Poljanec) and the 162nd Fighter Squadron (\"Kapetan\" Todor Gogić). The IK-3 was then tested against Yugoslav Messerschmitt Bf 109Es in mock dogfights. The evaluation concluded that the IK-3 had several advantages over the Bf 109E; in particular, the Yugoslav aircraft was more manoeuvrable in level flight, enabling it to quickly get behind a pursuing Bf 109E by making tight horizontal turns.\n\nIn its first year of service, an IK-3 was lost when one of the squadron commanders, \"Kapetan\" Anton Ercigoj, was making a mock attack on a Potez 25 over the confluence of the Sava and Danube rivers. After passing below the Potez, he went into a climb with the intention of performing a loop. His rate of climb was too steep and the aircraft fell into a spin at low altitude and hit the water. Before the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia in early April 1941, the 51st Fighter Group was placed under the 6th Fighter Regiment, which was responsible for the defence of Belgrade. The 51st Fighter Group was further reinforced the day before the invasion began, with the 102nd Fighter Squadron equipped with Bf 109Es. When the invasion began on 6 April, the two IK-3 squadrons had only three serviceable aircraft each.\n\nThe invasion commenced with a wave of 234 German dive bombers and medium bombers attacking Belgrade. Escorted by 120 fighters, the bombers reached Belgrade at 07:00; they were met by the 51st Fighter Group, minus an IK-3 from the 161st Fighter Squadron that had developed engine trouble after takeoff and was unable to engage. The other five IK-3s were the first to meet the initial bomber wave but they were almost immediately attacked by Bf 109Es of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 77. The pilots of the IK-3s claimed five German aircraft, and one aircraft from each Yugoslav squadron was lost. Poljanec had claimed a twin-engined bomber and a Bf 109E; when he returned to Zemun in his badly damaged aircraft, he was strafed by a Messerschmitt 110, which further damaged his aircraft and wounded him. After this encounter, only three IK-3s were serviceable, including the one that had developed engine difficulties prior to the first German wave.\n\nA second wave of German aircraft arrived over Belgrade at 10:00 and the remaining IK-3s were scrambled with the rest of the 51st Fighter Group but the IK-3 pilots claimed no victories. A joint claim was made during the third German attack at 14:00, a twin-engined bomber by Gogić and another pilot from the 162nd Fighter Squadron. The following day, the IK-3 pilots made five or six sorties against German bomber formations and their fighter escorts, and claimed three bombers between them. At 17:00, Milislav Semiz attacked a tight formation of three bombers; his aircraft received 56 hits from return fire, 20 of which were in the engine and propeller, but he managed to land the aircraft. The return of another IK-3 from the workshops meant that the number of serviceable IK-3s remained at three.\n\nIt became difficult to continue activity from the 51st Fighter Group airfield at Zemun due to air attacks, so on 8 April the remaining IK-3s and Bf 109Es flew to an auxiliary airfield at Veliki Radinci, north-west of Belgrade, where the surviving aircraft of the 6th Fighter Regiment were concentrated. Poor weather made operations impossible until 11 April, when Semiz shot down a Bf 110 that had strafed the airfield. Later that day, Gogić and another IK-3 pilot claimed one Ju 87 each during a patrol. That night, German troops approached within of the airfield at Veliki Radinci and the following day all remaining aircraft of the 6th Fighter Regiment, including the remaining IK-3s, were burned by their crews. According to aviation writers Dragan Savić and Boris Ciglić, one serviceable IK-3 was captured by the Germans in April 1941 and it was joined by another by the end of June. Both aircraft were located at Zemun, along with 23 other former VVKJ aircraft in working condition that were destined for service with the air force of the Axis puppet state, the Independent State of Croatia. The Germans had used a fence to separate the serviceable aircraft from other aircraft that had been earmarked for scrapping. In late June, while the German guards were distracted listening to news of the invasion of the Soviet Union, local communists, including former VVKJ mechanics, moved the fence. As a result, all the serviceable aircraft were scrapped, including the two IK-3s.\n\n\"The IK-3s put up a valiant resistance against the Luftwaffe,\" wrote William Green, \"scoring a number of 'kills' before they were finally destroyed in combat.\" Aviation writers Šime Oštrić and Čedomir Janić credit the IK-3 pilots with 11 victories, Semiz being the most successful, with four victories.\n\n\nSource: \n\n"}
{"id": "2273144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273144", "title": "Hurricane Boris", "text": "Hurricane Boris\n\nThe name Boris has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273149", "title": "Hurricane Bud", "text": "Hurricane Bud\n\nThe name Bud has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273151", "title": "Grumman FF", "text": "Grumman FF\n\nThe Grumman FF \"Fifi\" (company designation G-5) was an American biplane fighter aircraft operated by the United States Navy during the 1930s. It was the first carrier aircraft with retractable landing gear. It was produced under licence in Canada and known as the Goblin in Canadian service and Delfín (English: \"Dolphin\") in Spanish service.\n\nThe \"FF-1\" was Grumman’s first complete aircraft design for the US Navy. The Navy had asked Grumman if their retractable landing gear made for the O2U-1 Scout planes could be retrofitted to the Navy's Boeing F4B-1 fighters; instead Grumman proposed a new fighter design. The prototype \"XFF-1\" (serial number A8878) was built to a contract placed on 22 April 1931, first flying on 29 December of that year, a two-seat design, with an enclosed cockpit, fuselage of all-metal construction, and wings covered largely with fabric. The XFF-1 was powered initially by a 616 hp (459 kW) Wright R-1820-E Cyclone radial engine, it achieved 195 mph (314 km/h) during service trials. Later the original engine was exchanged for a 750 hp (560 kW) Wright R-1820-F Cyclone and the XFF-1 reached a top speed of 201 mph (323 km/h), faster than any US Navy fighter in service at the time.\n\nA production order was placed for 27 two-seat FF-1 (G-5) on 19 December 1932. Meanwhile, Grumman had completed a second prototype (serial number A8940) to a two-seat scout configuration as the XSF-1 (G-6). Subsequently, 33 production SF-1s were ordered based on the two-seat configuration. They differed from the FF-1 principally in having revised internal equipment and in being powered by R-1820-84 Cyclones instead of the R-1820-78 model installed in the fighter version. One XSF-2 was also completed, this having a Pratt & Whitney R-1830 Wasp engine in place of the Cyclone.\n\nThe distinctive retractable main landing gear design for the FF-1 had originated with Grover Loening's employment of Grumman's future founder, Leroy Grumman, who had hired both Grumman and Jake Swirbul to work in his own aircraft firm in 1928 – after the Loening Aeronautical Engineering Company folded in the 1932–33 timeframe, Loening in turn contributed to the Grumman firm's later successes, with the Grumman-designed, manual crank-operated retractable main gear design used for a number of Loening's military aircraft designs being used on the FF-1, and later Grumman F2F and F3F follow-on biplane fighter designs; culminating in the Grumman F4F Wildcat also using it, as well as the amphibious single-engined Grumman JF and J2F Duck multi-use biplane military aircraft.\n\nFF-1s were delivered to Fighter Squadron VF-5B of the beginning in June 1933. In service the FF-1 became familiarly known as the \"Fifi\". Delivery of SF-1s started on 30 March 1934, and they also served aboard the \"Lexington\", with Scout Squadron VS-3B.\nBoth the FF-1 and SF-1 were withdrawn from first-line US Navy squadrons by the end of 1936 and reallocated to reserve units, most of the FF-1s still being in service late in 1940. Later, 22 surviving FF-1s were modified with dual controls, redesignated FF-2 and used for instructional duties.\n\nThe Canadian Car & Foundry Co acquired a manufacturing licence for the G-23, an improved FF-1, of which it completed a total of 52, some of which were assembled from US-built components. Thirty-four were acquired by the Spanish Republican Government in 1937 by presenting forged Turkish credentials. This batch was built primarily to bypass the US embargo placed on belligerents during the Spanish Civil War. Referred to as the GE-23 Delfin (en:Dolphin) by the Spanish Republican Air Force, the aircraft fought in the conflict, but were outclassed by opposing fighters and losses were high. Despite this, a victory against a Heinkel He 59B would be the only recorded \"kill\" by a Grumman biplane fighter. Eleven survived to serve in the \"Ejército del Aire Español\", nicknamed \"Pedro Rico\" for its rotundity.\n\nAlthough initially rejected as a fighter by the Royal Canadian Air Force as outdated and too slow, with the advent of war, the last 15 of the CC&F production batch were taken on strength as the Goblin I. The aircraft type served with the RCAF from 17 September 1940 until 21 April 1942. \"A\" Flight of No. 118 RCAF Sqn was equipped with Goblins at Rockcliffe in Ottawa, and subsequently became No. 118 (Fighter) Sqn., later stationed at Dartmouth, Nova Scotia where the Goblins for a time constituted the sole fighter force on the east coast.\n\nPrior to RCAF use, single examples were delivered to Nicaragua, one to Japan, and another to Mexico.\n\nThe sole G-23 purchased by the Nicaraguan government saw limited service before being relegated to a scrap yard at Zololtan Air Field in 1942, destined to remain there until 1961 when it was purchased and shipped to the US. In 1966, Grumman restored the aircraft before passing it to the US Navy where it remains as one of the displays at the Naval Aviation Museum at Pensacola, Florida.\n\nThe Japanese example was purchased as an example of Grumman's undercarriage, however by the time it was delivered better designs were already in use.\n\nThe Mexican example was intended to be a pattern aircraft to allow a production line to be set up there but this never occurred.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273154", "title": "Liam Flood", "text": "Liam Flood\n\nLiam Flood ( 1943 – 16 August 2014) was an Irish bookmaker and professional poker player who was the 1997 European poker champion.\n\nFlood began playing poker tournaments in the 1980s in Ireland. He won the Irish Poker Open in 1990 and 1996, becoming one of only four players to have won that tournament multiple times. He was a close friend of Terry Rogers who created the Irish Poker Open tournament, and has run the tournament since Rogers died in 1999.\n\nHe was a finalist in series 1 and 2 of the \"Late Night Poker\" television series and went on to be the floorman for the Celebrity Poker Club spin-off. In 1997, he had an 11th-place finish in the pot-limit hold-em tournament at the World Series of Poker. In 1998, he had a 15th-place finish in the no-limit hold-em tournament at the World Series.\n\nHis biggest cash win to date is a second-place finish at the Party Poker World Open in Maidstone, Kent, England on 3 April 2005. He won $150,000. Flood also appeared in the 2005 World Speed Poker Open. His total lifetime professional tournament winnings exceeded $1,100,000.\n\nIn 2007, Flood won the Party Poker European Open, beating Darren Hickman in the final head-to-head and pocketing the first prize of $125,000. This was his first outright win in a televised tournament.\n\nOn 16 August 2014, Flood died at the age of 71.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273156", "title": "Temptation of Saint Anthony in visual arts", "text": "Temptation of Saint Anthony in visual arts\n\nThe Temptation of Saint Anthony is an often-repeated subject in the history of art and literature, concerning the supernatural temptation reportedly faced by Saint Anthony the Great during his sojourn in the Egyptian desert. Anthony's temptation is first discussed by Athanasius of Alexandria, Anthony's contemporary, and from then became a popular theme in Western culture. \n\nThe common medieval subject, included in the \"Golden Legend\" and other sources, shows Saint Anthony being tempted or assailed in the desert by demons, whose temptations he resisted; the \"Temptation of St Anthony\" (or \"Trial...\") is the more common name of the subject. But strictly there are at least two different episodes deriving from Athanasius's \"Life of St. Anthony\" and later versions of the life that may be represented, though all usually have this name. The most common is the temptation, by seductive women and other demonic forms, but the Martin Schongauer composition (copied by Michelangelo) probably shows a later episode where St Anthony, normally flown about the desert supported by angels, was ambushed and attacked in mid-air by devils. Anasthasius describes another episode where the saint was attacked on the ground. \n\nThe earliest work to depict Saint Anthony being assaulted by demons is a wall painting in the atrium of Santa Maria Antiqua of the 10th century. The subject became especially popular in the late European Middle Ages, from around 1450. The century following saw the most famous depictions in book illumination, prints and paintings. These include the depictions of Martin Schöngauer (ca. 1470), Hieronymus Bosch (ca. 1505) and Mathias Grünewald (1512-1516). \n\nIn the modern era the theme has been treated by the Spanish painter Salvador Dalí and the French author Gustave Flaubert, who considered his 1874 book \"The Temptation of Saint Anthony\" to be his masterwork.\n\nIn 1946 the David L. Loew-Albert Lewin film production company held a contest for a painting on the theme of Saint Anthony's Temptation, with the winner to be used in the film \"The Private Affairs of Bel Ami\". Various artists produced paintings on this subject, and the contest was won by Max Ernst, whose work was duly shown in the film. However, the most well-known of these paintings is a failed contestant, Salvador Dalí's version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273158", "title": "Hurricane Calvin", "text": "Hurricane Calvin\n\nThe name Calvin has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273167", "title": "Tropical Storm Carlotta", "text": "Tropical Storm Carlotta\n\nThe name Carlotta has been used for eleven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean, making Carlotta one of the most frequently used Pacific storm names.\n\nThe name Carlotta has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Southwest Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273178", "title": "Hurricane Carlos", "text": "Hurricane Carlos\n\nThe name Carlos has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Carlos has been used once in the Australian region.\n\nThe name Carlos has been used once in the South-West Indian Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273179", "title": "Dave Welch", "text": "Dave Welch\n\nDave Welch is an English poker player based in St Albans, who made several appearances on the Late Night Poker television series, including the season 1 grand final and the season 6 semi-final.\nHis biggest cash win to date is FF 250,000 ($40,750) for winning the 1998 Euro Finals of Poker no limit hold'em poker tournament, defeating a field including Padraig Parkinson, Dave \"Devilfish\" Ulliott, Patrick Bruel and Surinder Sunar.\n\nAs of 2008, his total live tournament winnings exceed $360,000.\n\nWelch is married to poker player Debbie Berlin, another Late Night Poker regular.\n"}
{"id": "2273181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273181", "title": "Historical-grammatical method", "text": "Historical-grammatical method\n\nThe historical-grammatical method is a Christian hermeneutical method that strives to discover the biblical authors' original intended meaning in the text, which it then takes as representing history. It is the primary method of interpretation for many conservative Protestant exegetes who reject the historical-critical method to various degrees (from the complete rejection of historical criticism of some fundamentalist Protestants to the moderated acceptance of it in the Roman Catholic tradition since Pope Pius XII), in contrast to the overwhelming reliance on historical-critical interpretation in biblical studies at the academic level.\n\nThe Orthodox Church primarily employs a spiritual, allegorizing hermeneutic heavily dependent on typological connections drawn by New Testament writers and the church fathers of the first several centuries of Christianity. The Roman Catholic Church divides hermeneutic into four senses: the literal, allegorical, moral, and anagogical; however, interpretation is always subject to the Church's magisterium. The process for determining the original meaning of the text is through examination of the grammatical and syntactical aspects, the historical background, the literary genre as well as theological (canonical) considerations. \nThe historical-grammatical method distinguishes between the one original meaning of the text and its significance. The significance of the text is essentially the application or contextualization of the principles from text.\n\nThe aim of the historical-grammatical method is to discover the meaning of the passage as the original author would have intended and what the original hearers would have understood. The original passage is seen as having only a single meaning or sense. As Milton S. Terry said, \"A fundamental principle in grammatico-historical exposition is that the words and sentences can have but one significance in one and the same connection. The moment we neglect this principle we drift out upon a sea of uncertainty and conjecture.\"\n\nMany practice the historical-grammatical method using the inductive method, a general three-fold approach to the text: observation, interpretation, and application. Each step builds upon the other, which follows in order. The first step of observation involves an examination of words, structure, structural relationships and literary forms. After observations are formed, then the second step of interpretation involves asking interpretative questions, formulating answers to those questions, integration and summarization of the passage. After the meaning is derived through interpretation, the third step of application involves determining both the theoretical and practical significance of the text and appropriately applying this significance to today's modern context. There is also a heavy emphasis on personal application that extends into all aspects of the practitioner's life. Theologian Robert Traina, in his 1952 \"Methodical Bible Study\", wrote that \"the applicatory step is that for which all else exists. It represents the final purpose of Bible study.\"\n\nTechnically speaking, the grammatical-historical method of interpretation is distinct from the determination of the passage's significance in light of that interpretation. Together, interpretation of the passage and determining the meaning define the term \"hermeneutics.\"\n\nIn the reader-response method, the focus is on how the book is perceived by the reader, not on the intention of the author. Those who regard the text as divinely inspired and seek to determine the intention of the divine author tend to stay away from this method because of the many interpretations, often contrary to scripture, arising from a reader response of the text without any formal foundation of the text.\n\nThe historical-critical method is used by many academic Bible scholars in universities, including many Roman Catholic and Protestant institutions. The method uses higher criticism, in an attempt to discover the sources and factors that contributed to the making of the text as well as to determine what it meant to the original audience. Scholars who use the historical-critical method treat the Bible as they would any other text. In contrast to the historical-grammatical method, historical-criticism does not aim to determine what a text means for people today. For those reasons, some traditional scholars and conservative Christians tend to reject the method, but even many of them use aspects of it that naturally overlap with the historical-grammatical method, such as attempting to determine what was meant when the passage in question was written.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273182", "title": "1987 Truro by-election", "text": "1987 Truro by-election\n\nThe Truro by-election, 1987, was caused by the death of David Penhaligon, the Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for Truro on 22 December 1986 in a car crash near the city. The election was held on 12 March 1987. The constituency was renamed Truro and St Austell in 1997.\n\nThe candidate succeeding Penhaligon was his then research assistant on the economy, Matthew Taylor, standing with the backing of the Social Democratic Party as part of the SDP-Liberal Alliance. The Conservative candidate was Nick St Aubyn who would go on to become member for Guildford. The Labour Party and Green Party put forward candidates. The only other candidate was Helen Anscomb, who represented Death off Road: Freight on Rail. Anscomb had previously taken part in four other by-elections of the 49th Parliament and on this occasion focused her campaign on the issue of road safety as Penhaligon had been killed in a car accident.\n\nAfter the election, Anscomb lodged an election petition against the return of Taylor on the grounds that he had appeared on Channel Four News and BBC Newsnight without the other candidates, in breach of election law. The petition was stayed and eventually withdrawn due to her ill-health.\n\nThis election is notable for being the last by-election during that term of parliament, as a general election (which saw the Tories achieve a third successive win) was called three months later.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273184", "title": "Alex Miller", "text": "Alex Miller\n\nAlex Miller (born 4 July 1949) is a Scottish football manager and former player. As a player, he had a 15-year career with Rangers. As a manager, he won the 1991 Scottish League Cup with Hibernian. He subsequently worked for Premier League club Liverpool for nine years, assisting Gérard Houllier and Rafael Benítez.\n\nAs a player Miller started out his career with Clydebank Strollers before he made the move to Rangers. Miller played for Rangers from 1967 until 1982 before finishing his playing career in Hong Kong. He made 306 appearances during his spell at Rangers and scored 30 goals. After being coached by David White he was promoted to the first team. In the autumn of 1970 he won his first title with the team, the 1970 Scottish League Cup Final. Under coach William Waddell, he was mostly just a second choice player. Therefore, in one of the biggest successes of the club's history, the triumph in the 1972 European Cup Winners' Cup Final, Miller was not on the pitch. It was only after Jock Wallace took over as coach, Miller became increasingly used. During his career at Rangers Miller contributed in the Club winning 3 league championships - '75,76,78, 5 Scottish Cups - '76,79 finals, 5 League Cups - '71,76,78,79,82 finals. As a regular player after the mid-1970s, he won multiple titles. He was something of a legend at Ibrox having played in the 1971 Scottish Cup Final against Celtic despite having a broken jaw.\n\nMiller was appointed as player-manager when he played briefly for South China in Hong Kong in 1983, but was unable to save the club from relegation. He was then briefly manager of Greenock Morton in 1983 before contentiously joining their rivals from Paisley, St Mirren, who were at that time in a higher division.\n\nMiller managed St Mirren from 1983 until 1986. He moulded a side that would win the 1987 Scottish Cup Final, later in the season that he left the club. Miller guided St Mirren to qualification for European competition. One of Saints all-time great nights came in a European campaign when in 1985, Slavia Prague were knocked out after a 3–0 Saints win at Love Street.\n\nMiller was then manager of Hibernian from 1986 to 1996, through a \"difficult\" period in the club's history, as the club came through financial problems. He led Hibs to victory in the 1991–92 Scottish League Cup, beating Rangers in the semi finals (1–0) and Dunfermline Athletic in the final (2–0). Hibs qualified for the UEFA Cup, losing on the away goals rule to RSC Anderlecht. Hibs reached the 1993 Scottish League Cup Final, but this time lost out to Rangers (1–2). Hibs finished the 1994–95 season in third place in the league. Miller was sacked by Hibs in 1996, with some observers accusing him of having betrayed Hibs' \"cavalier ideals\".\n\nMiller then moved to Coventry City, accepting an offer from his Scottish compatriot Gordon Strachan to become assistant manager. A year later, unable to resist the challenge of being his own man again, he moved to Aberdeen taking over the manager's post from Roy Aitken. However this stint was not a successful one and he was replaced in 1998 by Paul Hegarty.\n\nMiller joined English Premier League side Liverpool as Director of Scouting under Gérard Houllier in 1999. However, when Rafael Benítez was appointed manager of Liverpool in 2004, he overhauled the scouting system. Miller then subsequently worked as first team coach, helping the club win the Champions League in 2005 and the FA Cup in 2006. Miller left Liverpool in May 2008 to manage Japanese side JEF United Chiba.\n\nDespite taking over the club when they had taken just two points from eleven games, Miller managed to guide the team to safety from relegation. However, following a string of poor results in the next season which the club was in the relegation zone, Miller's contract was terminated by the club in July 2009.\n\nMiller was appointed manager of Swedish team AIK in June 2010 as the successor of Mikael Stahre and the interim solution Björn Wesström. AIK had been in some danger of relegation when Miller was appointed, but they eventually finished 11th in the 16-team division.\n\nMiller was appointed head coach of Russian First Division club Sibir Novosibirsk in January 2012. Miller became the first British head coach in Russian football. Miller left the club after just nine matches in charge.\n\nMiller returned to St Mirren on 3 November 2015, as assistant manager to Ian Murray. He became caretaker manager after Murray resigned in December.\n\nTwo of Miller's sons, Graeme and Greg, both played for Hibs while Miller was manager there. Miller also employed Greg as a coach while he was manager of JEF United Chiba.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273186", "title": "Tropical Storm Cosme", "text": "Tropical Storm Cosme\n\nThe name Cosme has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Cosme has been used for two tropical cyclones in the Western Pacific.\n"}
{"id": "2273208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273208", "title": "Naguilian", "text": "Naguilian\n\nNaguilian may refer to the following places in the Philippines:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273212", "title": "Hurricane Cristina", "text": "Hurricane Cristina\n\nThe name Cristina has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273218", "title": "Gwyllion", "text": "Gwyllion\n\nGwyllion or gwyllon (plural noun from the singular Gwyll or (Yr) Wyll \"twilight, gloaming\") is a Welsh word with a wide range of possible meanings including \"ghosts, spirits\" and \"night-wanderers (human or supernatural) up to no good, outlaws of the wild.\" \"Gwyllion\" is only one of a number of words with these or similar meanings in Welsh. It is a comparatively recent word coined inadvertently in the seventeenth century by the Welsh lexicographer Dr John Davies (Mallwyd).\n\nAccording to folklorist Wirt Sikes the gwyllion are female fairies of frightful aspect who haunt lonely roads in the Welsh mountains and lead travellers astray. They are gloomy spirits more akin to hags or witches, as distinct from the Welsh ellyllon (elves) that are more benevolent. Those who encountered them either by night or on a misty day would be sure to lose their way even if they were perfectly familiar with the road. One gwyll in particular was known as the Old Woman of the Mountain who haunted Llanhyddel Mountain in Monmouthshire, and the popular tradition in that district was that she was the ghost of a woman who had been regarded in life as a witch. She is known to utter strange cries and shouts throughout her mountain in order to frighten wayfarers.\n\nThe Old Woman has also been encountered on Black Mountain in Breconshire. One man reported meeting her there and at the same time found that he had lost his way. Thinking she was human he called out for her to stay but receiving no answer he thought she was deaf. He tried to overtake her but she led him further astray, always out of reach, until he found himself in a marsh. When she uttered a cackling laugh he suspected she might be a gwyll so he drew his knife, whereupon the Old Woman vanished. His suspicions were confirmed for it was well known that Welsh ghosts and fairies were afraid of knives and could be banished by them.\n\nThis exorcism by knife, according to Sikes, is a particularly Welsh tradition. The gwyllion often came into the houses of the people at the parish of Aberystruth, especially in stormy weather. She was always made welcome, not out of any sense of friendship but out of fear of what she might do to them if she were offended. She was provided with clean water and care was taken that no knife or any other cutting tool should be in the corner near the fire where the fairies liked to sit. While it was desirable to exorcise them when in the open air it was not prudent to display an inhospitable attitude towards any member of the fairy realm.\n\nAnother traveller encountered the gwyllion at night on Bedwellty Mountain. There were several such spirits dancing fantastically around him. He also heard the sounds of a bugle-horn and what seemed like invisible hunters riding by. Although he was afraid he drew his knife and the fairies vanished. Sikes speculates that if these ideas are traced back to their source then they may have some connection with the sword Excalibur and the role it plays in the primeval world. The folklorist Katharine Briggs suggested that it may have to do with the traditional fairy vulnerability to cold iron.\n\nThe Gwyllion is featured as the main antagonist in the 2013 CGI animated film \"\". She appears as a vengeful old woman with light grey hair who attacked the crystal fairies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273219", "title": "Earth and water", "text": "Earth and water\n\nIn the writings of the Ancient Greek chronicler Herodotus, the phrase earth and water ( \"ge kai hydor\") is used to represent the demand of the Persians from the cities or people who surrendered to them.\n\nIn Book 4, Herodotus mentions for the first time the term \"earth and water\" in the answer of king Idanthyrsus of the Scythians to king Darius. In Book 5, it is reported that Darius sent heralds demanding \"earth and water\" from king Amyntas I of Macedon, which he accepted. It was also requested of the Athenian embassy to Artaphernes in 507 BC, which complied. In the 6th book, Darius sent heralds throughout Hellas bidding them demand \"earth and water\" for the king (Hdt. 6.48). There were not many city-states that refused.\n\nIn Book 7, he recounts that when the Persians sent envoys to the Spartans and to the Athenians demanding the traditional symbol of surrender, an offering of soil and water, the Spartans threw them into a well and the Athenians threw them into a gorge, suggesting that upon their arrival at the bottom, they could \"Dig it out for yourselves.\"\n\nThe demand for \"earth and water\" symbolized that those surrendering to Persians gave up all their rights over their land and every product of the land. Giving \"earth and water\", they recognized the Persian authority over everything; even their lives belonged to the king of Persians. Then negotiations would take place to specify the obligations and the benefits of the liegemen.\n\nThe phrase \"earth and water\", even in modern Greek, symbolizes unconditional subordination to a conqueror.\n\nAccording to the modern historian J. M. Balcer, the significance of earth and water is that they were Zoroastrian symbols and representative of vassalage to the Persian Empire. \"Persian heralds traveled throughout Greece demanding the recognition of Persian Suzerainty and the Zoroastrian symbols of earth and water, the marks of vassalage...\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273221", "title": "Hurricane Daniel", "text": "Hurricane Daniel\n\nThe name Daniel has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273224", "title": "Paris Gibson", "text": "Paris Gibson\n\nParis Gibson (July 1, 1830December 16, 1920) was an American entrepreneur and politician.\n\nGibson was born in Brownfield, Maine. An 1851 graduate of Bowdoin College, he served as a member of the Montana State Senate and as a Democratic member of the United States Senate between 1901 and 1905.\n\nIn 1853 he was elected to the Maine legislature. After moving to Minnesota, where he built the North Star Woolen Mill at St. Anthony's Falls, he served on the University of Minnesota Board of Regents from 1871 through 1879, and was a founding Trustee for Lakewood Cemetery. He abandoned his failed business interests in Minnesota to try his luck out West and, in 1880, paid a visit to the Great Falls of the Missouri River and quickly recognized their potential for producing hydroelectric power.\n\nGibson convinced his friend, railroad magnate James J. Hill, to invest in a townsite at the falls and urged that Hill extend his railroad through the new city. In 1883 the city of Great Falls, Montana, was founded.\n\nBy 1887 Hill rail lines linked Great Falls to Butte, Montana, and Helena, Montana. However, the main line of Hill's Great Northern Railway bypassed Great Falls to the north. Despite this setback, Great Falls became a major center of trade for area farmers and ranchers, and its dams on the Missouri River contributed power for ore processing and grain milling industries.\n\nWhen William A. Clark resigned from the United States Senate, Gibson, a Democrat, was elected to fill the seat, and he served from March 7, 1901, until March 3, 1905. He did not seek re-election. He died in Great Falls and is buried there in Highland Cemetery.\n\nParis was married to Valeria Goodnough Sweat (1838-1900). They had four children; two died at an early age at 1 and 2-years-old. They had two sons who lived to adulthood, Philip and Theodore.\n\nIn 1912, Philip was sent to Warm Springs, a state mental hospital in Warm Springs, Montana, for \"exhaustion of paresis\", sometimes known as \"general paralysis of the insane,\" where he died. Some time later, Theodore suffered a similar health problem and was also sent to Warm Springs where he died.\n\nThe Theo Gibson home in Great Falls was acquired in 2010 by Kelly Parks. She asserts the house, which was built in 1890, is haunted by Valeria Gibson's ghost.\n"}
{"id": "2273228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273228", "title": "Hurricane Darby", "text": "Hurricane Darby\n\nThe name Darby has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. Since 1992, five storms peaked at Category 3 intensity on the Saffir–Simpson scale.\n"}
{"id": "2273238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273238", "title": "MV A1C William H. Pitsenbarger", "text": "MV A1C William H. Pitsenbarger\n\nMV \"A1C William H. Pitsenbarger\" was a civilian-crewed container ship operated by Red River Shipping Corp. of Rockville, Md, under charter to Military Sealift Command from 2001 to 2008. She was named in honor of William H. Pitsenbarger, a US Air Force Medal of Honor recipient.\n\nAccording to the Naval Vessel Register, \"Pitsenbarger\" was disposed of by return to owner on August 29, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273245", "title": "Pittsburgh toilet", "text": "Pittsburgh toilet\n\nA Pittsburgh toilet, often called a \"Pittsburgh potty\", is a common fixture in pre-World War II houses built in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States and surrounding region. It consists of an ordinary flush toilet installed in the basement, with no surrounding walls. Most of these toilets are paired with a crude basement shower apparatus and large sink, which often doubles as a laundry basin. Also, because western Pennsylvania is a steep topographical zone, many basements have their own entryway, allowing homeowners to enter from their yard or garage, cleanse themselves in their basement, and then ascend their basement stairs refreshed. \n\nAs Pittsburgh was historically an industrial town, toilets such as these were said to be used by steelworkers and miners: grimy from the day's labor, they could use an exterior door to enter the basement directly from outside and use the basement's shower and toilet before heading upstairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273247", "title": "Hurricane Elida", "text": "Hurricane Elida\n\nThe name Elida has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273253", "title": "Dudley Gordon, 3rd Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair", "text": "Dudley Gordon, 3rd Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair\n\nLieutenant-Colonel Dudley Gladstone Gordon, 3rd Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair DSO (6 May 1883 – 16 April 1972), styled Lord Dudley Gordon from 1916 to 1965, was a British peer, soldier, and industrialist.\n\nAberdeen was the second son of John Hamilton-Gordon, 1st Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair, and his wife Ishbel, daughter of Dudley Marjoribanks, 1st Baron Tweedmouth. He attended Harrow School and was awarded an honorary doctorate of Law from the University of Aberdeen.\n\nHe was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 8th Battalion of the Gordon Highlanders in 1914. He was shortly thereafter transferred to the 9th Battalion as a temporary captain, and was later promoted to temporary major. In 1917, he received the Distinguished Service Order for gallantry in supervising the construction of two artillery tracks under enemy fire. He later gained the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and served as commander of the 8/10th Battalion from 1917 to 1919.\n\nHe worked for J. and E. Hall Ltd (an engineering company based in Dartford, Kent) from 1907 and became a director in 1910.\n\nAberdeen was President of the British Association for Refrigeration from 1926 to 1929, President of the British Engineers Association from 1936 to 1939, and President of the Federation of British Industries between 1940 and 1943, as well as serving as President of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.\n\nAberdeen was a founding member and President of Gravesend Rugby Football Club, originally known as Darenth RFC, between 1921 and 1931.\n\nLord Aberdeen and Temair married, firstly, Cécile Elizabeth Drummond (7 August 1878 – 17 September 1948), daughter of George James Drummond, on 25 April 1907. They had five children:\n\n\nHe married, secondly, Margaret Gladys Munn (died 22 November 1990) on 17 June 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273257", "title": "Pasil", "text": "Pasil\n\nPasil may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2273265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273265", "title": "Hurricane Emilia", "text": "Hurricane Emilia\n\nThe name Emilia has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273268", "title": "Mimi (folklore)", "text": "Mimi (folklore)\n\nMimis (or 'Mimih Spirits' ) are fairy-like beings of Arnhem Land in the folklore of the Indigenous Australians of northern Australia. They are described as having extremely thin and elongated bodies, so thin as to be in danger of breaking in case of a high wind. To avoid this, they usually spend most of their time living in rock crevices. They are said to have taught the Aborigines of Australia how to hunt and prepare kangaroo meat.\n\nThe Australian Museum (Sydney, N.S.W.) in its web article \"Indigenous Australia Spirituality\" describes them thus:\n\n\"The Mimi are tall, thin beings that live in the rocky escarpment of northern Australia as spirits. Before the coming of Aboriginal people they had human forms.\"\n\n\"When Aboriginal people first came to northern Australia, the Mimi taught them how to hunt and cook kangaroos and other animals. They also did the first rock paintings and taught Aboriginal people how to paint.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2273278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273278", "title": "USAnimation", "text": "USAnimation\n\nUSAnimation, Inc. was an American traditional animation studio and software development company based out of Los Angeles, California. The studio produced animation for television series and commercials, and provided ink and paint services to animated TV series such as \"The Ren and Stimpy Show\" and \"The Simpsons\" and films such as \"We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story\". Its software division was best known for developing USAnimation, a high-end software package designed to facilitate the traditional animation process using digital technologies.\n\nUSAnimation, Inc. was founded in early 1992 by John Whitney Jr. after he decided to use the power of the technology he created to change how animation was produced. The animation industry was immediately receptive to this concept since digital capabilities were a powerful creative tool for the animation producer to improve the look of shows and do it more efficiently. USAnimation completed episodic projects such as \"Beavis and Butt-Head\", \"The Ren & Stimpy Show\" and the first digitally colored episodes of \"The Simpsons\", as well as commercial projects ranging from Lucky Charms cereal to Levi's jeans.\n\nIn 1996, USAnimation sold its software development business to Canadian competitor Toon Boom Technologies and its animation production services were renamed VirtualMagic USA. Toon Boom continues development of the USAnimation software, today known as Harmony. With resources now dedicated solely to its production expertise, VirtualMagic USA diversified itself by taking on a significant amount of interactive CD-ROM work for clients such as Disney Interactive, Broderbund, and Digital Domain.\n\nIn late-1997, the company changed its name to VirtualMagic Animation and moved into a new production space in the San Fernando Valley. In order to economically compete in the animated episodic series and motion picture market, VirtualMagic Animation evaluated potential affiliate foreign animation companies with digital capabilities as well as joint venture possibilities. In 1999, VirtualMagic Animation and ImagineAsia Studio formed VirtualMagic Asia, a digital ink, paint and compositing service based in Manila, Philippines. VirtualMagic Animation and VirtualMagic Asia closed in 2003.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273279", "title": "University of Liège", "text": "University of Liège\n\nThe University of Liège (), or ULiège, is a major public university of the French Community of Belgium based in Liège, Wallonia, Belgium. Its official language is French. As of 2016, ULiège is ranked in the #251–300 category worldwide according to \"Times Higher Education\", 265nd by \"QS World University Rankings\", and between the 205th and 300th place by the \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\". More than 2000 people, academics, scientists and technicians, are involved in research of a wide variety of subjects from basic research to applied research.\n\nThe University was founded in 1817 by William I of the Netherlands, then King of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands, and by his Minister of Education, Anton Reinhard Falck. The foundation of the university was the result of a long intellectual tradition which dates back to the origins of the Bishopric of Liège. Beginning in the eleventh century, the influence of the prince-bishops of Liège attracted students and prominent scientists and philosophers, such as Petrarch, to study in its libraries. The reputation of its medieval schools gave the city the reputation as a new Athens.\n\nA 17 March 1808 decree by Napoleon I concerning the organization of an imperial university indicated Liège as the site of a new academy to be composed of a Faculty of Arts and a Faculty of Science—the first university charter for Liège. Ultimately, Liège owes its university to William I of the Netherlands, who remembered the city's prestigious legacy of teaching and culture when he decided to establish a new university on Walloon soil.\n\nNearly 200 years later, settled to some extent in the district of Liège, the University of Liège belongs to the French community of Belgium. The University is located at the edge of the River Meuse, in the center of \"the Island\", the Latin Quarter of Liège. In 2009, the Agronomical University of Gembloux (FUSAGx), based in Gembloux, in the Province of Namur, integrated ULiège. It has adopted a new name for academics as well as research, namely Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech.\n\n\nThe University of Liège counts:\n\nULiège comprises 11 faculties:\n\nSince the 1970s, ULiège's main campus has been the hill, a vast planned community campus located about ten kilometers south from the center of Liège. However, the university has kept its headquarters and many administrative facilities in the city centre, as well as the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters, the Institutes of Zoology, Anatomy, the HEC Liège Management School and the newly incorporated Faculty of Architecture.\n\nThe Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech campus and faculty are located in the city of Gembloux, Namur Province, and Faculty of Science Department of Environmental Science and Management is located in Arlon, Luxembourg Province.\n\nThe university also owns a scientific research station in the Belgian High Fens since 1924, the STARESO oceanography station in Calvi, Corsica, France, a meteorological station and the Sphinx Observatory on the Jungfraujoch, Switzerland, since 1950 and research stations and observatories in Chile (SPECULOOS and TRAPPIST-South), Morocco and Tenerife, Spain (TRAPPIST-North).\n\n\"For full list, see .\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273284", "title": "Hall of Hewn Stones", "text": "Hall of Hewn Stones\n\nThe Hall of Hewn Stones (Hebrew: לשכת הגזית \"Lishkat haGazit\") was the meeting place of the Sanhedrin during the Second Temple period (6th century BCE – 1st century CE). The Talmud deduces that it was built into the north wall of the Temple in Jerusalem, half inside the sanctuary and half outside, with doors providing access both to the temple and to the outside. The name presumably arises to distinguish it from the buildings in the temple complex used for ritual purposes, which had to be constructed of unhewn stones. (The Torah prohibits the use of hewn stones or those touched by iron for the altar per Ex 20:22, Deut 27:6. Various reasons have been given for the prohibition, among them: the purpose of the Temple is peace, while iron implements are used in war; the Temple lengthens human life while iron shortens it; the hewing of stones is an invitation to carving images in them, violating the prohibition against idolatry; and the sword references the earthly power of Esau, not the spiritual power of Jacob/Israel.)\n\nAccording to the Talmud, the Hall of Hewn Stones is the traditional meeting place of the Great Sanhedrin when it functioned as a court with full sovereign powers including the power to impose criminal penalties.\n\nIt has been taught; R. Jose said; Originally there were not many disputes in Israel, but one Beth din of seventy-one members sat in the Hall of Hewn Stones, and two courts of twenty-three sat, one at the entrance of the Temple Mount and one at the door of the [Temple] Court, and other courts of twenty-three sat in all Jewish cities. If a matter of inquiry arose, the local Beth din was consulted. If they had a tradition [thereon] they stated it; if not, they went to the nearest Beth din. If they had a tradition thereon, they stated it, if not, they went to the Beth din situated at the entrance to the Temple Mount; if they had a tradition, they stated it; if not, they went to the one situated at the entrance of the Court, and he [who differed from his colleagues] declared, 'Thus have I expounded, and thus have my colleagues expounded; thus have I taught, and thus have they taught.' If they had a tradition thereon, they stated it, and if not, they all proceeded to the Hall of Hewn Stones, where they [i.e., the Great Sanhedrin] sat from the morning tamid until the evening talmid; on Sabbaths and festivals they sat within the hel.\n\nThe Sanhedrin stopped meeting in the Hall of Hewn Stones when the Roman Empire restricted Judaea's autonomy and removed the Sanhedrin's power to impose criminal penalties.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273285", "title": "Westwood Park, San Francisco", "text": "Westwood Park, San Francisco\n\nWestwood Park is a residential neighborhood located in southwestern San Francisco, California, near St. Francis Wood and City College of San Francisco. Westwood Park was built as a segregated neighborhood for white families, with the development's 1917 founding documents reading: \"No person of African, Japanese, Chinese or any Mongolian descent shall be allowed to purchase, own or lease any real property in said Westwood Park.\"\n\nIt wasn't until 1959 that the first black family, Dorothy Mae Provost Adams, and her husband, Artemus Adams, were able to purchase a house in the neighborhood with the help of a third party. Upon learning that the home was sold to a black family, the seller refused to give the Adams the keys to their new home. After six months of failed attempts to convince the seller that they should be allowed to move in, the Adams broke into their own home and began the long-delayed process of moving in.\n\nAlthough racial restrictions were declared illegal and unenforceable in 1948 by Shelley v. Kraemer, social pressure and threats of violence were used to keep neighborhoods segregated, such as the 1958 cross burning in the nearby neighborhood of Ingleside Terraces. The restrictive covenant remained on the official deeds and documents for homes in the neighborhood for the next four decades until Norman Yee successfully led a campaign to remove the language in 1992.\n\nToday, the neighborhood remains economically segregated as Section IV of the neighborhood's covenants continues to prohibit the construction of \"any flats, apartment houses ... nor shall any building be erected thereon excepting only residence or dwelling houses, nor shall more than one residence or dwelling house be erected on any single lot.\"\n\nArchitecturally, the neighborhood contains a mix of smaller, more modest Craftsman style and Mediterranean style bungalows on a series of concentric oval-shaped streets. The ovals are bisected by Miramar Avenue, which features a landscaped median planted with pines. Many streets in this neighborhood have a suffix of \"wood,\" such as Eastwood, Northwood, Wildwood, and so forth.\n\nWestwood Park is bordered by Monterey Boulevard (to the north), Ocean Avenue (to the south), Faxon Avenue (to the west), and Phelan Avenue now Frida Kahlo Way (to the east).\n\n"}
{"id": "2273288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273288", "title": "Comedy Workshop", "text": "Comedy Workshop\n\nThe Comedy Workshop and the attached \"Comix Annex\" was a comedy club in Houston, Texas. It was quite popular in the 1980s and the breeding ground for a group of influential comics, once known as the \"Texas Outlaw Comics\" that included Ron Shock, Riley Barber, Bill Hicks, Jimmy Pineapple, Steve Epstein, John Farnetti, Carl LaBove and Andy Huggins. Comedian Brett Butler of Grace Under Fire fame and SNL longtime writer T. Sean Shannon honed their skills as members of the CW competitive dysfunction. In addition, Sam Kinison had his beginnings at the Workshop as well, with it being the location of where his 1993 posthumous comedy album, \"Live from Hell\", was recorded.\n\nThe workshop side of the Comedy Workshop was a spawning ground for improvisational comedic actors, with regular shows made up of Sketches, primarily those grown out of improvisational exercises. The founders were Steve and Vicki Farrell and Paul and Sharon Menzel. \nIt grew out of the collaboration of the Farrells and Menzels at Dudley Riggs Brave New Workshop in Minneapolis, Minnesota, when the founders came to Houston in the 1970s.\n\nRich Mills, who went on to perform with the Farrells at the Radio Music Theater was a longtime collaborator.\n\nPat Southard was the Workshop's indispensable Keyboard player and offstage collaborator, contributing musical cues, live sound effects (including billiard balls in a one foot square pool table) and occasional voices. Pat, along with Rich Mills moved on to the Radio Music Theater with the Farrells.\n\nNumerous alumni from the Workshop and the Comedy Workshop Touring Company went on to involvement in national projects. Pat Dougherty went on to write and produce the long Running sitcom Empty Nest, spun off from Golden Girls. \nOther notable performers at the Workshop or in the Touring Company include Jerry Young, Kathy Drago, Roger Manning, Ken Polk, Ronnie Foster (sic), Karen Rosen, Toni Potts, Kevin Cawood, Shane McClure, Sylvia Cooper, EJ Nolan, Author, Dan Barton, Producer, Fred Greenlee, Ericc Davis,\nLouis Allen Epstein, Bill Silva, Philip Owens, Mike Shiloh, David Ayala, and Dee Macaluso, who was among many who worked both sides of the Workshop doing both Improv Comedy, as well as Standup in the Annex.\nThe Workshop closed in the early 1990s and then became a dry cleaners, which closed as well.\n\nThe Comedy Workshop is now a high end liquor and fine wines store in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "2273293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273293", "title": "Federation of Astronomical Societies", "text": "Federation of Astronomical Societies\n\nThe Federation of Astronomical Societies (FAS) is an international union of astronomical societies formed in 1974. Its motto is \"Supporting UK Astronomy\", and there is also one member society from Spain. As of August 2014, it has 205 member societies.\n\nFAS publishes a newsletter 3 times a year, which is sent to its member societies, and holds an annual convention. FAS is run by a council of elected volunteers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273294", "title": "Archbishop of Akhalkalakhi", "text": "Archbishop of Akhalkalakhi\n\nList of Orthodox Archbishops of Akhalkalaki of the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273300", "title": "Cabatuan", "text": "Cabatuan\n\nCabatuan is the name of two places in the Philippines:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273301", "title": "Ovinnik", "text": "Ovinnik\n\nThe Ovinnik (), Joŭnik or Jownik () is a malevolent spirit of the threshing house in Slavic folklore. He is prone to burning down the threshing houses by setting fire to the grain. To placate him, peasants would offer him roosters and bliny. On New Year's Eve, the touch of an Ovinnik would determine their fortune for the New Year. A warm touch meant good luck and fortune, while a cold touch meant unhappiness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273306", "title": "Bishops and archbishops of Bolnisi", "text": "Bishops and archbishops of Bolnisi\n\nBolnisi is a city in the country of Georgia, the capital of Bolnisi district, which has long been the seat of either a bishop or an archbishop.\n\nBolnisi has been a center of Georgian Christianity since early Christian times, being the site of an early and important monastery. The Bolnisi Cathedral was built in 478–493 under the rule of Vakhtang I of Iberia and is the source of the Bolnisi cross, which came to be a national symbol of Georgia.\n\nIn 2009, the Bishop of Bolnisi was summoned to Tbilisi and advised to see to it that the large number of crosses which had been erected around Muslim areas of Bolnisi as a provocation were removed, which he was partly but not entirely successful in doing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273310", "title": "Citizens Centre for Freedom and Democracy", "text": "Citizens Centre for Freedom and Democracy\n\nThe Citizens Centre for Freedom and Democracy is a Canadian non-profit organization based in Edmonton, Alberta, promoting responsible government and advocating provincial rights, Senate reform, and judicial restraint.\n\nThe Citizens Centre for Freedom and Democracy was established in 2003, by Link Byfield, a journalist and businessman best known as a writer, editor, and publisher of the \"Alberta Report\" magazine, and one of Alberta's senators-in-waiting. Byfield was the centre's founding chairman. Its operations manager is Craig Docksteader, formerly of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation.\n\nIn October 2006, the Centre hosted the Calgary Congress, which explored Canadian federalism. Attendees included Preston Manning, Ralph Klein, Jason Kenney, and separatist Leon Craig. The congress concluded by advocating a rebalancing of confederation in conformation, making provinces fully responsible for their own internal social and economic affairs, the advocacy of an elected Senate to represent and protect the provinces, and the creation of counterbalances against centralizing tendencies and against expanding influence of Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\nThe Citizens Centre for Freedom and Democracy promotes government that act with the following characteristics.\n\n\nIn June 2007, the Citizens Centre decided to abandon its earlier decision to remain a non-partisan lobby group, and instead to enter the political arena by forming the Wildrose Alliance Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273326", "title": "Sue Jenkins", "text": "Sue Jenkins\n\nSusan Elizabeth Jenkins (born 31 July 1958) is an English actress. She is most widely known for her roles as Gloria Todd in the ITV soap opera \"Coronation Street\" (1985–1988) and as Jackie Corkhill in the Channel 4 soap opera \"Brookside\" (1991–2001).\n\nJenkins became an actress at the age of eighteen having studied at drama college. She worked in repertory theatres across the UK for the first 11 years of her career, performing in many productions, playing everything from Alan Ayckbourn to Shakespeare. Alan Bleasdale wrote the lead female role in \"Having a Ball\" for Jenkins.\n\nShe then started to work more on television including \"How We Used To Live\" and the cult TV programme, \"The Beiderbecke Affair\". She first came to prominence in 1985 when she joined the cast of top-rated British soap opera, \"Coronation Street\", playing barmaid Gloria Todd in 238 episodes. She left the show in 1988 after becoming pregnant with her second child, Richard, who played Craig Harris in the soap from 2002 until 2006. She returned to television in the series \"Coasting\" with Peter Howitt and from 1991 until 2001 playing the part of Jackie Corkhill in the Liverpool based, and often controversial, Channel 4 soap opera \"Brookside\". She also appeared on \"Lily Savage's Blankety Blank\" in 2001.\n\nSince leaving \"Brookside\", Jenkins has continued to work steadily, in theatre and television, making guest appearances on British television, including \"In Deep\", \"Holby City\", \"Merseybeat\", \"Dalziel & Pascoe\", \"Midsomer Murders\" and \"Heartbeat\". Jenkins also presented \"Loose Women\" in 2006. She returned to theatre, playing at the Royal Court Theatre in London in \"The People Are Friendly\", Esther in Arthur Miller's \"The Price\" at the Library Theatre, Manchester and \"Maybe Tomorrow\" at the Royal Exchange, Manchester. She appeared in the film, \"Blue Collars and Buttercups\" and is regularly heard on BBC Radio 4 afternoon dramas. She has recorded over 200 radio plays and radio adaptations of classic serials over the years, including \"Middlemarch\", \"Villette\" and \"Wuthering Heights\" with Derek Jacobi.\n\nAs a director, Jenkins wrote, produced and directed \"Night of Stars\" 1 and 2 at the Palace Theatre, Manchester, raising over £70,000 to build an orphanage in Thailand for orphaned children of the 2004 tsunami and to help children's charities in the UK. She directed \"Aladdin\" at the Tameside Hippodrome in 2006, produced her son, Richard Fleeshman's first concert in 2006 at the same theatre and produced and directed yet another musical extravaganza \"Gala Night of Stars\" there. She directed further pantomimes, namely \"Snow White\" at Grimsby Auditorium, and \"Cinderella\" at Southport's Floral Hall Theatre in 2012.\n\nJenkins made her debut in \"Emmerdale\" on 25 August 2008 as Bonnie Drinkwater. Her most recent television appearances were a second guest lead in \"Heartbeat\" and as a celebrity guest on \"The Alan Titchmarsh Show\". She played Maureen in the BBC series \"Being Eileen\" written by Michael Wynne. Jenkins was voted 'Woman of the Year' in 2008 for her Charity work and was honoured by \"This Is Your Life\" in 2001. She performed in Eve Ensler's \"The Vagina Monologues\" at the Empire Theatre, Liverpool and in 2010 starred in the 3-month Autumn National Tour of \"The Vagina Monologues\", playing in 65 theatres across the country.\n\nIn 2009, Jenkins appeared in an episode of \"Doctors\" starring opposite her own daughter, Emily Fleeshman. In 2013, she played Maureen in the BBC comedy-drama \"Being Eileen\".\nIn June 2014, she produced and directed an open-air production of \"As You Like It\" at Plas Coch in Anglesey, her second production at the venue, having directed \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" there in 2013.\nJenkins played Phyllis Feld, mother of Marc Bolan in the highly acclaimed UK national tour of \"20th Century Boy\" until 19 July 2014.\n\nIn 2016, she filmed further guest leads in \"Casualty\" and \"Doctors\" for the BBC.\n\nJenkins has produced and directed major pantomimes in the UK and four studio productions at The Lowry Theatre.\n\nShe directed \"Build a Bonfire\" by Trevor Suthers and another Suthers' play, \"Toil and Trouble\", for JB Shorts in April 2016. In 2017 at Salford Arts Theatre, she directed \"From Heaven to Hell\" which tells the story of the Salford, Greater Manchester Pals battalion who fought at the Battle of the Somme in WW1. Jenkins directed \"Virtuoso\" by Bill Humble at 3MT Theatre and produced and directed the MTA award-winning \"Narcissist in the Mirror\" (written by and starring her daughter Rosie Fleeshman).Sue is about to direct Bette & Joan by Anton Burge at Hope Mikk Theatre.\nJenkins is married to the actor David Fleeshman and they have three children, actors Emily, Richard and Rosie. Jenkins and her eldest daughter Emily are founders of The Actors' Lab Ltd, a drama academy in Manchester. They are also patrons of the and Feelgood Theatre.\n"}
{"id": "2273327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273327", "title": "Archbishop of Chiatura", "text": "Archbishop of Chiatura\n\nChiatura is a city in the country of Georgia. It is the seat of an archbishop of the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273329", "title": "Hurricane Enrique", "text": "Hurricane Enrique\n\nThe name Enrique has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273331", "title": "Simonside Dwarfs", "text": "Simonside Dwarfs\n\nThe Simonside Dwarfs, also known as Brownmen, Bogles and Duergar, are a race of ugly dwarfs, particularly associated with the Simonside Hills of Northumberland, in northern England. Their leader was said to be known as \"Roarie\".\n\nIn F. Grice's telling of the traditional story \"The Duergar\" in \"Folk Tales of the North Country\" (1944), one of them is described as being short, wearing a lambskin coat, moleskin trousers and shoes, and a hat made of moss stuck with a feather. \n\nThe legendary dwarfs of Simonside were mentioned in the local newspaper, the \"Morpeth Gazette\", in 1889, and in Tyndale's \"Legends and Folklore of Northumbria\", 1930. They delighted in leading travellers astray, especially after dark, often carrying lighted torches to lead them into bogs, rather like a Will-o'-the-wisp. The menacing creatures would often disappear at dawn.\n\nThe word \"duergar\" is likely to be derived from the Old Norse word for dwarf or dwarfs (\"dvergar\"), but it may also come from the dialectal words for \"\"dwarf\"\" on the Anglo-Scottish border which include \"dorch\", \"dwerch\", \"duerch\", \"Duergh\" and \"Duerwe\" amongst others with the added Norse \"-ar\" plural. These \"Border\" words for \"\"dwarf\"\", like the Standard English form, all derive from the Old English \"dweorh\" or \"dweorg\" via the Middle English \"dwerg\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273335", "title": "Jonathan Bachini", "text": "Jonathan Bachini\n\nJonathan Bachini (; born 5 June 1975) is an Italian former footballer who played as a midfielder.\n\nIn his earlier years, Bachini was considered a promising midfielder, even making two appearances for the Italian national football team in 1998, under manager Dino Zoff; an offensive winger with good feet and goalscoring ability, he was known in particular for his speed, work-rate, strength, and stamina. Throughout his club career, Bachini played for Lecce, Udinese, Juventus F.C., Brescia, Parma, and Siena, in Serie A. While at Juventus he helped them win the 1999 UEFA Intertoto Cup. \n\nOn 3 July 2001, he joined Parma from Juve as part of Gianluigi Buffon's deal. However, Bachini returned to Brescia on loan in September 2001, with Aimo Diana moved to opposite direction. The loan was renewed in June 2002. In July 2003 Brescia finally signed Bachini outright, along with Parma teammate Matuzalém.\n\nOn 22 September 2004 Bachini tested positive for cocaine usage while at Brescia; on 25 November 2004, he was suspended for 9 months. Following the termination of his suspension, he was acquired by Siena in 2005; in January 2006, however, Bachini's urine sample collected from the match against Lazio on 4 December 2005 tested positive for cocaine again, and as a result, he was banned for life by the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) as of 10 January 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273336", "title": "Archbishop of Nikortsminda", "text": "Archbishop of Nikortsminda\n\nList of Orthodox Archbishops of Nikortsminda of the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273338", "title": "Hurricane Erick", "text": "Hurricane Erick\n\nThe name Erick has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Eric has been used for one tropical cyclone in the South-West Indian Ocean and one in the South Pacific.\n"}
{"id": "2273344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273344", "title": "Tähtivaeltaja", "text": "Tähtivaeltaja\n\nTähtivaeltaja (literally \"stellar wanderer\") is a Finnish quarterly science fiction magazine published in Finland.\n\n\"Tähtivaeltaja\" was started in 1982. The magazine is by Helsingin science fiction seura. Toni Jerrman has been the editor of the magazine throughout its twenty-year history. Contributors to the magazine, amongst others, has included Johanna Sinisalo, Jyrki Kasvi, Petri Hiltunen and Jyrki 69.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273346", "title": "Archbishop of Nikozi", "text": "Archbishop of Nikozi\n\nThis is a list of Archbishops of Nikozi of the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church. The see functions at the Zemo Nikozi church of the Deity.\n"}
{"id": "2273355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273355", "title": "Archbishop of Shemokmedi", "text": "Archbishop of Shemokmedi\n\nList of Orthodox Archbishops of Shemokmedi of the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church, centered on the Shemokmedi Monastery in Guria:\n"}
{"id": "2273357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273357", "title": "AKOM", "text": "AKOM\n\nAKOM Production, Ltd. (Animation KOrea Movie) is a South Korean animation studio in Songpa-gu, Seoul that has provided much work since its conception in 1985 by Nelson Shin. Its biggest claim to fame is the overseas animation of more than 200 episodes of \"The Simpsons\", a total which continues to increase. In fact, they animated the first two seasons of the series exclusively. The studio also produced a portion of the overseas animation for \"The Simpsons Movie\".\n\nOther well-known series that AKOM has been involved in include \"X-Men\", \"The Tick\", \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", \"Animaniacs\", \"\", \"The Transformers\", the first 11 seasons of Arthur, and six of \"The Land Before Time\" films.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273362", "title": "Archbishop of Tsilkani", "text": "Archbishop of Tsilkani\n\nList of Orthodox Archbishops of Tsilkani of the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church:\n"}
{"id": "2273364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273364", "title": "Hurricane Estelle", "text": "Hurricane Estelle\n\nThe name Estelle has been used for eleven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean, making Estelle one of the most frequently used Pacific storm names.\n"}
{"id": "2273375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273375", "title": "Robert Walter Weir", "text": "Robert Walter Weir\n\nRobert Walter Weir (June 18, 1803 – May 1, 1889) was an American artist and educator and is considered a painter of the Hudson River School. Weir was elected to the National Academy of Design in 1829 and was an instructor at the United States Military Academy. His best-known work is \"Embarkation of the Pilgrims\" in the United States Capitol rotunda at Washington, D.C. More than 450 of his works are known, and he created many unsigned paintings that may never be attributed to him.\n\nRobert Weir was born to Robert and Mary Katherine (Brinkley) Weir on June 18, 1803 in New York City. He never graduated from college, and he left a job as a mercantile clerk to pursue painting in 1821 at age 18. He studied art in New York City from 1822 to 1824, teaching himself drawing and painting before departing to study in Italy in 1824. He remained in Florence from 1824 to 1825, then in Rome from 1825 to 1827, during which time he studied the works of Michelangelo, Raphael, and other Italian masters of the Renaissance. He returned to New York in 1827 to care for a sick friend and remained there until 1834, becoming an integral part of its artistic community. He was appointed as Teacher of Drawing (1834–1846) then Professor of Drawing (1846–1876) at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York.\n\nWeir was the fifth artist to hold the position of art instructor at the academy. During his 42 years (1834–1876) in this post, he instructed many of the future commanders of the American Civil War. Among his notable students at West Point were James Abbott McNeill Whistler and Seth Eastman. He also developed a special relationship with Ulysses S. Grant. He died in New York City on May 1, 1889.\n\nWeir was married twice and had 16 children. Son John Ferguson Weir (born 1841) was a painter and sculptor who became a Member of the National Academy of Design in 1866, and was made director of the Yale University Art School in 1868. Son Julian Alden Weir (born 1852) studied under his father and under J.-L. Gérôme and became a distinguished portrait, figure, and landscape painter. He was one of the founders of the Society of American Artists in 1877, and he became a member of the National Academy of Design (1886) and of the Ten American Painters, New York. Daughter Emma Weir married Thomas Lincoln Casey Sr., an American army officer and Chief of Engineers. Daughter Helen Rutgers Weir married Thomas Sturgis, a developer of Cheyenne, Wyoming, and the second New York City Fire Commissioner.\n\nWeir was considered part of the Hudson River school of American art. One of his best known paintings is \"The Embarkation of the Pilgrims\" which hangs in the United States Capitol Rotunda. He was commissioned by the United States Congress in 1837 and the painting was placed in the rotunda in December 1843. His canvases deal principally with historical subjects, though he also did several portraits.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273378", "title": "Arene substitution pattern", "text": "Arene substitution pattern\n\nArene substitution patterns are part of organic chemistry IUPAC nomenclature and pinpoint the position of substituents other than hydrogen in relation to each other on an aromatic hydrocarbon.\n\nThe toluidines serve as an example for these three types of substitution.\n\nElectron donating groups, for example amino, hydroxyl, alkyl, and phenyl groups tend to be \"ortho\", \"para\" directors, and electron withdrawing groups such as nitro, nitrile, and ketone, tend to be \"meta\" directors.\n\nAlthough the specifics vary depending on the compound, in simple disubstituted arenes, the three isomers tend to have rather similar boiling points. However, the \"para\" isomer usually has the highest melting point, and the lowest solubility in a given solvent, of the three isomers.\n\nBecause electron donating groups are both \"ortho\" and \"para\" directors, separation of these isomers is a common problem in synthetic chemistry. Several methods exist in order to separate these isomers:\n\n\n\nThe prefixes \"ortho\", \"meta\", and \"para\" are all derived from Greek, meaning \"correct\", \"following\", and \"beside\", respectively. The relationship to the current meaning is perhaps not obvious. The \"ortho\" description was historically used to designate the original compound, and an isomer was often called the \"meta\" compound. For instance, the trivial names orthophosphoric acid and trimetaphosphoric acid have nothing to do with aromatics at all. Likewise, the description \"para\" was reserved for just closely related compounds. Thus Berzelius originally called the racemic form of aspartic acid \"paraaspartic acid\" (another obsolete term: racemic acid) in 1830. The use of the prefixes ortho, meta and para to distinguish isomers of di-substituted aromatic rings starts with Wilhelm Körner in 1867, although he applied \"ortho\" prefix to a 1,4 isomer and the \"meta\" prefix to a 1,2-isomer. It was the German chemist Karl Gräbe who, in 1869, first used the prefixes ortho-, meta-, para- to denote specific relative locations of the substituents on a di-substituted aromatic ring (viz, naphthalene). In 1870, the German chemist Viktor Meyer first applied Gräbe's nomenclature to benzene. The current nomenclature was introduced by the Chemical Society in 1879.\nThe German version of this page provides the following details. The substitution pattern names come from the Greek prefixes ortho (from ὀρθός meaning \"upright\" or \"even\"), meta (from μετά meaning \"after\", \"beyond\") and para (from παρά meaning \"beside\", \"despite\", \"against [over]\"). Vicinal stems from the Latin 'vicinus' meaning \"neighbor.\" Ipso is also latin meaning \"self\" while meso and peri are from the Greek Μέσος meaning \"center\" or \"middle\" and περί meaning \"about,\" respectively. Additionally, cine comes from the Greek κινέ which means \"to move\" and tele comes from the Greek τῆλε which means \"at a distance.\"\n\nExamples of the use of this nomenclature are given for isomers of cresol, CH(OH)(CH): \nThere are three arene substitution isomers of dihydroxybenzene (CH(OH)) – the \"ortho\" isomer catechol, the \"meta\" isomer resorcinol, and the \"para\" isomer hydroquinone:\nThere are three arene substitution isomers of benzenedicarboxylic acid (CH(COOH)) – the \"ortho\" isomer phthalic acid, the \"meta\" isomer isophthalic acid, and the \"para\" isomer terephthalic acid:\n\nThese terms can also be used in six-membered heterocyclic aromatic systems such as pyridine, where the nitrogen atom is considered as one of the substituents. For example, nicotinamide and niacin, shown \"meta\" substitutions on a pyridine ring, while the cation of pralidoxime is an \"ortho\" isomer.\n"}
{"id": "2273380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273380", "title": "Ascetosporea", "text": "Ascetosporea\n\nThe Ascetosporea are a group of eukaryotes that are parasites of animals, especially marine invertebrates. The two groups, the haplosporids and paramyxids, are not particularly similar morphologically, but consistently group together on molecular trees, which place them near the base of the Cercozoa. Both produce spores without the complex structures found in similar groups (such as polar filaments or tubules).\n\nHaplosporid spores have a single nucleus and an opening at one end, covered with an internal diaphragm or a distinctive hinged lid. After emerging, it develops within the cells of its host, usually a marine mollusc or annelid, although some infect other groups or freshwater species. The trophic cell is generally multinucleated. Paramyxids develop within the digestive system of marine invertebrates, and undergo internal budding to produce multicellular spores.\n\nA 2009 study concluded that \"Haplosporidium\" species form a paraphyletic group and that the taxonomy of the haplosporidians needs a thorough revision.\n\nClass Ascetosporea \n\n"}
{"id": "2273385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273385", "title": "Jean Charles, Chevalier Folard", "text": "Jean Charles, Chevalier Folard\n\nJean Charles, Chevalier Folard (February 13, 1669 – March 23, 1752), French soldier and military author, was born at Avignon.\n\nHis military ardour was first awakened by reading Caesar's \"Commentaries\", and he ran away from home and joined the army. He soon saw active service, and, young as he was, wrote a manual on partisan warfare, the manuscript of which passed with Folard's other papers to Marshal Belleisle on the author's death.\n\nIn 1702 he became a captain, and \"aide-de-camp\" to the duke of Vendôme, then in command of the French forces in Italy. In 1705, while serving under Vendôme's brother, the Grand Prior, Folard won the Cross of St. Louis for a gallant feat of arms, and in the same year he distinguished himself at the battle of Cassano, where he was severely wounded. It was during his tedious recovery from his wounds that he conceived the tactical theories to the elucidation of which he devoted most of his life.\n\nIn 1706 he again rendered good service in Italy, and in 1708 distinguished himself greatly in the operations attempted by Vendôme and the duke of Burgundy for the relief of Lille, the failure of which was due in part to the disagreement of the French commanders; and it is no small testimony to the ability and tact of Folard that he retained the friendship of both. Folard was wounded at the battle of Malplaquet in 1709, and in 1711 his services were rewarded with the governorship of Bourbourg.\n\nHe saw further active service in 1714 Malta, under Charles XII of Sweden in the north, and under the duke of Berwick in the short Spanish War of 1719. Charles XII he regarded as the first captain of all time, and it was at Stockholm that Folard began to formulate his tactical ideas in a commentary on Polybius. On his way back to France he was shipwrecked and lost all his papers, but he set to work at once to write his essays afresh, and in 1724 appeared his \"Nouvelles découvertes sur la guerre dans une dissertation sur Polybe\", followed (1727–1730) by \"Histoire de Polybe traduite par . . . de Thuillier avec un commentaire de M. de Folard, Chevalier de l'Ordre de St Louis\". Folard spent the remainder of his life in answering the criticisms provoked by the novelty of his theories. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London in 1750.\n\nHe died friendless and in obscurity at Avignon in 1752. \n\nAn analysis of Folard's military writings brings to light not a connected theory of war as a whole, but a great number of independent ideas, sometimes valuable and suggestive, but far more often extravagant. The central point of his tactics was his proposed column formation for infantry. Struck by the apparent weakness of the thin line of battle of the time, and arguing from the cuneus of ancient warfare, he desired to substitute the shock of a deep mass of troops for former methods of attack, and further considered that in defence a solid column gave an unshakable stability to the line of battle. Controversy at once centred itself upon the column. While some famous commanders such as Marshal Saxe and Guido Starhemberg approved it and put it in practice, a number of tacticians in France and throughout Europe were opposed to it. Nevertheless, the column (order profond) was put to use by French infantry at several key occasions throughout the 18th and 19th centuries, with varying degrees of success. Among the most discriminating of Folard's critics was Frederick the Great, who is said to have invited Folard to Berlin. The Prussian king certainly caused a \"précis\" to be made by Colonel von Seers, and wrote a preface thereto expressing his views. The work (like others by Frederick) fell into unauthorized hands, and, on its publication (Paris, 1760) under the title \"Esprit du Chev. Folard\", created a great impression.\n\nThe 18th-century French historian and political writer Louis-Gabriel Du Buat-Nançay (1732–1787) was his pupil.\n"}
{"id": "2273416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273416", "title": "Hurricane Eugene", "text": "Hurricane Eugene\n\nHurricane Eugene may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273418", "title": "The Unix Programming Environment", "text": "The Unix Programming Environment\n\nThe Unix Programming Environment, first published in 1984 by Prentice Hall, is a book written by Brian W. Kernighan and Rob Pike, both of Bell Labs and considered an important and early document of the Unix operating system. \n\nThe book addresses the Unix philosophy of small cooperating tools with standardized inputs and outputs. Kernighan and Pike give a brief description of the Unix design and the Unix philosophy:\nThe authors further write that their goal for this book is \"to communicate the UNIX programming philosophy.\"\n\nThe book starts off with an introduction to Unix for beginners. Next, it goes into the basics of the file system and shell. The reader is led through topics ranging from the use of filters, to how to use C for programming robust Unix applications, and the basics of grep, sed, make, and awk. The book closes with a tutorial on making a programming language parser with yacc and how to use troff with ms and mm to format documents, the preprocessors tbl, eqn, and pic, and making man pages with the man macro set. The appendices cover the ed editor and the abovementioned programming language, named hoc, which stands for \"high-order calculator\".\n\nAlthough Unix still exists decades after the publication of this book, the book describes an already mature Unix: In 1984, Unix had already been in development for 15 years (since 1969), it had been published in a peer-reviewed journal 10 years earlier (SOSP, 1974, \"The UNIX Timesharing System\"), and at least seven official editions of its manuals had been published (see Version 7 Unix). In 1984, several commercial and academic variants of UNIX already existed (e.g., Xenix, SunOS, BSD, UNIX System V, HP-UX), and a year earlier Ritchie and Thompson won the prestigious Turing Award for their work on UNIX. The book was written not when UNIX was just starting out, but when it was already popular enough to be worthy of a book published for the masses of new users that were coming in.\n\nIn retrospect, not only was 1984 not an early stage of Unix's evolution, in some respects it was the end of Unix evolution, at least in Bell Labs: The important UNIX variants had already forked from AT&T's Research Unix earlier: System V was published in 1983, BSD was based on the 1979 Seventh Edition Unix – and most commercial Unix variants were based on System V, BSD, or some combination of both. Eighth Edition Unix came out right after this book, and further development of UNIX in Bell Labs (the Ninth and Tenth Edition) never made it outside Bell Labs – until their effort evolved into Plan 9 from Bell Labs.\n\nThe book was written before ANSI C was first drafted; the programs in it follow the older K&R style. However, the source code available on the book's website has been updated for ANSI C conformance.\n\nTechnical editor Ben Everard for Linux Voice magazine praised the book for providing relevant documentation despite being 30 years old and for being a good book for aspiring programmers who don't know much about Linux.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273427", "title": "Hurricane Fabio", "text": "Hurricane Fabio\n\nThe name Fabio has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273433", "title": "Baham", "text": "Baham\n\nBaham may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273436", "title": "Hurricane Fausto", "text": "Hurricane Fausto\n\nThe name Fausto has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273444", "title": "Hurricane Fefa (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Fefa (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Fefa was used for three tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Fefa was retired in the spring of 1992, and replaced with Felicia in the 1997 season.\n"}
{"id": "2273448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273448", "title": "Ellis Marsalis Jr.", "text": "Ellis Marsalis Jr.\n\nEllis Louis Marsalis Jr. (November 14, 1934 – April 1, 2020) was an American jazz pianist and educator. Active since the late 1940s, Marsalis came to greater attention in the 1980s and 1990s as the patriarch of a musical family, with sons Branford and Wynton also becoming notable musicians.\n\nBorn in New Orleans, Louisiana, Marsalis was the son of Florence Marie (née Robertson) and Ellis Marsalis Sr., a businessman and social activist. Marsalis and his wife Delores Ferdinand had six sons: Branford, Wynton, Ellis III, Delfeayo, Mboya, and Jason. Branford, Wynton, Delfeayo, and Jason also became jazz musicians. Ellis III is a poet and photographer.\n\nMarsalis played saxophone during high school but switched to piano while studying classical music at Dillard University, graduating in 1955. He later attended graduate school at Loyola University New Orleans. In the 1950s and 1960s he worked with Ed Blackwell, Cannonball Adderley, Nat Adderley, and Al Hirt. During the 1970s, he taught at the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts. His students have included Terence Blanchard, Harry Connick Jr., Donald Harrison, Kent Jordan, Marlon Jordan, and Nicholas Payton.\n\nMarsalis recorded almost twenty of his own albums and was featured on many discs with such musicians as David \"Fathead\" Newman, Eddie Harris, Marcus Roberts, and Courtney Pine. As a teacher, he encouraged his students to learn from history while also making discoveries in music on their own. \"We don't teach jazz, we teach students,\" he once said about his ability to teach jazz improvisation. As a leading educator at the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts, the University of New Orleans, and Xavier University of Louisiana, Marsalis influenced the careers of countless musicians, as well as his four musician sons: Wynton, Branford, Delfeayo and Jason. Marsalis retired from UNO in 2001. In May 2007, Marsalis received an honorary doctorate from Tulane University for his contributions to jazz and musical education.\n\nMarsalis was inducted into the Louisiana Music Hall of Fame in 2018. The \"Ellis Marsalis Center for Music\" at Musicians' Village in New Orleans is named in his honor. In 2010, The Marsalis family released a live album titled \"Music Redeems\", which was recorded at The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, DC, as part of the Duke Ellington Jazz Festival. All proceeds from the sale of the album go directly to the Ellis Marsalis Center for Music.\n\nMarsalis was a fraternity brother of Phi Beta Sigma and Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia. In 2015, Marsalis was named Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia's 24th \"Man of Music\", their highest honor given to a member, for advancing the cause of music in America through performance, composition or any other musical activity. In 2018, Marsalis was awarded an honorary doctorate of music from Berklee College of Music during its 50th annual High School Jazz Festival.\n\nMarsalis and his sons were group recipients of the 2011 NEA Jazz Masters Award.\n\nOn April 1, 2020, Marsalis died at the age of 85 from pneumonia brought on by COVID-19.\n\nWith American Jazz Quintet\n\nWith Branford Marsalis\n\nWith Delfeayo Marsalis\n\nWith Wynton Marsalis\n\nWith Marsalis family\n\nWith Irvin Mayfield\n\nWith Kermit Ruffins\n\nWith Dave Young\n\nWith others\n\n"}
{"id": "2273450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273450", "title": "St Catherine's School", "text": "St Catherine's School\n\nSt. Catherine's School, College or University is the name of several educational institutions:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273453", "title": "Hurricane Felicia", "text": "Hurricane Felicia\n\nThe name Felicia has been used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. Felicia replaced Fefa.\n"}
{"id": "2273454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273454", "title": "Chambolle-Musigny", "text": "Chambolle-Musigny\n\nChambolle-Musigny is a commune in the Côte-d'Or \"département\" in eastern France.\n\nIt is one of the wine villages situated on the Côte-d'Or escarpment, and is one of the twelve Côte d'Or communes of France which added or adopted the name of their best-known vineyard as a suffix to the original name of the village.\n\nWine and viticulture is the main business of Chambolle-Musigny. The village name is an \"Appellation d'origine contrôlée\" (AOC) for red wine with Pinot noir as the main grape. There are also 25 vineyards classified as \"Chambolle-Musigny Premier Cru\", the most famous of these Les Amoureuses, and two Grand Cru vineyards: Musigny and Bonnes Mares. It is Musigny which has lent its name to the village as a suffix. The trend of adding a vineyard name as a suffix started in 1847 by Gevrey successfully applying to the king to add Chambertin as a suffix to its name. This trend started off as a result of a clever marketing strategy to be able to use the name of the most famous vineyard also as part of the name of simpler wines from the same village. Thus, Chambolle became Chambolle-Musigny in 1882.\n\nTowering high above the other vineyards stands Le Musigny, a 10.86 ha piece of land owned and exploited by no fewer than ten different wine producers. Producers include Domaine Comte Georges de Vogue, Domaine Georges Roumier, Domaine Leroy, Domaine J.-F. Mugnier, Maison Louis Jadot and Maison Joseph Drouhin. It is most famously described as \"the queen of all Burgundy\" and \"an iron fist in a velvet glove\". Classed as a Grand Cru vineyard, it is one of two such classed vineyards on the commune.\n\nThe other is the majority of Les Bonnes Mares. 13.54 ha lie in Chambolle with a further 1.52 ha technically within neighbouring Morey-Saint-Denis (which like Chambolle adopted the name of one of its four Grands Crus, Saint-Denis). Bonnes Mares is generally considered to be firmer and more tannic. Most producers of Musigny also happen to own or exploit land in Bonnes Mares.\n\nThere are two dozen Premier Cru vineyards, most at least of good quality. One bears special mention, however. Les Amoureuses, a small 5.4 ha climat is considered better than the other 23 Premiers Crus. It is generally considered to be a very close sibling to Musigny itself, with perhaps less longevity and less all-out power; but one which is closer in style to Musigny than Bonnes Mares. The wines tend to be very expensive like a Grand Cru as well and most producers blessed enough to own a parcel of this tiny vineyard enjoy high incomes.\n\nChambolle-Musigny is twinned with:\nSister City with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273465", "title": "Hurricane Fernanda", "text": "Hurricane Fernanda\n\nThe name Fernanda has been used for eleven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean, making Fernanda one of the most frequently used Pacific storm names.\n"}
{"id": "2273467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273467", "title": "Čachtice", "text": "Čachtice\n\nČachtice (pronounced , ) is a village in Nové Mesto nad Váhom District in western Slovakia with a population of 4,010 (as of 2014).\n\nThe village is situated between the Danubian Lowland and the Little Carpathians. It is best known for the ruins of the nearby Čachtice Castle, home of Elizabeth Báthory. The castle stands on a hill featuring rare plants, and the area was declared a national nature reserve (\"Čachtický hradný vrch\") for this reason.\n\nPrehistoric settlements from the neolithic, eneolithic, Bronze Age, Hallstatt period, La Tène period, Roman periods and the early Slavic period have been found here.\n\nThe first written reference to the village dates from 1263. Čachtice has received the status of a town in 1392, but it was later degraded back to a village. In 1847 the parsonage was the meeting place of the first Slovak national and cultural society Tatrín, at which the definitive decision to use the central Slovak dialects as the basis for the new standard of the codified Slovak language was adopted.\n\nThe castle was built in the 13th century in order to protect a trade route to Moravia. The most famous owner was the Countess Elizabeth Báthory, \nwhose bloody legends were based on rumors. There was national process against her. According to the alleged murders, the questioned witnesses answered that they just heard the stories by others. Elizabeth's four servants testified (under torture), and they were executed quickly. György Thurzó, and the soldiers found an alive \"prey\" girl in the castle, and there is no document that they asked her what had happened to her. There was no real confession against the Countess. Historians now agrees that the story was a discrediting, conceptual litigation. She was imprisoned in her own castle and died there in 1614. The castle was abandoned in 1708 and now lies in ruins. Recently, the castle has undergone minor reconstructions.\n\nThe records for genealogical research are available at the state archive \"Statny Archiv in Bratislava, Slovakia\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273470", "title": "One Eight Seven", "text": "One Eight Seven\n\nOne Eight Seven (also known and abbreviated as 187) is a 1997 American crime drama film directed by Kevin Reynolds. It was the first top-billed starring role for Samuel L. Jackson, who plays a Los Angeles teacher caught with gang trouble in an urban high school. The film's name comes from the California Penal Code Section 187, which defines murder.\n\nThe original screenplay was written in 1995 by Scott Yagemann, a Los Angeles area high school substitute teacher with seven years of tenure. He wrote the screenplay after an incident when a violent transfer student had threatened to kill him and his family. Yagemann reported the threat to the authorities and the student was arrested. About a week later, he was called by the district attorney to testify against the student in a court of law, where the student was being prosecuted for stabbing a teacher's aide a year before. This annoyed Yagemann, who had not been told about it beforehand, and led to him writing the screenplay. He claimed that 90% of the film's material is based on incidents that had happened to him and other teachers in real life.\n\nTrevor Garfield (Samuel L. Jackson) is a high school science teacher at Roosevelt Whitney High School, a high school in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn. Dennis Broadway (Method Man), a gangster student to whom he had given a failing grade threatens to murder him, writing the number 187 (the California police code for homicide) on every page in a textbook. \n\nGarfield knows that this is a warning and tries to report this to the administration. Garfield knows that Dennis just wanted to transfer back to his old school and he needed to have good grades. The administration ignored this warning and Dennis ambushes Garfield in the hallway, stabbing him in the back and side abdominal area multiple times with a shiv.\n\nFifteen months after surviving, Garfield, now a substitute teacher, has relocated to John Quincy Adams High School in the San Fernando Valley area of Los Angeles, but trouble starts again when he substitutes an unruly class of rejects, including a Chicano tag crew by the name of \"Kappin' Off Suckers\" (K.O.S.). Their leader, Benito \"Benny\" Chacón (Lobo Sebastian), a felon attending high school as a condition of probation, makes it clear to Garfield that there will be no mutual respect.\n\nThe tension mounts when a fellow teacher, Ellen Henry (Kelly Rowan), confides that Benny has threatened her life, an action against which the administration of the school refuses to take action, fearing legal threats. After Benny murders a rival tagger in cold blood, he disappears, and Benny's unstable tag partner, César Sanchez (Clifton Collins Jr.), takes over as leader. When César steals Garfield's family heirloom watch, the principal is more concerned about a lawsuit and refuses to take action. \n\nEllen and Garfield develop a close friendship that approaches the beginnings of a relationship, but is stymied by Garfield's destabilizing behavior and his confrontations with the K.O.S.. Garfield's past garners the unwanted admiration of Dave Childress (John Heard), an alcoholic history teacher who carries guns at the school.\n\nThe conflict between Garfield and the K.O.S. escalates with the killing of Jack, Ellen's dog. César, after spraying cartoon graffiti depicting a dead dog, is shot with a syringe filled with morphine attached to the end of an arrow. He passes out, and wakes up to find one of his fingers cut off. César recovers the finger and it is reattached, with the letters \"R U DUN\" (\"are you done?\") tattooed as a warning.\n\nA student Garfield has tutored, Rita Martínez (Karina Arroyave), faces abuse from both the K.O.S. and Childress, and drops out. The school administration is mired in bureaucracy and unable to intervene. After Benny is found dead in the Los Angeles River, apparently of a drug overdose, it is revealed that Garfield took matters into his own hands, killing Benny and severing César's finger. Garfield lets Ellen leave as she disavows his actions.\n\nThe K.O.S. plan to murder Garfield. At Garfield's house, the gang forces Garfield into a contest of Russian roulette with César. The latter's resolve is shaken as Garfield talks about the lost-cause lifestyle he has led. Hesitating at his turn, César watches as Garfield, offering to take his turn for him, takes the revolver and shoots himself in the head. Driven by his sense of honor and ignoring the protests of his horrified friends, César insists on taking his rightful turn and ends up killing himself .\n\nOn graduation day, Rita, who completes her studies along with former K.O.S. member Stevie Littleton (Jonah Rooney), offers a tribute to Garfield by reading an essay about him. The essay incorporates the theme of the Pyrrhic victory and Ellen leaves the school.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 30% based on reviews from 27 critics.\n\nRoger Ebert rated the film 2 out of 4 stars, complimenting the \"strong and sympathetic performance\" by Samuel L. Jackson and saying that the movie \"has elements that are thoughtful and tough about inner-city schools\" but it also contains \"elements that belong in a crime thriller or a war movie\". He also felt that the movie's \"destination doesn't have much to do with how it got there\".\n\nThe film grossed $5.7 million domestically in its theatrical release.\n\nThe film's soundtrack was released under the title Music from the Motion Picture 187 on July 29, 1997 through Atlantic Records. Unlike films like \"Dangerous Minds\" and \"The Substitute\" that dealt with similar subject matter, this soundtrack did not receive an urban music soundtrack. Instead the soundtrack was made up of trip hop, a combination of hip hop and electronica.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273473", "title": "Morris Ginsberg", "text": "Morris Ginsberg\n\nMorris Ginsberg FBA (14 May 1889 – 31 August 1970) was a British sociologist, who played a key role in the development of the discipline. He served as editor of \"The Sociological Review\" in the 1930s and later became the founding chairman of the British Sociological Association in 1951 and its first President (1955–1957). He was president of the Aristotelian Society from 1942 to 1943, and helped draft the UNESCO 1950 statement titled \"The Race Question\".\n\nHe was born in Kelmė, a small town in the Province of Kaunas in Lithuania (at the time occupied by the Russian Empire). He was given an education considered good according to the standards adopted by a small, isolated and intensely religious little community. His knowledge of Hebrew and religious principles was adequate but of secular learning he was absolutely ignorant.\n\nAt the age of thirteen he was sent away from home to Telšiai and then to Vilijampolė, where were situated two of the well known Yeshivot or academies for the study of Talmud. There he remained until the age of 15 and studied rabbinical lore with great zeal.\n\nAbout this time there was a revival of Hebrew literature and an attempt was made by many Jewish writers to introduce the learning of the Western peoples to the Jews of Russia. It was in this way that he was brought into contact with European ideas and inspired with a great desire for secular knowledge.\n\nHis father had previously emigrated to Liverpool, England and established a tobacco factory, and at the age of 15 he rejoined him together with his mother and sisters. He made up his mind to study, but at the time he was ignorant of any European language except Yiddish and, although he knew a great deal about religious matters and Hebrew lore, he knew nothing whatever of even the rudiments of secular education. He worked in his father's business and could only study in his spare time. He succeeded, however, in preparing for the Matriculation Examination of the University of London which he passed in January 1907. Unfortunately the stress of circumstances made it impossible for him to continue. For some years he was employed as a clerk in a clothing factory, and later in an engineering shop.\n\nEventually he obtained a post as a teacher in a small college at Margate, where he remained until about 1910. While there, he prepared for the Inter BA examination which he passed in July of that year. As a result, he was awarded the Martin White Scholarship in Sociology which enabled him to study at University College London for two years. During these two years he took all the first-class prizes offered for Modern and Ancient Philosophy. In 1912 he passed the BA Honours examination with a First Class in Philosophy and Sociology. The professors under whom he had worked were Dawes Hicks of University College London, and Leonard Trelawny Hobhouse of the London School of Economics. Hobhouse invited him to do research work in sociology and in 1913 he became Hobhouse's assistant, the result of their joint investigations being published in 1915 (see below).\n\nAt the London School of Economics his work was largely on sociology and political science. At the same time he continued his work in philosophy. He won the John Stuart Mill studentship three times in succession. Ginsberg incidentally acquired a good working knowledge of French and German, and outside his main sphere of studies, he took courses in biology, chemistry and physics. In 1914 he passed the MA examination with special distinction. His thesis consisted of a dissertation on the philosophy of Malebranche and was accompanied by a translation of his \"Discourses on Metaphysics\" (1923). \nIn the meantime he had been appointed Lecturer in Philosophy at University College London, where he gave courses on the history of modern philosophy, logic, and social philosophy. At the London School of Economics he lectured on sociology, ethics and the history of political ideas. During World War I the London School of Economics requested that his military service be postponed as he was standing in to give the courses which had previously been given by R.H. Tawney, Clement Attlee and Charles Mostyn Lloyd.\n\nIn 1921 he was reappointed Assistant at the London School of Economics, and full Lecturer in 1923. A year later he was appointed to the Readership in Sociology, being supported by recommendations from Bronisław Malinowski and C.G. Seligman as well as Dawes Hicks from University College London. He published \"The Psychology of Society\" in 1921 and by 1964 it had reached its ninth edition and had been translated into many languages ranging from Spanish to Japanese. In 1930 he succeeded Hobhouse to the Martin White Professorship of Sociology at the London School of Economics.\n\nHis \"Sociology\", written in 1934, was described by \"The Guardian\" in their obituary as \"probably the best introduction to the subject ever written\". (Guardian, 1 September 1970).\n\nIn his thesis on Malebranche, Ginsberg mainly argued against Mario Novaro's criticisms of Malebranche's theory of occasionalism, claiming that Novaro \"entirely ignored the main difference between Hume and Malebranche in regard to causality. Malebranche does not, in truth, deny a necessary connection between cause and effect.\"\n\nSome of the major themes of his work were concerned with\n\n1. The social responsibility of sociologists, which he saw as part of the more general problem of the ethics of knowledge. He believed that there was an urgent need to undertake fuller investigation of the relations between questions of fact and questions of value – particularly in the face of relativistic views that maintain that social conflicts have their origin in fundamental differences of moral outlook.\n\n2. The second main theme is the question of what he called \"Reason and Unreason\" in human nature and society. He criticised the traditional view widely propagated from Aristotle through Hume to Bertrand Russell, that the main functions of reason in human affairs lie in the clarification, systematisation and control of impulse and feeling, and the discovery of means to their fulfilment. He contended that reason and feeling should not be held to be in opposition, or reason as the slave of the passions, but that reason could play a significant role in motivating action and directing feeling and conation. He sums up his view as follows:\n\"\"We have not to choose between Hume's view of reason as the slave of the passions and Kant's view of it as independent and over-riding them. We may conceive of it rather as that in our personality which strives for integration, deeper than conscious thought, but the more effective the more it uses thought, working within and through the basic impulses and interests and deriving its energy from them\"\".~ from: \"Is Reason the Slave of the Passions\" – in \"The Plain View\"\" Feb. 1955 \n\nMorris Ginsberg was continually preoccupied with examining the role of reason in ethics. His position on this has sometimes been misunderstood – occasionally strategically misunderstood. He charted and analysed the diversity of morals among societies, and between groups and individuals, but made a clear distinction between that recognition and assumption that ethics must be entirely relative. In consequence he was ready to take issue with those who propounded emotive theories of ethics, and those who were influenced, for example, by the work of cultural anthropologists to adopt the relativistic standpoint. Cultural relativism, however, does not entail moral relativism, as its opponents often claim in a straw-man argument.\n\nGinsberg manifested an 'objectivist' theory of ethics in the tradition of Plato, Aristotle, Mill, Sidgwick and Hobhouse. This led him to maintain that 'value' and 'obligation', 'good' and 'bad' are terms not further reducible or analysable into each other or into terms not implying them. He also deals positively with the notion of levels of moral development, and suggests criteria for assessing these. Using these criteria it is possible to detect unmistakable differences of level between different societies in the modern world. He saw clearly that there is no finality in these matters, and that conditions, circumstances and societies change, involving advances and regressions.\n\n3. He was inevitably also concerned with the nature of Justice and its relationship to equality, and the associated question of Law as an increasingly important agent of social change and reform. The ethics of punishment and the complex nature of individual moral freedom and its involvement with legal compulsion is examined in \"On Justice in Society\" (1965), where he concludes as follows:-\n'Three questions have to be asked (a) Is the use of force necessary or can the end aimed at be secured by suasion or voluntary agreement?\n(b) Can the end in question be attained by compulsion or does its value depend on its being freely or spontaneously pursued? These questions have to be faced in any effort to distinguish between the rights and duties which require and permit of legal reinforcement and rights and duties which are best assured by moral means; that is, by inner conviction and free acceptance.'\n\n4. Another pervading theme in his work was the advocacy of the liberal disposition of mind as a desideratum. He opposed this to fanaticism, impulsiveness, 'totalitarianism'. He was for sanity, coolness, reflection and restraint in judgement. His approach to problems was fundamentally Apollonian, and he mistrusted the Dionysian temperament, though understanding its nature and its potency. As he said (\"The Idea of Progress\" 1953 pp 72–73) 'The liberal mind is characterised by an abhorrence of fanaticism, a greater readiness to count the cost in terms of human happiness and human lives, a profounder awareness of the effects of violence, both on those who employ it and those who suffer it.'\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273477", "title": "Stony Cove Pike", "text": "Stony Cove Pike\n\nStony Cove Pike (alternatively known as Caudale Moor or John Bell's Banner) is a fell in the Far Eastern part of the English Lake District. It stands on the other side of the Kirkstone Pass from Red Screes, and is on the end of a ridge coming down from High Street. It is separated from its neighbours by the deep col of Threshthwaite Mouth, so is a Marilyn (a hill with topographic prominence of at least 150m) – the sixteenth highest in the Lake District.\n\nThere is considerable variation over use of the alternative names for the fell. The Ordnance Survey maps name the main summit as 'Stony Cove Pike', the second top to the west as 'Caudale Moor' and 'John Bell's Banner' is reserved for the south west ridge descending to St Raven's Edge. Alfred Wainwright in his \"Pictorial Guide to the Lakeland Fells\" uses Caudale Moor for the fell as a whole, John Bell's Banner as an alternative to this and Stony Cove Pike as a name for the (main) summit. Bill Birkett prefers the Ordnance Survey scheme, but with John Bell's Banner as a second name for the subsidiary top.\n\nThe fell is wide and sprawling, with six ridges leaving the summit area. The main summit sprouts four to the points of the compass. Eastward is the rocky descent to Threshwaite Mouth, followed by an equally steep climb to Thornthwaite Crag. Northward is the grassy ridge to Hartsop Dodd and westward the plateau narrows slightly toward the second top of Caudale Moor/ John Bell's Banner (2477 ft). To the south of the main top a short spur juts out into the head of the Trout Beck valley, before falling steeps over Doup Crag.\n\nFrom the lower top the narrow descending ridge of Rough Edge drops north west toward Caudale Bridge. The extensive Caudale Quarry is hollowed out about halfway down the edge, reached by what was once believed to be the steepest working track in Lakeland. There is also evidence of deeper mining here.\n\nA broad ridge also descends south from the Caudale Moor top. This passes over Pike How before dividing around the head of Woundale. The south western branch descends down St Raven's Edge to the Kirkstone Pass road at Woundale Raise, before climbing again to Wansfell. The south eastern spur is much shorter, dropping over Hart Crag and Great Knott into the Troutbeck valley.\n\nThe summit area is grassy, with a number of small tarns between the two tops. Walls follow the ridges to Hartsop Dodd, St Raven's Edge and Threshthwaite Mouth, making navigation of the complex ridge system easier. Both tops have cairns and there is a further cairn topped by a wooden cross to the south west of Caudale Moor. This is named Mark Atkinson's monument by Wainwright. Despite the somewhat dreary nature of the top, considerable areas of crag surround the plateau. Caudale Head between the northern ridges is one, and more crag lies north and south of Threshthwaite Mouth at the heads of Pasture and Trout Becks. The flatness of the top leads to a somewhat restricted view of the surrounding fells, although all of the major groups are in sight from the summit.\n\nThe most common way of ascent is to make a small circuit from the Patterdale valley, going up the steep north ridge to the top, then across Threshthwaite Mouth and up to Thornthwaite Crag. From there the circuit is completed via Thornthwaite Crag's north ridge, known as Gray Crag.\n\nThe southern ridge from Wansfell and Ambleside provides a longer alternative route of ascent. The quickest way up is from the top of Kirkstone Pass via St Raven's Edge: this route was described by Alfred Wainwright as the \"dullest way up\". .\n"}
{"id": "2273479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273479", "title": "Jess McMahon", "text": "Jess McMahon\n\nRoderick James McMahon Sr. (May 26, 1882 – November 22, 1954) was an American professional wrestling and professional boxing promoter, and the patriarch of the McMahon family. It is not certain if either him or his son Vincent J. McMahon was the founder of the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF, known today as WWE). While some sources stated it was his son other sources however mentioned him as the founder of the company. WWE is run today by grandson Vince, since he took over in 1982.\n\nRoderick James McMahon (pronounced \"mick-man\") was born May 26, 1882 in Manhattan, New York City, to hotel owner Roderick McMahon (1848–1922) and Elizabeth McMahon (1846–1936), from County Galway. His parents had recently moved from Ireland to New York City. He and his siblings Lauretta (born 1876), Catharine (born 1878) and Edward (born 1880) attended Manhattan College. McMahon graduated with a commercial diploma at the age of 17. The McMahon brothers showed a higher interest in sports than in a banking career.\n\nBy 1909, the McMahon brothers were managing partners of the Olympic Athletic Club and bookers at the Empire and St. Nichols Athletic Clubs, located in Harlem. Because of a loss of public interest in boxing, the two McMahons expanded their affairs in 1911, founding the New York Lincoln Giants, a black baseball team, which played at Olympic Field in Harlem. With a team that included five of the best black players in the nation (who the McMahons recruited away from teams in Chicago and Philadelphia), the Lincoln Giants dominated black and white opponents for three seasons. In 1914, financial difficulties forced them to sell the team; however, they retained the contracts of many of the players, and for three more years they operated another team, the Lincoln Stars, using Lenox Oval on 145th Street as a home field. Touring with the squad, McMahon and his brother ventured to Havana, Cuba, in 1915, where they co-promoted the 45-round fight between Jess Willard and then-champion Jack Johnson.\n\nIn the 1930s, the McMahons operated the Commonwealth Casino, on East 135th Street in Harlem. Boxing was the primary attraction. The McMahons booked black fighters to cater to Harlem's growing black population; fights between blacks and whites drew the largest, racially mixed crowds. In 1922, they established a black professional basketball team, the Commonwealth Big 5, to try to attract patrons to the casino. For two years, the team defeated black and white opponents, including Harlem's other black professional team, the Rens. Sportswriters considered the Big 5 the best black team in the nation, although they could not defeat the dominant white team of the time, the Original Celtics. Despite their success, the Big 5 did not attract large crowds, and the McMahons shut the team down after the 1923/1924 season, leaving the Rens to become the dominant black team of the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nAfter 1915, Jess anchored in Long Island, where he became the first McMahon to promote professional wrestling, at the Freeport Municipal Stadium. The wrestling wars led McMahon to ally himself with another independent faction, captained by Carlos Louis Henriquez. Together they booked the Coney Island and Brooklyn Sport Stadiums, with Carlos being the main fan favorite. The formation of \"the Trust\" calmed New York territory enough to allow McMahon access to a larger pool of wrestlers. Among those wrestlers were Jim Browning, Hans Kampfer, Mike Romano and Everette Marshall. By 1937, wrestling's popularity was waning. However, while most bookers left the city for fresher ground, Jess dug in for the long haul. His contacts allowed him to freely trade wrestlers with promoters in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland and Connecticut.\n\nA perpetual force in the Northeastern Sportsworld, McMahon may be more remembered for his spell as matchmaker at the Garden than for his 20 years as a wrestling promoter. On November 22, 1954, as a result of a cerebral hemorrhage, Jess died at a hospital in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Upon his death, his second son, Vincent, took over the business, eventually creating the World Wide Wrestling Federation promotion, known today as WWE.\n\nMcMahon married a young New York City woman named Rose E. Davis (1891–1997) in 1912 who was of Irish descent, and together they had three children: sons Roderick Jr. and Vincent, and daughter Dorothy. His grandson, Vince McMahon, is currently the Chairman and CEO of WWE. Jess's great-grandchildren Stephanie McMahon and Shane McMahon also work for the company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273480", "title": "Matt Dennis", "text": "Matt Dennis\n\nMatthew Loveland Dennis (February 11, 1914 – June 21, 2002) was an American singer, pianist, band leader, arranger, and writer of music for popular songs.\n\nDennis was born in Seattle, Washington, United States. His mother was a violinist and his father a singer, and the family was in vaudeville, so he was early exposed to music. In 1933 he joined Horace Heidt's orchestra as a vocalist and pianist. Later on, he formed his own band, with Dick Haymes as vocalist. He became vocal coach, arranger, and accompanist for Martha Tilton, and worked with a new vocal group, The Stafford Sisters. Jo Stafford, one of the sisters, joined the Tommy Dorsey band in 1940 and persuaded Dorsey to hire Dennis as arranger and composer. Dennis wrote prolifically, with 14 of his songs recorded by the Dorsey band in one year alone, including \"Everything Happens to Me\", an early hit for Frank Sinatra.\n\nAfter four years in the United States Air Force in World War II, Dennis returned to music writing and arranging, getting a boost from his old friend Dick Haymes, who hired him to be the music director for his radio program. With lyricist Tom Adair he wrote songs for Haymes' program.\n\nDennis made six albums, which were out of print for many years; however, his 1953 song \"Angel Eyes\" (with lyricist Earl Brent) has become a frequently recorded jazz standard; less frequently recorded, but notably by Miles Davis and Sonny Rollins is \"Will You Still Be Mine\". Pianist Dave Brubeck and his quartet recorded an entire album of Dennis's compositions, released as \"Angel Eyes\" in 1965.\n\nIn 2012, Jasmine Records re-released four of Dennis' records as \"Welcome Matt\". The collection included \"Plays and Sings Matt Dennis\", a 1958 live performance by Dennis' piano trio, of twelve tunes that Dennis had co-authored.\n\nDennis died in Riverside, California at the age of 88.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273481", "title": "Tropical Storm Frank", "text": "Tropical Storm Frank\n\nThe name has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean\n\nThe name has been used in the Philippines by PAGASA in the Western Pacific.\nThe name Frank was retired after the destruction this typhoon caused in the Philippines in 2008. It was replaced by the name Ferdie.\n\nThe name was used twice for tropical cyclones in the Australian region.\n\nThe name was used once in the south Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name was also used in the southwestern Indian Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273486", "title": "Franco Assetto", "text": "Franco Assetto\n\nFranco Assetto (b. 1911 in Turin – d. 1991 in New York City) was an Italian sculptor and painter who lived in the United States for much of his life.\n\nHis early work anticipated Pop Art.. On the occasion of his exhibition\"The Bread Show\" at the Galleria della Bussola in Turin (1952), he presented a number of bread loaves cast in bronze, eight years before Jasper Johns thought of casting beer cans.\n\nHe was part of a group of artists, together with Lucio Fontana, Giuseppe Capogrossi, Alberto Burri and a few others, who wanted to redefine the parameters of post-war art and saw the Informel as the essential condition for the artistic quest in which Form are given as the primary possibility to build the artists own existential experience.\n\nWhen experiments with informalism reached saturation point he devoted himself to Baroque Autre.\n\nHe later became interested in the artistic potential of water and designed a number of public fountains. One of his fountains is positioned in front of the museum of Frontino, Italy.\n\nOther public art projects include the Via Crucis in Saint Basil's Catholic Church, Los Angeles, and The Big Candy in MacArthur Park, Los Angeles.\n\nFor some 20 years he had been married to the prominent U.S. West Coast music patron Betty Freeman. In 1978 composer Lou Harrison once wrote a tribute for the two called \"Serenade for Betty Freeman and Franco Assetto\".\n"}
{"id": "2273487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273487", "title": "Kumbhakarna", "text": "Kumbhakarna\n\nKumbhakarna (Sanskrit: कुम्भकर्ण, lit. \"pot-eared\") is a named rakshasa and younger brother of Ravana in the famous Hindu Legends in the events of \"Ramayana\". Despite his gigantic size and great appetite, he was described to be of good character and great warrior in those times, though he killed and ate many monkeys only to show his power.\n\nHe was considered so pious, intelligent and unchallenged warrior in battle that Indra, the king of gods, was worried and jealous of him and his strength. Along with his brothers, Ravana and Vibhishana, Kumbhkarna performed a major yajna and penance to please Lord Brahma. When the time came for asking a boon from Brahma, his tongue was tied by goddess Saraswati, who was acting on Indra's request; because of which, instead of asking \"Indraasana\" (seat of Indra), he asked for \"Nidraasana\" (bed for sleeping). It is also said he intended to ask for \"Nirdevatvam\" (annihilation of Devas) and instead asked for \"Nidravatvam\" (sleep). His request was granted. However, his brother Ravana asked Brahma to undo this boon as it was in reality a curse. He slept for six months and when he awoke, he ate everything in the vicinity, including humans.\n\nIn the Bhagavata Purana, Kumbhakarna is said to be the incarnation of the gatekeeper deity Vijaya. Vijaya along with his brother and fellow gatekeeper Jaya, was punished by the Four Kumaras for impiety while they guarded the sacred realm of Vishnu. Vijaya was initially sentenced to mortality, but after appealing to the deity Vishnu for assistance, Vishnu agreed to reduce their sentence to just three lifetimes as his enemies before allowing them to return to the sacred realm Vaikuntha (\"place of eternal bliss\"). While his brother Jaya became Ravana, Vijaya became the godly demon Kumbhakarna during their second incarnation of three on Earth.\n\nDuring the war, Ravana went into battle and was humiliated by Shri Rama and his army. He decided he needed the help of his brother Kumbhakarna, who was awakened with great difficulty. He woke up only after one thousand elephants walked over him (Rāmāyaṇa 6.48.47).\n\nWhen he was informed of the circumstances of Ravana's war with Rama, he tried to convince Ravana that what he was doing was wrong. However, he chose to fight in the battle due to his loyalty to his brother. Kumbhakarna went into battle and devastated Rama's army. He knocked Sugriva unconscious, took him prisoner, but was ultimately killed by Rama. When Ravana heard of his brother's death, he fainted and proclaimed that he was truly doomed.\n\nKumbhakarna had two sons, Kumbha and Nikumbha, from his wife Vajrajwala, the daughter of Bali and granddaughter of Virochan who too fought in the war against Rama and were killed. He had another son named Bhimasura from another wife Karkati who was the princess of sayadri. Later when she heard about her husband's death, rather than to take avenge from Rama, she ordered her son to perform harsh penance of Bramha and take a boon to remain invincible. But Bhimasura was later killed by Shiva.\n\nKumbhakarna attained Moksha from Barwani.\n\nKumbharana is depicted in various Indian Aam Lal pal Hal chal paintings. He is portrayed as a giant, sometimes with horns.\n\nKumbhakarana is portrayed as a virtuous character, despite his monstrous size and appearance. He had asked his older brother Ravana to apologize for kidnapping Sita, however, Ravana did not heed this advice.\n\nHe used to sleep for 6 months at a time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273494", "title": "Hurricane Genevieve", "text": "Hurricane Genevieve\n\nThe name Genevieve has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. \n"}
{"id": "2273496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273496", "title": "Quirino (disambiguation)", "text": "Quirino (disambiguation)\n\nQuirino may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPremios Quirino, Animation International Film Festival"}
{"id": "2273499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273499", "title": "Čachtice Castle", "text": "Čachtice Castle\n\nČachtice Castle (; , ) is a castle ruin in Slovakia next to the village of Čachtice. It stands on a hill featuring rare plants, and has been declared a national nature reserve for this reason. The castle was a residence and later the prison of the Countess Elizabeth Báthory.\n\nČachtice was built in the mid-13th century by Kazimir from the Hont-Pázmány gens as a sentry on the road to Moravia. Later, it belonged to Máté Csák, the Stibor family, and then to Elizabeth Báthory. Čachtice, its surrounding lands and villages, was a wedding gift from the Nádasdy family upon Elizabeth's marriage to Ferenc Nádasdy in 1575.\n\nOriginally, Čachtice was a Romanesque castle with an interesting horseshoe shaped residence tower. It was turned into a Gothic castle later and its size was increased in the 15th and 16th centuries. A Renaissance renovation followed in the 17th century. In 1708 the castle was captured by the rebels of Ferenc II Rákoci AKA Francis II Rákóczi. It was neglected and burned down in 1799. It was left to decay until it was turned into a tourist attraction in 2014.\n\n\nIn English:\n\nIn French:\n\nIn German:\n\nIn Hungarian:\n\nIn Slovak:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273502", "title": "Wordfilter", "text": "Wordfilter\n\nA wordfilter (sometimes referred to as just \"filter\" or \"censor\") is a script typically used on Internet forums or chat rooms that automatically scans users' posts or comments as they are submitted and automatically changes or censors particular words or phrases.\n\nThe most basic wordfilters search only for specific strings of letters, and remove or overwrite them regardless of their context. More advanced wordfilters make some exceptions for context (such as filtering \"butt\" but not \"butter\"), and the most advanced wordfilters may use regular expressions.\n\nWordfilters can serve any of a number of functions.\n\nA \"swear filter\", also known as a \"profanity filter\" or \"language filter\" is a software subsystem which modifies text to remove words deemed offensive by the administrator or community of an online forum. Swear filters are common in custom-programmed chat rooms and online video games, primarily MMORPGs. This is not to be confused with content filtering, which is usually built into internet browsing programs by third-party developers to filter or block specific websites or types of websites. Swear filters are usually created or implemented by the developers of the Internet service.\n\nMost commonly, wordfilters are used to censor language considered inappropriate by the operators of the forum or chat room. Expletives are typically partially replaced, completely replaced, or replaced by nonsense words. This relieves the administrators or moderators of the task of constantly patrolling the board to watch for such language. This may also help the message board avoid content-control software installed on users' computers or networks, since such software often blocks access to Web pages that contain vulgar language.\n\nFiltered phrases may be permanently replaced as it is saved (example: phpBB 1.x), or the original phrase may be saved but displayed as the censored text. In some software users can view the text behind the wordfilter by quoting the post.\n\nSwear filters typically take advantage of string replacement functions built into the programming language used to create the program, to swap out a list of inappropriate words and phrases with a variety of alternatives. Alternatives can include:\n\nSome swear filters do a simple search for a string. Others have measures that ignore whitespace, and still others go as far as ignoring all non-alphanumeric characters and then filtering the plain text. This means that if the word \"you\" was set to be filtered, \"y o u\" or \"y.o!u\" would also be filtered.\n\nClichés—particular words or phrases constantly reused in posts, also known as \"memes\"—often develop on forums. Some users find that these clichés add to the fun, but other users find them tedious, especially when overused. Administrators may configure the wordfilter to replace the annoying cliché with a more embarrassing phrase, or remove it altogether.\n\nInternet forums are sometimes attacked by vandals who try to fill the forum with repeated nonsense messages, or by spammers who try to insert links to their commercial web sites. The site's wordfilter may be configured to remove the nonsense text used by the vandals, or to remove all links to particular websites from posts.\n\nLameness filters are text-based wordfilters used by Slash-based websites (i.e. Textboards and Imageboards) to stop junk comments from being posted in response to stories. Some of the things they are designed to filter include:\n\n\nSince wordfilters are automated and look only for particular sequences of characters, users aware of the filters will sometimes try to circumvent them by changing their lettering just enough to avoid the filters. A user trying to avoid a vulgarity filter might replace one of the characters in the offending word into an asterisk, dash, or something similar. Some administrators respond by revising the wordfilters to catch common substitutions; others may make filter evasion a punishable offense of its own. A simple example of evading a wordfilter would be entering symbols between letters or using leet. More advanced techniques of wordfilter evasion include the use of images, using hidden tags, or Cyrillic characters (i.e. a homograph spoofing attack).\n\nAnother method is to use a soft hyphen. A soft hyphen is only used to indicate where a word can be split when breaking text lines and is not displayed. By placing this halfway in a word, the word gets broken up and will in some cases not be recognised by the wordfilter.\n\nSome more advanced filters, such as those in the online game \"RuneScape\", can detect bypassing. However, the downside of sensitive wordfilters is that legitimate phrases get filtered out as well.\n\nWordfilters are coded into the Internet forums or chat rooms, and operate only on material submitted to the forum or chat room in question. This distinguishes wordfilters from content-control software, which is typically installed on an end user's PC or computer network, and which can filter all Internet content sent to or from the PC or network in question. Since wordfilters alter a user's words without his or her consent, some users still consider them to be censorship, while others consider them an acceptable part of a forum operator's right to control the contents of the forum.\n\nA common quirk with wordfilters, often considered either comical or aggravating by users, is that they often affect words that are not intended to be filtered. This is a typical problem when short words are filtered. For example, one may see, \"Do you need istance for playing clical music?\" Multiple words may be filtered if whitespace is ignored, resulting in \"as suspected\" becoming \" uspected\". Prohibiting a phrase such as \"hard on\" will result in filtering innocuous statements such as \"That was a hard one!\" and \"Sorry I was hard on you,\" into \"That was a e!\" and \"Sorry I was you.\"\n\nSome words that have been filtered accidentally can become replacements for profane words. One example of this is found on the Myst forum Mystcommunity. There, the word 'manuscript' was accidentally censored for containing the word 'anus', which resulted in 'm****cript'. The word was adopted as a replacement swear and carried over when the forum moved, and many substitutes, such as \" 'scripting \", are used (though mostly by the older community members).\n\nPlace names may be filtered out unintentionally due to containing portions of swear words. In the early years of the internet, the British place name Penistone was often filtered out from spam and swear filters.\n\nMany games, such as \"World of Warcraft\", and more recently, Habbo Hotel and RuneScape allow the user to turn the filters off. Other games, especially free Massively multiplayer online games, such as Knight Online do not have such an option. \n\nOther games such as Medal of Honor and Call of Duty (except \"\", \"\", \"\", and \"\") do not give users the option to turn off scripted foul language, while Gears of War does.\n\nIn addition to games, Profanity Filters can be used to moderate the user generated content in forums, blogs, social media apps, kid's websites, and product reviews. There are many profanity filter APIs like WebPurify that help in replacing the swear words with other characters (i.e. \"@#$!\"). These profanity filters APIs work with profanity search and replace method.\n\n\n\nreplaces characters with similar Unicode chars from different character sets (e.g. Cyrillic)\n"}
{"id": "2273506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273506", "title": "Hurricane Georgette", "text": "Hurricane Georgette\n\nThe name Georgette has been used for ten tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273507", "title": "William Arthur White", "text": "William Arthur White\n\nSir William Arthur White (13 February 182428 December 1891) was a British diplomat. White entered the diplomatic service in 1857 at the age of 33, and between 1857 and 1886 had postings in Warsaw, Danzig, Belgrade, and Bucharest. In 1886 he was given the ambassadorship in Constantinople, which he held for five years until his death on 28 December 1891 at the age of 67.\n\nWilliam's father was Arthur White (died 1856), who served in the British Consular and Colonial Services. The White family was originally of Dutch extraction and had the name de Witt. They later settled on the Isle of Man, where they took the name White.\n\nWilliam's mother was Elizabeth Lila Gardiner (1798–1849), the daughter of British soldier William Neville Gardiner (1748–1806) and his second wife Lucy O'Moore (died 1849). Gardiner served in the Foreign Office twice as the Minister in Warsaw, in 1784 and 1794. Following William Gardiner's death in Nova Scotia in 1806, Lucy and her daughter continued to live in Poland. They first lived on the estate Góra Puławska, and later held under lease the estate Wysock, the country residence of the Czartoryski family. It is likely that Gardiner had formed an arrangement with the Czartoryskis in which they would provide protection for his widow and daughter. The Czartoryskis played a large part in the upbringing of Elizabeth, and it was probably Adam's idea for her to marry Arthur White. The family owned considerable estates in Poland, and Arthur moved there Poland sometime in the 1810s to work on the Czartoryski estate as an exporter of grain and timber. It is possible, however, that he was also serving as an agent for Adam Jerzy Czartoryski to help form ties between England and the Slavic countries.\n\nWilliam Arthur White was born in Puławy on 13 February 1824. Arthur and Eliza had one other child who died in infancy. Following the November Uprising of 1830, a death warrant was placed on Adam Czartoryski, who subsequently fled to Paris where he lived in exile the remainder of his life. Arthur thus no longer had a purpose in Poland, and further, was a marked man due to his affiliation with the exiled prince. In 1832, Viscount Palmerston secured White the position of Vice-Consul in Memel, although he was quickly removed based on a request from the Prussian government. At this time Arthur returned to London. It was not until 1836 the White received another consular appointment, which this time was to Granville. In April 1840 he was transferred to the Colonial Service and the next month was gazetted secretary at Trinidad. Arthur died in Paris on 24 March 1856.\n\nWilliam spent his youth in Poland and was raised Roman Catholic, his mother's religion. It is likely that Eliza had acquired Catholicism from her mother, whose name suggests she was likely Irish Catholic. William was initially educated in Warsaw. The three men who looked after his interests—his father, Prince Czartoryski, and the Prince's supporter Lord Dudley Stuart—believed William should have a proper English education. As such, William was sent to King William's College on the Isle of Man, and in October 1841 to Trinity College, Cambridge. White spent two years at Cambridge, but was not permitted to obtain a degree because he was a Catholic. In 1843 he returned to Poland to live with his mother and grandmother. His friend Henry Cadman Jones accompanied him back and stayed with the family for three months.\n\nAfter his return to Poland, William's grandmother purchased him an estate near Puławy at which time he became a landowner. White was an unsuccessful farmer and had numerous problems with his peasants. It is also possible that in the 1840s and '50s White was acting as an agent for the British government. During the Crimean War, he was considered a suspect by the Russian government and was placed under close supervision.\n\nFrom 1843 to 1857 he lived in Poland as a country gentleman, but in the latter year he accepted a post in the British consulate in Warsaw, and had almost at once to perform the duties of acting consul-general. The January Uprising in 1863 gave him an opportunity of showing his immense knowledge of Eastern politics and his combination of diplomatic tact with resolute determination. He was promoted in 1864 to the post of consul at Danzig. The Eastern Question was, however, the great passion of his life, and in 1875 he succeeded in getting transferred to Belgrade as Agent and Consul-General to Serbia.\n\nIn 1878 he was made British Agent at Bucharest. In 1884 he was offered by Lord Granville the choice of the legation at Rio de Janeiro or Buenos Aires, and in 1885 Lord Salisbury, who was then at the Foreign Office, urged him to go to Peking, pointing out the increasing importance of that post. White's devoted friend, Sir Robert Morier, wrote in the same sense. But White, who was already acting as ambassador \"ad interim\" at Constantinople, decided to wait; and during this year he rendered one of his most conspicuous services.\n\nIt was largely owing to his efforts that the war between Serbia and Bulgaria was prevented from spreading into a universal conflagration, and that the unification of Bulgaria and what was then known as eastern Rumelia was accepted by the powers. In the following year he was rewarded with the embassy at Constantinople. He was the first Roman Catholic appointed to a British embassy since the Protestant Reformation.\n\nHe pursued consistently the policy of counteracting Russian influence in the Balkans by erecting a barrier of independent states animated with a healthy spirit of national life, and by supporting Austrian interests in the East. To the furtherance of this policy he brought an unrivalled knowledge of all the under-currents of Oriental intrigue, which his mastery of languages enabled him to derive not only from the newspapers, of which he was an assiduous reader, but from the obscurest sources. His bluff and straightforward manner, and the knowledge that with him the deed was ready to follow the word, enabled him at once to inspire confidence and to overawe less masterful rivals.\n\nThe official honors bestowed on him culminated in 1888 when he was made a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, and was given a seat on the Privy Council. He was still ambassador at Constantinople when he was attacked by influenza during a visit to Berlin, where he died at the Hotel Kaiserhof on 28 December 1891.\n\nWhile posted to Danzig, White met Katherine Marie Kendzior (1840–1902), the daughter of a German tobacconist named Lewis Kendzior. William and Katherine married in 1867. In his biography of White, Sutherland quotes Edward Grosvenor, who wrote, \"Nor must Lady White be forgotten. A main contribution to all his success was that lovely and genial lady who for twenty-five years never faltered at his side. It is reported that he once said the greatest achievement of his life was winning the hand of Miss Kendzior at Dantzic. The graceful suavity and tact, and at times, because of physical ailments, the fortitude and even heroism with which Lady White, fulfilled all the social requirements of her station, contributed in large measure to the official success of the embassy.\" More recently, Helen McCarthy described Lady White difficulties in her role. She writes, \"Lady White, wife of Sir William, Britain's ambassador in Constantinople between 1886 and 1891, was born plain Katherine Kendzior, the daughter of a German tobacconist – and she was never allowed to forget it. The elevation of one of such humble means to the rank of ambassadress was highly unusual for the times. It was explained in part by the almost equally unconventional career of her husband, who entered the Consular Service at the relatively late age of thirty-three and was amongst only a small handful of consuls who crossed the rickety bridge into the mainstream Diplomatic Service. Wives inevitably found themselves on the receiving end of the residual snobbery directed towards such upstarts. According to Charles Hardinge, who served under Sir William in Constantinople, Lady White was 'a common woman greatly lacking in dignity and savoir-faire.' She was apparently seen in the embassy kitchen collecting scraps from the supper table after a ball, and Hardinge once spied her in the main street of Pera buying live turkeys 'and feeling which was the fattest.' This undignified behaviour, he recalled with distaste, 'did not redound to her credit as Ambassadress.' \"\n\nWilliam and Lila's first child was Lila Lucy Catherine Mary (1867–1941). Lila was first married to Kammerherr Carl Emmanuel de Geijer, a Swedish envoy working in Constantinople. Their son Eric Neville Geijer (1894–1941) became a guards officer and herald. Following the death of her first husband, in 1899 Lila married Shelley Scarlett, 5th Baron Abinger, becoming the Baroness Abinger. On his mother's side Scarlett was the grandson of Percy Florence Shelley, and the great grandson of Percy Bysshe Shelley and Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley. Katherine Kendzior died on 13 June 1902 while staying with her son-in-law and daughter at the Shelley estate, Boscombe Manor, in Bournemouth. The Whites also had a son Neville William Arthur Philip Hugh (1870–1953). In 1890 Neville moved to Canada and joined the North-West Mounted Police. He later settled in Fort Saskatchewan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273518", "title": "Debra Stephenson", "text": "Debra Stephenson\n\nDebra Stephenson (born 4 June 1972) is an English actress, comedian, impressionist and singer, best known for her roles as Diane Powell in \"Playing the Field\", Shell Dockley in \"Bad Girls\" and as Frankie Baldwin in \"Coronation Street\".\n\nBetween 2009 and 2011, she co-starred with Jon Culshaw in \"The Impressions Show\", a comedy sketch show with impression of top celebrities. Stephenson has voiced a number of characters for sketch shows such as \"Dead Ringers\" (2014–present) and \"Newzoids\" (2015–2016). She appeared as Harriet in \"Holby City\" in February 2017 and in March 2019, she appeared in the BBC daytime soap, Doctors as Charlotte Hill.\n\nStephenson's grandfather taught history at Longcroft High School in Beverley in the East Riding of Yorkshire throughout the 1980s and 1990s. Her father taught at Eastfield Primary School, Hull during the 1990s.\n\nAt the age of 14, Stephenson appeared on BBC TV's \"Opportunity Knocks\", winning her way through to the All-Winners' Final, broadcast live from the London Palladium. She appeared on \"Blue Peter\" doing an impression of Esther Rantzen; she also appeared in other CBBC programmes and was a backing singer on Chris Jarvis's 1997 charity single \"Glasses\".\n\nIn 1995 she sang vocals on musician and writer John Robb project Sensuround.\n\nStephenson was then on TV screens in 1998 in Kay Mellor's comedy drama about women's football, \"Playing the Field\". Stephenson also appeared in the last two episodes of ITV's adaptation of Catherine Cookson's \"A Dinner of Herbs\", in which she played the adult Kate Roystan, who fell in love with the son of the woman who murdered her grandfather.\n\nIn 1999, Stephenson had a more prominent role playing Shell Dockley in the ITV prison drama \"Bad Girls\". Her performance as the psychotic Dockley earned her consecutive nominations for Best Actress at the National Television Awards in 1999 and 2000. After three years playing one of the show's most popular characters, Stephenson left in 2001, the same year she appeared in Lily Savage's Blankety Blank; she returned to Bad Girls for one last time in 2003.\n\nAs well as doing stand-up comedy at venues including London's Comedy Store, Stephenson has played several roles as a comic actress on radio and television. These include Hosanna in the BBC Radio 4 comedy \"At Home with the Snails\" (2002), and sketch show \"TV to Go\" in 2000 with Hugh Dennis and Pauline McLynn. She featured in the 1998 \"Chucklevision\" episode \"Stop that Stamp\" as the Grand Duchess Olga. Stephenson was also part of \"The Friday Night Project\", interviewing the public and going undercover with disguises such as 'Debbo'.\n\nFrom June 2004 to December 2006, Stephenson starred in British soap opera \"Coronation Street\" playing Frankie Baldwin, the wife of Bradley Walsh's character, Danny. She received nominations for \"Best Newcomer\" at various TV and soap awards shows. On 14 May 2006, producers announced that Stephenson would be leaving the soap at the end of that year. Her final scenes aired on 31 December 2006.\n\nIn 2005, Stephenson took part in \"Comic Relief Does Fame Academy\", a singing competition involving celebrities, to raise money for charity, and finished fifth. Among her performances was a rendition of \"Cry Me a River\" which was called \"blemishless\" and of Dionne Warwick's \"Anyone Who Had a Heart\". Her participation on the show led to a recording contract and she released her debut album, \"In The Sunshine\" including cover versions of the songs she sang on the show. Stephenson was a reporter for GMTV throughout 2007 as part of \"The Richard Arnold Show\".\n\nStephenson appeared on Channel Virgin 1's \"The Prisoner:X\" in December 2008 where she was locked up for four days in a high security prison in America, where she spent a night in segregation and was treated as though she was an actual prisoner doing time in that prison. Stephenson played the part of Aladdin in the pantomime \"Aladdin\" at the Regent Theatre in Ipswich. The pantomime was shown on 13 December 2008 and performed again in January 2009. Because of this role, Stephenson appeared on the \"Celebrity Ding Dong\" Christmas special in which the theme was pantomimes and \"goodies vs baddies\". The goodies (Stephenson's team) won.\n\n\"The Impressions Show with Culshaw and Stephenson\", led by Stephenson and Jon Culshaw, began recording in August 2009. Co-starring as lead regulars are Thomas Nelstrop and newcomer impressionist Jess Robinson. Eight episodes were commissioned by the BBC; the first aired on Saturday 31 October 2009. The show was recommissioned for a second series in 2010 and then again for a third series of six episodes which started on 26 October 2011. As of October 2011, only the first series has currently been released on to DVD.\n\nIn March 2010, Stephenson took part in \"Let's Dance for Sport Relief\" and reached the final after a rendition of Michael Jackson's \"Smooth Criminal\". The judges chose to put her through to the final as she had received some of the highest viewer votes. The final was live on 13 March and she performed the same routine. The winner was Rufus Hound who performed a version of Cheryl Cole's \"Fight For This Love\".\nShe is also a contestant on the 2011 \"Strictly Come Dancing\" Christmas special.\n\nStephenson was a guest for four episodes as Naomi Scotcher in \"Waterloo Road\". In October 2012, Stephenson played the television cook, Fanny Cradock in \"Fanny and Friends\" on More4.\n\nIn 2015 she appeared alongside Ray Quinn in ITV's talent show \"Get Your Act Together\". Since 2015, she has voiced a number of characters in the ITV puppet sketch show \"Newzoids\" alongside Jon Culshaw. A second series aired in 2016.\n\nShe has also appeared in comedy show \"Young Hyacinth\".\n\nIn September 2019 she made her debut as Jane in Midlife Cowboy, a new musical at the Pleasance Theatre written by Tony Hawks\n\nStephenson attended South Hunsley School in Melton, East Riding of Yorkshire, from the age of 11, and during these years she appeared in a number of national TV talent shows doing impressions. In 1996 Stephenson graduated in Drama, from the Manchester Metropolitan School of Theatre. She married builder James Duffield in June 1999. They have two children, Max, born in November 2002 and Zoe born in January 2007.\n\n\n\"Doctors\"\n2019\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273520", "title": "Tikkabilla", "text": "Tikkabilla\n\nTikkabilla is a UK children's television programme, shown on BBC One, BBC Two and on the CBeebies channel. The programme aims to educate pre-school children in an entertaining manner. The title \"Tikkabilla\" comes from the Hindi word meaning \"Hopscotch\", a popular children's game.\n\nEach programme is introduced by two adults and a small dragon puppet named Tamba, who resembles Spyro the Dragon in colouration. Tamba serves as the programme's naive child; the programme's educational content is introduced as the presenters explain things to Tamba. Whilst Tamba appears in every episode, a team of presenters take it in turns to pair-up in each show. These presenters include Justin Fletcher, Sarah-Jane Honeywell, Simon Davies, Lorna Laidlaw, Paul Ewing, Veejay Kaur, Toni Fruitin and Amit Sharma (both series 4 only) and Beverly Hills (series 1-3 only). Tamba is performed by puppeteers Sue Eves (series 1 to 4) who created the voice for Tamba; Alison McGowan (series 2 and 3) and Katherine Smee (series 4). Sue Eves has also written many scripts for the programme.\n\nBeverly Hills writes for the programme as well as writing for sister show The Story Makers. Francis Haines and Liz Kitchen wrote the majority of the programme's music. Francis Haines and Jake Hook co-wrote one of the songs.\n\nMuch of the show's format follows that of 1964-1988 UK children's programme \"Play School\" and later show \"Playdays\". Tikkabilla presenter Simon Davies also presented \"Play School\" in its later years and \"Playdays\" in its early years and Justin Fletcher played Mr Jolly in the live stage show production of \"Playdays\". In the Tikkabilla studio, which features a large, colourful house, the presenters and Tamba perform songs, tell stories, play games and make things. Occasionally, special guests visit, normally to demonstrate a special skill or performance. The iconic square, round and arched windows made famous by Play School are again used as a device to transport the viewer from the studio to the outside, real world. Location items, sometimes featuring the presenters and Tamba and usually including young children, introduce the wider world to the young audience.\n\nTikkabilla features mini-series inside the programme, such as Bonny, Banana and Mo, Sami's Worlds, Summerton Mill and Higgledy House, the latter two of which were later shown as standalone programmes on CBeebies. Tikkabilla sometimes shows animated clips originally from other educational BBC programmes mostly from \"Words and Pictures\" and \"Numbertime\". One episode once showed an animated clip from \"Hotch Potch House\".\n\nTikkabilla began in 2002 and was produced by the BBC's pre-school unit.\n\n\nBart Baker<br>Mark Thompson<br>Bob Gosling<br>Steven Kelly<br>Alan Beal<br>Tim Jones (Cameraman)<br>Duncan McLaren<br>Paul Freeman<br>Graham Reed<br>Martin Kelly<br>Duncan Unsworth<br>Matt Hart\n\nSue Eves<br>Alison McGowan<br>Katherine Smee<br>Simon Buckley<br>Tim Jones (puppeteer)<br>Neil Sterenberg<br>Allistar Peppin<br>Richard Starzak\n\n"}
{"id": "2273526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273526", "title": "Tropical Storm Gil", "text": "Tropical Storm Gil\n\nThe name Gil has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Gil has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Western Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Gil has also been used for a fictional hurricane.\n"}
{"id": "2273532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273532", "title": "Logical Volume Manager (Linux)", "text": "Logical Volume Manager (Linux)\n\nIn Linux, Logical Volume Manager (LVM) is a device mapper target that provides logical volume management for the Linux kernel. Most modern Linux distributions are LVM-aware to the point of being able to have their root file systems on a logical volume.\n\nHeinz Mauelshagen wrote the original LVM code in 1998, when he was working at Sistina Software, taking its primary design guidelines from the HP-UX's volume manager.\n\nLVM is used for the following purposes:\n\nLVM can be considered as a thin software layer on top of the hard disks and partitions, which creates an abstraction of continuity and ease-of-use for managing hard drive replacement, repartitioning and backup.\n\n\n\n\nThe LVM also works in a shared-storage cluster in which disks holding the PVs are shared between multiple host computers, but can require an additional daemon to mediate metadata access via a form of locking.\n\n\nThe above described mechanisms only resolve the issues with LVM's access to the storage. The file system selected to be on top of such LVs must either support clustering by itself (such as GFS2 or VxFS) or it must only be mounted by a single cluster node at any time (such as in an active-passive configuration).\n\nLVM VGs must contain a default allocation policy for new volumes created from it. This can later be changed for each LV using the codice_9 command, or on the VG itself via codice_10. To minimize fragmentation, LVM will attempt the strictest policy (contiguous) first and then progress toward the most liberal policy defined for the LVM object until allocation finally succeeds.\n\nIn RAID configurations, almost all policies are applied to each leg in isolation. For example, even if a LV has a policy of \"cling\", expanding the file system will not result in LVM using a PV if it is already used by one of the other legs in the RAID setup. LVs with RAID functionality will put each leg on different PVs, making the other PVs unavailable to any other given leg. If this was the only option available, expansion of the LV would fail. In this sense, the logic behind \"cling\" will only apply to expanding each of the individual legs of the array.\n\nAvailable allocation policies are:\n\nTypically, the first megabyte of each physical volume contains a mostly ASCII-encoded structure referred to as an \"LVM header\" or \"LVM head\". Originally, the LVM head used to be written in the first and last megabyte of each PV for redundancy (in case of a partial hardware failure); however, this was later changed to only the first megabyte. Each PV's header is a complete copy of the entire volume group's layout, including the UUIDs of all other PVs and of LVs, and allocation map of PEs to LEs. This simplifies data recovery if a PV is lost.\n\nIn the 2.6-series of the Linux Kernel, the LVM is implemented in terms of the device mapper, a simple block-level scheme for creating virtual block devices and mapping their contents onto other block devices. This minimizes the amount of relatively hard-to-debug kernel code needed to implement the LVM. It also allows its I/O redirection services to be shared with other volume managers (such as EVMS). Any LVM-specific code is pushed out into its user-space tools, which merely manipulate these mappings and reconstruct their state from on-disk metadata upon each invocation.\n\nTo bring a volume group online, the \"vgchange\" tool:\n\nTo move an online logical volume between PVs on the same Volume Group, use the \"pvmove\" tool:\n\nThese device mapper operations take place transparently, without applications or file systems being aware that their underlying storage is moving.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2273533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273533", "title": "Scouting for All", "text": "Scouting for All\n\nScouting for All is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization American advocacy organization whose stated purpose is to promote tolerance and diversity within the Boy Scouts of America in the face of its policies requiring members to be heterosexuals who believe in God.\n\nInitially founded in 1993 by Scouter Dave Rice and a committee including Mike Cahn, Bob Smith, Ken McPherson and Don Henry, Scouting for All was relatively inactive for its first few years.\n\nIn 1997, the effort was galvanized by a letter to the editor written by Steven Cozza, who later went on to earn the rank of Eagle Scout and became a professional bicycle racer. The heterosexual young man criticized the BSA's policies and pointed out potential contradictions between those policies and the organization's own governing Scout Oath and Scout Law. He called upon the organization to reexamine its policies and invited others in the organization who agreed with him to contact him so they could all work together to effect the desired policy changes. According to the organization's literature, Dave Rice, Steven Cozza and Steven's father, Scott Cozza were considered the co-founders of the Scouting for All.\n\nAfter David Rice stepped down in the mid 2000s leadership passed through several individuals, until Howard Menzer took the position. The organization has been largely dormant since, with a small group of members but will little action. In 2012, Scouts For Equality, was founded by a group of straight Eagle Scouts, including Zach Wahls. Instead of SFA's strategy of direct protests, SFE lobbied the BSA's corporate partners and used petitions and succeeded in winning inclusion for gay youth in 2013. Scouting For All announced limited protests in the midst of that debate but those did not materialize and their role in the victory was minor if at all. SFE continues to work for inclusion for Gay adults, having merged with the Inclusive Scouting Network to be the lead organization today fighting the BSA's ban on gay adults.\n\nThe Inclusive Scouting Award is also called the Rainbow Knot when distributed by Scouting for All, and expresses solidarity with Scouting For All's cause. It is an embroidered cloth patch that resembles the BSA's square knot insignia and is intended for wear above the left pocket of the uniform shirt, but is not an official emblem of the BSA and thus is not approved for use on a BSA uniform. The emblem incorporates the purple and silver of the religious emblems knot and the colors of the Rainbow flag, representing both religious and sexual orientation discrimination and depicting the two issues as intertwined.\n\nThe knot was introduced in 2002 by the Inclusive Scouting Network (formerly the Coalitions for Inclusive Scouting) as the Inclusive Scouting Award, and later distributed by the now-defunct ScoutPride and Scouting for All. The knot is currently available through the Inclusive Scouting Network.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273534", "title": "Clifford's Puppy Days", "text": "Clifford's Puppy Days\n\nClifford's Puppy Days is an American-British animated children's television series that originally aired on PBS Kids from September 1, 2003 to December 20, 2006. A prequel to the 2000-2003 series \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\", it features the adventures of Clifford during his puppy days before he became a big red dog and before moving to Birdwell Island.\n\nThe series ended in February 2006 after two seasons and 39 episodes. Since then, occasional reruns continue to air.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the series aired on CBeebies from 2003 to early 2006 and like the original series, the prequel was dubbed with British voice actors, replacing the original American soundtrack.\n\nThe show featured Henry Winkler as the voice of the bird Norman; Winkler was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for his work on the series.\n\nSet three years before the events of \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\", the series focuses on when Clifford is a tiny red puppy, the runt of the litter in a litter of puppies given birth to by the pet dog of Emily Elizabeth's neighbor, Mr. Bradley (who appeared in an episode of the first cartoon series, \"Little Clifford\") and after he had been adopted by Emily Elizabeth and before he grew up into a giant red adult dog, forcing the Howards to move to Birdwell Island so Clifford would have plenty of room, the series shows Clifford and Emily Elizabeth's life and friends before they moved from the city to Birdwell Island and all of their adventures to make room.\n\nThe series followed the same format as its predecessor, \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\".\n\n\n\n\nEach half-hour episode was divided into 2 stories.\n\nThe opening theme, \"Love Makes Little Things Grow\", was composed by Jared Faber and Emily Kapnek and performed by Freedom Bremner.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273535", "title": "Shanghai International Settlement", "text": "Shanghai International Settlement\n\nThe Shanghai International Settlement () originated from the 1863 merger of the British and American enclaves in Shanghai, in which parts of the Qing Empire would hold extraterritorially under the terms of a series of Unequal Treaties until 1941.\n\nThe settlements were established following the defeat of the Qing army by the British in the First Opium War (18391842). Under the terms of the Treaty of Nanking, the five treaty ports including Shanghai were opened to foreign merchants, overturning the monopoly then held by the southern port of Canton (Guangzhou) under the Canton System. The British also established a base on Hong Kong under an extensive lease. American and French involvement followed closely on the heels of the British and their enclaves were established north and south, respectively, of the British area.\n\nUnlike the colonies of Hong Kong and Macau, where Great Britain and Portugal enjoyed full sovereignty in perpetuity, the foreign concessions in China remained under Chinese sovereignty. In 1854, the three countries created the Shanghai Municipal Council to serve all their interests, but, in 1862, the French concession dropped out of the arrangement. The following year the British and American settlements formally united to create the Shanghai International Settlement. As more foreign powers entered into treaty relations with China, their nationals also became part of the administration of the settlement, but it always remained a predominantly British affair until the growth of Japan's involvement in the late 1930s. The internationalism is reflected in the flag and seal of the Municipal Council, which featured the flags of Austria-Hungary, Denmark, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway-Sweden, Portugal, Russia, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States as well as a white flag.\n\nThe international settlement came to an abrupt end in December 1941 when Japanese troops stormed in immediately following the attack on Pearl Harbor. In early 1943, new treaties signed by Chiang Kai-shek's Republican government formally ended the extraterritorial privileges of Americans and Britons, although its terms were moot until the recovery of Shanghai following Japan's 1945 surrender. The French later surrendered their privileges in a separate 1946 agreement.\n\nAlthough Europeans had shown more interest in Canton than Shanghai early on for commercial advantages, the port's strategic position was key to British interests as the island nation declared war against China in 1839, later known as the first Anglo-Chinese Opium War. The first settlement in Shanghai for foreigners was the British settlement, opened in 1843 under the terms of the Treaty of Nanking, one of the many unequal treaties China incurred in opposition to its European trading partners. The settlement was bordered at north by the right bank of the Suzhou River before it flows into the Huangpu, at east by the Huangpu, and at south by a channel, the Yang-King-Pang which will be the future boundary with the French concession.\n\nOn the orders of Sir Henry Pottinger, first Governor-general of Hong Kong, Captain George Balfour of the East India Company's Madras Artillery arrived as Britain's first consul in Shanghai on 8November 1843 aboard the steamer \"Medusa\". The next morning Balfour sent word to the circuit intendant of Shanghai, Gong Mujiu (then romanized Kung Moo-yun), requesting a meeting, at which he indicated his desire to find a house to live in. Initially Balfour was told no such properties were available, but on leaving the meeting, he received an offer from a pro-British Cantonese named Yao to rent a large house within the city walls for four hundred dollars per annum. Balfour, his interpreter Walter Henry Medhurst, surgeon Dr. Hale and clerk A. F. Strachan moved into the luxuriously furnished 52-room house immediately.\n\nIt served as the consulate during construction of a Western-style building within the official Settlement boundaries just to the south of Suzhou Creek. This was completed within a year. This soon became the epicenter of the British settlement. Afterward both the French and the Americans signed treaties with China that gave their citizens extraterritorial rights similar to those granted to the British, but initially their respective nationals accepted that the foreign settlement came under British consular jurisdiction. However, it must be clearly understood that Shanghai has been from the beginning a settlement, not a possession. The British Government annexed Hong Kong, which became British territory, and subject to British law. The land on which the Foreign Settlement of Shanghai was created was, on the other hand, only leased to the British Government. That is proved by the fact that all the landowners still pay ground rent to the Chinese Government.\n\nThe Sino-American Treaty of Wanghia was signed in July 1844 by Chinese Qing government official Qiying, the Viceroy of Liangguang, who held responsibility for the provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi, and Massachusetts politician Caleb Cushing (1800–1879), who was dispatched with orders to \"save the Chinese from the condition of being an exclusive monopoly in the hands of England\" as a consequence of the 1842 Nanking treaty. Under the Treaty of Wanghia, Americans gained the same rights as those enjoyed by the British in China's treaty ports. It also contained a clause that effectively carved out Shanghai as an extraterritorial zone within Imperial China, though it did not actually give the American government a true legal concession.\n\nIt was only in 1845 that Britain followed in America's footsteps and signed a land-deal to allow Britons to rent land in Shanghai in perpetuity. The American consular presence did not create a problem for the British because it was never intended to have a post in person. Since American traders in China were prohibited from engaging in the opium trade, their business transactions were conducted under the auspices of British firms. The only serious incident of political complaint against the Americans was in 1845, when the Stars and Stripes was raised by the acting US Consul, Henry G. Wolcott, who had just arrived in the city. Neither the British nor the Chinese governor approved of the display. In 1848, France established its own French concession under French consular jurisdiction, squeezed between the British settlement to the north and the Chinese walled city to the south.\n\nDuring the Taiping Rebellion, with the Concessions effectively landlocked by both the Manchu government and Small Swords Society rebels, the Western residents of the Shanghai International Settlement, known as \"Shanghailanders\", refused to pay taxes to the Chinese government except for land and maritime rates (nominally because Shanghai's customs house had been burnt down). They also claimed the right to exclude Chinese troops from the concession areas. While the Settlement had at first disallowed non-foreigners from living inside its boundaries, a large number of Chinese were allowed to move into the International Settlement to escape the Taipings or seek better economic opportunities. Chinese entry was subsequently legalised and continued to grow.\n\nOn 11July 1854 a committee of Western businessmen met and held the first annual meeting of the Shanghai Municipal Council (SMC, formally the Council for the Foreign Settlement North of the Yang-king-pang), ignoring protests of consular officials, and laid down the Land Regulations which established the principles of self-government. The aims of this first Council were simply to assist in the formation of roads, refuse collection, and taxation across the disparate Concessions.\n\nIn 1863 the American concession—land fronting the Huangpu River to the north-east of Soochow Creek (Suzhou Creek)—officially joined the British Settlement (stretching from Yang-ching-pang Creek to Suzhou Creek) to become the Shanghai International Settlement. The French concession remained independent and the Chinese retained control over the original walled city and the area surrounding the foreign enclaves. This would later result in sometimes absurd administrative outcomes, such as needing three drivers' licenses to travel through the complete city.\n\nBy the late-1860s Shanghai's official governing body had been practically transferred from the individual concessions to the Shanghai Municipal Council (工部局, literally \"Works Department\", from the standard English local government title of 'Board of works'). The British Consul was the \"de jure\" authority in the Settlement, but he had no actual power unless the ratepayers (who voted for the Council) agreed. Instead, he and the other consulates deferred to the Council.\n\nThe Council had become a practical monopoly over the city's businesses by the mid-1880s. It bought up all the local gas-suppliers, electricity producers and water-companies, then — during the 20th-century — took control over all non-private rickshaws and the Settlement tramways. It also regulated opium sales and prostitution until their banning in 1918 and 1920 respectively.\n\nUntil the late-1920s, therefore, the SMC and its subsidiaries, including the police, power station, and public works, were British dominated (though not controlled, since Britain itself had no authority over the Council). Some of the Settlement's actions during this period, such as the May 30th Movement, in which Chinese demonstrators were shot by members of the Shanghai Municipal Police, did embarrass and threaten the British Empire's position in China even though they were not carried out by \"Britain\" itself.\n\nNo Chinese residing in the International Settlement were permitted to join the council until 1928. Amongst the many members who served on the council, its chairman during the 1920s, Stirling Fessenden, is possibly the most notable. An American, he served as the settlement's main administrator during Shanghai's most turbulent era, and was considered more \"British\" than the council's British members. He oversaw many of the major incidents of the decade, including the May 30th Movement and the White Terror that came with the Shanghai massacre of 1927.\n\nThrough an informal agreement, by the 1930s the British had five seats on the Council, the Japanese two and the Americans and others two. At the 1936 Council election, because of their increasing interests in the Settlement, the Japanese nominated three candidates. Only two were elected, which led to a Japanese protest after 323 uncounted votes were discovered. As a result, the election was declared invalid and a new poll held on April20-21, 1936, at which the Japanese nominated only two candidates, leaving the structure of the Council unchanged.\n\nThe International Settlement was wholly foreign-controlled, with staff of all nationalities, including British, Americans, Danes, Italians and Germans. In reality, the British held the largest number of seats on the Council and headed all the Municipal departments (British included Australians, New Zealanders, Canadians, Newfoundlanders, and South Africans whose extraterritorial rights were established by the United Kingdom treaty).\n\nThe only department not chaired by a Briton was the Municipal Orchestra, which was controlled by an Italian.\n\nThe Settlement maintained its own fire-service, police force (the Shanghai Municipal Police), and even possessed its own military reserve in the Shanghai Volunteer Corps (). Following some disturbances at the British concession in Hankow in 1927, the defences at Shanghai were augmented by a permanent battalion of the British Army, which was referred to as the Shanghai Defence Force (SDF or SHAF), and a contingent of US Marines. Other armed forces would arrive in Shanghai; the French Concession had a defensive force of Troupes de marine and Annamite suppletive troops from French Indochina, the Italians also introduced their own marines, as did the Japanese (whose troops eventually outnumbered the other countries' many times over).\n\nFrom the 1860s, the Municipal Council began building roads beyond the concession boundaries, ostensibly to connect the concession with other properties or facilities which required the protection of Britain and other treaty powers during the unrest of the Taiping Rebellion. The Municipal Council obtained limited administrative powers over the areas adjacent to these \"extra-settlement roads\", making the area a \"quasi-concession\". The expansion of the International Settlement in 1899 took in most of the extra-settlement roads area, but from 1901 the Municipal Council began building further roads beyond the new boundary with a view to expanding the concession to cover those areas as well. However, a request to further expand the concession (inspired by a similar expansion of the French concession in 1914) was turned down by the Chinese government due to anti-imperialist sentiments. Britain, pre-occupied with World War I, did not press the issue and the extra-settlement roads area retained the \"quasi-concession\" status until the demise of the concession. Parts of the northern extra-settlement roads area was allocated to Japan for defence purposes in 1927, which the Japanese used as a base for military operations during the 1932 January 28th Incident and the 1937 Battle of Shanghai. After that battle, Japan took full control over the northern extra-settlement roads area and expelled International Settlement police. The neutrality of the western extra-settlement roads area survived in some form until the withdrawal of British troops in 1940.\n\nArticle 28 of the International Settlement's \"Land Regulations\" stated unequivocally that \"the land encompassed in the territory remains Chinese territory, subject to China's sovereign rights.\" As expressed by legal experts, \" \"the self-governing International Settlement possesses no more power than the mere delegation of purely local and municipal powers and functions. Control of police, sanitation, roads, and other problems of local administration are granted to the Municipal Council simply because that body happens to be the one best equipped to deal with these matters in an area where the large majority of foreigners dwell. But the Municipal Council is in no sense a political body. Its powers, being delegated and hence limited, are subject to strict construction. What foreigners acquire is simply the delegated power of municipal administration, while the reserve powers remain in the sovereign grantor, the Chinese Government. Although under the control of the Consular Council, the area is still Chinese territory, over which China's sovereignty remains unsurrendered\".\n\nIn the 19th century, Europeans possessed treaty ports in Japan in the same way they held those in China. However, Japan rapidly developed into a modern nation, and by the turn of the 20th century the Japanese had successfully negotiated with all powers to abrogate all unequal treaties with it. Japan stood alongside the European powers as part of the Eight-Nation Alliance during the infamous fifty five-day siege of the foreign embassy compound in Peking. Japan entered the 20th century as a rising world power, and with its unequal treaties with the European powers now abrogated, it actually joined in, obtaining an unequal treaty with China granting extraterritorial rights under the Treaty of Shimonoseki signed in 1895.\n\nIn 1915, during the First World War, Japan overtook Britain as the country with the largest number of foreign residents in Shanghai. In 1914 they sided with Britain and France in the war and conquered all German possessions in China. By the beginning of the 1930s, Japan was swiftly becoming the most powerful national group in Shanghai and accounted for some 80% of all extraterritorial foreigners in China. Much of Hongkew, which had become an unofficial Japanese settlement, was known as \"Little Tokyo\".\n\nIn 1931, supposed \"protection of Japanese colonists from Chinese aggression\" in Hongkew was used as a pretext for the Shanghai Incident, when Japanese troops invaded Shanghai. From then until the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945) Hongkew was almost entirely outside of the SMC's hands, with law and protection enforced to varying degrees by the Japanese Consular Police and Japanese members of the Shanghai Municipal Police.\n\nIn 1932 there were 1,040,780 Chinese living within the International Settlement, with another 400,000 fleeing into the area after the Second Sino-Japanese War broke out in 1937. For the next five years, the International Settlement and the French Concession were surrounded by Japanese occupiers and Chinese revolutionaries, with conflict often spilling into the Settlement's borders. In 1941, the Japanese launched an abortive political bid to take over the SMC: during a mass meeting of ratepayers at the Settlement Race Grounds, a Japanese official leaped up and shot William Keswick, then Chairman of the Council. While Keswick was only wounded, a near riot broke out.\n\nBritain evacuated its garrisons from mainland Chinese cities, particularly Shanghai, in August 1940.\n\nAnglo-American influence effectively ended after 8 December 1941, when the Imperial Japanese Army entered and occupied the British and American controlled parts of the city in the wake of the attack on Pearl Harbor. The British and Americans troops taken by surprise surrendered without a shot, excepted the only British riverboat in Shanghai, HMS \"Peterel\", which refused to surrender : six of the 18 British crew who were on board at the time were killed when the ship was sunk when the Japanese opened fire at almost point-blank range. The French troops did not move from the preserved French Concession, as the French Vichy government considerate itself as neutral.\n\nEuropean residents of the International Settlement were forced to wear armbands to differentiate them, were evicted from their homes, and — just like Chinese citizens — were liable to maltreatment. All were liable for punitive punishments, torture and even death during the period of Japanese occupation. The Japanese sent European and American citizens to be interned at the Lunghua Civilian Assembly Center, a work camp on what was then the outskirts of Shanghai. Survivors of Lunghua were released in August 1945.\n\nShanghai was notable for a long period as the only place in the world that unconditionally offered refuge for Jews escaping from the Nazis. These refugees often lived in squalid conditions in an area known as the Shanghai Ghetto in Hongkew. On 21 August 1941 the Japanese government closed Hongkew to Jewish immigration.\n\nIn February 1943, the International Settlement was \"de jure\" returned to the Chinese as part of the British–Chinese Treaty for the Relinquishment of Extra-Territorial Rights in China and American–Chinese Treaty for Relinquishment of Extraterritorial Rights in China with the Nationalist Government of the Republic of China under Chiang Kai-shek. However, because Shanghai was under Japanese control, this was unenforceable. In reply, in July 1943, the Japanese retroceded the SMC to the City Government of Shanghai, which was then in the hands of the pro-Japanese Wang Jingwei Government.\n\nAfter the war and the liberation of the city from the Japanese, a Liquidation Commission fitfully met to discuss the remaining details of the handover. By the end of 1945, most westerners not actively involved in the Chinese Civil War (such as intelligence agents, soldiers, journalists etc.) or in Shanghai's remaining foreign businesses, had left the city. With the defeat of the Kuomintang in 1949, the city was occupied by Communist PLA and came under the control of Mayor of Shanghai.\n\nThe foreign architecture of the International Settlement era can still be seen today along the Bund and in many locations around the city.\n\nThe International Settlement did not have a unified legal system. The Municipal Council issued Land Regulations and regulations under this, that were binding on all people in the settlement. Other than this, citizens and subjects of powers that had treaties with China that provided for extraterritorial rights were subject to the laws of their own countries and civil and criminal complaints against them were required to be brought against them to their consular courts (courts overseen by consular officials) under the laws of their own countries.\n\nThe number of treaty powers had climbed to a maximum of 19 by 1918 but was down to 14 by the 1930s: Great Britain, the United States, Japan, France, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Peru, Mexico, and Switzerland. Germany and Austria-Hungary lost their treaty rights after WWI, and Russia gave up her rights as a matter of political expediency. Belgium was declared by China to have lost her rights in 1927. Furthermore, the Chinese government adamantly refused to grant treaty power status to any of the new nations born in the wake of WWI, such as Austria and Hungary (formerly Austria-Hungary), Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, the Baltic States and Finland.\n\nChinese citizens and citizens of non-treaty powers were subject to Chinese law. Inside the Settlement, cases against them would be brought to the Mixed Court, a court established in the Settlement in the 1870s which existed until 1926. In cases involving foreigners, a foreign assessor, usually a consular officer, would sit with the Chinese magistrate and in many cases acted like a judge. In 1927, a Provisional Court was established with a sole Chinese judge presiding. In 1930, Chinese Special Courts were established which had jurisdiction over all non treaty power individuals and companies in the Settlement.\n\nTwo countries, Britain and the United States established formal court systems in China to try cases. The British Supreme Court for China and Japan was established in 1865 and located in its own building in the British Consulate compound and the United States Court for China was established in the US Consulate in 1906. Both courts were occupied by the Japanese on 8 December 1941 and effectively ceased to function from that date.\n\nThe currency situation in China generally was very complicated in the 19th century. There was no unified system. Different parts of China operated different systems, and the Spanish pieces of eight that had been coming from Mexico for a few hundred years on Manila Galleons were current along the China coast. Until the 1840s these silver dollar coins were Spanish coins minted mainly in Mexico City, but from the 1840s these gave way to Mexican republican dollars.\n\nIn Shanghai, this complexity represented a microcosm of the complicated economy existing elsewhere along the China coast. The Chinese reckoned in weights of silver, which did not necessarily correspond to circulating coins. One important unit was a tael, a measurement of weight with several different definitions. These included: Customs Taels (for foreign trade), Cotton Taels (for cotton trade), etc. Shanghai had its own tael, which was very similar in weight to the Customs Tael and therefore popular for international business. China also had a mixture of coins, including Chinese Copper Cash coins and Mexican dollars. Paper money was first issued by European and North American colonial banks (one British colonial bank known as the Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and China at one time issued banknotes in Shanghai that were denominated in Mexican dollars).\n\nEuropean and North American currencies did not officially circulate in the International Settlement, except Yen in the Japanese district of \"Little Tokyo\". Until the year 1873, however, US dollar coins would have reasonably corresponded in size, shape and value to Mexican dollars. Between 1873 and 1900, all silver standard dollars had depreciated to about 50% of the value of the gold standard dollars of the United States and Canada leading to a rising economic depression.\n\nThe Chinese themselves officially adopted the dollar unit as their national currency in 1889, and the first Chinese dollar coins, known as yuan, contained an inscription which related their value to an already existing Chinese system of accounts. On the earliest Chinese dollar (yuan) coins it states the words 7 mace and 2 candareens. The mace and candareen were sub-divisions of the tael unit of weight. Banknotes tended to be issued in dollars, either worded as such or as yuan.\n\nDespite the complications arising from a mixture of Chinese and Spanish coinages, there was one overwhelming unifying factor binding all the systems in use: silver. The Chinese reckoned purely in terms of silver, and value was always compared against a weight of silver (hence, the reason large prices were given in tael). It was the strict adherence of the Chinese to silver that caused China and even the British colonies of Hong Kong and Weihaiwei to remain on the silver standard after the rest of the world had changed over to the gold standard. When China began producing official Republican yuan coins in 1934, they were minted in Shanghai and shipped to Nanking for distribution.\n\nShanghai had developed a postal service as early as the Ming Dynasty, but during the treaty port era foreign postal services were organised through their respective consulates. For example, the United States Post Office Department maintained a United States Postal Agency at the Shanghai consulate through which Americans could use the US Post Office to send mail to and from the US mainland and US territories. Starting in 1919 the 16 current regular US stamps were overprinted for use in Shanghai with the city's name, \"China\", and amounts double their printed face values. In 1922 texts for two of the overprints were changed, thereby completing the Scott catalogue set of K1-18, \"Offices in China\".\n\nThe British originally used British postage stamps overprinted with the local currency amount, but from 1868, the British changed to Hong Kong postage stamps already denominated in dollars. However, in the special case of Shanghai, in the year 1865 the International settlement began to issue its own postage stamps, denominated in the local Shanghai tael unit.\n\nThe Shanghai Post Office controlled all post within the Settlement, but post coming in or going out of the treaty port was required to go through the Chinese Imperial Post Office. In 1922 the various foreign postal services, the Shanghai Post Office and the Chinese Post Office were all brought together into a single Chinese Post Office, thus extending the 1914 membership of the Chinese Post Office to the Universal Postal Union to Shanghai Post Office. Some other foreign countries refused to fall under this new postal service's remit, however: for many years, Japan was notable as sending almost all its mail to Shanghai in diplomatic bags, which could not be opened by postal staff.\n\nThe General Shanghai Post Office was first located on Beijing Road and moved to the location on Sichuan North Road of the General Post Office Building, Shanghai that is today the Shanghai Post Museum.\n\nInternational merchants brought with them amateur musical talent that manifested in the creation of the Shanghai Philharmonic Society in 1868. From here, the Shanghai Municipal Orchestra was officially formed in 1879.\n\nIn 1938, the Shanghai Municipal Orchestra faced disbandment as the ratepayers in the annual Municipal Council meeting considered reallocating budgets away from the orchestra, since it was \"western and unnecessary.\" However, after much discussion, they decided to keep the orchestra, acknowledging that its educational value was much greater than the cost of keeping it up. The Shanghai Municipal Orchestra had the financial and verbal backing of many other larger countries, including Italy, who donated 50,000 lire to the orchestra, the France Council, who acted as a defending argument for the maintenance of the orchestra, and Japan, whose Viscount Konoye, encouraged the Japanese people to support the orchestra and the culture that it brought to the East.\n\nIn addition to the string orchestra, opera and choral music were favoured forms of entertainment. Often, the orchestra would accompany singers as a part of orchestra concerts, in addition to the symphonies and other pieces that they played, or just in choral or opera concerts.\n\n\n\nThe French Concession was governed by a separate municipal council, under the direction of the Consul General. The French Concession was not part of the International Settlement, but had economical interests in it as evidenced by the presence of the French flag on the seal and the flag of the Municipal Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273536", "title": "Hurricane Gilma", "text": "Hurricane Gilma\n\nThe name Gilma has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273537", "title": "StarToons", "text": "StarToons\n\nStarToons International, LLC. was an animation studio located in the Chicago, Illinois area. It was founded by Jon McClenahan, an animator who had previously worked for other studios like Hanna-Barbera. The initial founding of StarToons was in October 1988 and for the most part it provided animation exclusively for Warner Bros. shows, but it also created the character Dudley the Dinosaur for the American Dental Association. StarToons shut down in 2001.\n\nThe studio provided animation for the following cartoons:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273542", "title": "Gillian McCutcheon", "text": "Gillian McCutcheon\n\nGillian McCutcheon (born April 1939) is a British-based actress who has appeared in many programmes over the years. She has played three parts in the ITV Soap opera \"The Bill\", alone. \nHer first role was \"The Avengers\", in 1961. She also played the unseen therapist in the 1990s series \"This Life\". Other credits include \"The Brothers\", \"Dixon of Dock Green\", \"Blake's 7\", \"A Horseman Riding By\", \"Emmerdale\", \"London's Burning\" and \"Holby City\".\n\nShe is now a senior member of London Arts Discovery.\n"}
{"id": "2273546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273546", "title": "Tropical Storm Greg", "text": "Tropical Storm Greg\n\nThe name Greg has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean and one in the Western Pacific.\n\nGreg is used on the current six-year lists in the Eastern Pacific:\n\nThe name \"Greg\" was also used for two tropical cyclones in the Australian region.\nThe name Greg was also used on the old name lists once for Pacific typhoons:\n"}
{"id": "2273557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273557", "title": "John Metcalfe (composer)", "text": "John Metcalfe (composer)\n\nJohn Metcalfe (born Wellington, New Zealand) is a British-based composer, arranger and violist, member of the Duke Quartet and a former member of the band the Durutti Column.\n\nMetcalfe's unique style is a result of his extensive experience in classical, pop and electronica. As violist with the Duke Quartet he released many CDs and toured worldwide. Metcalfe's string arrangements played by the Dukes feature on many albums by pop artists including Morrissey, Simple Minds, The Pretenders, Coldplay and Blur.\n\nMetcalfe studied viola at the Royal Northern College of Music and later at the Hochschule in Berlin. During this period he joined Vini Reilly in the Durutti Column.\n\nMetcalfe was instrumental in the formation of the record label Factory Classical, an offshoot of Tony Wilson's Factory Records. He also wrote arrangements for various popular artists, including Morrissey, Simple Minds and The Pretenders. He released an album of his own, \"The Inner Line\", to positive reviews. In 2004, another album, \"Scorching Bay\", was released, followed by \"A Darker Sunset\" in 2008. 'The Appearance of Colour' was released on April 2013 as part of Bowers and Wilkins Society of Sound subscription series.\n\nCommissions include a set of pieces for the guitarist Tom Kerstens and an album of electronic/acoustic music for 'cellist Matthew Barley. His music has also been used by various contemporary dance companies.\n\nHe also collaborated with Peter Gabriel, writing arrangements for his \"song-swap\" album, \"Scratch My Back\", and for the tour following it. For \"New Blood\" (2011), which he co-produced with Gabriel, he arranged and orchestrated versions of Gabriel's songs.\n\nIn 2015, Metcalfe released a solo album titled \"The Appearance of Colour\" on Real World.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273561", "title": "PBS Kids", "text": "PBS Kids\n\nPBS Kids is the brand for most of the children's programming aired by the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) in the United States. Some public television children's programs are not produced by PBS member stations or transmitted by PBS which is produced by independent public television distributors such as American Public Television are not labeled as \"PBS Kids\" programming, and it is mainly a programming block branding.\n\nPBS Kids is also the name of a separate network which has had two iterations in the age of digital television; one which existed between 1999 and 2005, and the current version which was launched in January 2017. The network is also available in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe framework for PBS Kids was established as part of PBS's \"Ready to Learn\" initiative, a project intended to facilitate access of early childhood educational programming to underprivileged children. On July 11, 1994, PBS repackaged their existing children's educational programming as a new block called \"PTV\". In addition to scheduled educational programming, PTV also incorporated interstitial content such as \"The P-Pals\", which featured animated characters shaped like PBS logos delivering educational content from their fictional world, \"PTV Park\". These interstitial shorts were aimed at younger children. Older children were targeted with live action and music video interstitials.\n\nSeveral of the interstitial shorts, along with some of the station identification sequences that were shown during the block, continued to be used by some PBS member stations after PTV aired for the last time on September 5, 1999.\n\nOn September 6, 1999, PBS launched the PBS Kids brand in several areas including its daytime Ready to Learn Service, PBS Online web pages for kids, and a home video label. Children's programming on the PBS network was then given unified branding. Along with the block of programming on PBS, PBS Kids lent its name to a separate television network, which launched on the same date and was targeted to children from 4 to 7 years old. The PBS Kids Channel ran for six years.\n\nOn September 30, 2000, the \"Bookworm Bunch\" programming block was introduced as PBS Kids' Saturday morning block. PBS Kids Go!, a programming block targeting older children, was launched in October 2004.\n\nThe network was shut down on September 26, 2005, in favor of a new commercial cable and satellite joint venture channel, PBS Kids Sprout, which was developed in partnership with Sesame Workshop, HIT Entertainment and Comcast (who later bought full control of the network via NBCUniversal). \n\nPBS gave licensees an option to sign on Sprout promoters while indicating that they should retain PBS Kids programming block during the day time. Half of stations programmed their own children's channel. PBS offered a replacement early school-aged kids network based on the block PBS Kids Go! by April 2006 to be launched in October 2006, but was cancelled before launch.\n\nOn May 8, 2013, PBS Kids programming was added to the Roku streaming player. As of October 7, 2013, to coincide with the debut of \"Peg + Cat\", PBS Kids received another graphic redesign and the PBS Kids Go! block and branding dissolved.\nOn July 1, 2016, all the PBS Kids shows, streaming from Netflix and Hulu moved to Amazon Prime.\n\nPBS Kids network was relaunched on January 16, 2017 with a live stream of the channel on the PBS Kids website and video app; no changes were made to the main PBS Kids block. The block is counter programmed from the network, thus the same show would not be shown at the same time on the network and block. PBS Distribution partnered with MultiChoice Africa to launch PBS Kids on May 22nd, 2019 on DStv and GOtv platforms across Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\n\"For list of all PBS Kids programs, see List of programs broadcast by PBS Kids (block) for the block and List of programs broadcast by PBS Kids for the channel.\"\n\n\n\"PBS Kids\" has received generally positive reviews from television critics and parents of young children. \"L.A. Story (a division of Blogspot)\" wrote, \"Great for any little explorer!\" Rob Owen of \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" wrote, \"Best children's entertainment available.\" Valerie Williams of \"Scary Mommy\" wrote, \"A wonderful gift.\"\n\nPBS Kids is an American digital broadcast and online television network operated by the Public Broadcasting Service. The network features a broad mix of live action and animated children's programs distributed to PBS by independent companies and select member stations, which are designed for improving the early literacy, math, and social-emotional skills of young children ages 2 to 11. Some PBS member stations, such as KLCS in Los Angeles maintain their own locally programmed PBS Kids feed, that is independent from the nationally sourced feed.\n\nOn September 6, 1999, PBS launched the PBS Kids Channel in several markets, in conjunction with the introduction of the PBS Kids brand to provide a unified branding for the service's children's programming offerings. The channel was launched on 33 PBS member stations: 19 of which offered PBS Kids Channel as a cable-only service, 9 which carried the channel on their digital broadcast signals in standard-definition, and 3 which carried simulcasts of the channel on their analog signals. Of the initial 27 affiliates, 16 of them planned to begin carrying PBS Kids Channel during the fall of 1999, with 11 additional stations choosing to debut it that winter.\n\nFCC requirements mandated satellite providers to set aside 4% of their available channel space for noncommercial educational and informational programming. With these providers limited to offering one such service per programmer, PBS had put forth PBS Kids as a prospective channel to fulfill this mandate.\n\nIn the aftermath of DirecTV's decision not to renew its funding agreement with the channel, which ended in the third quarter of 2005, PBS decided to shut down the network on September 26 of that year. PBS Kids Channel was effectively supplanted on that date by PBS Kids Sprout, an advertiser-supported cable and satellite channel that PBS developed in a joint venture with HIT Entertainment, Sesame Workshop, and Comcast. PBS gave licensees an option to sign on Sprout promoters, giving them cross-promotional and monetary benefits in exchange for giving up the ability to carry a competing preschool-targeted channel. 80 stations, making up about half of the member stations participants, signed up to be promoters; most of the remaining stations opted to develop independent children's programming services featuring programs distributed by PBS and through outside distributors such as American Public Television to fill space on digital subchannels that formerly served as PBS Kids Channel members. Many of the member stations that launched children's-focused subchannel or cable-only services reduced the amount of sourced programming from PBS Kids carried on their primary channel to a few hours of their weekday daytime schedules, in order to program more adult-targeted fare during the afternoon.\n\nPBS relaunched the PBS Kids network on January 16, 2017. Structured as a multi-platform service, it was made available for distribution to digital subchannels of participating PBS member stations, initially launching on 73 member stations (counting those operated as subregional PBS member networks), with an additional 34 agreeing to begin carrying the network at a later date. A live stream of the channel was also added to the PBS Kids website and video app upon the channel's debut, which will eventually allow viewers to toggle from the program being aired to a related educational game extending the interactivity introduced by \"Sesame Street\". The network is counterprogrammed from the PBS Kids block, so that the same program would not be shown on either simultaneously. PBS Kids 24/7 mainly features double-runs of existing series on PBS Kids' schedule (including some not carried on the primary channels of certain member stations); as such, no additional programs had to be acquired to help fill the channel's schedule. On April 21, 2017, the network launched \"PBS Kids Family Night,\" a weekly block on Friday evenings (with encore airings on Saturday and Sunday evenings) that showcase themed programming, premieres or special \"movie-length\" episodes of new and existing PBS Kids children's programs.\n"}
{"id": "2273562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273562", "title": "Hurricane Guillermo", "text": "Hurricane Guillermo\n\nThe name Guillermo has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273567", "title": "Hans Christoph Ernst von Gagern", "text": "Hans Christoph Ernst von Gagern\n\nHans Christoph Ernst Freiherr von Gagern (25 January 176622 October 1852), German statesman and political writer, was born at Kleinniedesheim, near Worms. After studying law at the universities of Leipzig and Göttingen, he entered the service of the Prince of Nassau-Weilburg, whom in 1791 he represented at the imperial diet.\n\nHe was afterwards appointed the prince's envoy at Paris, where he remained until the decree of Napoleon, forbidding all persons born on the left side of the Rhine to serve any other state than France, compelled him to resign his office (1811).\n\nHe then retired to Vienna, and in 1812 he took part in the attempt to excite a second insurrection against Napoleon in Tyrol. On the failure of this attempt he left Austria and joined the headquarters of the Prussian army (1813), and became a member of the board of administration for north Germany. In 1814 he was appointed administrator of the Orange principalities; and, when the Prince of Orange became king of the Netherlands, Gagern became his prime minister.\n\nIn 1815 he represented him at the Congress of Vienna, and succeeded in obtaining for the Netherlands a considerable augmentation of territory. From 1816 to 1818 he was Luxemburg envoy at the German diet, but was recalled, at the instance of Metternich, owing to his too independent advocacy of state constitutions. In 1820 he retired with a pension to his estate at Hornau, near Hochst, in Hesse-Darmstadt; but as a member of the first chamber of the states of the Grand Duchy he continued to take an active share in the promotion of measures for the welfare of his country. He retired from public life in 1848, and died at Hornau.\n\nOf his sons, Heinrich von Gagern and Max von Gagern also became politicians, and Friedrich Balduin von Gagern became a soldier.\n\nGagern wrote a history of the German nation (Vienna, 1813; 2nd ed., 2 vols., Frankfort, 1825-1826), and several other books on subjects connected with history and social and political science. Of most permanent value, however, is his autobiography, \"Mein Anteil an der Politik\", 5 vols. (Stuttgart and Leipzig, 1823-1845).\n"}
{"id": "2273571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273571", "title": "Hurricane Hector", "text": "Hurricane Hector\n\nThe name Hector has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n\nThe name Hector has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Australian region:\n\nThe name Hector has been used for one European windstorm:\n"}
{"id": "2273573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273573", "title": "Clofarabine", "text": "Clofarabine\n\nClofarabine is a purine nucleoside antimetabolite marketed in the US and Canada as Clolar. In Europe and Australia/New Zealand the product is marketed under the name Evoltra. It is FDA-approved for treating relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in children after at least two other types of treatment have failed. Some investigations of effectiveness in cases of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and juvenile myelomonocytic leukaemia (JMML) have been carried out. Ongoing trials are assessing its efficacy for managing other cancers.\n\nClolar was Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved 28 December 2004. (Under accelerated approval regulations requiring further clinical studies.)\n\n\n\n\n\nClofarabine is a second-generation purine nucleoside analog designed to overcome biological limitations observed with ara-A and fludarabine. A 2´(S)-fluorine in clofarabine significantly increased the stability of the glycosidic bond in acidic solution and toward phosphorolytic cleavage as compared to fludarabine. A chlorine substitution at the 2-position of the adenine base avoids production of a 2-fluoroadenine analog, a precursor to the toxic 2-fluoro-adenosine-5´-triphosphate and prevents deamination of the base as compared to ara-A.\n\nClofarabine can be administered intravenously or given orally. Clofarabine enters cells via hENT1, hENT2, and hCNT2, where upon it is phosphorylated by deoxycytidine kinase to generate clofarabine-5´-monophosphate. The rate-limiting step in clofarabine metabolism is clofarabine-5´-diphosphosphate. Clofarabine-5´-triphosphate is the active-metabolite, and it inhibits ribonucleotide reductase, resulting in a decrease cellular dNTP concentrations, which promotes greater incorporation of clofarabine-5´-triphosphate during DNA synthesis. Embedded clofarabine-5´-monophosphate in the DNA promotes polymerase arrest at the replication fork, triggering DNA repair mechanisms that without repair lead to DNA strand breaks in vitro and cytochrome c-mediated apoptosis in vitro. Studies using cell lines have shown that clofarabine-5´-triphosphate can also be incorporated into RNA.\n\nMechanisms of resistance and turnover have been reported. Clofarabine-resistance arises from decreased deoxycytidine kinase activity in vitro. ABC transporter ABCG2 promotes export of clofarabine-5´-monophosphate and thus limits the cytotoxic effects of this analog in vivo. Biochemically, clofarabine-5’-triphosphate was shown to be substrate for SAMHD1, thus potentially limiting the amount of active compound in cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273577", "title": "Empty Places", "text": "Empty Places\n\n\"Empty Places\" is the 19th episode of the seventh and final season of the television series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\".\n\nThe citizens of Sunnydale flee en masse and Sunnydale becomes a ghost town. Willow uses magic to get information from the police on Caleb, and Spike and Andrew leave to pursue a lead. They discover an engraving on a plaque that states that the power they are searching for is to be wielded by \"her\" alone. At the deserted school Buffy is confronted by Caleb, who beats her unconscious. After a brief period of unconsciousness, Buffy returns home to discover that Faith has taken Dawn and the Potentials to The Bronze for a night of relaxation. After they run into trouble with the police (during which the police threaten to kill or injure Faith, and briefly hold Dawn and the Potentials hostage at the Bronze), Buffy confronts the group and demands that they make better choices, and reveals her plans for another attack. But at this point (before Spike and Andrew return), the Potentials, as well as Dawn, Willow, Xander, Anya, Giles and Principal Wood, tell Buffy that they no longer trust her leadership. At Dawn's request, Buffy leaves the house and Faith reluctantly becomes the new leader.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273584", "title": "Hurricane Henriette", "text": "Hurricane Henriette\n\nThe name Henriette has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273585", "title": "St Catherine's School, Bramley", "text": "St Catherine's School, Bramley\n\nSt Catherine's School is an independent girls' school in the village of Bramley, near Guildford, Surrey, England. The school is divided into a senior school, for ages 11–18, and a preparatory school for girls aged 4–11.\n\nSt Catherine's School opened in 1885 with seventeen pupils, most of whom were boarders. Miss Susan Burnett was the founding headmistress. The school was founded during a time when various movements within the Church of England and other Christian denominations were pushing for more freedom for women, especially in matters such as participating in services and in education. St Catherine's was among a handful of schools founded by Church of England bishops. Founder Harold Browne, Bishop of Winchester, was a supporter of the \"deaconess movement\".\n\nA notable feature of the campus is the chapel, which was completed in 1894 and is known for its Kempe stained glass windows and the 1899 Father Willis organ. In September 2011 the school celebrated 125 years of education for girls and young women and in July 2011 it marked the opening of the 125th Anniversary Halls, a new set of facilities for sports and the arts.\n\nIn the year 2011, 12% of the students were admitted to Oxford or Cambridge.\n\nAcademic scholarships are offered for entry at 11+ and for year 11 and/or sixth form, alongside additional awards for excellence in art, sport, and music.\n\nThe girls take part in a wide range of sports, including netball, tennis, swimming, and lacrosse. The school has four lacrosse pitches and a number of courts for netball and tennis. In the Preparatory School, hockey is played.\n\nThe school hosts a variety of creative arts, with the students regularly taking part in art, textiles, design technology, home economics, drama and music lessons.\n\nAll pupils, both day girls and boarders, are assigned to one of the six houses. The houses compete in Inter-House competitions throughout the year. Boarders make up around a quarter of its pupils while day girls from Guildford and other towns in Surrey make up around three-quarters of the school.\nThere are four boarding houses at the school which are Bronte, Symes, Keller and a separate house for the Sixth Form.\n\nAs a Church of England school, pupils attend chapel weekly and actively participate in the service. Some pupils sing in the Guildford Cathedral girls' choir. The school began offering organ scholarships in 2006 to encourage more girls to participate in church music.\n\nThe patron of the school since 2015 is Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, whose great-great grandfather George Cubitt, 1st Baron Ashcombe, and his wife Lady Laura were among the founders of the school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273591", "title": "Hurricane Hernan", "text": "Hurricane Hernan\n\nThe name Hernan has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273599", "title": "Fred Fiedler", "text": "Fred Fiedler\n\nFred Edward Fiedler (July 13, 1922 - June 8, 2017) was one of the leading researchers in industrial and organizational psychology of the 20th century. He helped shape psychology and was a leading psychologist.\n\nHe was born in Vienna, Austria to Victor and Helga Schallinger Fiedler. His parents owned a textile and tailoring supply store prior to 1938. Fiedler immigrated to the United States shortly after the Anschluss in 1938 and became a US citizen in 1943. He served in the US Army from 1942 to 1945. He studied psychology in the University of Chicago where he obtained his undergraduate degree and later a Ph.D. in clinical psychology in 1949. In 1951, he moved to the University of Illinois and became a member of the psychology faculty. He became the director of the Group Effectiveness Laboratory at the University of Illinois from 1959 to 1969.\n\nHe was business and management psychologist at the University of Washington and held positions in the Department of Psychology and the School of Business. He directed organizational research at the university from 1969 until his retirement in 1992.\n\nHe helped this field move from the research on traits and personal characteristics of leaders, to leadership styles and behaviours. In 1967 he introduced the contingency modeling of leadership, with the now-famous Fiedler contingency model.\n\nFiedler's work with the contingency model of leadership provided an answer to the failings of the trait and behavioral theories and added to the understanding of the dynamics of leadership.\n\nHe died in June 2017 in Washington state at the age of 94 and was survived by his wife, Judith (whom he met as a student in the 1940s) and three daughters (Decky Fiedler, Tory Fiedler and Carol Fiedler-Kawaguchi). A funeral was held for him at Mercer Island, Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273601", "title": "Hurricane Hilary", "text": "Hurricane Hilary\n\nThe name Hilary has been used for ten tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273604", "title": "Coordination geometry", "text": "Coordination geometry\n\nThe term coordination geometry is used in a number of related fields of chemistry and solid state chemistry/physics.\n\nThe coordination geometry of an atom is the geometrical pattern formed by atoms around the central atom.\n\nIn the field of inorganic coordination complexes it is the geometrical pattern formed by the atoms in the ligands that are bonded to the central atom in a molecule or a coordination complex. The geometrical arrangement will vary according to the number and type of ligands bonded to the metal centre, and to the coordination preference of the central atom, typically a metal in a coordination complex. The number of atoms bonded, (i.e. the number of σ-bonds between central atom and ligands) is termed the coordination number.\nThe geometrical pattern can be described as a polyhedron where the vertices of the polyhedron are the centres of the coordinating atoms in the ligands.\n\nThe coordination preference of a metal often varies with its oxidation state. The number of coordination bonds (coordination number) can vary from two as high as 20 in Th(η-CH).\n\nOne of the most common coordination geometries is octahedral, where six ligands are coordinated to the metal in a symmetrical distribution, leading to the formation of an octahedron if lines were drawn between the ligands. Other common coordination geometries are tetrahedral and square planar.\n\nCrystal field theory may be used to explain the relative stabilities of transition metal compounds of different coordination geometry, as well as the presence or absence of paramagnetism, whereas VSEPR may be used for complexes of main group element to predict geometry.\n\nIn a crystal structure the coordination geometry of an atom is the geometrical pattern of coordinating atoms where the definition of coordinating atoms depends on the bonding model used. For example, in the rock salt ionic structure each sodium atom has six near neighbour chloride ions in an octahedral geometry and each chloride has similarly six near neighbour sodium ions in an octahedral geometry. In metals with the body centred cubic (bcc) structure each atom has eight nearest neighbours in a cubic geometry. In metals with the face centred cubic (fcc) structure each atom has twelve nearest neighbours in a cuboctahedral geometry.\n\nA table of the coordination geometries encountered is shown below with examples of their occurrence in complexes found as discrete units in compounds and coordination spheres around atoms in crystals (where there is no discrete complex).\n\nIUPAC have introduced the polyhedral symbol as part of their IUPAC nomenclature of inorganic chemistry 2005 recommendations to describe the geometry around an atom in a compound.\nIUCr have proposed a symbol which is shown as a superscript in square brackets in the chemical formula. For example, CaF would be CaF, where [8cb] means cubic coordination and [4t] means tetrahedral. The equivalent symbols in IUPAC are \"CU\"−8 and \"T\"−4 respectively. \nThe IUPAC symbol is applicable to complexes and molecules whereas the IUCr proposal applies to crystalline solids.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273606", "title": "Lists of schools in England", "text": "Lists of schools in England\n\nThe schools in England are organised into local education authorities. There are 150 local education authorities in England organised into nine larger regions. According to the Schools Census there were 3,408 maintained government secondary schools in England in 2017.\n\nBESA, the British Educational Suppliers Association has more up to date figures. It states that in 2019 there are 24,323 schools in England, which includes 391 nurseries, 16,769 primary schools, 3,448 secondary schools, 2,319 independent schools, 1,044 special schools and 352 pupil referral units. There are 1,170 multi-academy trusts that manage at least two schools: 598– have five or fewer schools, 259 have 6-11 schools, 85 have between 12-25 schools and 29 MATs have 26 or more schools.\n\nThere are 11 local education authorities in the East of England. \n\nThere are 19 local education authorities in the South East of England.\n\nThere are 16 local education authorities in the South West of England.\n\nThere are 15 local education authorities in Yorkshire and Humber.\n\nThere are 12 local education authorities in the North East of England.\n\nThere are 23 local education authorities in the North West of England.\n\nThere are 9 local education authorities in the East Midlands.\n\nThere are 33 local education authorities in the Greater London area.\n\nThere are 14 local education authorities in the West Midlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273610", "title": "Phillip Spaulding", "text": "Phillip Spaulding\n\nPhillip Granville Spaulding is a fictional character from the CBS soap opera \"Guiding Light\", portrayed by Grant Aleksander.\n\nThe character is the adopted son of business mogul, Alan Spaulding, and his first ex-wife, Elizabeth. Phillip has been portrayed by three different actors. Aleksander joined the cast in 1982 and left in 1984. From 1985 to 1986, John Bolger played the role of Phillip. Grant Aleksander then returned and played the role from 1986 to 1991. Five years later, in 1996, he returned, playing Phillip until November 2004, when the character of Phillip was shot onscreen and presumed to be dead.\n\nIn July 2005, Phillip was revealed to be alive (but not shown onscreen) when he was visited by Alan. In February 2009, the character of Phillip returned to Springfield, and remained on the canvas until the series finale on September 18, 2009.\n\nGrant Aleksander has been nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award four times throughout his tenure on the show. In 1998, he was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor and in 2003, 2004 and 2005, Aleksander was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor.\n\nSeven-year-old Phillip Spaulding's world would change forever in 1977 when his mother befriended Jackie Marler; only he wouldn't know it yet. The son of wealthy Alan Spaulding and Elizabeth Granville, Phillip had his every wish catered to and was exceptionally close to his mother. While his parents were going through a nasty divorce in 1978, Phillip was having chest pains and started receiving treatment from Dr. Justin Marler, Jackie's ex-husband. Phillip bonded with Justin and after his parents divorced, he encouraged his mother to marry Justin in 1979. At about the same time, Alan married Jackie. Phillip was content to have Justin and Jackie as stepparents and became close to both. However, in 1980, Justin and Jackie would divorce their prospective spouses and find love again with each other. In 1981, Elizabeth would unexpectedly leave Springfield for Switzerland and left Phillip in the care of the Marlers. Though confused as to why his mother left and why he was living with his \"Aunt Jackie\" and \"Uncle Justin\" instead of his father, Alan, Phillip accepted the situation and soon left Springfield to attend Lincoln Prep School. Late that year, while Phillip was on Christmas break from Lincoln Prep, he finally apologized to Mike Bauer about his treatment of Mike during the time Mike and Elizabeth were lovers.\n\nThrown out of Lincoln Prep School at 17 (SORAS), Phillip returned to Springfield in 1982 to attend Springfield High. He and Freddie [later calling himself Rick] Bauer became best friends when Phillip covered for Freddie after Freddie, who was driving with Phillip in his car, was pulled over for speeding and didn't have his driver's license. By this time, Jackie had died in a plane crash and Justin was seeing an Italian woman named Helena Manzini, a relationship Phillip disapproved of because he felt it was too soon after Jackie's death. Meanwhile, Phillip was hanging out with a rough crowd. When Phillip and Freddie were nearly involved in an accident, they realized perhaps the crowd they were hanging out with really weren't their friends and they stopped associating with them. Not long afterwards, Phillip met his first love, Melinda \"Mindy\" Sue Lewis, who in 1983, out of insecurity, staged a rather dramatic accident while riding her horse and was consequently hospitalized. During his visits to Mindy in the hospital, he developed a strong attraction to her roommate, Beth Raines.\n\nBoth Phillip and Rick were attracted to Beth, but Phillip backed off and continued to endure Mindy's spoiled behavior in deference to Rick's attraction to Beth. At the senior prom Rick and Beth went together, as did Mindy and Phillip but it was Phillip and Beth who were named King and Queen. Finally on the night of Mindy's 18th birthday party at the Country Club, Phillip and Beth finally confessed their true feelings for each other in the stables. However, Beth's stepfather Bradley found them and shocked Phillip by telling him the truth about his parentage: Alan and Elizabeth weren't his real parents; the Marlers were. Apparently, Alan felt his wife was too fragile to handle the fact their baby was stillborn and he bought the child Jackie was giving up. After Phillip learned the truth, he was not only furious at Justin and Alan, but also at Mindy and Rick, who both knew the truth before he did and didn't tell him. Angry and hurt, Phillip told Rick he was in love with Beth. Though he had initially rejected both his fathers, Phillip, upon learning Justin was flying out of town, tracked him down at the airport and not only forgave him for keeping his parentage a secret, but also gave his blessing for Justin and Helena to marry.\n\nIt was at this point Beth was raped by Bradley. Ashamed of what happened, she told no one and rejected Phillip. Phillip turned to Mindy for comfort and she seduced him without using birth control. Alan was also relieved to see Phillip and Beth growing apart since as far as he was concerned Beth was from a lower class and didn't deserve his son. Beth soon moved into the boarding house to try to get away from Bradley, but he got a court order and forced her to return home. When Beth returned home, Phillip was waiting, and they jumped out of a window and ran away to New York. After they had been running for a while they found themselves near Central Park and nearly out of money, Beth was working on some artistic sketches when both came upon a sidewalk Santa Claus (who preferred to be called Nick) who asked if they needed help. Though Phillip rudely tried to decline, Beth told the man they were nearly broke and had nowhere to stay and perhaps could not afford a hotel. Nick being the Good Samaritan he was, took pity on the young teenage couple and urged them to follow him through Central Park. Nick had led them to a place where he had led many people who were lost and homeless or poor or down on their luck. Nick turned them over to the others staying there and asked them to watch over Beth and Phillip. Eventually with Nick (Santa's) help, Beth told Phillip about the rape. Phillip promised to protect her and they pledged to never let anything come between them again. Meanwhile, Mindy and Rick had raced to New York to find the pair and the four friends took odd jobs in order to survive and they enjoyed the sights and sounds of New York. Eventually, in January 1984, Bradley tracked them down and in order to evade him they dressed up as clowns and engaged in a mime act in the park. Bradley saw through their disguise and got in a violent struggle with Phillip in Central Park that ended when Bradley almost fell off a cliff. Beth and Phillip saved him though and warned him to back off. With Bradley apparently no longer a threat, Phillip and Beth returned to Springfield.\n\nBack in Springfield, Alan hired Bradley with the intent of transferring him out of town in order to separate Phillip and Beth. Meanwhile, Phillip's Aunt Alex discovered Alan's schemes and revealed it to Phillip. Alex had become extremely protective of Phillip and Beth and when she found out about the rape, she made sure Bradley was arrested. At this time, Beth began to tutor Lujack, the leader of a street gang named the Galahads. Beth hoped this would help Lujack separate himself from his gang. But Darcy, Lujack's jealous girlfriend, had other ideas. Phillip was jealous but he and Beth still planned to marry. At the same time, Mindy was pregnant and told everyone Rick was the father. Then the day of Beth's wedding, Mindy's father, Billy, went to the church where Beth and Phillip were about to be married and confronted Mindy. He wanted to know if it was true the father of her baby was really Phillip. Beth overheard everything and at the altar she slapped Phillip and called off the wedding. Phillip wanted to be part of the baby's life. Mindy agreed but only if Phillip married her. Phillip married Mindy and they spent their honeymoon at Cross Creek. However the pair divorced after Mindy miscarried.\n\nOnce again, Phillip focused his attention on Beth, who by now was in love with Lujack. Feeling very rejected and angry, Phillip then discovered Lujack and Floyd Parker were turning the Galahads old garage into a night club. Phillip hired a crooked tradesman named Andy Ferris to sabotage the construction of the club but Andy went too far, and when the building blew up Beth was injured and blinded. Phillip felt very guilty but he could not bring himself to admit his wrongdoing so he enrolled Beth in a school for the blind. However, India von Halkein learned of the nightclub incident and threatened to tell Beth, thereby blackmailing her way into becoming his second wife. Phillip complied with India's demand but refused to consummate the union. However, when India started to notice Phillip and Beth renewing their friendship, she told Beth how Phillip had caused her blindness. Beth angrily rejected Phillip, but didn't tell Lujack the reason because she did not want to cause any more bad blood between them. At Lujack and Beth's engagement party in February 1985, Phillip, having grown to appreciate India's tenacity and wanting to gain control of Spaulding, announced India was pregnant (untrue, Phillip lied). Meanwhile, Lujack brought Andy to the party to play the blackmail tape and expose Phillip as the one who caused the accident. A scuffle over the tape occurred and Andy was shot and killed, and the tape was stolen. A lengthy murder mystery ensued with Lujack being erroneously convicted. By this time Phillip and India had consummated their marriage and India had faked a pregnancy test to make Phillip believe she was actually pregnant with his child. With the demands of the trial out of the way and Alex more determined than ever to run her out of town, India was more desperate than ever to cement her bond with Phillip. Conveniently an old family friend, Dr. Lyon, came visiting, and India employed the services of his never-fail love potion (sort of a gypsy version of Viagra). India began to mega-dose Phillip with the potion in hopes of making their previous baby announcement come true. But before India's desires came true, Phillip became ill from the potion and India was exposed for drugging Phillip. Eventually Beth convinced Phillip to come clean about his deal with Andy and they became friends again. Ironically the police didn't believe Phillip's story but by now plenty of people shared the suspicion India had murdered Andy. In the end, the real culprit turned out to be Floyd, who was holding India in a cabin where he forced her to sign a false confession. Luckily, Lujack and Beth eventually tracked them down and Floyd went to jail. Feeling a great deal of compassion for India, Phillip discovered they really did have a lot in common and agreed to remain married.\n\nStill jealous of Phillip's relationship with Beth and mistakenly believing that Phillip was ready to end their marriage, India began an affair with Simon Hall and when Phillip caught them kissing in early 1986, he quickly divorced India. After Phillip wrote a novel based on his and Beth's love, he and Beth found their way back to one another since Lujack was by now deceased. The couple's lives would be forever changed when Beth began working at a local museum for a Professor Blackburn, who had gotten his hands on the cornerstone of the Von Halkein estate in Andorra. India knew it contained gold and tried to steal it back from him. But the Professor protected the cornerstone until his death. He knocked India unconscious, shot Phillip, and held Beth hostage on a boat in Stony Lake. Some time later Blackburn's dead body turned up, Beth's shoe and some fabric from her dress were found but she was nowhere to be found. Phillip was devastated and vowed to find her, but Alan fabricated some evidence to make it look like Beth was really dead.\n\nIn 1987, Phillip had a relationship with his assistant Chelsea Reardon and they investigated the black art scene. During their investigation, Chelsea learned Alan was also involved in the black art market but only told her sister, Maureen about this since she feared bad blood between father and son. Though Alan secretly burnt down Phillip's house to stop the investigation, Phillip finally learned about it. When Chelsea and Jackson Freemont discovered Warren Andrews killed the head of the black art market, Paul Valère, Warren kidnapped them and Alan, but luckily Phillip saved them and Warren was arrested. Though Phillip was shot by Warren's hit man and left in critical condition, he survived with Rick's help. Chelsea then quit as Phillip's assistant and began to work for Alan at Spaulding while she and Phillip remained as lovers. There was just one problem. Phillip was still obsessed with the love of his life, the late Beth, and that made Chelsea frustrated. At this time, Jackson, noticing Chelsea's singing talent, became her business manager and began to vie with Phillip for her affections. When Chelsea realized they were fighting an old rivalry for Beth rather than a rivalry for her, she lost interest in both men. Phillip wrote her a letter telling her his true feelings for her, but Jackson intercepted it. When Chelsea found out about the letter, she and Phillip got back together and when Phillip forgave Chelsea for her affair with a married man in New York years ago they became engaged However, at this time Phillip was obsessed with wresting power away from Alan and sought the help of Alexandra and the Lewis's to help him. Finally, in 1988, when Chelsea (who wanted Phillip to reconcile with his father) found out about Phillip's plans to wrest control of Spaulding from Alan, she tried to warn Alan, and Phillip locked her up in the Towers. Disgusted, Chelsea bitterly broke up with Phillip.\n\nNot long after, Phillip had an affair with Rick's girlfriend, Meredith Reade after the couple had broken up. Distraught, Phillip agreed not to tell Rick about it and was genuinely relieved when the couple patched things up and got married. Later Meredith found herself pregnant and although Rick knew he wasn't the father, agreed to raise the child as his own without knowing whom the father was. Along came Blake Lindsey, Phillip's PR-agent at Spaulding. Phillip fell in love with her but didn't know Blake was actually paid by Alan to spy on him. After Alex revealed Blake's schemes and her true identity as the daughter of presumed dead Roger Thorpe, Phillip bitterly left Blake but, later, he forgave her and the couple reconciled. Then tragedy struck in April 1989, when during the delivery of Meredith's baby, Rick was forced to choose between Meredith's life and that of the unborn child. Rick chose Meredith. Later, Rick learned from a letter from Alan that Phillip was the father. Though Phillip tried to explain it happened before the couple had married and after they had had temporarily broken up, Rick still felt betrayed and it took him a long time to forgive Phillip. Prior to Phillip and Blake's wedding, a series of accidents started occurring. The trouble came to a climax at their wedding when gunfire rang out and Phillip was shot! It was then that the truth came out: Alan was behind the accidents in order to keep Blake from marrying Phillip and accidentally shot Phillip after having a struggle with a very much alive Roger. While Roger was exposed to everyone, Alan wasn't exposed immediately as the shooter. Roger was first suspected but finally convinced Ross, Phillip and Alan-Michael of Alan's crimes so the three decided to trick Alan into walking again. While Alex was in Europe, Roger appeared into the Spaulding mansion and appeared to shoot Phillip and Alan-Michael. Shocked, Alan stood up from his wheelchair, was exposed of all crimes and went to jail. Immediately after his arrest Alan told Phillip he'd forged Beth's death certificate: there was no proof Beth was dead.\n\nThough Phillip tried to reassure Blake he was over Beth, he became convinced she was alive. Not long after, a man arrived in town claiming to have kidnapped Beth and demanded a $1 million ransom. Hoping it was true, Phillip paid the money only to learn he'd been lied to by Dana Jones and her lover, Bruce Daly. At this time Bradley was released from prison. Learning the plot, he confronted Dana's lover and was knocked unconscious. Though Phillip suspected Bradley of swindling him first, he later learned the truth. Though Daly was caught, he escaped, and the money (unknowingly pocketed by Roger) was never recovered. Meanwhile, Phillip was becoming obsessed with finding Beth. Unbeknownst to Phillip, Blake discovered an amnesiac and mute Beth was living with Spaulding employee Neil Everest just outside town. Fearing Phillip would leave her for Beth, when Blake learned Phillip had Beth's grave exhumed, she had him committed in the Willow Hills mental institution for his \"delusions\" about Beth. For Phillip, he seemed to prove Blake right when he reacted violently towards her. Both Gary Swanson and Neil were please with this development: Gary because Blake now had Phillip's power of attorney, and Neil, because the field was clear for him to marry Beth. Of course as with any plans devious, Blake's attempt to take over Phillip's life was about to hit major snags and fall apart and Neil contributed to it.\n\nWhile Blake had Phillip committed for having defied a court order to exhume Beth Raines's grave, Neil decided to tell Beth about her past and accompanied her to Lillian's house. But, Beth, seeing her childhood home and remembering Bradley refused to go in and then ran away when she saw Bradley. Beth ran away to Clayton where the Willow Hills Sanitarium was and with her aphasia checked herself her into the sanitarium! Eventually, Phillip ended up seeing Beth, as did Lillian and Rick. Later, Blake tried to keep Phillip in Willow Hills, but Rick and Lillian told the court that Phillip was as sane as they were and he was released. But Blake still had his power of attorney. That was until Blake did one more really stupid thing in her plan to retain control. Phillip had the Spaulding mansion phones wired to monitor every call Blake took. Blake took a call from Neil about the upcoming marriage of him and Beth at the courthouse and Blake lied to Phillip saying the phone call was not from Neil! On Christmas Eve, Neil and Beth were about to marry, at the courthouse, with Blake in attendance, when Phillip and Rick on to Blake's plan crashed the ceremony and whisked Beth away! Although Beth tried to explain otherwise, Phillip was convinced Neil had been involved in Beth's kidnapping and fired him from Spaulding Enterprises. Phillip also found out Neil was suspected of causing the death of his wife and stepchildren in Pittsburgh, when the building they were in Neil had helped build collapsed. He also accused Neil of raping Beth! Neil's cause was not helped when WSPR-TV talk show host, Johnny Bauer accused Neil, over the holiday season, of being the mysterious person buying up property along Fifth Street for dubious ends. Determined to prove his innocence, on January 11, 1990, Neil helped Beth relive her kidnapping at the hands of Professor Blackburn. Beth recalled killing Blackburn when he tried to attack her, and she realized her aphasia stemmed from her lack of guilt over his death. At this point, Phillip found Neil and Beth and when the men began fighting, Beth finally spoke, yelling at them to stop.\n\nAs the year continued, Neil's true past came to light when he was able to prove the collapse was due not to his design, but to the faulty materials Spaulding had purchased. Grateful to Neil for helping Beth, Phillip voted for him to be rehired. Anxious to have a future with Beth, Phillip ended his calamitous marriage to Blake. She convinced Gary to spy on Phillip and Beth for her, hoping to get evidence of Phillip's unfaithfulness. A devious Gary agreed, and then tried to score points with Phillip by telling him Blake was having an affair. Despite her extracurricular activities with both Gary and Alan-Michael, Blake vehemently refused when Beth asked her to give Phillip an amicable divorce. Phillip asked Beth to marry him anyway. Not wanting to rush into anything, Beth said no, but their feelings ran deep and on Valentine's Day they made love. Meanwhile, one day in March, when Blake and Gary were rummaging through Neil's trailer to find a way to force Beth to stay with Neil, Beth caught them and after having a major verbal fight with Blake over Blake destroying some of her art sketches, Beth collapsed. When Gary and Blake took Beth to Cedars, they were all shocked to learn from Rick that Beth was pregnant! Beth assumed the baby was Neil's and told Phillip, who suggested they pass the child off as his. Unaware the baby really was Phillip's, Beth decided to be honest with Neil, but Blake, who stole Beth's file from the doctor's office, told Neil before Beth could.! A furious Neil refused to allow Phillip to raise his child. In April, Beth was ecstatic when Dr. Sedgwick showed her a sonogram revealing her child had been conceived in February 1990, and not in December 1989, which meant the child was Phillip's! In the meantime, trying to get back on Alan-Michael's good side, Blake agreed to give Phillip a divorce, no strings attached. However, things were about to get very bad for Phillip. The day he was to meet Neil, Neil knocked him out and left him to die. As Neil was leaving up the stairs, a double-crossing Gary confronted Neil and pushed down a flight of stairs into the garage. Blake showed up to see Gary and Neil fighting, and Gary convinced her Neil had to be subdued when he showed her the bomb Neil had set.\n\nAfter tying up Neil, Blake saw Phillip also unconscious and was sure Gary had knocked him out. Blake then tricked Gary and was able to tie him up next to Neil. Blake called Roger who set Gary free. Meanwhile, Neil mumbled “Phillip”, leading Roger to suspect that was who hit him. Roger tried and failed to defuse the bomb and Neil died in the explosion. With the audiotape of Neil murmuring \"Phillip\" as the one who knocked him out, Phillip's wallet being found in the wreckage of the garage, and threats Phillip had made against Neil's life, this was all enough to get Phillip arrested for Neil's murder. Trying to avoid prosecution and find out who the real murderer was, Phillip faked his own death, stealing a corpse (with Rick's help) in order to do so. Phillip fled to the island of Capria, near Mexico, and was shocked to meet India there. He promised India his Spaulding stock if she would keep quiet about his being alive and went to Springfield to discover what happened to Beth since she didn't follow him out of town. After trying to get Phillip's assets from Alan and Alex, India finally gave up and helped Phillip. When Phillip returned to town, he was shocked to discover that Beth and Rick had married to throw the police off track. After Phillip threatened Gary whom he suspected was Neil's murderer, Gary paid a killer to kill Phillip. The plan failed and finally Det. A.C. Mallet and Roger discovered Gary was Neil's accomplice and murderer. At the same time, Phillip revealed himself alive after the birth of his daughter, Lizzie. Though innocent, Phillip, Beth and Rick were sentenced to perform community service out of town for fraud. After marrying in February 1991, Phillip and Beth moved to Arizona with Lizzie to carry out their community service.\n\nOver the next few years, Phillip avoided any contact with the Spauldings when suddenly in April 1996, Alex called him to ask him to attend Alan-Michael's wedding to Lucy Cooper in Orlando, Florida. Although Phillip told Alex he wouldn't come, he indeed had plans to attend the wedding to Beth's dismay. Phillip arrived early and exposed himself to only Rick and told him he had plans to find the one who had cost him five years of his life. Phillip had found out someone else was involved in the incident which left him accused of Neil's murder. Gary had asked Phillip to visit him in prison where he gave him note that he had once found in Neil's trailer, which proved Neil had been paid by an \"A. Spaulding\" to get Phillip's fingerprints on the bomb. Although Rick advised him to drop his investigation, Phillip refused. During the wedding ceremony, Phillip wore a mask and when Alan was about to make a toast, Phillip stopped him and unmasked himself to the shock of all of the guests. Though Amanda, Alan and Alan-Michael weren't happy to see him, Phillip decided to return to Springfield anyway. While conducting his investigation, Phillip then visited Beth in Arizona but she left him for good since he'd refused to drop his vendetta and return home. Meanwhile, Alan-Michael was trying to prevent Phillip's return to Spaulding and, to set him up, he pretended to make up with his brother and tried to send him to a fake business trip to California so that he could spread lies about Phillip to the board. Phillip didn't leave but arrived during a board meeting to see Alan-Michael's actions against him. Not long after, Amanda exposed Alan-Michael as \"A. Spaulding\" through a letter from Neil to him. After Phillip asked Alan to support him during his fight against Alan-Michael Alan collapsed due to intense pain in his back and was rushed to Cedars. While recovering in his bed, he confessed to the family he was actually \"A. Spaulding\" and had hired Neil to set Phillip up since he had been disappointed in Phillip.\n\nFurious, Phillip disowned Alan and later made up with Alan-Michael and made plans to move to New York. As for Alan, he was suffering from paralysis, and giving up, refused to attend physical therapy sessions. Although Phillip arranged for him to be transferred to a rehabilitation clinic, he could not be persuaded by Alan to stay in town.. However, Alan still would not admit the seriousness of his injury and refused to heed the doctor's warning he would have to relearn how to use his body. Phillip dropped by the clinic on his way out of town, where Alex tried to convince him of the seriousness of his father's injury. Though Phillip refused to visit Alan, he relented when Alex begged him to stay to see him. The doctor explained to Alan he had a long, arduous journey ahead of him. When Alex and Phillip entered his room, Alan ordered them to leave. Alex left, but Phillip stayed behind and when he saw how resistant Alan was to his physical therapy, Phillip told him how pathetic he was for giving up so easily and he still blamed him for ruining his life. Although Alan-Michael tried to convince Phillip to just leave town and write Alan off for good, Phillip found that he couldn't and remained, staying for a while at the Bauers. Not long after, Phillip was shocked to learn Rick was the father of one of Blake's babies! Although Phillip demanded Ross be told the truth, or else he'd do it, he found he couldn't hurt Ross like that and kept quiet. Meanwhile, Phillip's anger at Alan softened as he sympathized with Alan's physical condition. Knowing Alan was giving up on himself, Phillip and Alan-Michael concocted a plan with Roger and Amanda to make Alan think they were selling Alan's company Advantage Systems to Roger with the hope Alan would get the urge to fight Roger and thus, get the urge to walk again. Their plan was a success. Meanwhile, after Lizzie had visited Phillip on Christmas, Phillip realized how much he missed Beth. It was too late because Lillian had given him divorce papers from Beth. At this time, Roger and Amanda plotted to take Spaulding over while the family tried to stop them. When Alan-Michael and Lucy left town, Phillip became president again.\n\nThat spring, Phillip was surprised to see his former sister-in-law, Harley Cooper at the Country Club masquerading as a woman named Starla. In the process of conducting the sting, Phillip and Harley started having feelings for one another which culminated into a kiss. Later, the pair left for New York to trap Jeffrey. Making it seem like \"Starla\" was going to get money from Phillip, the pair acted as though she was trying to seduce him, proving it by showing Jeffrey a surveillance tape of Phillip and Starla \"making love\". However, once the camera was shut off, the fake lovemaking became real as Phillip and Harley gave in to their passion. Later Phillip lied to Jeffrey stating he killed Harley during wild sex and when Jeffrey was ready to turn him to the police and to flee with Jenna, he was arrested for fraud when Harley and Jenna exposed him. Meanwhile, Harley and Phillip agreed to forget about happened that night and remain just friends. Then Harley and Jenna decided to join forces and began a detective agency. Their first assignment was to help Reva to find her long-lost sister. Not long after, Harley received a call from Mallet telling her he wanted a divorce since he was in love with another woman. Hurt and angry, Harley was consoled by Phillip. Meanwhile, Jenna and Harley learned Reva's nemesis, Annie Dutton, may have information on Reva's sister, and so they went to the mental hospital where Annie was staying. But when Security caught them snooping around, Jenna passed Harley off as her sister, Caitlin, and, to Harley's dismay, checked her into the mental institution. \"Caitlin\" then became Annie's roommate and apparently befriended her. Although Phillip tried to get Harley out of there, Harley was determined to follow through with the plan. Annie discovered who her new \"friend\" was and with help of the guards, drugged Harley with a psychotic drug. Luckily Phillip came to her rescue and admitted he too was falling in love with her.\n\nJust then, Beth returned to town with Lizzie determined to win Phillip. Anxious to get Phillip back, Beth used Lizzie by getting her hopes up and having her lie that she wanted to stay at home rather than go with Phillip for the night. That same evening, Lizzie held up the mistletoe for the pair to kiss; as Phillip leaned in to kiss Beth's cheek, Beth turned and kissed him passionately on the lips. Later, Beth warned Harley she wanted Phillip back, to which Harley responded that would never happen. While pining for Phillip, Beth became friends with attorney Ben Warren, who was far from reputable. When Phillip warned Beth about how unscrupulous Ben was, she told him to mind his own business. However, Ben soon realized Beth was just using him to make Phillip jealous and offered to help. Later, to make Phillip jealous, Beth faked receiving a phone call from Ben, and made New Year's plans with him. Phillip made it known that he didn't want Ben in his house, but Beth said she will go out somewhere with him anyway. She got herself into more trouble by deciding to stay in Springfield and accept a job. Harley, meanwhile, wasn't happy to see Beth either, especially since she was insecure over Phillip's feelings for Beth. Her fears compounded when Phillip expressed his displeasure at Beth's new friendship with Ben Warren. Although Phillip tried to assure Harley his heart belonged to her, Harley couldn't quite be sure. in 1998, Phillip proved his love for Harley by asking her to move in with him. Elated, Harley accepted the offer but was still disconcerted over the bond Phillip and Beth shared. When Beth thanked Harley for finding a lost Lizzie, she antagonized Harley by telling her to give Phillip some time to be with his family and continued to provoke her by mentioning the phone call she made to Mallet. Angry, Harley attacked Beth but was pulled off by Eleni. To Harley's relief, Phillip wasn't angry but instead understood.\n\nTheir relationship took a step back when Beth attempted suicide by throwing herself in front of a car. Guilt-ridden, Phillip offered to stay at the mansion to take care of a rattled Lizzie. After overhearing Lizzie ask Phillip not to make her take care of her mommy alone, Harley got suspicious and starting investigating Beth's past in Arizona. In the process she learned Beth had accidents before. She also discovered Beth had a boyfriend in Arizona named Carl. Harley decided to find him in order to ask him about Beth. Learning she was being investigated, Beth blasted Harley, who remained undeterred. Finally, Beth admitted to Harley about her abusive relationship with Carl but left insulted when Harley continued to interrogate her. Beth then told Phillip about Carl and Harley's meddling before Harley got to tell him her side of it. When Harley finally got to Phillip, he knew the whole story and yelled at Harley for interfering and jumped to Beth's defense. Not long after, Carl, upon learning Harley was asking about him, arrived in town threatening Harley to stay out of his business. Although Carl denied hurting Beth, Harley is soon able to trick him into admitting it. Later, she convinced Beth to help her arrest Carl. Using Beth as bait, the plan was for Harley to tape record Carl admitting his abusiveness. Harley, realizing she forgot her gun, left the scene before Carl got there. When she returned, Carl was dead and Beth was the prime suspect. During the investigation, Harley became unnerved at Phillip's attempts to protect Beth, even going as far as him suppressing evidence. Later, when Beth confessed to killing Carl in self-defense, both Harley and Phillip were unconvinced and investigated further. They soon discovered the true killer was Phillip's daughter, Lizzie! Worried about Lizzie, Harley left Phillip so that he could be with his daughter in her time of need. But Phillip wouldn't have it and convinced Harley he could be with her and be a part of his daughter's life at the same time. When Phillip proposed, Harley happily accepted and the couple made plans to marry, however when the wedding plans seemed to get out of hand, the couple decided to elope in New York. However, to their surprise, their elopement wasn't quite the secret they thought it was and they found Buzz and Phillip's Aunt Alex arranged a beautiful wedding for them at City Hall.\n\nTrouble began to brew again with the arrival of Harley's daughter Daisy, now called Susan, who was in search of her real mother now that her adoptive mother had died. In 1999, after telling Harley and Phillip her father had \"changed\" after her mother's death, Harley allowed Susan to stay the night at her place, to Phillip's disapproval. After calling Susan's father, Jim, Harley suggested they stay in Springfield for the holidays. Pleased to have a mother figure again, Susan was determined to fix Harley up with Jim and kept manipulating them to be alone together. Determined to stay in Springfield, Susan overdosed on medication. The plan worked with a guilt-ridden Harley wishing she could have seen the signs and suggesting that Susan should stay in town. However, Phillip disagreed and tried to encourage Harley to let go and allow Susan and Jim to go on with their lives. As Phillip and Harley continued to debate about Susan's presence in their lives, Harley learned she was pregnant. After learning of Harley's pregnancy, a hurt Susan left Springfield to live with Jim but later corresponded with Harley by phone. Later, Susan called Harley asking for help after she shoplifted a dress, telling her she was at a strange bus station outside Springfield. So, Harley has arrived at the bus station outside of Springfield to collect Susan. While there, a creepy man who had been eyeing Susan turned his attention to Harley. The two of them struggled, and Harley managed to kick him in the groin. Meanwhile, Jim arrived and flattened the perpetrator. When Phillip showed up, he and Jim argued about Harley's involvement in Susan's life with Jim complaining Susan was envious of the life Phillip and Harley lead. Phillip offered to solve the problem by moving the two of them to Springfield and gave Jim a job at Spaulding. Harley was forced to mediate between Phillip and Jim who did not get along with Jim even ended up quitting Spaulding to work at Lewis Construction. However, Phillip continued to grate on Jim, and when Jim threatened to leave town, Harley convinced Phillip to give him a reason to stay. So, to please Harley, Phillip bribed Jim to stay (although by now Jim was dating Beth so he was already planning on staying anyway).\n\nThat summer, Harley finally gave birth to a son, who was named Alan Cooper Spaulding, with Harley deciding to nickname him \"Zach\" after the lead in Phillip's novel. Things couldn't have been better when Harley and her new family agreed to join her best friend, Cassie Layne, and her new fiancé, Prince Richard for a Thanksgiving celebration in San Cristobel. After the celebration, Phillip, Beth and Jim were forced to leave early for business reasons, however, their plane crashed into the mountains. All three were o.k., but Jim opted to leave and brave the cold on his own in an attempt to bring help back. Believing that they were going to die, Phillip and Beth prepared a videotape to be made for Lizzie. Emotions high, they started reminiscing about the past and sought comfort in each other's arms with the video still recording. After being rescued, both decided to keep their lovemaking a secret and go on with their separate lives.\n\nIn 2000, the unexpected happened: Beth found herself pregnant with Phillip's child. Convinced Phillip would leave Harley to marry her again, Beth told him about the child. When Phillip refused to marry her, she became afraid Jim would leave her and threatened to have an abortion if Phillip told anyone the child was his. And so worried about Beth's state of mind (as well as his own marriage), Phillip reluctantly agreed to keep the child's true paternity a secret while Beth married Jim, Phillip giving the bride away. Their tryst wasn't a complete secret: the missing video was found by Prince Edmund Winslow who used it to blackmail Phillip when Phillip threatened to fire him from Spaulding. Phillip's hatred of Edmund wasn't lost on Harley and when she demanded to know the cause, Rick covered by saying Edmund was blackmailing him. At the same time, the Spauldings were dismayed when Lizzie was diagnosed with leukemia.. With Lizzie's condition worsening, her only chance of surviving was a bone marrow transfusion from the baby Beth was carrying. When Jim refused to have his child delivered prematurely in order to save Lizzie, Phillip blurted out the horrible truth: the child Beth was carrying wasn't Jim's; it was his. In the end, Harley refused to forgive Phillip and asked for a divorce.\n\nAt the same time, Jim died heroically in a fire at Christmastime. Almost immediately after, Beth accepted the friendship and support of Edmund. In 2001, against everyone's advice, Beth became his sole champion and encouraged him to secure the crown for himself when he discovered he was the true heir to the throne. Though Phillip tried to show Beth that Edmund couldn't be trusted by telling her Edmund was fixing the island's election, she went to Edmund who immediately used the information to his advantage and went to the press himself, calling the election invalid and declaring himself ruler of San Cristobel. Edmund had Richard arrested and Phillip talked his way past the prison guard and into Richard's cell. When the guard returned, Richard was gone and Phillip was in his place. When Edmund learned what Phillip had done, he had him shackled in the jail. Although Beth was able to save Phillip by convincing Edmund to simply deport him, Phillip told Beth he was seeking sole custody of their children to keep them away from Edmund. Phillip returned weeks later though when Beth asked that the children come for her and Edmund's coronation. Not long after the coronation, he married Beth who became his princess. Mere weeks later, Beth would learn everything people had been saying about Edmund was true when she learned he was holding Cassie captive! Confronted by Beth, a desperate Edmund locked her away but Beth was able to escape from the tower. Luckily, Phillip and Noah saw what Beth was doing and when she fell to the ground, Luckily, Beth was alright and returned to Springfield. After all those months of intrigue, Phillip returned to Springfield in time to see a very pregnant Harley. Instantly assuming she was pregnant with his child, Phillip railed at her that he was the last to know. On the defensive, Harley pointed out he had spent the better part of the winter consumed with Beth in San Cristobel and then informed him he was not the father of her baby. Weeks later, Phillip would be shocked to learn from Edmund just who was the baby's father: Rick.\n\nFurious, Phillip accused Rick of doing this purposely to hurt him (out of revenge for what happened with Meredith Reade) and refused to forgive him. Not long after, Beth ran to Mexico to get a quickie divorce. Edmund caught up with her and again begged her to go back to him. But Beth refused and ran off. While trying to get away from Edmund, Beth was caught in a flash flood and presumed dead. That fall, Phillip was able to get testimony from two witnesses that Edmund had been chasing after Beth when she died, however, the point became moot when Beth suddenly turned up in Springfield alive! Though she claimed to be suffering from memory lapses, Phillip was increasingly suspicious of her strange behavior and personality change. Not long after Beth's return, Phillip learned Harley had Rick's baby, but refused to see the child. However, around Thanksgiving, when the pair was looking for a lost Lizzie and James, Phillip and Rick talked things over and resumed their friendship. Meanwhile, after doing some digging, in early 2002, Phillip learned the woman in town was an imposter named Lorelei Hills. Though Alan wanted her arrested, Phillip was afraid that would traumatize Lizzie and simply asked Lorelei to leave. Though Alan went against Phillip's wishes and had her arrested anyway, when she became ill, Phillip, against his better judgment, allowed her to be cared for at the mansion. The trouble was, she was now insisting she was Beth! Skeptical at first, the more time he spent with her the more he realized this was truly Beth Raines. Beth was the imposter! By the time Phillip realized this, Beth had left Springfield with Edmund! Tracking her down at an old silver mine, Phillip became trapped. Though Beth reasserted herself and raced to the mine to free Phillip, the mine entrance shut while she was inside, trapping them both. Edmund arrived, causing another split between Beth/Lorelei. Edmund accidentally trapped them in the mine a second time, but Beth managed to free Phillip and they found another exit. After getting Beth, who'd taken on the Lorelei personality to deal with her trauma, the help she needed, the pair reunited.\n\nWhile Beth and Phillip reunited was a good idea in concept, the reality was more difficult. Phillip was cold and distant, confused by Beth's changes in personality while Beth was skittish and irritated by Phillip's pompous and patriarchal attitude in taking his son Zach away from Harley because of her relationship with Gus Aitoro. Frustrated by Beth, Phillip found himself susceptible to the charms of Olivia Spencer, Alan's fiancée. Then suddenly, a scandal rocked the household: Lorelei's diary was published! Though Beth immediately suspected Olivia, the publisher stated Lorelei had done the deed. Lizzie, Phillip, everyone, including Beth herself, blamed Beth. Confused, Beth went to Alan's lake cottage to clear her head, and ran into Bill Lewis. In an attempt to remember the past, she kissed him passionately. Phillip walked in at just that moment and railed out her. Later, Olivia told Phillip that it was Alan who published Lorelei's diary. To get revenge on Alan, the couple placed themselves on the bed, waiting for him to arrive. Once again they got carried away and began making out. Alan walked in, took one look at them, and had a heart attack. Later when Beth learned the circumstances of Alan's heart attack, she and Phillip agreed they had both changed far too much to be together, and gracefully parted ways.\n\nThough now free, Phillip was too guilty over his father's heart attack and vowed to stay away from Olivia, who agreed to marry Alan as well as sign an extreme prenuptial agreement which said she would lose her half of the Beacon Hotel if she cheated before the wedding. But she and Phillip kissed in the elevator moments before the ceremony, and Alex pocketed the security tape. On Thanksgiving Day, Alexandra revealed Olivia had published Lorelei's Diary. Meanwhile, Alex eventually gave Olivia the security tape. Alan found the tape and saw Olivia and Phillip's smooch was right in front of his eyes. Alan threw her out of the house and into the cold, days before Christmas. Later, after finding out Alan faked his earlier heart attack, Phillip and Olivia saw no reason to deny their feelings now, they wildly made love. The couple's happiness didn't last long. Confused about whether to end her marriage, Olivia went out of town in early 2003 to visit her sister and clear her head. While away, she made her choice and sent Phillip a priority letter saying she wanted to be with him and for him to meet her at the Beacon. Alan intercepted the letter and kept it from Phillip. When Olivia arrived at the Beacon, Alan and not Phillip was there to greet her. Hurt and vulnerable, Olivia let herself be seduced by Alan only to have Phillip arrive at the Beacon the next morning and find the two together. Disgusted that she'd fall into Alan's arms so soon, Phillip walked away. When Olivia tried to explain the situation, Phillip revealed he never got the letter. Though the pair figured out Alan intercepted the letter, that didn't matter to Phillip who decided he'd be better off not chasing after his father's wife. However, when Olivia revealed to Phillip she was pregnant and the child might be his, Phillip agreed to stand by her no matter what. Meanwhile, Phillip swore off Spaulding but was pulled back into the company when Alex informed him Alan was acting erratically.\n\nFaced with a mentally disturbed Alan, Phillip agreed to come back to the company. Not long after, an angry but well Alan was termed innocent of Reva's stalking and informed Phillip he was handing control of Spaulding over to his real son—Gus Aitoro! In addition to his troubles with Alan, Alex's schemes to break up Olivia and Phillip seemed to work after Alex paid someone to doctor the paternity test Phillip had secretly done without Olivia's knowledge which showed Alan was the father. However, Olivia had had her own tests done which proved otherwise. Olivia couldn't forgive Phillip's mistrust and asked him to stay away from her. Weeks later, Olivia would fall down the stairs at the Beacon. Although she and the baby were okay, she refused to see Phillip. Later, Phillip was shocked to learn she thought Lizzie was responsible for her fall. Incredulous, Phillip was dismayed to learn Beth and Lillian shared the fear and spirited the girl away to a cabin without his knowledge. In denial for months over Lizzie's emotional state, Phillip was later horrified when Lizzie threatened to kill herself after being confronted by Beth and Lillian. Though Harley was able to defuse the situation and bring Lizzie home, Phillip finally realized his daughter needed help. The situation with Lizzie brought Phillip to the breaking point and he began making plans for his soon-to-be-born daughter and suffering from panic attacks. Though an anxious Phillip tried to convince Olivia to marry him, she saw he was only asking because he wanted to provide a home for the child she was carrying, not because he loved her. Not long after she gave Phillip a non-answer to his marriage proposal, things finally came to a head with Lizzie. The night of Olivia's baby shower, Lizzie sneaked out of the house on the pretense of giving Olivia a gift. When a frightened Olivia refused the gift and asked Lizzie to leave, Lizzie continued to push the gift on Olivia and finally was escorted home by Christopher. That night, Olivia found something in her baby crib—a doll's head. Though Lizzie tried to deny it and pleaded with her family to believe her, she was unable to convince her family of her innocence.\n\nA horrified Olivia decided she had to get as far away from Lizzie as possible and left Springfield. Convinced he was a horrible father because he couldn't help Lizzie, Phillip's mental state would only get worse. Though agreeing to check himself into Cedars in order to have tests done, Phillip discharged himself early after doctors said there was nothing physically wrong with him. However, those close to Phillip could tell there was something seriously wrong. Phillip finally lost his grip on reality, seeing visions of Olivia everywhere. Finally, Phillip began stalking a pregnant woman and broke into her home, thinking she was Olivia. After that incident, Phillip's family decided to arrange an intervention, the same as they had with Lizzie, in order to convince Phillip to get himself help. By now Phillip had grown increasingly paranoid and delusional, but when he realized that his deteriorating condition was scaring Lizzie, Phillip agreed to go to the hospital for tests. After seeing yet another vision of Olivia (though unbeknownst to him, this one was real), Phillip checked himself into Ravenwood Mental Hospital. By now the family knew Olivia was in town, and believing she could help Phillip, they persuaded her to visit him. Phillip's condition had worsened greatly and unsure of his own sanity, he tried to strangle Olivia, thinking she was an hallucination. Unnerved, days later Olivia returned and told Phillip why she'd come back—their baby had died. Instead of the truth snapping Phillip back into reality, it only made him draw deeper into himself, becoming almost catatonic, and to Olivia's horror Phillip started blaming himself.\n\nAs time went by, Phillip seemed trapped in his shell, unaware of what was going on around him. Then in January 2004, his condition seemed to improve somewhat. Although he remained silent, he started responding to people. Meanwhile, Olivia hurriedly got a minister to marry her and Phillip at the institution. Olivia's position as Phillip's wife secure, she set out to solidify her power base at Spaulding and more by having Phillip change his will. Meanwhile, she kept a firm hold on Phillip, limiting his visitors, and often answering questions posed to Phillip herself. Finally, weeks later, Phillip received a shock when Olivia showed Phillip their daughter, Emma, who hadn't died after all. Although Phillip agreed to Olivia's demand of telling no one of Emma's existence, in order to protect the child from Lizzie, in private a vengeful Phillip vowed to make Olivia pay and take the child from her. For Olivia, Phillip proved to be a loose cannon and revealed to others Emma was alive. Although Beth and Rick dismissed Phillip's claims as denial, Lizzie was very suspicious and eventually presented Emma to Phillip.. Soon after, Phillip decided he had to take drastic measures to get his life back on track and, on Rick's recommendation, he underwent ECT therapy. Meanwhile, Phillip and Olivia started playing a dangerous game with each other, with Olivia playing the concerned, dutiful wife and with Phillip physically intimidating her. Finally after weeks of therapy, Phillip was released from the hospital and returned home where he and Olivia continued their cat and mouse game. Although Alan suggested Phillip simply get rid of Olivia, Phillip had something devious in mind for his wife. His plan was to frame her for the Antimonious drug scandal that Spaulding was being investigated for. Phillip's plan was foiled with the Feds dropped the investigation before they discovered the evidence. Not long after Phillip got his revenge on Olivia by blackmailing her with the knowledge she had illegally purchased Spaulding stock. With the choice between prison and staying married, Olivia was forced to bow down to Phillip's wishes. cold and calculating, Phillip to set out to embarrass Olivia and keep her under his thumb. In addition, he had Olivia trailed and cut off access to her bank accounts, in the event she'd try to leave. For his final act of revenge, he demanded Olivia resign from Spaulding, giving her a prepared speech on what to say. Finally, on the day of Harley's almost wedding to Gus, Phillip finally gave Olivia what she wanted—a divorce.\n\nThat was the only good thing that would happen that day. For on that day, Harley discovered not only was Alexandra an accomplice in the Antimonious drug deal, but Gus knew. In short order, Harley called the wedding off, Frank (framed for the crime) held a gun on Alan, and Buzz turned Alex in to the police. Seeing a grave injustice to his family, Phillip went after the Coopers, specifically Company. Deciding to rebuild the city of Springfield, Phillip, in a cold and calculating manner worthy of Alan, went through the government and secured permission to go forth with his plans. When Harley and Buzz learned who was behind the takeover of Company, they were furious. However, Phillip remained cold and unapologetic stating it was just business and offered to compensate Buzz fairly. But Buzz refused to give up and decided to fight. Phillip refused to make it easy on the Coopers, visiting Company at every turn and basically rubbing salt in the wound. However, the Coopers weren't the only family Phillip was after. In order to create his own version of Springfield, Phillip needed to acquire more property and made it appear as if he wanted to take over Cross Creek in order to distract them from their other properties. Meanwhile, very soon after, Phillip overheard Bill pleading with one of his employees, to reconsider resigning. Impressed with this middle-aged woman, named Ruth Karloff, Phillip interviewed her and found her to be no-nonsense, efficient and loyal and he hired her as his personal assistant. As the days went by, Phillip was growing more and more callous with each passing day. When he learned Lizzie had drugged her boyfriend, Joey Lupo, he inexplicably took Lizzie's side and blackmailed Joey into leaving town by threatening to foreclose on Mrs. Lupo's house. Days later, Phillip was enraged when his plans for Company were foiled when it was discovered the area was a nesting place for a rare bird. Angry that he'd lost, Phillip vindictively tore down Harley's house. Phillip's malice towards the Coopers wasn't lost on Zach, who distanced himself from Phillip. Although the Coopers denied it, Phillip was certain they were poisoning Zach's mind against him. In the meantime, Lizzie was having her own problems and confessed to Phillip she believed she'd hit Sandy Foster with her car. Desperate to protect his daughter, Phillip urged her to keep quiet while he took care of everything. Meanwhile, Phillip was becoming paranoid that someone at Spaulding was working against him and asked Gus to run a background check on all key employees. In the meantime, Gus was becoming concerned the mole was actually Ruth, Phillip's now trusted assistant. Phillip expressed his doubts.\n\nWhen Ruth began asking questions about the hit and run, he quickly realized Gus was right and decided Ruth needed to be neutralized to protect Lizzie. To accomplish this, he arranged for a man to run Ruth down! His plan failed however, when Gus ended up saving her life. In the midst of all this, Phillip's diabolical behavior concerned everyone, including those closest to him. In an effort to get through to Phillip, Rick arranged for Phillip to be kidnapped so they could talk. Although Rick tried reasoning, he only succeeded in making Phillip angry. That same day, Phillip learned something startling from Zach—Ruth was Harley in disguise! Still dealing with that revelation, Phillip was shocked to learn Lizzie was at the police station, about to confess to the hit and run! Although he tried to demand she keep quiet, Lizzie openly defied her father and admitted the truth. Believing everyone was against him, Phillip decided to leave Springfield with the only people he cared about—his children. After luring all the children to his private jet, Phillip informed everyone he had the children. Harley attempted to appeal to the human side of him, but to no avail. Not long after, Phillip arranged for Lizzie to be brought to him, however when she refused to go with him, he became enraged and vowed to destroy the people who have cost him his daughter's love. That same night, he asked several people to meet him at Company at 9 pm, telling each person if they came, and told no one else of the meeting, their children would be returned to them. At 9 pm, various citizens of Springfield converged at Company to find Phillip shot. Although he was rushed to the hospital, it was too late and Phillip was declared dead.\n\nAfter a short investigation, Harley was arrested, and the spring of 2005, convicted of Phillip's murder. Months after her conviction, Phillip's real shooter was revealed—it was Alan. However, that wasn't the end of the story. Having been revealed to be Phillip's killer, Alan knew he had to leave town and paid a visit to an abandoned warehouse where he met with none other than Phillip. Apparently Alan's concerns about Phillip's state of mind caused him to take drastic action in order to protect his son and his grandchildren: he shot Phillip and faked his death. Unknown to everyone else in Springfield, a completely delusional Phillip was living out his life as CEO of Spaulding in an abandoned warehouse office made to look like his Spaulding office. When Alan was arrested no one believed his story about Philip being alive. Not only that, but the medical staff stopped looking after Phillip because Alan couldn't pay. Phillip disappeared and later called Rick, stating he needed his help. Despite Rick's reluctance, Phillip pleaded with his friend to keep his situation a secret. Phillip was almost discovered by Mallet the day Harley married Gus but managed to escape. Meanwhile, frantic that a mentally disturbed Phillip was a danger to himself as well as to others, Alan went to desperate lengths to lure him into the open. To draw Phillip out, Alan married none other than Beth.\n\nIn the Spring of 2006, Phillip's Uncle Ross was apparently killed when his plane went down on the way to San Gabriel. After some investigating, Harley learned Alan was telling the truth—Phillip was alive .Rick confirmed it and admitted Ross suspected the truth and set out to find him. Determined not to be found, Phillip asked Rick to have the plane sabotaged so Ross couldn't take off. Tragically, the plane went up anyway and Ross was killed. In late 2007, the specter of Phillip continued to loom over Springfield. It started at Emma's seventh birthday party where she received a gift apparently from her father. Panicked, Olivia went to Alan for protection, unaware it was Alan who sent the gift as a way to manipulate Olivia into helping him. When Olivia tried to bow out, Alan upped the ante by hiring someone to break into her room and trash it. Not long after, Alan unexpectedly hired Harley to find Phillip. Though distressed at the thought of him returning, Harley decided it might be best to know his whereabouts and took the case. It didn't take long to learn Beth had received a gift from Phillip for her unborn baby. However, it came from a courier and she had no clue where Phillip was. At one point, Phillip sent Harley a card telling her to stop looking for him; she'll see him when he is ready. Afterwards, Harley spotted Zach's new sneakers and the boy was forced to admit they came from Phillip. Told Phillip would be at his ballgame, Harley and her partner Cyrus Foley waited and Cyrus tackled a hooded man they thought was Phillip. It was Remy who claimed to have run into Phillip after losing some gambling money in Clayton. Remy claimed Phillip paid him to deliver this package (which contained Phillip's old high school sports jersey) to Zach. Remy told the duo he didn't know where Phillip was, but doubted he was returning to town.\n\nSometime later, Bill Lewis became involved with Lizzie, and was falsely accused of being responsible for Lizzie's kidnapping (orchestrated by Dinah Marler and executed by Grady Foley). Despite her insistence that she believed Bill was not responsible for her kidnapping, Lizzie's faith in Bill began to wain and she slowly turned into Alan's pawn, distancing herself from Bill. In an effort to make Lizzie see reason, Bill (along with his father, Billy), set out to find Phillip in an effort to get him to help her. Bill was unsuccessful in his search, but things would work out in a way he never expected.\n\nOn February 9, 2009, in an effort to prevent Beth from marrying Alan, Coop Bradshaw was involved in a car accident on his way to the church. Badly injured, Coop was pulled from the wreckage by Phillip. In the following episode, Phillip spoke with Alan alone, at Phillip's mock grave site. He then pulled a gun on Alan, but told him he had no intention of shooting him. He even thanked Alan for straightening him out during his time of mental illness. Later that day, he stopped an enraged Buzz Cooper from physically attacking Alan.\n\nPhillip's return jolted the entire Spaulding family, and they barely had time to adjust when Beth's and Phillip's 19-year-old son, James, returned from boarding school. James was running a Ponzi scheme and even when Phillip helped clear the charges against him, he resented Phillip's return. Beth was torn between the love of her life and the son who had only known the worst of his father. During this time Beth also helped her daughter Lizzie marry Bill Lewis.\n\nEventually, Phillip learned he was dying. He didn't tell anyone, aside from Lillian, and tried to repair the relationships in his life with the time he had left. Beth found out in what were supposed to be Phillip's last days, and she felt devastated as well as betrayed by Phillip and by her mother. Fortunately for Phillip, Alan agreed to a bone marrow transplant, and saved his son's life, but a few days later, Alan quietly died after attending the double wedding of Lillian and Buzz Cooper and Vanessa Chamberlain and Billy Lewis. Beth was forced to break the news to her young daughter Peyton. Shortly before Alan's death, Phillip had proposed to Beth, and she had happily accepted. James and Phillip were now reconciled and Lizzie was trying for a baby. Beth also decided to return to her first love, drawing. A year later, Beth and Phillip were happily married, and were celebrating the upcoming nuptials of their best friends Rick and Mindy.\n\nPhillip's first wife was Mindy Lewis, daughter of Billy Lewis and his deceased first wife Diana. Mindy originally was the lover of Rick Bauer and Phillip was engaged to Beth Raines. However, after Phillip and Mindy had a one-night stand (because they thought Rick and Beth slept together), Mindy became pregnant. Phillip decided to do the right thing by marrying Mindy in 1984. Not long after, Mindy suffered a miscarriage and the marriage crumbled. Phillip maintained his feelings for Beth, while Mindy still longed for Rick. Within six months, the couple opted for an amicable divorce in 1985.\n\nPhillip was at first smitten with India, stepdaughter of his aunt, Alexandra Spaulding, from her marriage to the Baron Leo von Halkein. However, soon after arriving in Springfield, India began a vendetta against the Spaulding family. She blackmailed Phillip into marriage in 1984, and became a member of the board of directors at Spaulding Enterprises. Phillip and India's wedding is regarded as one of the most memorable nuptials in soap opera history. After India's affair with Simon Hall, she and Phillip divorced in early 1986. India remained on the Spaulding Enterprises board of directors indefinitely.\n\nPhillip believed Beth to be dead, so he moved on with the scheming Blake Thorpe. They married in mid 1989. Blake and Phillip's marriage immediately began to crumble when it appeared that Beth was in fact alive. Thereafter, Beth and Phillip consummated their relationship. Phillip divorced Blake later that year, and Blake sought revenge by romantically pursuing his brother, Alan-Michael Spaulding.\n\nPhillip married the love of his life, Beth Raines in 1991. Phillip's wedding to Beth is also considered to be memorable, in that it featured one of the show's most popular couples to finally say their \"I do's.\" The couple's first dance as man and wife was to Lionel Richie's 1982 debut solo \"Truly,\" which is also remembered as the song Phillip and Beth danced to at their high school prom where they were named king and queen. In later years, Beth had already given birth to a healthy baby girl named Lizzie Spaulding and together she and Phillip left Springfield. They were happy offscreen for quite a while and Phillip returned to Springfield in 1994 to find out who framed him for a number of criminal acts. Phillip moved on with Harley Cooper, but Beth returned. She and Phillip tried to reconnect, but eventually the marriage failed because of the time apart. They separated in 1995. Beth continued to try to separate Phillip from his attachment to Harley, but their divorce was finalized in 1997 after Beth coaxed Lizzie into trying to interfere with Phillip's newfound happiness.\nAt the end of the series Phillip and Beth found happiness.\n\nPhillip married Harley in a surprise family ceremony officiated by the mayor of New York, Rudy Gulliani, in 1997. The wedding was organized by Phillip's Best Friend, Rick; Harley's stepmother, Jenna and Phillip's Aunt Alexandra. In a surprise moment, Phillip asked Alan to be his best man. Harley gave birth to their son, Alan Cooper \"Zach\" Spaulding. The marriage had its share of ups and downs; and ultimately, the couple divorced in 2001 after Phillip had lied about his unborn child resulting from an affair with Beth.\n\nOlivia Spencer was married to Phillip's father Alan, but after an affair and a pregnancy, Alan kidnapped Olivia and held her away on an island. Phillip rescued her and ultimately, with the use of blackmail, Alan gave Olivia a divorce in 2003. Olivia and Phillip continued to court each other until they ultimately married in 2004 when she gave birth to Emma Spaulding. Eventually, thanks to Harley, Buzz Cooper, and Frank Cooper, Phillip developed a vendetta against the Cooper family and literally went insane. After having him committed, Olivia divorced him and ran away with her daughter Emma.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273618", "title": "Hurricane Howard", "text": "Hurricane Howard\n\nThe name Howard has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273621", "title": "Khazz", "text": "Khazz\n\nThe Khazz was the ethnarch of the Muslim community in Khazaria. The Khazz resided in the city of Khazaran. He may have had some authority over the division of the army known as the \"Arsiyah\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2273624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273624", "title": "Hurricane Ignacio", "text": "Hurricane Ignacio\n\nThe name Ignacio has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273626", "title": "Lawrence O'Donnell", "text": "Lawrence O'Donnell\n\nLawrence Francis O'Donnell Jr. (born November 7, 1951) is an American television anchor, actor, and host of \"The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell\", an MSNBC opinion and news program, airing weeknights.\n\nHe was a producer and writer for the NBC series \"The West Wing\" (playing the role of the President's father in flashbacks) and creator/executive producer of the NBC series \"Mister Sterling\". He also appeared as a recurring character on the HBO series, \"Big Love\".\n\nO'Donnell began his political career as an aide to U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and was Staff Director for the Senate Finance Committee. He describes himself as a \"practical European socialist\".\n\nO'Donnell was born in Boston, on November 7, 1951, the son of Frances Marie (née Buckley), an office manager, and Lawrence Francis O'Donnell Sr., an attorney. He is of Irish descent and grew up Catholic. He attended St. Sebastian's School (class of 1970), where he was captain of the baseball team and wide receiver on their undefeated football team. O'Donnell majored in economics at Harvard College, from which he graduated in 1976. While at Harvard, he wrote for the \"Harvard Lampoon\" and was popular among its members for his wit and sarcasm.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1988, O'Donnell was a writer. In 1983, he published the book \"Deadly Force\", about a case of wrongful death and police brutality in which O'Donnell's father was the plaintiff's lawyer. In 1986, the book was made into the film \"A Case of Deadly Force\", in which Richard Crenna played O'Donnell's father and Tate Donovan played O'Donnell, and for which O'Donnell was associate producer. In 2017, O'Donnell published the book \"Playing with Fire: The 1968 Election and the Transformation of American Politics\".\n\nFrom 1989 to 1995, O'Donnell was a legislative aide to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. From 1989 to 1991, he served as senior advisor to Moynihan. From 1992 to 1993, he was staff director of the United States Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, then chaired by Senator Moynihan, and from 1993 to 1995 he was staff director of the United States Senate Committee on Finance, again under Senator Moynihan's chairmanship.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2006, O'Donnell was associated with the television drama \"The West Wing\". During that time, he wrote 16 episodes. From 1999 to 2000, he was executive story editor for 12 episodes; in 2000, he was co-producer of five episodes; from 2000 to 2001, he was producer of 17 episodes; from 2003 to 2005, he was consulting producer for 44 episodes; and, from 2005 to 2006, he was executive producer for 22 episodes. O'Donnell won the 2001 Emmy award for Outstanding Drama Series for \"The West Wing\" and was nominated for the 2006 Emmy for the same category.\n\nIn 2002, O'Donnell was supervising producer and writer for the television drama \"First Monday\"; and, in 2003, he was creator, executive producer, and writer for the television drama \"Mister Sterling\".\n\nIn 2009, O'Donnell became a regular contributor on \"Morning Joe\" with Joe Scarborough. His aggressive debate style on that program and others led to several on-air confrontations, including an interview with conservative Marc Thiessen on \"Morning Joe\" that became so heated that Scarborough took O'Donnell off the air. Also in 2009 and 2010, O'Donnell began appearing frequently as a substitute host of \"Countdown with Keith Olbermann\", particularly when Olbermann's father was ill in the hospital.\n\nOn September 27, 2010, O'Donnell began hosting a 10p.m. show on MSNBC, called \"The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell\". On January 21, 2011, it was announced that O'Donnell would take over the 8p.m. slot from Keith Olbermann after Olbermann announced the abrupt termination of his show, \"Countdown with Keith Olbermann\". Beginning October 24, 2011, \"The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell\" switched time slots with \"The Ed Show\", with Ed Schultz taking over the 8p.m. Eastern slot, and O'Donnell returning to the 10p.m. Eastern slot.\n\nO'Donnell played Lee Hatcher, the Henrickson family attorney, in the HBO series \"Big Love,\" about a polygamous family in Utah. In addition to being a producer on \"The West Wing\", O'Donnell also played President Josiah Bartlet's father in a flashback sequence of the episode \"Two Cathedrals\". O'Donnell portrayed Judge Lawrence Barr in two episodes of \"Monk\" and played himself on an episode of Showtime's \"Homeland\".\n\nIn 2007, O'Donnell criticized Mitt Romney's speech on religion, stating: \"Romney comes from a religion that was founded by a criminal who was anti-American, pro-slavery, and a rapist.\" In the April 3, 2012, broadcast of \"The Last Word\", O'Donnell made comments regarding The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), saying it was an \"invented religion,\" which was \"created by a guy in upstate New York in 1830 when he got caught having sex with the maid and explained to his wife that God told him to do it.\" During the April 11, 2012, broadcast of \"The Last Word\", O'Donnell apologized for the April3 comments, stating that they offended many, including some of the show's most supportive fans.\n\nBefore showing a taped October 2010 interview with RNC Chairman Michael Steele, O'Donnell caused controversy over his intro to the interview which was considered racially insensitive. He said, \"Michael Steele is dancing as fast as he can, trying to charm independent voters and Tea Partiers while never losing sight of his real master and paycheck provider, the Republican National Committee.\" After drawing criticism from Steele and talk-radio host Larry Elder, O'Donnell apologized for his remarks.\n\nO'Donnell also drew criticism for an October 2010 interview with Congressman Ron Paul, when Paul accused him of breaking an agreement not to ask him about other political candidates. O'Donnell said he was not part of any agreement; but an MSNBC spokeswoman stated, \"We told Representative Paul's office that the focus would be on the tea party movement, not on specific candidates.\"\n\nDuring an October 2011 interview, O'Donnell accused Republican primary candidate Herman Cain of not participating in protests during the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s and also charged him with avoiding the draft during the Vietnam War. The Atlantic's Conor Friedersdorf said the questions posed by O'Donnell were \"offensive\" and declared, \"In this interview, O'Donnell goes to absurd lengths to use patriotism and jingoism as cudgels to attack his conservative guest, almost as if he is doing a Stephen Colbert style parody of the tactics he imagines a right-wing blowhard might employ. Does he realize he's becoming what he claims to abhor?\" O'Donnell's interview with Cain was later defended by Reverend Al Sharpton.\n\nOn September 20, 2017, an eight-minute video clip was leaked which showed O'Donnell angrily cursing and swearing about background noise between segments of a live broadcast that had aired August 29, 2017. O'Donnell apologized on Twitter, and the leaker was subsequently fired.\n\nOn August 27, 2019, O'Donnell reported that Deutsche Bank documents showed Russian oligarchs had cosigned loan applications for Trump. O'Donnell reported the story, based on a single source he did not identify, using the qualifier \"if true\" and admitted it had not been verified by NBC News. The next day, O'Donnell walked back the report, referring to it as an \"error in judgment.\"\n\nIn a 2005 interview, O'Donnell called himself a \"practical European socialist\". O'Donnell also declared himself a \"socialist\" on the November 6, 2010, \"Morning Joe\" show, stating: \"I am not a progressive. I am not a liberal who is so afraid of the word that I had to change my name to 'progressive'. Liberals amuse me. I am a socialist. I lie to the extreme left, the extreme left of you mere liberals.\" On the August 1, 2011, episode of \"The Last Word\", O'Donnell further explained: \"I have been calling myself a socialist ever since I first read the definition of socialism in the first economics class I took in college\".\n\nIn late 2010, O'Donnell made a trip to Malawi with the intent of providing school-room desks for students who had never seen desks. MSNBC and UNICEF partnered to create the K.I.N.D. fund - Kids in Need of Desks - with the mission to deliver desks to African schools. As of December 2013, the program had raised over $6.5 million, paying for approximately 100,000 desks to be delivered to classrooms. In addition, the K.I.N.D. fund also provides scholarships to help young girls in Malawi attend school. By the end of 2017 the Fund had raised $19 million.\n\nOn February 14, 1994, Lawrence O'Donnell married Kathryn Harrold. The couple has one child, Elizabeth Buckley Harrold O'Donnell. O'Donnell and Harrold divorced in 2013.\n\nIn April 2014, he and his brother Michael were injured in a traffic accident while vacationing in the British Virgin Islands. O'Donnell returned to his MSNBC show \"The Last Word\" in June after two months of recuperation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273627", "title": "Rhode Island Route 126", "text": "Rhode Island Route 126\n\nRoute 126 is a state highway in the U.S. state of Rhode Island. Route 126 is a heavily traveled route in Pawtucket. Its southern terminus is at U.S. Route 1 (US 1) in Providence, and its northern terminus is at the Massachusetts border where it continues as Massachusetts Route 126.\n\nRoute 126 begins at an intersection with Providence's Main Street, which is carried by US 1 and Route 122. The northbound direction begins on Smithfield Avenue, and the southbound begins at Frost Street, turning towards Smithfield via Nashua Street. Once the two meet, they travel the four-lane, divided Smithfield Avenue, very soon after interchanging with Interstate 95 and coming to an intersection with Silver Spring Road and Foch Avenue, where Route 126 turns right, continuing on Smithfield Avenue. The route forms a skewed intersection with Power Road, afterwards narrowing to two lanes, and continues through a dense residential area as it skirts the west side of Pawtucket.\n\nWest of Lincoln Woods State Park and within the Lincoln town limits, Route 126 turns onto River Road, just south of Route 123, which it intersects shortly after. It continues north, now known as River Road as it parallels the Blackstone River, which lies to the east. South of Albion, the route's name changes to Old River Road at an intersection with Lower River Road, and it intersects Route 116 and flies over Interstate 295 with no access. The route then enters Manville, where it curves westward before turning right at an intersection with Sayles Hill Road, continuing north.\n\nPassing underneath Route 99 with no access, Route 126 meets New River Road's northern terminus, upon which the route's name changes again to Manville Road, cutting briefly across the North Smithfield town line. As it enters Woonsocket, the road begins to parallel Blackstone River more closely, the two straddling a railroad alignment. Within the city, the route turns eastward onto Hamlet Avenue, forming a concurrency with its Route 122. The two routes then bridge the river and intersect Cumberland Street. Here, Route 126 turns northward onto four lanes of Cumberland Street while Route 122 turns southward. Eventually, Cumberland Street intersects Clinton Street and Social Street, where Route 126 turns eastward, using both streets for northbound and southbound, respectively.\n\nRoute 126's one-way pair merge into Social Street at an intersection with Elm Street shortly afterward. The route then intersects Privilege Street, carrying Route 114. Route 126 forms an overlap with Route 114, which it then releases at Diamond Hill Road. Route 126 continues its final trek north to the Massachusetts state line, where the route continues as Massachusetts Route 126 and still carrying the name Social Street for a short distance into that state.\n\nPrior to May 1962, Route 126 was in the Tiverton and Little Compton area. It started at the intersection of present-day Route 179 and Route 81. It went north along Route 179 to present-day Route 77. It then went north on Route 77 to end at Route 138 near the eastern end of the now demolished Stone Bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273628", "title": "Friedrich Heinrich Geffcken", "text": "Friedrich Heinrich Geffcken\n\nFriedrich Heinrich Geffcken (December 9, 1830 – May 1, 1896) was a German diplomatist and jurist, born in Hamburg, of which city his father was senator.\n\nAfter studying law at Bonn, Göttingen and Berlin, he was attached In 1854 to the Prussian legation at Paris. \n\nIn 1856 he was appointed Hamburg's Chargé d'affaires to Prussia in Berlin, and then raised in 1859 to Minister-Resident in Berlin of the Hanseatic states (i.e. Bremen and Lübeck as well). In 1866 he was succeeded in that post by Friedrich Krüger, a native of Lübeck, and moved to London to become the Hanseatic Minister-Resident there, replacing . However, with the coming of the North German Federation, Hamburg lost control over its foreign affairs outside of Germany and his post in London was abolished in 1869. \n\nGeffcken returned home and was appointed a Syndic of the Senate of Hamburg, a position analogous to a government minister. The senior Syndic was Carl Merck who had charge of foreign affairs, while Kirchenpauer was Hamburg’s representative at the new Federal Council in Berlin. Geffcken’s activities covered education and poor relief, and he also spoke on commercial, coin and tax matters. Wishing to turn more to literary endeavours, he resigned as Syndic spring 1872. \n\nAppointed in 1872 professor of constitutional history and public law in the reorganized University of Strassburg, Geffcken became in 1880 a member of the council of state of Alsace-Lorraine. Of too nervous a temperament to withstand the strain of the responsibilities of his position, he retired from public service in 1882, and lived henceforth mostly at Munich, where he died, suffocated by an accidental escape of gas into his bedchamber, in 1896.\n\nGeffcken was a man of great erudition and wide knowledge and of remarkable legal acumen, and from these qualities proceeded the personal influence he possessed. He was moreover a dear writer and made his mark as an essayist. He was one of the most trusted advisers of the Prussian crown prince, Frederick William (afterwards the emperor Frederick), and it was he (it is said, at Bismarck's suggestion) who drew up the draft of the New German federal constitution, which was submitted to the, crown prince's headquarters at Versailles during the Franco-Prussian War. It was also Geffcken who assisted in framing the famous document which the emperor Frederick, on his accession to the throne in 1888, addressed to the chancellor. This memorandum gave umbrage, and on the publication by Geffcken in the \"Deutsche Rundschau\" (Oct. 1888) of extracts from the emperor Frederick's private diary during the Franco-Prussian war, he was, at Bismarck's insistence, prosecuted for high treason. The Reichsgericht (supreme court), however, quashed the indictment, and Geffcken was liberated after being under arrest for three months.\n\nPublications of various kinds proceeded from his pen. Among these are \"Zur Geschichte des orientalischen Krieges 1853–1856\" (Berlin, i88i); \"Frankreich, Russland und der Dreibund\" (Berlin, 1894); and \"Staat und Kirche\" (1875), English translation by E. F. Fairfax (1877). His writings on English history have been translated by S. J. Macmullan and published as \"The British Empire\", with essays on Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, Palmerston, Beaconsfield, Gladstone, and reform of the House of Lords (1889).\n\n"}
{"id": "2273634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273634", "title": "Komani", "text": "Komani\n\nKomani, formerly Queenstown, is a town in the middle of the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa, roughly halfway between the smaller towns of Cathcart and Sterkstroom. It is currently the commercial, administrative and educational centre of the surrounding farming district.\n\nIts nickname, \"Rose Capital of South Africa\", comes from the large gardens and open places for flowers, (especially roses), in and around the town.\n\nQueenstown was founded in early 1853 under the direction of Sir George Cathcart, who named the settlement, and then fort, after Queen Victoria. Work on its railway connection to East London on the coast was begun by the Cape government of John Molteno in 1876, and the line was officially opened on 19 May 1880.\n\nThe town war memorial was designed by Sir Robert Lorimer in 1922 with its sculpture by Alice Meredith Williams.\n\nThe town prospered from its founding up to the worldwide depression of the 1930s, and again thereafter. In the 1960s, the majority of the Black population were moved east to the township of Ezibeleni, as part of the attempt to move African people to so-called \"homelands\". The area has in the past had very severe weather problems, luckily, often only affecting the surrounding areas. In 2002, heavy snowfall around Queenstown caused a severe disaster, especially since the area was not funded or ready for such a disaster. Then, in 2004, the surrounding areas of the Eastern Cape were affected by strong winds and heavy rainfall, although Queenstown once again escaped much flooding and some wind damage, power shortages soon followed. Other natural disasters include droughts and veld fires (wildfires).\n\nThe name of the town was changed to Komani in February 2016.\n\nThe following high schools serve the town and surrounding areas:\nPrimary schools in the area include:\n\nTertiary education institutions in Queenstown include \n\nThe city is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Queenstown as well as the Anglican Church's Diocese of Ukhahlamba. The imposing Cathedral of St. Michael lies adjacent to the town's public gardens. Churches of all faith denominations are to be found in and around the town.\n\nThe town lies on the Komani River which forms part of the Great Kei system of rivers and has a refreshing climate and plentiful water supply from the surrounding rugged mountains. The water is collected in the Bongolo Dam, set in the hills, used extensively for recreation and watersports. Each year, around the beginning of June, the town holds an art exhibition with the emphasis on paintings and sculpture. Perhaps inspired by some of the most interesting Bushman paintings in nearby caves, which are accessible to the visitor.\n\nClose to the town is a nature reserve (Lawrence de Lange Game Reserve) with numerous antelope, white rhinoceros and spectacular flowering plants together with panoramic views from the mountain summit.\n\nThe layout of the town reflects its original objective as a defensive stronghold for the frontier area and has a most unusual design. There is a central hexagonal area where canon or rifle fire could be directed down six thoroughfares radiating from the centre. The canon sites have now been replaced with gardens and a central fountain was the dominant feature. A striking abstract sculpture replaced the fountain as part of the town's 150th anniversary. The \"hexagon\" still exists, with the outer road surrounding it named \"Robinson Road\", which encircles it. Surrounding the Hexagon to the east and west lies more commercial and administrative facilities.\n\nCurrently, formerly 'white suburbs' (Sandringham, Kingsway, Windsor, Bergsig, Blue rise, Balmoral, Madeira Park and a new fast-growing suburb of Komani Park) surround the hexagon to the north, east and west, however, one of the city's great townships (and squatter camps) lies to the south. It is a collection of black and coloured townships named Mlungisi, Aloevale, a new township, Victoria Park has been built to the south-east of the city. East of the town lies the much larger Ezibeleni township, which although roughly the same surface area as the main town, has by far a larger population.\n\nKomani has a cold semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification: BSk), that borders on a subtropical highland climate (Köppen climate classification: Cfb), and a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification: Cfa).\n\nThe Komani area is in the Burgersdorp formation of the Tarkastad sub group, in the upper Beaufort Group Triassic in age in the karoo super group. The lithology is red mudstone 1 to 10 m rich layers and sub-ordinate 1 to 2 m rich sandstone layers deposited by meandering rivers in the flood plain in an oxidising environment gradually filling the Karoo basin. The formation reaches thickness of 600 m in the Komani (Queenstown) and Lady Frere area. Numerous dolerite dykes and ring structures intruded the area creating good localities for ground water exploration.\n\nThe town has a newspaper called The Representative, fondly known as the Rep, as well as The Express and a community radio station, Lukhanji fm. The Eastern Cape newspaper, Daily Dispatch, is widely read in the area.\n\nThe Queenstown municipal council assumed a pseudo-heraldic coat of arms in October 1902. The shield was quartered, and depicted (1) the Union Jack, (2) a landscape with hangklip mountain in the background, (3) a landscape with a mimosa tree in the foreground, and (4) a portrait of King Edward VII. The crest was a demi-antelope, and the motto \"Unity is strength\". The council later assumed a new coat of arms. The new shield displayed a golden royal coronet on a red background. The crest was the same as before, but the motto was translated into Latin as \"Ex unitate vires\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2273635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273635", "title": "Hurricane Ileana", "text": "Hurricane Ileana\n\nThe name Ileana has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. The name replaced Iva, which was retired after the 1988 season.\n"}
{"id": "2273637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273637", "title": "École de l'air", "text": "École de l'air\n\nThe École de l'Air is a military school and grande école training line officers in the French Air Force. It is located at Salon-de-Provence Air Base in Salon-de-Provence, France.\n\nIn 1922, the \"École du génie\" (School of Engineering) of Versailles, was entrusted with the mission to train all officers and aircrew in aeronautics.\n\nThe \"École militaire et d’application de l’Aéronautique\" (Military and Aeronautical School) was set up in 1925. The officer cadets from the non-commissioned officers' corps and young officers from the École Spéciale Militaire de Saint-Cyr and École Polytechnique attended training at Versailles for two years. For pilots, their training then continued at Avord and then Cazaux, where they trained in aerial combat and bombing.\n\nPresident Albert Lebrun created the \"École de l'Air\" by Presidential decree in 1933. The school's first class began training November 4, 1935. The school's motto, \"Faire Face\" (\"Overcoming\") is a tribute to Capitaine Georges Guynemer, a World War I fighter ace\n\nIn 1937, the school moved into still-unfinished buildings in Salon, Bouches-du-Rhône. The outbreak of World War II forced the school to relocate several times from 1939 to 1945, to sites including Bordeaux, Collioure, and Marrakech. It was not until 1946 that the school returned to the now-completed campus at Salon. The school received the Legion of Honor and the \"Croix de Guerre\" from President Vincent Auriol in 1947.\n\nOther specialized schools joined the \"École de l'Air\", including the \"École du commissariat de l'Air\", which trains administrative, legal, and financial officers, in 1953, and the \"Cours Spécial de l'École de l'Air\" (CSEA), which trains exchange cadets from French-speaking African countries, in 1973.\n\nIn 1969, the \"École de l'Air\" began an exchange program with the United States Air Force Academy, for eight cadets per school each year.\n\nThe school first accepted women in 1976.\n\nSince 2008, The \"École de l'Air\" also proposes two \"mastères spécialisés\" courses in aviation safety aircraft airworthiness and aerospace project management in partnership with the \"École nationale de l'aviation civile\" and the \"Institut Supérieur de l'Aéronautique et de l'Espace\".\n\nIn 2015, The \"École de l'air\" launched a MOOC titled \"Compréhension de l’Arme Aérienne\" (Understanding the Air Power) on France Université Numérique's platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273650", "title": "Hurricane Irwin", "text": "Hurricane Irwin\n\nThe name Irwin has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273655", "title": "Anatoli Yatskov", "text": "Anatoli Yatskov\n\nAnatoly Antonovich Yatskov (; –26 March 1993), also known as Anatoli Yatzkov (alias in the U.S. Anatoly Yakovlev) – was a Soviet consul in New York as well as intelligence officer handling American agents in the U.S. Manhattan Project during war. His spy cover was eventually blown by the U.S. Army Venona Program which identified him as a key NKVD agent involved in 1940s Atomic Spy Ring.\n\nIn 1940 Yatskov had graduated the NKVD intelligence school (NKVD Special Academy, SHON) majoring in English and was assigned to NKVD Department 5 (foreign operations) Section 5 (U.S. operations). In 1941 he was given his first overseas assignment in New York as a case officer at the NKVD station (\"Rezidentura\") at the Soviet Consulate general under the alias name of Anatoly Yakovlev. His NKVD operational alias at the time was JONNY. He was employed as a consular apprentice till 1943, being eventually promoted to Soviet vice-concul (ranking 3rd Secretary).\n\nIn New York station Yatskov was eventually assigned to most sensitive NKVD operations concerning the allied Manhattan project (known in NKVD as OPERATION ENORMOUS). NKVD New York station was crucial for the Soviet Union in obtaining most sensitive data on the U.S. Army Los-Alamos nuclear facility and precise knowledge on development of the A-Bomb. Among other activities Yatskov has recruited Harry Gold at Pennsylvania Sugar Company, his NKVD colleague Alexander Feklisov further employing Gold to liaise with Soviet agents in the U.S. Manhattan Project. Beside Gold main NKVD courriers between New York and Los Alamos National Laboratory included Cohen couple (known to NKVD as VOLUNTEERS). Being close with Cohens Yatskov was able to covertly communicate with chief atomic scientist Klaus Fuchs directly involved in Manhattan Project.\n\nYatskov was rotated back from New York back to Russia in 1946. Having left U.S. soil four years prior to the Rosenbergs trial he was summoned in the indictment as one of Julius Rosenberg NKVD case officers but legal action was waived due to his diplomatic immunity. Returning to the Soviet Union, Yatskov was awarded rank of NKVD colonel and held senior positions in NKVD foreign scientific department. He was engaged in case handlings in Europe and Asia, in 1950s being posted to Paris and Berlin as well as covertly living for some time in Iraq as a Canadian national.\n\nIn 1960s Yatskov was named the senior case officer in KGB foreign scientific department (named Department T) responsible for assessing and recruiting foreign scientists on Soviet soil. In 1970s Yatskov had left active posts and was named the scientific head of KGB Intelligence Academy (Red Banner Academy, known as KI). He retired from KGB as a colonel in 1985, living in Moscow in his retirement and buried at Moscow Vagankov cemetery.\n\nYatskov was awarded Soviet medals for Orders of October Revolution, Red Banner, and the Red Star, as well as the honorary KGB medal for \"Distinguished Security Services\". In 1996 his lifetime achievements for Russian state were posthumously awarded the highest honour of Hero of the Russian Federation. In his 1992 interview Yatskov mentioned that in 1950s the FBI had uncovered \"less than the half of NKVD U.S. network\" publicly referring to an uncovered atomic source at that time still alive in U.S. as PERSEUS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273660", "title": "Waterstock", "text": "Waterstock\n\nWaterstock is a village and civil parish on the River Thame about west of the market town of Thame in Oxfordshire. The parish is bounded to the north and west by the river, to the south largely by the A418 main road, and to the east largely by the minor road between Tiddington and Ickford Bridge across the Thame. On the north side of the parish, the river forms the county boundary with Buckinghamshire as well as the parish boundary with Ickford and Worminghall.\n\nWaterstock village is on a minor road north of the A418 and is surrounded by open farming land. In the village are about 50 houses and a farm along one main street.\n\nWaterstock's toponym is derived from the Old English for \"Waterplace\".\n\nWaterstock Mill is recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086. It was most likely on the same site as the current mill, which is a 15th-century building on a small island in the River Thame. The mill a two-storey L-shaped building, with a timber frame filled in with brick nogging. It was rebuilt in the Elizabethan period. In 1957 it was converted and sold.\n\nMany of the parish's fields show ridge-and-furrow strip cultivation. In 1279 there were probably about 200 inhabitants, but after the Black Death the population decreased to 51 persons over the age of 14.\n\nWaterstock's oldest buildings are the two thatched cottages, one thought to date from late in the 13th or early in the 14th century and the other from the 16th. Orchard End is a mediaeval cruck house, its smoke-blackened beams showing that it was originally a two-bay open hall house. The village's single street is flanked by cottages built of stone or local brick, some retaining the small buildings in the gardens, originally privies or pig-sties.\n\nAt one end of the village, Home Farm is a 17th-century timber-framed house with its thatched barn and 17th-century granary. The 18th-century Park Farm is beyond.\n\nThe grounds of Waterstock House are next to the church. The manor house was built in 1787 to designs by the architect SP Cockerell. It was demolished in 1953 or 1956 after the servants' quarters were converted into the present substantial residence. The stone-built stables are 18th-century and probably contemporary with the 1787 house. They are now the Waterstock Equestrian Centre.\n\nNear Waterstock Mill is Bow Bridge: a small, single-arch brick bridge built for Diana Ashhurst in 1790. By the entrance to Waterstock House is the Pump House dated 1898, a small building with a \"Rhenish helm\" roof reminiscent of a Saxon tower. Many of the villagers used to collect water from it until the village's mains water supply was installed in 1951.\n\nOpposite the church are Church Farm Cottages and the Old Rectory, a substantial stone-built 18th-century house, the only other 'gentlemen's house'. In the 20th century it was the home of the violinist Manoug Parikian, his wife Diana Parikian, the antiquarian bookseller, and their two sons, until his sudden death on Christmas Eve 1987. He is buried in St Leonard's churchyard.\n\nRichard Ellis the Californian astronomer lived in the Old School House while a graduate student at Oxford from 1971 to 1974.\n\nWaterstock seems to have had a parish church since at least 1190. The current Church of England parish church of Saint Leonard was built at the end of the 15th century. The nave and chancel were rebuilt in 1790, and in 1858 the Gothic Revival architect G.E. Street restored the building. It is the burial place of the early-17th-century Puritan writer William 'Eternity' Tipping.\n\nRemnants of mediaeval window glass were recovered after the English Reformation and have been inserted above the armorial Ashurst window. This window, together with monuments in the church, records the families of local squirearchy who inhabited the manor house and retained its patronage until 1957.\n\nAs well as regular church services, meetings and concerts are held in the church.\n\nMany of the houses in Waterstock have their own stables. Waterstock House Training Centre was once the main equestrian centre of the area, and was once owned by the horse trainer Lars Sederholm.\n\nJunction 8A of the M40 motorway and Oxford Services motorway service station are in the parish. There is also a public golf course.\n\nThe Oxfordshire Way traverses the parish and crosses the River Thame by Bow Bridge near Waterstock Mill.\n\nThere is a Waterstock and Tiddington Women's Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273666", "title": "Fibre Channel time-out values", "text": "Fibre Channel time-out values\n\nThe FC-PH standard defines three time-out values used for error detection and recovery in Fibre Channel protocol.\n\nE_D_TOV stands for \"Error Detect TimeOut Value\". This is the basic error timeout used for all Fibre Channel error detection. Its default value is 2 seconds.\n\nR_A_TOV stands for \"Resource Allocation TimeOut Value\". This is the amount of time given to devices to allocate the resources needed to process received frames. In practice this may be the time for re-calculation of routing tables in network devices. Its default value is 10 seconds.\n\nR_T_TOV stands for \"Receiver-Transmitter TimeOut Value\". This is the amount of time that the receiver logic uses to determine loss of sync on the wire. Its default value is 100 milliseconds, but can be changed to 100 microseconds.\n\nAll devices must use the default values until they have established different values (if they desire) with other devices, usually specified during the login procedure.\n"}
{"id": "2273667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273667", "title": "Alexander Feklisov", "text": "Alexander Feklisov\n\nAleksandr Semyonovich Feklisov (March 9, 1914 – October 26, 2007) was a Soviet spy, the NKVD Case Officer who handled Julius Rosenberg and Klaus Fuchs, among others.\n\nFeklisov worked out of the Soviet consulate office in New York City from 1940 to 1946. His supervisor was Senior NKVD Case officer Anatoli Yatskov (alias Yakovlev). Part of Feklisov's duties included recruiting espionage agent prospects from those sympathetic to the Communist Party of the United States and its auxiliary secret apparatus\n"}
{"id": "2273668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273668", "title": "Søren Lerby", "text": "Søren Lerby\n\nSøren Lerby (born 1 February 1958) is a Danish former football player, manager, and licensed agent. As a player, he spent most of his career in Dutch football, winning five Eredivisie championships with Ajax Amsterdam and two with PSV Eindhoven. With the latter club, he also won the 1988 European Cup. He won two Bundesliga titles with Bayern Munich, and played one season for AS Monaco in France. He played 67 matches for the Denmark national football team from 1978 to 1989, and represented Denmark at the 1986 FIFA World Cup and two European Championship tournaments. Currently, he is the agent of Napoli winger Dries Mertens.\n\nA left-footed midfielder, Lerby was a player who was always committed and a leader of the team. He once played two competitive matches in two countries on a single day on 13 November 1985: first in the afternoon a World Cup qualifier with Denmark against the Republic of Ireland in Dublin, being substituted having helped to secure a solid lead, and later in the evening a DFB-Pokal match with Bayern Munich against VfL Bochum, entering as a half-time replacement. Denmark qualified for the 1986 FIFA World Cup, and Bayern went on to lift the cup.\n\nLerby always played with his \"socks down\" – short socks or long socks rolled down but always without shin pads. This was quite uncommon and would be against the rules today.\n\nLerby was born in Copenhagen, the son of former Danish under-21 football international Kaj Lerby. Lerby played his youth football with local clubs B 1903, Taastrup IK and Fremad Amager. He got his senior debut with Fremad Amager, playing 13 games and scoring three goals in the top-flight 1975 1st Division season. He and Fremad Amager teammate Frank Arnesen moved abroad to become professional footballers in November 1975.\n\nThey switched to the Dutch club Ajax Amsterdam, when Lerby was only 17 years old. Lerby's first home game was a 4–1 against Go Ahead Eagles on 11 April 1976. He won three Dutch Eredivisie league titles in his first six years at Ajax, in the 1976–77, 1978–79, and 1979–80 seasons. In the summer of 1981 he was named team captain, succeeding newly departed Frank Arnesen. In the two seasons Lerby was captain, Ajax won a further two Dutch championships with high goal differences.\n\nHe moved to Germany in 1983, replacing midfielder Paul Breitner at Bayern Munich. He remained there for three years, winning two German Bundesliga championships and two DFB-Pokal cup trophies. His career continued for French team AS Monaco from 1986 to 1987.\n\nLerby moved back to the Netherlands in 1987 and was reunited with Frank Arnesen at Ajax' rivals PSV Eindhoven. He was a part of the 1988 European Cup winning PSV squad, also including fellow Danes Jan Heintze and Ivan Nielsen, though Frank Arnesen missed the final against S.L. Benfica because of injury. Lerby ended his active career in 1990.\n\nWhile a youth player with Taastrup IK, Lerby was called up for the Danish under-17 national team in October 1973. He debuted for the Danish under-19 national team in April 1974, and represented the team at the 1974 and 1975 European Under-19 Football Championships. He also played three games for the Danish under-21 national team.\n\nWhile at Ajax, he made his senior Danish national team debut against the Republic of Ireland in May 1978, scoring one goal in the 3–3 draw. Lerby was selected for the Danish national team at the 1984 European Championship, where he played in all four of Denmark's matches, and scored a goal in the semi-final against Spain, which saw Denmark eliminated on penalty shoot-out. At the 1986 FIFA World Cup he played in Denmark's four games, scoring in Denmark's 6–1 win against Uruguay. He was a part of the Danish squad for the 1988 European Championship.\n\nBetween 9 October 1991 and 11 March 1992 he spent some time as coach with Bayern Munich, as successor of Jupp Heynckes. With a spell of undistinguished results, including a combined 6–3 UEFA Cup elimination by his former club B 1903, Lerby effectively ended his managerial career and became a FIFA-licensed sports agent (Essel Sports Managements).\n\nLerby was married to Dutch singer and actress Willeke Alberti from 1981 to 1996. Together they have a son, Kaj, named after Lerby's father Kaj Lerby. Lerby was later married for a second time, with Arlette van der Meulen, and with her he had a second son and a daughter. He now lives in Laren, Netherlands.\n\nAjax\n\nBayern Munich\n\nPSV\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2273669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273669", "title": "Hurricane Iselle (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Iselle (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Iselle has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273674", "title": "Tropical Storm Isis", "text": "Tropical Storm Isis\n\nThe name Isis was used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Isis was removed from the naming list in 2015, due to the name's association with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (often called ISIS), and replaced by Ivette for the 2016 Pacific hurricane season.\n\nIsis was also used to name one tropical cyclone in the South-West Indian Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273678", "title": "Hurricane Ismael (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Ismael (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Ismael was used for three tropical cyclones in the Northeastern Pacific Ocean:\n\n\nThe name Ismael was retired in the Northeastern Pacific Ocean after the 1995 season and was replaced with Israel. During the 2001 season, a reporter stationed in Israel felt offense from the name choice, and the president of the Anti-Defamation League felt it was insensitive. As such the name Israel was replaced with Ivo.\n"}
{"id": "2273680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273680", "title": "Ohio State Route 67", "text": "Ohio State Route 67\n\nState Route 67 (SR 67) is a northeast–southwest state highway in the U.S. state of Ohio. Its western terminus is at an interchange with U.S. Route 33 (US 33) just south of Wapakoneta, which is also the southern terminus for both SR 198 and SR 501, and its northern terminus is at SR 18 and SR 19 in Republic.\n\nThe portion of SR 67 in Wayne Township, Auglaize County, beginning at Santa Fe Line Road, passing into Waynesfield to its merge with SR 196, then leaving Waynesfield and ending at its split from SR 196, is designated as the \"Staff Sgt. Sonny Zimmerman Memorial Highway\", in honor of a Waynesfield resident and Waynesfield-Goshen High School graduate who was killed in Mushaka, Afghanistan on July 16, 2013, while serving in the Army.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273683", "title": "Inishbiggle", "text": "Inishbiggle\n\nInishbiggle (\"Inis Bigil\" in Irish) is a small inhabited island off the coast of Ballycroy in Co. Mayo. Its name in Irish means \"Vigil \nIsland\"\n\nThe island is situated between the northeast of Achill Island and the mainland, and is accessed by boat from either Doran's point at Ballycroy or Bullsmouth, Dooniver on Achill Island. The island is 2½ km x 1½ km, or in area.\n\nThe main activities are sheep and cattle farming, fishing and winkle picking. Facilities on the island included a school and a post office, both now closed. Plans to build a cable-car link across the very dangerous Bullsmouth Channel, one of the strongest currents in Europe separating the island from Achill had been under discussion since 1996, but have now been abandoned due to the high cost and the money was given towards the Achill bridge redevelopment. Unpredictable currents in the channel during winter months can render the island inaccessible, even though the passage during fair weather is about ten minutes in the traditional boat, the currach. Emergency access is by helicopter.\n\nThe population is now down to a few dozen, almost all elderly.\n\nPlans to build a cable-car link across the very dangerous Bullsmouth Channel, one of the strongest currents in Europe separating the island from Achill had been under discussion since 1996, but have now been abandoned due to the high cost and the money was given towards the Achill bridge redevelopment. Planning permission for the cablecar was denied by Mayo county council on the grounds that \"\"It would be visually obtrusive in an area of special scenic importance, that it would create traffic problems and that it would devalue houses in the vicinity.\"\"\n\nThe table below reports data on Inishbiggle's population taken from \"Discover the Islands of Ireland\" (Alex Ritsema, Collins Press, 1999) and the Census of Ireland. \n\n"}
{"id": "2273685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273685", "title": "Hurricane Iva", "text": "Hurricane Iva\n\nThe name Iva was used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. The name was retired in the spring of 1989, and replaced with Ileana in the 1994 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273689", "title": "Commons", "text": "Commons\n\nThe commons is the cultural and natural resources accessible to all members of a society, including natural materials such as air, water, and a habitable earth. These resources are held in common, not owned privately. Commons can also be understood as natural resources that groups of people (communities, user groups) manage for individual and collective benefit. Characteristically, this involves a variety of informal norms and values (social practice) employed for a governance mechanism.\nCommons can be also defined as a social practice of governing a resource not by state or market but by a community of users that self-governs the resource through institutions that it creates .\n\nThe Digital Library of the Commons defines \"commons\" as \"a general term for shared resources in which each stakeholder has an equal interest\".\n\nThe term \"commons\" derives from the traditional English legal term for common land, which are also known as \"commons\", and was popularised in the modern sense as a shared resource term by the ecologist Garrett Hardin in an influential 1968 article called The Tragedy of the Commons. As Frank van Laerhoven and Elinor Ostrom have stated; \"Prior to the publication of Hardin's article on the tragedy of the commons (1968), titles containing the words 'the commons', 'common pool resources', or 'common property' were very rare in the academic literature.\"\n\nSome texts make a distinction in usage between common ownership of the commons and collective ownership among a group of colleagues, such as in a producers' cooperative. The precision of this distinction is not always maintained.\n\nThe use of \"commons\" for natural resources has its roots in European intellectual history, where it referred to shared agricultural fields, grazing lands and forests that were, over a period of several hundred years, enclosed, claimed as private property for private use. In European political texts, the common wealth was the totality of the material riches of the world, such as the air, the water, the soil and the seed, all nature's bounty regarded as the inheritance of humanity as a whole, to be shared together. In this context, one may go back further, to the Roman legal category \"res communis\", applied to things common to all to be used and enjoyed by everyone, as opposed to \"res publica\", applied to public property managed by the government.\n\nThe examples below illustrate types of environmental commons.\n\nOriginally in medieval England the common was an integral part of the manor, and was thus legally part of the estate in land owned by the lord of the manor, but over which certain classes of manorial tenants and others held certain rights. By extension, the term \"commons\" has come to be applied to other resources which a community has rights or access to. The older texts use the word \"common\" to denote any such right, but more modern usage is to refer to particular rights of common, and to reserve the name \"common\" for the land over which the rights are exercised. A person who has a right in, or over, common land jointly with another or others is called a \"commoner\".\n\nIn middle Europe, commons (relatively small-scale agriculture in, especially, southern Germany, Austria, and the alpine countries) were kept, in some parts, till the present. Some studies have compared the German and English dealings with the commons between late medieval times and the agrarian reforms of the 18th and 19th centuries. The UK was quite radical in doing away with and enclosing former commons, while southwestern Germany (and the alpine countries as e.g. Switzerland) had the most advanced commons structures, and were more inclined to keep them. The Lower Rhine region took an intermediate position. However, the UK and the former dominions have till today a large amount of Crown land which often is used for community or conservation purposes.\n\nBased on a research project by the Environmental and Cultural Conservation in Inner Asia (ECCIA) from 1992 to 1995, satellite images were used to compare the amount of land degradation due to livestock grazing in the regions of Mongolia, Russia, and China. In Mongolia, where shepherds were permitted to move collectively between seasonal grazing pastures, degradation remained relatively low at approximately 9%. Comparatively, Russia and China, which mandated state-owned pastures involving immobile settlements and in some cases privatization by household, had much higher degradation, at around 75% and 33% respectively. A collaborative effort on the part of Mongolians proved much more efficient in preserving grazing land.\n\nWidespread success of the Maine lobster industry is often attributed to the willingness of Maine's lobstermen to uphold and support lobster conservation rules. These rules include harbor territories not recognized by the state, informal trap limits, and laws imposed by the state of Maine (which are largely influenced by lobbying from lobster industry itself). Essentially, the lobstermen collaborate without much government intervention to sustain their common-pool resource.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Nepal chose to decentralize government control over forests. Community forest programs work by giving local areas a financial stake in nearby woodlands, and thereby increasing the incentive to protect them from overuse. Local institutions regulate harvesting and selling of timber and land, and must use any profit towards community development and preservation of the forests. In twenty years, locals have noticed a visible increase in the number of trees. Community forestry may also contribute to community development in rural areas – for instance school construction, irrigation and drinking water channel construction, and road construction. Community forestry has proven conducive to democratic practices at grass roots level.\n\n\"Acequia\" is a method of collective responsibility and management for irrigation systems in desert areas. In New Mexico, a community-run organization known as Acequia Associations supervises water in terms of diversion, distribution, utilization, and recycling, in order to reinforce agricultural traditions and preserve water as a common resource for future generations.\n\nToday, the commons are also understood within a cultural sphere. These commons include literature, music, arts, design, film, video, television, radio, information, software and sites of heritage. Wikipedia is an example of the production and maintenance of common goods by a contributor community in the form of encyclopedic knowledge that can be freely accessed by anyone without a central authority.\n\nTragedy of the commons in the Wiki-Commons is avoided by community control by individual authors within the Wikipedia community.\n\nThe information commons may help protect users of commons. Companies that pollute the environment release information about what they are doing. The Corporate Toxics Information Project and information like the Toxic 100, a list of the top 100 polluters, helps people know what these corporations are doing to the environment.\n\nMayo Fuster Morell proposed a definition of digital commons as \"information and knowledge resources that are collectively created and owned or shared between or among a community and that tend to be non-exclusive, that is, be (generally freely) available to third parties. Thus, they are oriented to favor use and reuse, rather than to exchange as a commodity. Additionally, the community of people building them can intervene in the governing of their interaction processes and of their shared resources.\"\n\nExamples of digital commons are Wikipedia, free software and open-source hardware projects.\n\nUrban commons present the opportunity for the citizens to gain power upon the management of the urban resources and reframe city-life costs based on their use value and maintenance costs, rather than the market-driven value. \n\nUrban commons situates citizens as key players rather than public authorities, private markets and technologies. David Harvey (2012) defines the distinction between public spaces and urban commons. Public spaces and goods in the city make a commons when part of the citizens take political action. Syntagma Square in Athens, Tahrir Square in Cairo, and the Plaza de Catalunya in Barcelona were public spaces that transformed to an urban commons as people protested there to support their political statements. Streets are public spaces that have often become an urban commons by social action and revolutionary protests. Urban commons are operating in the cities in a complementary way with the state and the market. Some examples are community gardening, urban farms on the rooftops and cultural spaces. More recently participatory studies of commons and infrastructures under the conditions of the financial crisis have emerged.\n\nIn 2007, Elinor Ostrom along with her colleague Charlotte Hess, did succeed in extending the commons debate to knowledge, approaching knowledge as a complex ecosystem that operates as a common – a shared resource that is subject to social dilemmas. The focus here was on the ready availability of digital forms of knowledge and associated possibilities to store, access and share it as a common. The connection between knowledge and commons may be made through identifying typical problems associated with natural resource commons, such as congestion, overharvesting, pollution and inequities, which also apply to knowledge. Then, effective alternatives (community-based, non-private, non-state), in line with those of natural commons (involving social rules, appropriate property rights and management structures), solutions are proposed. Thus, the commons metaphor is applied to social practice around knowledge. It is in this context that the present work proceeds, discussing the creation of depositories of knowledge through the organised, voluntary contributions of scholars (the research community, itself a social common), the problems that such knowledge commons might face (such as free-riding or disappearing assets), and the protection of knowledge commons from enclosure and commodification (in the form of intellectual property legislation, patenting, licensing and overpricing). At this point, it is important to note the nature of knowledge and its complex and multi-layered qualities of non-rivalry and non-excludability. Unlike natural commons – which are both rival and excludable (only one person can use any one item or portion at a time and in so doing they use it up, it is consumed) and characterised by scarcity (they can be replenished but there are limits to this, such that consumption/destruction may overtake production/creation) – knowledge commons are characterised by abundance (they are non-rival and non-excludable and thus, in principle, not scarce, so not impelling competition and compelling governance). This abundance of knowledge commons has been celebrated through alternative models of knowledge production, such as Commons Based Peer Production (CBPP), and embodied in the free software movement. The CBPP model showed the power of networked, open collaboration and non-material incentives to produce better quality products (mainly software).\n\nSome scholars have coined the term \"commoning\", which by its nature as a verb serves to emphasize the understanding of the commons as a process and a practice rather than as a static entity. Some authors distinguish between the resources shared (the \"common-pool resource\"s), the \"community\" who governs it, and \"commoning\", that is, the process of coming together to manage such resources. Commoning thus adds another dimension to the commons, acknowledging the social practices entailed in the process of establishing and governing a commons. These practices entail, for the community of commoners, the creation of a new way of living and acting together, thus involving a collective psychological shift: it also entails a process of subjectivization, where the commoners produce themselves as common subjects.\n\nThe discussion of commoning as a process rather than as a fixed entity also serves to bring new elements to the discussion of the commons. Its focus on social relations endues such processes with an emancipatory potential. Importantly, even if some commons are temporary or fail according to a conventional understanding of the term, their contribution to the members of the community and the social practices and psychological shifts that have arisen are still influential, having contributed to creating new subjectivities and sensibilities. Therefore, in this understanding, commoning can be temporary and this does not entail a problem or a failure. Commoning is a learning process, and the so-called failure of some commons might result in the creation of new ones.\n\nA commons failure theory, now called tragedy of the commons, originated in the 18th century. In 1833 William Forster Lloyd introduced the concept by a hypothetical example of herders overusing a shared parcel of land on which they are each entitled to let their cows graze, to the detriment of all users of the common land. The same concept has been called the \"tragedy of the fishers\", when over-fishing could cause stocks to plummet. Forster’s pamphlet was little known, and it wasn’t until 1968, with the publication by the ecologist Garrett Hardin of the article “The Tragedy of the Commons”, that the term gained relevance. Hardin introduced this tragedy as a social dilemma, and aimed at exposing the inevitability of failure that he saw in the commons.\n\nHowever, his argument has been widely criticized, since he is accused of having mistaken the commons, that is, resources held and managed in common by a community, with open access, that is, resources that are open to everyone but where it is difficult to restrict access or to establish rules. In the case of the commons, the community manages and sets the rules of access and use of the resource held in common: the fact of having a commons, then, does not mean that anyone is free to use the resource as they like. Studies by Ostrom and others have shown that managing a resource as a commons often has positive outcomes and avoids the so-called tragedy of the commons, a fact that Hardin overlooked.\n\nIt has been said the dissolution of the traditional land commons played a watershed role in landscape development and cooperative land use patterns and property rights. However, as in the British Isles, such changes took place over several centuries as a result of land enclosure.\n\nEconomist Peter Barnes has proposed a 'sky trust' to fix this tragedic problem in worldwide generic commons. He claims that the sky belongs to all the people, and companies do not have a right to over pollute. It is a type of cap and dividend program. Ultimately the goal would be to make polluting excessively more expensive than cleaning what is being put into the atmosphere.\n\nWhile the original work on the tragedy of the commons concept suggested that all commons were doomed to failure, they remain important in the modern world. Work by later economists has found many examples of successful commons, and Elinor Ostrom won the Nobel prize for analysing situations where they operate successfully. For example, Ostrom found that grazing commons in the Swiss Alps have been run successfully for many hundreds of years by the farmers there.\n\nAllied to this is the \"comedy of the commons\" concept, where users of the commons are able to develop mechanisms to police their use to maintain, and possibly improve, the state of the commons. This term was coined in an essay by legal scholar, Carol M. Rose, in 1986.\n\nOther related concepts are the \"inverse commons\", \"cornucopia of the commons\", and \"triumph of the commons\". It is argued that some types of commons, such as open-source software, work better in the cornucopia of the commons; proponents say that, in those cases, \"the grass grows taller when it is grazed on\".\n\nSilvia Federici articulates a feminist perspective of the commons in her essay \"Feminism and the Politics of the Commons\". Since the language around the commons has been largely appropriated by the World Bank as it sought to re-brand itself \"the environmental guardian of the planet\", she argues that it is important to adopt a commons discourse that actively resists this re-branding. Secondly, articulations of the commons, although historically present and multiple have struggled to come together as a unified front. For the latter to happen she argues that a \"commoning\" or \"commons\" movement that is effectively able to resist capitalist forms of organizing labour and our livelihoods must look to women to take the lead in organizing the collectivization of our daily lives and the means of production.\n\nWomen have traditionally been at the forefront of struggles for commoning \"as primary subjects of reproductive work\". This proximity and dependence on communal natural resources has made women the most vulnerable by their privatization, and made them their most staunch defendants. Examples include: subsistence agriculture, credit associations such as tontine (money commons) and collectivizing reproductive labor. In \"Caliban and the Witch\", Federici interprets the ascent of capitalism as a reactionary move to subvert the rising tide of communalism and to retain the basic social contract.\n\nThe process of commoning the material means of reproduction of human life is most promising in the struggle to \"disentangle our livelihoods not only from the world market but also from the war machine and prison system.\" One of the main aims of the process of commoning is to create \"common subjects\" that are responsible to their communities. The notion of community is not understood as a \"gated community\", but as \"a quality of relations, a principle of cooperation and responsibility to each other and the earth, the forsts, the seas, the animals. In communalizing housework, one of the supporting pillars of human activity it is imperative that this sphere is \"not negated but revolutionized.\" Communalizing housework also serves to de-naturalize it as women's labour, which has been a important part of the feminist struggle.\n\nAs reproductive rights over unwanted pregnancies have been denied in many countries for many years, several resistance groups using diverse commoning strategies in order to provide women safe and affordable abortion. Care, knowledge, pills have been made commons against abortion restriction. In New York, U.S., the group Haven Coalition volunteer provide pre and post abortion care for people who have to travel for abortion which is considered illegal in their places of origins, and with New York Abortion Access Fund, they are able to provide them with medical and financial assistance. Underground networks outside male-dominant medical service establishments are where women's networks oversee the abortion and assist each other physically or emotionally by sharing the knowledge of herbalism or home abortion. These underground groups operate under codenames like Jane Collective in Chicago or Renata in Arizona. Some groups like Women on Waves from Netherlands use international waters to conduct abortion. Also, in Italy, Obiezione Respinta movement collaboratively map spaces related to birth control such as pharmacies, consultors, hospitals, and etc. through which users share their knowledge and experience of the place and provide access to information that is difficult to obtain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273690", "title": "Signal/One", "text": "Signal/One\n\nSignal/One was a manufacturer of high performance SSB and CW HF radio communications transceivers initially based in St. Petersburg, Florida, United States. \n\nSignal/One's parent company was Electronic Communications, Inc. (ECI), a military division of NCR Corporation located in St. Petersburg, Florida. Key Signal/One executives were general manager Dick Ehrhorn (amateur radio call sign W4ETO), and project engineer Don Fowler (W4YET). Beginning in the 1960s with the Signal/One CX7, (\"S1\", as they were called) the company made radios that were priced well above the competition and offered many advanced features for the time, such as passband tuning, broadband transmission, dual receive, built-in IAMBIC keyer, electronic digital read out, solid state design, QSK and RF clipping. A Signal/One radio was said to be a complete high performance, station in a box.\n\nWhile marketed to the affluent radio amateur, it has been suggested that the primary market for Signal/One, like Collins, was military, State Department, and government communications. Although prized for the performance and advanced engineering, Signal/One's products did not sell as well as hoped, and the company gradually fell on hard times. From the 1970s though the 1990s, every few years, Signal/One was spun off, sold, and resurfaced at another location.\n\nThe surviving Signal/One products are sought after and actively collected. These include the CX7, CX7A, CX7B, CX11 and Milspec models. The last Signal/One radio was a re-engineered ICOM IC-781. Information available indicates there were 1152 Signal Ones built: 850 CX7, 112 CX11, 168 MS1030 (number of \"C\" versions is not known), 6 MilSpec1030C, 15 MilSpec1030CI Icom IC-781 conversions and 1 Milspec1030E DSP Icom IC-756 Pro conversion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273693", "title": "Hurricane Javier", "text": "Hurricane Javier\n\nThe name Javier has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273694", "title": "Armand Rougeau", "text": "Armand Rougeau\n\nArmand Rougeau is a Canadian former professional wrestler. He is the son of Jacques Rougeau, Sr. and brother of former World Wrestling Federation (WWF) wrestlers Jacques Rougeau, Jr. and Raymond Rougeau. He performed in Canada before he was hired by the WWF. An injury forced him out of the ring for several years. He has wrestled occasional matches and worked as an auto mechanic since retiring from wrestling.\n\nRougeau started wrestling in his native Canada in 1982. In 1983, while wrestling in the Montreal area, he formed a tag team with Dan Kroffat known as the Flying Canucks. They feuded with The Long Riders (Scott and Bill Irwin). They also had a rivalry with Richard Charland over Lutte Internationale's Canadian International Tag Team Championship. On February 8, 1987, Rougeau and Kroffat defeated Charland and Sheik Ali to win the title belts. They held the championship for over two months, dropping it to Charland and Chuck Simms on April 13. During his time with the company, Rougeau also competed as a singles wrestler, facing such opponents as Bob Orton, Jr.\n\nHe signed a contract to compete for the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in 1986. One month before his WWF debut, he sustained a serious back injury. To repair the injury, he had two discs removed from his back, which forced him to retire. He operated an auto repair business after leaving wrestling. He did not wrestle for several years, until he agreed to wrestle in a tag team match for his brother Jacques's Lutte 2000 promotion in December 2001. He has come back for several matches since then but does not intend to return to wrestling on a regular basis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273697", "title": "Jean Rougeau", "text": "Jean Rougeau\n\nJean Rougeau (June 9, 1929 – May 25, 1983) was a professional wrestler better known as Johnny Rougeau. Rougeau started wrestling in 1951 as Johnny Rougeau after an amateur wrestling career. In 1956, he was joined by his brother, Jacques Rougeau, Sr. He is also the uncle to former wrestlers Jacques Rougeau and Raymond Rougeau who would go on to great fame in the World Wrestling Federation as the Fabulous Rougeau Brothers as well as Armand Rougeau whose full-time career was cut short by injury. He had feuds with Abdullah the Butcher, The Sheik, Ivan Koloff, Hans Schmidt and Killer Kowalski. He founded All-Star Wrestling in 1967.\n\nRougeau began his amateur wrestling career in 1943.\n\nRougeau was also one of the premier promoters in Quebec. In the late 60s, Rougeau gave Ivan Koloff his ring name.\n\nRougeau also coached ice hockey with the Rosemont National 70-71 and Laval National 71-72, 72-73, 77-78 in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League, which included New York Islander Mike Bossy. He later served as the league's president from 1981 to 1983. The Jean Rougeau Trophy was named in his honor and is awarded to the team that records the most points in the regular season.\n\nHe was also at times a bodyguard, nightclub owner, and politician. Most notably, Rougeau became the bodyguard and chauffeur of then-Liberal candidate René Lévesque during the 1960 election after he was personally threatened by Union Nationale partisans.\n\nIn 1982, he was awarded the Bene Merenti de Patria, a silver medal awarded by the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society every year to a native of Quebec who has demonstrated service to the homeland.\n\nHe died of cancer on May 25, 1983. His funeral was attended by about 7,000 people. He was buried at the Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery in Montreal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273698", "title": "Jacques Rougeau Sr.", "text": "Jacques Rougeau Sr.\n\nJacques Rougeau Sr. (May 27, 1930 – July 1, 2019) was a Canadian professional wrestler. He was the father of wrestlers Jacques Rougeau, Armand Rougeau and Raymond Rougeau.\n\nRougeau started wrestling in 1956 with his brother, Johnny Rougeau. He had feuds with Abdullah the Butcher, Alexis Smirnoff, Don Leo Jonathan and The Sheik.\n\nIn 1984, Rougeau came out of semi-retirement to fight a series of matches in Quebec. Teaming with his three sons, Jacques, Armand and Raymond, the Rougeaus fought against many heels in the area, such as Pierre 'Mad Dog' Lefebvre, Frenchy Martin, Sailor White and Tarzan Tyler.\n\nRougeau retired in 1986.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273699", "title": "Vydubychi Monastery", "text": "Vydubychi Monastery\n\nVydubychi Monastery ( \"Vydubyts'kyi monastyr\") is an historic monastery in the Ukrainian capital Kiev. During the Soviet period it housed the NANU Institute of Archaeology.\n\nThe monastery was established between 1070 and 1077 by Vsevolod, son of Yaroslav the Wise. It was a family cloister of Vsevolod's son Vladimir Monomakh and his descendants.\n\nThe monastery, and the neighbourhood in present-day Kiev where it is located, was named after an old Slavic legend about the pagan god Perun and the Grand Prince Vladimir the Great of Kiev. The word \"Vydubychi\" comes from the word \"Vydobychi\" → \"Vydobych\" → \"Vydobech\" () which means \"to swim up\", \"emerge from water\".\n\nThe legend has it that Vladimir ordered the wooden figures of Perun (the Thunder God) and other pagan gods dumped into the Dnieper River during the mass Baptism of Kiev. The disheartened Kievans, though accepting the baptism, ran along the Dnieper River calling for the old gods to emerge from water (\"Перуне выдуби!\"). Accordingly, the area down the river stream where Perun emerged was named \"Vydubichu\" or \"Vydubychi\" in modern Ukrainian.\n\nThe monastery operated the ferry across the Dnieper River and many of the best scholars of that time lived and worked there. Among them, chroniclers Sylvestr of Kiev and Moisey made a great contribution to writing the \"Tale of Bygone Years\".\n\nFrom the 1596 Union of Brest the Monastery was an official seat of the first three metropolitans of the Greek Catholic Church in Ukraine - Mykhajlo Rohoza, Ipatii Potii and Yosyf Rutskyi. In 1635 it was returned to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.\n\nThe monastery was continuously protected by Ukraine's hetmans and aristocratic families. Hetman Ivan Mazepa in 1695 forbade the Vydubytskyi Monastery's neighbors to \"do injustice to the monastery\" and placed it under the guard of Starodub Regiment Col. Mykhailo Myklashevskyi, who established the Baroque-style Church of St. George and new Transfiguration Refectory. Hetman Danylo Apostol subsidised construction of the monastery's bell tower. In the 18th century the help of Hetman Kyrylo Rozumovsky's ensured the new properties for the Vydubychi.\n\nSince the late 1990s, the monastery is administered by the Ukrainian Orthodox Church - Kiev Patriarchate. The Vydubychi Church Choir was among the first choirs in newly independent Ukraine to reinstate singing of the Divine Liturgy in the Ukrainian language.\n\nOnly a few churches of this monastery have survived over the centuries. One of these is the Collegiate Church of Saint Michael, which was built on behest of Vsevolod I and partly reconstructed between 1766 and 1769 by architect M. I. Yurasov. The Ukrainian baroque structures include the magnificent 5-domed St. George Cathedral, Transfiguration of the Saviour Church and refectory, all dating from 1696-1701. A belltower, commissioned by the Hetman Danylo Apostol, was erected in 1727-33 and built up in 1827-31.\n\n\nMany distinguished individuals are buried there, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273700", "title": "Entente Florale", "text": "Entente Florale\n\nThe Entente Florale Europe (, \"Flowery Alliance of Europe\") is an international horticultural competition established to recognise municipalities and villages in Europe for excellence in horticultural displays. Trophies are presented annually by tourist boards and horticultural societies of European countries. There are three categories:\n\n\nEntente Florale Europe is a competition for Towns and Villages. The competition name puns on the Entente Cordiale (\"Friendly Understanding\", 1904). Each participating country puts forward a representative Town and Village. The Town and Village are visited by the Jury and an assessment is made. The competition was founded about 41 years ago, initially between Great Britain and France. At present there are twelve member countries and further applications are being processed.\nIn 1996, an international non profit association (AISBL) was founded under the name of \"Association Européenne pour le Fleurissement et le Paysage\" (European Association for Blooming and the Countryside), with the responsibility of the overall organisation of the competition and to obtain support from official bodies in the different countries. The AEFP is incorporated under the Belgian Law of 8 September 1997, and the Statutes were published in the Belgian Monitor on 8 September 1998. The amended articles, by Law of 2 May 2002 were published in the Belgian Monitor on 28 April 2006.\n\nSince 1998 under the aegis of the 'Association Européenne pour le Fleurissement et le Paysage', the association and the competition Entente Florale Europe are open to all countries in the European Union as well as to the EFTA members countries (European Free Trade Association).\n\nThe competition has enjoyed the support of the International Association of Horticulture producers (AIPH) since its inception. In individual countries the competition is supported and organised by Ministries/Department of Agriculture, Tourism, as well as horticultural bodies and associations.\n\nThe President represents the association and is acting for 2 years. Each successive President shall be from a different country per alphabetic order.\n\nWho can Enter ?\n\nThe competition is open to all countries in the EU and in the EFTA subject to approval by the board of AEFP. There are three categories, every member country can put forward 2 entries from two different categories.\n\nHow & When to Enter ?\n\n\nWho organises the Competition?\n\nOverall organisations is by the \"Association Européenne du Fleurissement et du Paysage\" (A.E.F.P.).\nAEFP is a non-profit organization, incorporated under Belgian Law(s). Each participant country has its own organisation and is entitled to membership on the Board of Directors of the AEFP. The competition has enjoyed the support of the International Association of Horticultural Producers (AIPH) since its inception.\nIn individual countries the competition is supported and organised by Ministries/Departments of Agriculture, Environment, Tourism as well as horticultural bodies and associations.\n\nThe Aim of the Competition\n\nThe overall aim of the competition is the improvement of the quality of life for local urban and village communities. To this end the competition fosters:\n\nAdvantages of Joining\n\nYou will\n\nAustria (AT)\nBelgium (BE)\nCzech Republic (CZ)\nGermany (DE)\nHungary (HU)\nIreland (IE)\nItaly (IT)\nNetherlands (NL)\nSlovenia (SI)\nUnited Kingdom (UK)\n\n\"Note re UK representatives\" - \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273702", "title": "Homer, Minnesota", "text": "Homer, Minnesota\n\nHomer is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Homer Township, Winona County, Minnesota, United States, on the south bank of the Mississippi River. As of the 2010 census, its population was 181.\n\nThe community is located to the immediate southeast of the city of Winona along Highways 61 and 14, near the junction with Winona County Road 15. Pleasant Valley Creek and Homer Creek both flow nearby. Nearby places include Winona, Lamoille, Pickwick, Donehower, Dakota, and Dresbach.\n\nHomer was platted in 1855, and named after Homer, New York. The community contained a post office from 1855 until 1960. The Willard Bunnell House, built in the 1850s by Homer's founder, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is managed as a historic house museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273704", "title": "Hurricane Jimena", "text": "Hurricane Jimena\n\nThe name Jimena has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273710", "title": "Hurricane Jova", "text": "Hurricane Jova\n\nThe name Jova has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "2273711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273711", "title": "St Catherine's School, Twickenham", "text": "St Catherine's School, Twickenham\n\nSt Catherine's School is a Catholic independent school for girls in Twickenham, London. The school is next to the River Thames and about from both Strawberry Hill and Twickenham railway stations.\n\nFounded in a large house near Twickenham Green, St Catherine's then moved to Orford Lodge (now demolished) and in 1919 to Pope's Villa, on the site of Alexander Pope's original villa. By 1961 it was recognised by the Ministry of Education as a grammar school. In 1948 the school bought a house on Cross Deep known as \"The Lawn\", where it is currently located.\n\nUp until 1991 the school was home to a number of Sisters who were also members of the staff. They moved out and the school became a charitable trust managed by lay persons in 1992. It is the only independent Roman Catholic girls' school in the Richmond area and is within the Archdiocese of Westminster. It remains a Roman Catholic foundation but takes students of all religious affiliations. It has a preparatory school (entry typically at three-years-old) and a senior school (entry at eleven-years-old). Nearly one-third of the pupils are of minority ethnic groups, but more than ninety per cent of the pupils have English as a first language.\n\nDirk Bogarde\nPhoebe McCulloch, noted linguist and philanthropist\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273721", "title": "Ilona Fehér", "text": "Ilona Fehér\n\nIlona Feher or Ilona Fehér (; 1 December 1901, Budapest, Hungary – January, 1988, Holon, Israel), was one of the last representatives of the Central European Violin School whose greats included Joseph Joachim, Otakar Ševčík and Jenő Hubay. She was also a noted violin teacher.\n\nFeher studied with Jenő Hubay for six years at the Franz Liszt Academy of Music in Budapest. Other violin teachers of her early years were Joseph Bloch, Josef Smvilovitch (also a pupil of Jenő Hubay) and Imre Pogany.\n\nBetween the two world wars she performed all over Europe, in particular with Willem Mengelberg and the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.\n\nFeher lived in Budapest until 1942 when she was interned with her daughter in a concentration camp. They managed to escape in 1944, and joined Hungarian and Czechoslovak partisans until the liberation by the Soviet Red Army. She later returned to the concert stage to perform only in Soviet-controlled Eastern Europe.\n\nIn 1949 she emigrated to Israel to begin a new life as a violin teacher. Within 25 years she had built herself a reputation as an Inspired Teacher of strong discipline, but not without a sense of humour. Her 250 pupils include some of the most outstanding violinists such as Pinkas Zukerman, Shlomo Mintz, Hagai Shaham, Ittai Shapira, Moshe Hammer and Yehonatan Berick, chamber music players Shmuel Ashkenasi and David Ehrlich as well as orchestra musician, Ron Ephrat (Principal Violist Rotterdam Philharmonic), Yaakov Rubinstein (Concertmaster of the Bamberg Symphony Orchestra) and conductor Yoel Levi. In addition to teaching at the Rubin Academy in Tel Aviv, Feher held master classes all over the world. She frequently served as jurist in international violin competitions in Munich and Freiburg, Germany, the Spohr competition.\n\nFeher was awarded the Golden Medal and Diploma of the Franz Liszt Academy in Budapest. She was also made an Honorary Doctor of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, and Honorary Citizen of the city of Holon which was always her home town in Israel. In a concert which was designed as a celebration of Isaac Stern's 65th birthday in Carnegie Hall, she was honored by King Solomon Award of the America-Israel Cultural Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273724", "title": "Hurricane Juliette", "text": "Hurricane Juliette\n\nThe name Juliette has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273726", "title": "Ferdynand Antoni Ossendowski", "text": "Ferdynand Antoni Ossendowski\n\nFerdynand Antoni Ossendowski (27 May 1876 – 3 January 1945) was a Polish writer, explorer, university professor, and anti-Communist political activist. He is best known for his books about Lenin and the Russian Civil War in which he participated.\n\nHe was born on 27 May 1876, on his family's manor near Ludza in the Vitebsk Governorate (now Latvia). His family was of Lipka Tatar descent. He studied at the famous gymnasium in Kamieniec Podolski, but he moved with his father, a renowned doctor, to Saint Petersburg, where he graduated from a Russian language school. Then he joined the mathematical-physical faculty of the local university, where he studied chemistry. As an assistant to professor Aleksander Zalewski, he traveled to many distant areas, including Siberia, the Caucasus and the Altay Mountains. During the summer, he was frequently enrolled as a ship's writer on the Odessa-Vladivostok line, a job that allowed him to visit many parts of Asia, including Japan, Sumatra, China, Malaya and Indonesia. For his description of his trip to Crimea and Constantinople, he received his first royalty. His record of a trip to India (\"Chmura nad Gangesem\": \"A Cloud Over the Ganges\") gained the prestigious \"Petersburg Society of Literature\" prize.\n\nIn 1899, after a students' riot in Saint Petersburg, Ossendowski was forced to leave Imperial Russia and move to Paris, where he continued his studies at the Sorbonne, his professors being Maria Curie-Skłodowska and Marcelin Berthelot. It is possible that he received a doctorate back in Russia, but no documents have survived. In 1901 he was allowed to return to Russia, where professor Zalewski invited him to the newly founded Institute of Technology of the Tomsk State University. There, he gave lectures on chemistry and physics. At the same time he also gave lectures at the Agricultural Academy and published numerous scientific works on hydrology, geology, physical chemistry, geography and physics.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese War (1904–1905) Ossendowski moved to Harbin in Manchuria, where he founded a \"Central Technical Research Laboratory\", a Russian-financed institution for development of the ore deposits in the area. At the same time, he headed the local branch of the Russian Geographic Society in Vladivostok. As such he made numerous trips to Korea, Sakhalin, Ussuri and the shores of the Bering Strait. In Manchuria, he also became one of the leaders of the considerable Polish diaspora and published his first novel in Polish, \"Noc\" (\"Night\"). He also got involved in the \"Main Revolutionary Committee\", a leftist organisation that tried to take power in Manchuria during the Revolution of 1905. After the failure of the revolution, Ossendowski organised a strike against the brutal repressions in Congress Poland for which he was arrested. A military tribunal sentenced him to death for conspiracy against the tsar, but his sentence was later commuted to several years' hard labour.\n\nIn 1907, he was released from prison with a so-called wolf ticket, which prevented him from finding a job or leaving Russia. At that time he devoted himself to writing. His novel \"V ludskoi pyli\" (\"In Human Dust\"), in which he described his several years' stay in Russian prisons, gained him much popularity in Russia and was even described by Leo Tolstoy as \"one of his favorites\". His popularity allowed him to return to St Petersburg in 1908. There he continued to write books and at the same time headed the \"Society of the Gold and Platinum Industry\" and several newspapers and journals, both in Russian and in Polish. After the outbreak of World War I, Ossendowski published several more books, including a science fiction novel, a propaganda novel on German spies in Russia and a brochure describing German and Austro-Hungarian war crimes.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the February Revolution of 1917, Ossendowski moved yet again, to Siberia, this time to Omsk, where he started giving lectures at the local university. After the October Revolution and the outbreak of the Russian Civil War, he also got involved in the counterrevolutionary Russian government led by Supreme Governor Admiral Aleksandr Kolchak. He served at various posts, among others as an intelligence officer, an envoy to the intervention corps from the United States and an assistant to the Polish 5th Rifle Division of Maj. Walerian Czuma. In 1918 he was responsible for the transfer of many tsarist and White Russian documents to the Entente, including proofs (many apparently forged) of German support (confirmed later from German archives) for Lenin and his Bolsheviks (so-called Sisson Documents).\n\nAfter Kolchak's defeat in 1920, Ossendowski joined a group of Poles and White Russians trying to escape from communist-controlled Siberia to India through Mongolia, China and Tibet. After a journey of several thousand miles, the group reached Chinese-controlled Mongolia, only to be stopped there by the takeover of the country led by mysterious Baron Roman Ungern von Sternberg. The Baron was a mystic who was fascinated by the beliefs and religions of the Far East such as Buddhism and Lamaism and \"who believed himself to be a reincarnation of Kangchendzönga, the Mongolian god of war.\" Ungern-Sternberg's philosophy was an exceptionally muddled mixture of Russian nationalism with Chinese and Mongol beliefs. However, he also proved to be an exceptional military commander, and his forces grew rapidly.\n\nOssendowski joined the baron's army as a commanding officer of one of the self-defense troops. He also briefly became Ungern's political advisor and chief of intelligence. Little is known of his service at the latter post, which adds to Ossendowski's legend as a mysterious person. In late 1920, he was sent with a diplomatic mission to Japan and then the US, never to return to Mongolia. Some writers believe that Ossendowski was one of the people who hid the semimythical treasures of Baron Roman von Ungern-Sternberg.\n\nAfter his arrival in New York City, Ossendowski started to work for the Polish diplomatic service and possibly as a spy. At the same time, in late 1921 he published his first book in English: \"Beasts, Men and Gods\". The description of his travels during the Russian Civil War and the campaigns led by the \"Bloody Baron\" became a striking success and a bestseller. In 1923, it was translated into Polish and then into several other languages.\n\nIn 1922, Ossendowski returned to Poland and settled in Warsaw. Immediately upon his return, he started giving lectures at the \"Wolna Wszechnica Polska\", Higher War School and School of Political Sciences at the Warsaw University. At the same time, he remained an advisor to the Polish government and an expert sovietologist.\n\nHe continued to travel to different parts of the world, and after each journey he published a book or two. In the interwar period, he was considered the creator of a distinct genre called the \"traveling novel\". With over 70 books published in Poland and translated almost 150 times into 20 other languages, Ossendowski was also the second most popular Polish author abroad, after Henryk Sienkiewicz. He repeated the success of his \"Beasts, Men and Gods\" with a book on \"Lenin\" in which he openly criticized Soviet communist methods and policies as well as the double face of the communist leaders. In Poland, three of his books were being filmed at the moment World War II started.\n\nAfter the 1939 Invasion of Poland and the outbreak of World War II, Ossendowski remained in Warsaw, where he lived at 27 Grójecka Street. In 1942 he converted to Catholicism (previously being a Lutheran), and the following year, he joined the ranks of the underground National Party. He worked in the structures of the Polish Secret State and cooperated with the Government Delegate's Office in preparation of the underground education in Poland during World War II and postwar learning programmes.\n\nAfter the Warsaw Uprising, Ossendowski, now seriously ill, moved to the village of Żółwin, near the Warsaw suburb of Milanówek. On 2 January 1945, he was taken to the hospital in Grodzisk Mazowiecki where he died on 3 January 1945. He was buried the following day in the local cemetery in Milanówek.\n\nTwo weeks after Ossendowski's death, on 18 January, the area was seized by the Red Army. It turned out that Ossendowski was being sought by the NKVD, and was being considered an enemy of the people for his book on Lenin and the Soviet system, which was considered an act of anti-Soviet agitation. The Soviet agents exhumed his body to confirm his identity and that he was really dead. \n\nAfter the war, the new communist Soviet-led authorities of Poland issued a ban on all books by Ossendowski. Many of his books were confiscated from the libraries and burnt. It was not until 1989 that his books were again published openly in Poland.\n\nThe relative obscurity of much of Ossendowski's output means that many books have been published twice under different names or with no date of publication. The following list is an approximate and incomplete bibliography only.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273729", "title": "Mushuau Innu First Nation", "text": "Mushuau Innu First Nation\n\nThe Mushuau Innu First Nation is a First Nations band government located in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. The band has one reserve which has been located near the community of Natuashish since 2002 when it moved from Davis Inlet. The reserve has an area of roughly .\n\nThe Mushuau Innu and the Naskapi tribe were once the same people, speaking the same dialect and writing in syllabics, but split off and headed to Eastern Labrador, probably for sustainability reasons. Very few (if any) Mushuau Innu are able to write in syllabics any more. The majority of the tribe is Catholic and use the Montagnais Bible which does not use syllabics.\n\nThe chief of this First Nation is John Nui. , the Nation has a registered population of 1072 people, of whom 991 live on-reserve. The 2016 Canadian Census performed by Statistics Canada reported 936 people living on the reserve up from 931 in the 2011 Canadian Census.\n\nThe Naskapi traditionally lived in the interior of Labrador and Quebec. In 1830, the Hudson's Bay Company established a trading post at Fort Chimo, Rupert's Land and in 1831 they established one at Davis Inlet, Labrador. The HBC traded ammunition, tobacco and alcohol to the Naskapi in exchange for fur. It is likely that the substance abuse problems that exist among the Mushuau Innu started when the HBC arrived.\n\nThe traditional way of life of the Naskapi was threatened in 1916 when caribou herd were too small to sustain the Naskapi. The same year, a Naskapi settlement was recorded at \"Old Davis Inlet\" (located on mainland Labrador near the modern settlement). In 1942, the Commission of Government took control of the trading post at Davis Inlet. In 1945, a Catholic missionary (from Montreal according to the Innu) set up a church in the community. The missionary attempted to control alcohol abuse in the community around this time and allowed non-drinking Innu to have bigger punts. The 1945 census showed that a large Innu community existed at Davis Inlet and a few residents used the surname \"Rich\" however most residents did not use a surname. A small Innu population also existed in Nain.\n\nIn 1948, the Commission moved 74 Innu from Davis Inlet to Nutak (a now-resettled Inuit community in the north. The Innu were not consulted about the move and after a year they returned on-foot to Davis Inlet. It is unclear why the resettlement took place at all. After the province joined Canada in 1949, the Indian Act was not applied to the Innu since (according to the Commission) status Indians at the time did not have the right to vote while indigenous peoples of Labrador had the right to vote before confederation. The Innu were mostly unaware of the act and its benefits to First Nations in other provinces until the \"white paper controversy\" in 1969. Many Innu felt like the federal and provincial governments had ignored them. In 1967, \"Old Davis Inlet\" was abandoned and the Innu were moved to the modern settlement of Davis Inlet on Iluikoyak Island. The province hoped to improve the economic situation for the Innu by getting them more involved in the saltwater fishery while the province also provided ferry service to Davis Inlet connecting it to the rest of Labrador and to Newfoundland. The Innu were promised modern housing in the new settlement however the houses were poorly constructed and lacked running water during winter while other houses lacked running water at all. The tough land prevented the houses from having basements and prevented the community from having a sewage system. Suicide and substance abuse were commonplace among the Mushuau Innu.\n\nIn 1992, six unattended children were killed in a house fire and in 1993, a video of young children huffing gasoline and shouting that they wanted to die gained national attention.\n\nThe Innu hoped to relocate to the mainland so they could have better housing and hopefully fix some social issues however premier Brian Tobin hoped for them to move to an existing community like Nain while the Innu wanted a new community built. After Tobin left office in 2000 the province agreed to build a new community at Sango Pond called Natuashish. In the provincial election in 1999, the Progressive Conservative Party's candidate for the Torngat Mountains was Simeon Tshakapesh, the only Innu to ever contest in a province-wide election. He was defeated by incumbent MHA Wally Andersen.\n\nThe Davis Inlet crisis was profiled in the 1996 documentary film \"\".\n\nThe Mushuau Innu gained recognition under the Indian Act in 2002 and Natuashish became a reserve. The new community has better housing that the settlement at Davis Inlet and it is now easier for the Innu to reach their traditional hunting lands. The MV Northern Ranger (a ferry service operated by Nunatsiavut Marine Inc.) goes on a route from Happy Valley-Goose Bay to Black Tickle, Cartwright, Rigolet, Makkovik, Hopedale, Natuashish and Nain every summer. Natuashish can also be reached via the Natuashish Airport.\n\nWhile substance abuse and suicide is still a major problem for the Mushuau Innu, rates have gone down since the move to Natuashish in 2002.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2273735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273735", "title": "Hurricane Julio", "text": "Hurricane Julio\n\nThe name Julio has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273737", "title": "Shengzhou", "text": "Shengzhou\n\nShengzhou (), formerly Shengxian or Sheng County, is a county-level city in central Zhejiang, south of the Hangzhou Bay, and is the south-eastern part of the prefecture-level city of Shaoxing. It is about 1.5 hours drive from the provincial capital of Hangzhou through the Hangzhou-Ningbo, Shangyu-Sanmen Expressway.\nAt the 2010 census, its population was 679,762, but 1,060,206 lived in the built-up area made of Shengzhou City and Xinchang County largely being conurbated.\n\nThe city is the national and international top producer of ties.\n\nShengzhou is the origin of the Yue opera, the second most popular Chinese opera.\n\n\nShengzhou is famous for its variety of local snacks and southeast China style dishes. Examples include: Xiaolongbao (小笼包), Doufubao (豆腐包), Youtiao, and Shengzhou Chaoniangao (嵊州炒年糕).\n"}
{"id": "2273738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273738", "title": "Core Cities Group", "text": "Core Cities Group\n\nThe Core Cities Group (also Core Cities UK) is a self-selected and self-financed collaborative advocacy group of large regional cities in the United Kingdom outside Greater London. The group was formed in 1995 and serves as a partnership of eleven city councils: Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham and Sheffield.\n\nThe Core Cities Group has wide-ranging interests, encompassing transport and connectivity, innovation and business support, skills and employment, sustainable communities, culture and creative industries, climate change, finance and industry, and governance. During 2012, the first wave of city deals recognised the eight cities as \"the largest and most economically important English cities outside of London\". The group in 2020 featured a combined population of over 6 million within eleven of its cities. It has been considered one of the most powerful political lobbying groups in the country.\n\nThe group formed in 1995 and membership was made up of eight local authorities with city status; of which six are metropolitan borough councils and two are unitary authorities in the English local government system. These cities were: Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham and Sheffield. The local authorities came together to challenge the centralised nature of the British state by advocating for the devolution of greater freedom and controls. The eight city councils are also members of the pan-European Eurocities network, a group co-founded by Birmingham City Council.\n\nIn 2003 then Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott addressed the Core Cities Group, advocating \"choke-off growth in the economic powerhouse of London and the south-east\" in order to stimulate growth and productivity within the Core Cities.\n\nWith the exception of Bradford and Hull, the initial members of the group mirrored the first county boroughs, that is the 10 English cities \"dealt with as separate counties\" under the Local Government Act 1888. Since 2010 several British cities outside England began discussions for incorporation into the group. In August 2014, Glasgow joined the group as the first non-English city, followed by Cardiff in 2016 and Belfast joined in 2019. Though Edinburgh has taken part in meetings and was approached about membership, it has never officially been a member of the group.\n\nIn 2018, Bristol hosted the first meeting of Core Cities Group leaders with combined authority mayors. In October 2018 the group published a report titled \"Cities 2030: Global Success, Local Prosperity\", arguing for the economic potential of British cities - where they lag behind international counterparts - combined with a vision for cities.\n\nThe Core Cities Group (CCG) have published research on the utilised benefits of more powerful cities that have greater economic control, particularly in growth and productivity. During the passage of the Localism Act 2011, the group promoted the 'Core Cities amendment' to allow for bespoke decentralisation to its members, which was successfully incorporated. Several of the 'City Deals' subsequently agreed between the Cabinet Office/Department for Communities and Local Government in 2012 included enhanced powers and city regional working at their core, including new combined authorities, thanks to the provision. The introduction of directly-elected mayors to combined authorities in England and the devolution of housing, transport, planning and policing powers to them were provisions contained in the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016.\n\nIn 2015 the CCG published a report calling for devolution to England that gives powers similar to those of Scottish Parliament and to give the city-regions greater fiscal devolution by 2025. In 2020, the 11 councils of the CCG and the 32 London Boroughs within the London Councils group agreed to lobby for greater fiscal devolution, including \"the right to introduce a tourism tax, borrow against future revenue and reforms to business rates and council tax. \".\n\nAn interest of the group is the High Speed 2 project to interlink the larger British cities faster. Believing it will bring an economic advantage to the core cities. In 2019 Judith Blake, chair of the Core Cities Group and leader of Leeds City Council wrote \"HS2 is more than just a railway line, it will unlock future jobs, training and regeneration opportunities that will benefit many of our 20 million citizens. Core Cities UK believes HS2 is a game-changer for the Midlands and the north\".\n\nThe Core Cities Group has attempted to establish a dialogue with the European Union and the British government in the negotiations to leave the European Union, following the 2016 EU referendum. The combined electorate of the ten core cities saw 56% vote for remain. It was noted by Cardiff council leader Huw Thomas that EU investment out-weight the British Government's city deals. Because of this, the group has lobbied the government to maintain EU regeneration schemes in negotiations The group has also met chief European negotiator Michel Barnier. In 2019, the leaders of the cities in the group sent a letter to Prime Minister May asking her to avoid a no-deal Brexit. The Core Cities Group cities were beneficiaries of the UK Shared Prosperity Fund (UKSPF), an investment program designed to maintain town and city investment after Brexit. The group criticised the government for the amount and asked that the fund be doubled to £4bn to lead to its work reaching £28bn by 2026.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273746", "title": "Hurricane Kay", "text": "Hurricane Kay\n\nThe name Kay has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Kay has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Australian region. \n"}
{"id": "2273753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273753", "title": "Singingfish", "text": "Singingfish\n\nSingingfish was an audio/video search engine that powered audio video search for Windows Media Player, WindowsMedia.com, RealOne/RealPlayer, Real Guide, AOL Search, Dogpile, Metacrawler and Singingfish.com, among others. Launched in 2000, it was one of the earliest and longest lived search engines dedicated to multimedia content. Acquired in 2003 by AOL, it was slowly folded into the AOL search offerings and all web hits from RMC TV to Singingfish were being redirected to AOL Video and as of February 2007 Singingfish had ceased to exist as a separate service.\n\nSingingfish powered audio search continues to live on for the time being at AOL Search and other AOL properties. However, little if any development has been done since August 2006. Singingfish powered video search is no longer publicly available and is now being re-directed to AOL Video Search.\n\nSingingfish employed its own web crawler, Asterias, designed specifically to ferret out audio and video links across the web. In 2003 and 2004, Asterias discovered an average of about 50,000 new pieces of multimedia content a day. A proprietary system was used to process each of the discovered links, extracting metadata and then enhancing it prior to indexing as much multimedia content on the web has little or poor metadata. Many of the multimedia URLs used as seeds for Singingfish's crawlers and annotation engines came from cache logs from the NSF-funded National Laboratory for Applied Network Research (NLANR) IRCache Web Caching project.\n\nSingingfish was founded in mid-1999 by John DeRosa, Eric Rehm, Ken Berkun, and Mike Behlke.\n\nBy January 2000, it had grown to 17 employees. The group photo on the left was taken in Singingfish's first office on Seattle's Capitol Hill on January 24, 2000. From left to right: Robin Alexander, Scott Lee, Chris Wilkes, Eric Rehm, Shannon MacRae, Mike Behlke, Mark Lipsky, Linden Rhoads (a non-employee adviser), John Madsen, Charles Porter, Vas Sudanagunta, Paul Shannon, Austin Dahl, Chris Abajian and John DeRosa. Not pictured: Ken Berkun and Monte Hayward.\n\nA public alpha version of the search service was unveiled at Streaming Media East in New York City in June 2000.\n\nBy the Fall of 2000, Singingfish had grown to over 50 employees. In November 2000, it was acquired by the French company Thomson multimedia (now Thomson SA). Singingfish announced its first customer, Zurich-based Internet AG, in December 2000. Singingfish Search first appeared on Internet AG's \"Swiss Search\" and Infospace's Dogpile and Metacrawler sites late in the summer of 2001.\n\nBy this time Singingfish was clearly the dominant multimedia search engine. No competitor indexed as much of the audio and video content available on the web or provided more relevant query results. In the fall of 2001, RealNetworks signed a deal with Singingfish for the latter to provide audio and video search for RealOne Player. In January 2003, Microsoft signed a similar deal, in this case to provide audio and video search for Windows Media Player and WindowsMedia.com.\n\nSingingfish downsized dramatically under Thomson multimedia (Summer 2001) and then slowly continued to shrink in size through its acquisition by AOL in October 2003. However, Thomson multimedia continued to support research and development into multimedia metadata standards such as MPEG-7 that were incorporated into Singingfish technology.\n\nSoon after acquiring Singingfish, AOL integrated its audio/video search service into AOL Search, adding yet another big-name to the stable of search products powered by Singingfish. As of August 2006, Singingfish continued to power multimedia search for both Microsoft and Real, and was being fully integrated into the AOL search and directed media business unit.\n\nThe last members of the Singingfish staff were laid off in December 2006. Since February 7, 2007 all web hits to Singingfish have been redirected to AOL Video.\n\n\nThe content providers below added their audio and video content to Singingfish's search index using regular feeds. In addition to providing high quality meta data to be indexed, these direct feeds also enabled Singingfish to produce highly current results for news related queries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273756", "title": "Polish Defense", "text": "Polish Defense\n\nThe Polish Defense is the name commonly given to one of several sequences of chess opening moves characterized by an early ...b5 by Black. The name \"Polish Defense\" is given by analogy to the Polish Opening (ECO A40), 1.b4. The original line was\nas played by Alexander Wagner, a Polish player and openings analyst, against Kuhn in the 1913 Swiss Correspondence Championship. Wagner published an analysis of the opening in \"Deutsches Wochenschach\" in 1914, when he was living in Stanislau, Galicia, Austria-Hungary (now Ivano-Frankivsk, Ukraine). Later the name was also applied to\nand other variants where Black delays playing ...b5 until the second or third move, which are sometimes called the Polish Defense Deferred.\nWith ...b5, Black tries to take control of c4, but 1.d4 b5 is generally considered dubious after 2.e4, threatening 3.Bxb5. \"Modern Chess Openings\" (MCO-14, 1999) allots two columns to the Polish, commenting that the variants where Black waits and plays 2...b5 instead of 1...b5 are much safer. Earlier editions of MCO give only a single column of analysis and consider only the 2...b5 lines. MCO-9 (1957), states that the Polish \"fails because it neglects the centre\". That negative verdict was softened in the next edition, MCO-10 (1965), to say that the Polish \"neglects the centre, but is not refuted\". MCO-12 (1982) retains the \"not refuted\" assessment and notes that the Polish can result by transposition from the Réti system. Other judgments have been more harsh. The 1...b5 Polish was deemed \"entirely valueless\" by I. A. Horowitz in 1964.\n\nThe Polish is closely related to the St. George Defence (1.e4 a6, usually followed by 2.d4 b5) into which it often transposes. Boris Spassky played 1.d4 b5 against Tigran Petrosian in the decisive 22nd game of their world championship match in . Spassky equalized, but rejected an opportunity to draw, as he was behind by a point in the match and with at most three games remaining, he was practically forced to play for a win. Petrosian won the game, thus ensuring retention of his title.\n\nThe Polish can be used to combat certain variations of the Réti Opening or King's Indian Attack. In particular, 1.Nf3 Nf6 2.g3 b5 is a fully respectable opening that has been successfully played by former World Champion Anatoly Karpov, among others. It prepares to fianchetto Black's queen bishop and prevents White from playing the otherwise desirable c4. Note that here 3.e4 would allow 3...Nxe4. White's second move commits him to fianchettoing his king bishop rather than developing it along the f1–a6 diagonal, due to the weakness which would result on the long diagonal.\n\n1...b5 against the English Opening is known as the Halibut Gambit (or Jaenisch gambit).\n\n"}
{"id": "2273765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273765", "title": "Hurricane Kenneth", "text": "Hurricane Kenneth\n\nThe name Kenneth has been used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean and one in the South-West Indian Ocean. Coincidentally, all five of them have peaked at Category 4 intensity on the Saffir-Simpson scale.\n\nEastern Pacific Ocean: \n\nSouth-West Indian Ocean:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273769", "title": "Correio da Manhã (Brazil)", "text": "Correio da Manhã (Brazil)\n\nCorreio da Manhã (\"Morning Post\") was a daily newspaper of the Brazilian metropolis Rio de Janeiro, published from 1901 to 1974. It was founded by Edmundo and Paulo Bittencourt. The paper prided itself to value information over opinion.\n\nThroughout its history the paper was characterised by being in opposition to incumbent presidents, which led to occasional prosecution and closure. Some of its owners and managers were imprisoned on occasions.\n\nAfter the 1964 Brazilian coup d'état the opposition continued and led to the temporary arrest of owner Niomar Moniz Sodré (1916-2003), daughter in-law of co-founder Edmundo Bittencourt, whose husband Paulo Bittencourt deceased in 1963. Under pressure of the government, advertisers ceased to support the paper, which eventually led to its demise in 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273772", "title": "The Dark Wing", "text": "The Dark Wing\n\nThe Dark Wing is a 2001 military science fiction novel by Walter H. Hunt and part one of a 4-part series. It features an ongoing war between humanity and birdlike mystical aliens known as the Zor. The two species have been at war for over sixty years, punctuated by numerous truces, each broken by the Zor. Every time this occurs, humanity wins territory from the Zor. However, humanity has little understanding of the Zor and fails to understand why the Zor continually engage in these wars. Lord Ivan Marais, with the assistance of Mr. Stone, collects information on the Zor during diplomatic missions and writes a book on them, stating the only way to win the war was to exterminate the Zor, as their religion dictates that their main deity, esLi, has granted the entire universe for the use of the Zor, and any other sentient species is an affront to their religion that must be removed.\n\nThe Zor launch a surprise attack; now-Admiral Mairas is given command of the campaign and he attempts to exterminate the Zor. However his second in command Stone is not what he seems.\n\nAs of 2010, there are three sequels:\n"}
{"id": "2273775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273775", "title": "Hurricane Kevin", "text": "Hurricane Kevin\n\nThe name Kevin has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Kevin has also been used once in the Australian region.\n"}
{"id": "2273808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273808", "title": "Tropical Storm Kiko", "text": "Tropical Storm Kiko\n\nThe name Kiko has been used for a total of eleven tropical cyclones worldwide:\n\nIn the Eastern Pacific:\n\nIn the Western Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2273809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273809", "title": "Drimnagh", "text": "Drimnagh\n\nDrimnagh () is a suburb of Dublin, Ireland, situated on the Southside of the city between Walkinstown, Crumlin and Inchicore, bordered by the Grand Canal to the north and east. Drimnagh is in postal district Dublin 12.\n\nDrimnagh derives its name from the word \"druimneach\", or country with ridges. A Neolithic settlement discovered, and a funerary bowl found in a burial site. The site was demolished, but the bowl is on view in the National Museum. \n\nThe lands of Drimnagh were taken from their Irish owners by Strongbow, who gave them to the Barnwell family, who had arrived in Ireland with Strongbow in 1167 and had settled in Berehaven in Munster. The people of Munster killed the family except for Hugh de Barnwell, and it was this youth who was given Drimnagh as compensation. The lands and castle were considered safe, for they were far enough away from the Dublin mountains which held Irish strongholds.\n\nDrimnagh was farmland until the mid-1930s, when some of the first tenement clearances brought city centre residents from one-room hovels to terraced and semi-detached houses in a series of roads named after the mountain ranges of Ireland. The suburb consists of one area close to Drimnagh Castle and Lansdowne Valley, with three-bedroom private housing built by Associated Properties, and another area (the larger part) built by Dublin Corporation and consisting of three bedroom 'Kitchen Houses' and two bedroom 'Parlour Houses' and bordering the Grand Canal and Crumlin. The two areas meet at the parish church, the Church of Our Lady of Good Counsel, in the centre of Drimnagh, built in 1943.\n\nThe Dublin Corporation housing area was originally considered part of an area known as North Crumlin from its construction in the mid-1930s until the introduction of the postal code system during the mid-1970s.\n\n\n\n\nDrimnagh is served by the Luas Red Line. The area is also served by Dublin Bus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273815", "title": "Hurricane Lane", "text": "Hurricane Lane\n\nThe name Lane has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273824", "title": "Hurricane Lester", "text": "Hurricane Lester\n\nThe name Lester has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273829", "title": "Cofre de Perote", "text": "Cofre de Perote\n\nCofre de Perote, also known by its Nahuatl names Naupa-Tecutépetl (from \"Nāuhpa-Tēuctēpetl\") and Nauhcampatépetl, both meaning something like \"Place of Four Mountain\" or \"Mountain of the Lord of Four Places\", is an inactive volcano located in the Mexican state of Veracruz, at the point where the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt, home to all of Mexico's highest peaks, joins the Sierra Madre Oriental. With an elevation of above sea level, Cofre de Perote is Mexico's eighth highest mountain summit.\n\nCofre de Perote is a shield volcano, shaped very differently from the stratovolcanic Pico de Orizaba, which lies about to the southeast. A \"cofre\" is a coffer, and the name alludes to a volcanic outcropping on the shield which constitutes the peak of the mountain. To the north is the town of Perote, Veracruz, after which the mountain is named.\n\nThe area surrounding the volcano was protected by the Mexican government as a national park, known as Cofre de Perote National Park (), in 1937.\n\nCofre de Perote features a humid alpine climate (Köppen climate classification \"ET\"), without a dry season but having a rainier season in summer and autumn.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273833", "title": "Hurricane Lidia", "text": "Hurricane Lidia\n\nThe name Lidia has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273846", "title": "Colebrooke, Devon", "text": "Colebrooke, Devon\n\nColebrooke is a village and parish in Devon, England about 8 km west of Crediton. The main point of interest is the church and the connection to Henry Kingsley's novel \"The Recollections of Geoffry Hamlyn\". Also Uncle Tom Cobley, of the folk song, signed his will at Pascoe House,but is buried 4 miles west at Spreyton. The champion Devon wrestler, Abraham Cann was born and buried here. He won the all comers wrestling crown in London.\n\nColebrooke is also the site SS7700 of a Roman fort or marching camp, the site of which is just outside the village to the East. Disputed - see below.\n\nColebrooke gave its name to Colebrook, Connecticut, United States.\n\nThere is no mention of a Roman fort at Colebrooke in the NMR, no aerial photographs in the archives and no evidence on the ground. This mention of a fort appears to refer to a square field that used to sit astride a straight run of hedgerows that was mistakenly identified as the course of the Roman road to Exeter in the 1980s (see 'Devon's Past an Aerial View' by Frances Griffith ). Two of this field's hedgerows have since been removed. The actual course of the road is further North and remains of the agger can be seen in a field some 300m South of Rag Lane and just to the East of Five Acre Copse. This is also clearly visible from aerial views accessible online. The road in fact follows the same line all the way from North Tawton to this point where the route becomes less obvious. A rather straight lane along the ridge of hills to the East of the railway line is suggestive of its line.\n\nThe Coplestone (or \"Copplestone\", \"Copleston\" etc.) family took its name from the manor of Copleston in the parish of Colebrooke. Pole (d.1635) states that the earliest record of this family he was able to find was in a deed dated during the reign of King Edward II (1307-1327). The great antiquity of this family thus seems somewhat overstated in the traditional Devon rhyme, dismissed by Hoskins as containing \"not a word of truth\":\nSeveral junior branches of the Copleston family existed seated at Eggesford, Bowden, Instow Upton Pyne, Kingdon and Woodland. Copleston Cross, the surviving shaft of a late Saxon large 10 foot high granite stone cross, named after the estate of Coplestone, is situated on the main Exeter to Barnstaple road at the junction of the parishes of Colebrooke, Crediton and Down St Mary. Coplestone House was the seat of the Coplestone family from the 13th century to 1659 and the surviving Georgian house was rebuilt on a new site in 1787 by its then owner Robert Madge.\n\nHorwell was the residence from the 16th century of the Prye (or Pryce) family, one of the old armigerous gentry families of Devon which made a return in the 1620 Heraldic Visitations of Devon. Their armorials were: \"Ermine, a chevron gules\" (or \"sable\" according to Pole) \"a chief azure fretty or\". According to Risdon (d.1640): \"\"In this family one thing is remarkable that although they have continued many generations yet was it never known to have brought forth a younger brother until this our age, insomuch as the name is nowhere to be heard of but in only this place\"\". The present house known as Horwell Barton has an early 19th-century facade.\n\nIn the parish church of St Andrew survive the following monuments:\n"}
{"id": "2273849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273849", "title": "Seku Amadu", "text": "Seku Amadu\n\nSeku Amadu (; ; ) (c. 1776 – 20 April 1845) was the Fulbe founder of the Massina Empire (Diina of Hamdullahi) in the Inner Niger Delta, now the Mopti Region of Mali. He ruled as \"Almami\" from 1818 until his death in 1845, also taking the title \"Sise al-Masini\".\n\nAḥmad bin Muḥammad Būbū bin Abī Bakr bin Sa'id al-Fullānī () was born around 1776 and was raised by Hamman Lobbo, his father's younger brother.\nAmadu was a pupil of the Qadiriyya Sufi teacher Sidi Mukhtar al-Kunti. \nIn the Inner Niger Delta region, alliances of Fulbe traders ruled the towns like Djenné, but non-Moslem Bambara people controlled the river.\nThe Fulbe \"ardo'en\" were tributary to the Bambara of Ségou, and practiced a form of Islam that was far from pure.\n\nSeku Amadu may have served in the Sokoto \"jihad\" before returning to the Massina region. He settled in a village under the authority of Djenné. \nWhen his teaching brought him a large following he was expelled, and moved to Sebera, under Massina. \nAgain he built a large following and again he was expelled. \nShaykh Usman dan Fodio, who founded the Sokoto Caliphate in Hausaland in 1809, authorized him to carry out \"jihad\" in region.\nOriginally his conquests were to have been included in the western part of the Sokoto Caliphate under Abdullahi dan Fodio of Gwandu.\nAs with other \"jihad\" leaders, Seku Amadu received a flag from Usman dan Fodio as a visible symbol of his authority.\n\nAmadu's views brought him into conflict with his local, pagan Fulani chief, who called for help from his suzerain, the Bambara king of Segu. The result was a general uprising under Amadou that established the Massina Empire, a theocratic Muslim Fulani state throughout the Inner Niger Delta region and extending to both the ancient Muslim centers of Djenné and Timbuktu. Amadu's jihad was probably continuous from 1810 through 1818. However, some sources suggest two events, one in 1810 and another in 1818. One estimate suggests a total of 10,000 deaths resulting from this jihad.\n\nSeku Amadu accused the local Fulbe rules of idolatry, and at first the \"jihad\" was directed at them. The scope was soon extended to include the Bambara and other pagan groups in the region.\nSeku Amadu was supported by Tukolors and other Fulbe people in Massina, escaped slaves and others looking for freedom from their Bambara masters. \nAmong the Fulbe, Seku Amadu was supported by literate Muslims, formerly nomadic, who were influenced by the Sufi revival and were enthusiastic about Islamic reform.\n\nIn his \"jihad\" he first defeated the Segu army, then captured Djenné, whose scholars welcomed him. \nHe was invited to take control of Massina after a Fulbe revolt in that town. \nBy 1818 he had won control of both Djenné and Massina.\nIn Djenné, and later in Timbuktu, the temporal leader was overthrown and replaced by scholars, while the Fulba Dikko clan became the regional power.\nSeku Amadu founded a capital for his new Massina Empire called Hamdullahi (\"Praise God!\"), northeast of Djenné, just south of the present day city of Mopti. The capital was established in 1819.\nHe set himself up as an independent ruler.\n\nSeku Amadu's theocratic state controlled the Inner Niger Delta, and exerted some authority over the nearby Timbuktu, Ségou and Kaarta. \nOne of the main religious leaders of the \"jihad\" in Massina was Muḥammad al-Tāhir, also a student of al-Mukhtār al-Kunti. He issued a manifesto in which he declared that Seku Amadu was the spiritual heir of Askia Mohammad I, the sixteenth century ruler of the Songhai Empire. This was generally accepted in the Timbuktu region. There was little resistance to Timbuktu's informal incorporation into the new Massina empire, which soon became a center of Islamic learning.\nHowever, Seku Amadu gradually alienated the leaders of Timbuktu and of Sokoto by his extremely rigorous theology, \nand by his failure treat the senior \"Qadiriyya\" leaders with the respect that they felt was their due. \nHe also assumed the title of Commander of the Faithful in the Sudan, which the Sokoto caliph considered to be his by right. \nHe adversely affected the trade of both Jenne and Timbuktu.\n\nThe clerical leader of Timbuktu, Sidi Muḥammad bin al-Mukhtār al-Kunti, died in 1825/6. \nSeku Amadu asked for formal recognition of his sovereignty over the city.\nHe sent an emissary with a large body of troops to al-Qā'id 'Uthmān bin Bābakr, the temporal ruler, asking him to give up use of the drum and other forms of ceremony, to which 'Uthmān agreed. \nIn 1833 'Uthmān threw off his allegiance and marched against Hamdullahi, but was defeated. However, Sidi al-Muhtar al-Saghir, the spiritual leader of Timbuktu, arranged a truce between the Tuareg and Ahmadu Lobbo under which his Fulbe forces would not occupy Timbuktu. Fines were levied against those who had participated in attack on Hamdullahi.\n\nSeku Amadu Lobbo died on 20 April 1845, leaving control of the Massina Empire to his son, Amadu II.\nUnder his son, Timbuktu was included in the empire for some time.\nAḥmadu bin Aḥmadu Lobbo ruled over Massina from 1844 to 1852.\nThe period of stability lasted until the \"Jihad\" led by El Hadj Umar Tall in 1862 overthrew Aḥmadu's grandson, Amadu III, and threw the region into chaos.\n\nSeku Amadu ruled through a system of provincial governors, mostly his relatives, and a central council of forty elders.\nIn Seku Amadu's theocratic state the law was based on strict observance of the Maliki interpretation of Sharia law. \nQadis administered the Sharia in each province, playing an important role in the state.\nThe rigid conformance to the law led one authority to call Masina \"as near the ideal nomocratic state as is likely to be achieved.\"\n\nSeku Amadu followed a policy of settling the formerly nomadic herders. He made vigorous efforts to promote Islam.\nUnder Seku Aḥmadu Lobbo and his heirs, the Niger bend region was stable and trade flourished. However, some tension was caused by the extremely puritan attitudes of the rulers, such as banning the use of tobacco and requiring full segregation of women from men, counter to Tuareg custom.\n\nAt the height of the Empire's power, a 10,000 man army was stationed in the city, and Seku Aḥmadu ordered the construction of six hundred madrasas to further the spread of Islam. He also ordered alcohol, tobacco, music and dancing banned in accordance with Islamic law, and constructed a social welfare system to provide for widows, orphans, and the poor.\n\nOne of the most enduring results of his rule was a pastoral code regulating access to and use of the inland Niger delta region by Fula cattle herders and diverse farming communities.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "2273857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273857", "title": "Tropical Storm Linda", "text": "Tropical Storm Linda\n\nThe name Linda has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Northeastern Pacific Ocean:\n\n\nIn the Southern Hemisphere near Australia:\n\nIn the Northwestern Pacific Ocean west of the dateline:\n"}
{"id": "2273869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273869", "title": "Viktor Schütze", "text": "Viktor Schütze\n\nViktor Schütze (16 February 1906 – 23 September 1950), was a German U-boat commander during World War II. He was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves of Nazi Germany.\n\nSchütze was born in Flensburg, and started his naval career in the \"Reichsmarine\" aboard German torpedo boats in April 1925, before transferring to the new U-boat division ten years later in October 1935. There he commanded for two years, before being relieved to take destroyer training - before returning to the U-boat arm in command of . When war broke out he commanded , with which he sailed on three patrols, mainly in the Bay of Biscay and off the Portuguese coast.\n\nIn July 1940 he assumed command over the Type IXB , and commanded for four patrols in North Atlantic and African waters. In December he received the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross for his successes. In August 1941 he retired from front service, taking up positions as \"Flottillenchef\" of 2nd U-boat Flotilla. In March 1943 he became the \"FdU Ausbildungsflottillen\" (Commander of the training flotillas in the Baltic Sea) in Flensburg-Kappeln, in which position he served until the end of the war. He died in Frankfurt am Main in 1950.\n\nAs commander of and Schütze is credited with the sinking of 35 ships for a total of , further damaging two ships of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2273870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273870", "title": "Herbert Schultze", "text": "Herbert Schultze\n\nHerbert Emil Schultze (24 July 1909 – 3 June 1987), was a German U-boat (submarine) commander of the \"Kriegsmarine\" (the German navy in World War II). He commanded for eight patrols during the early part of the war, sinking of shipping.\n\nSchultze was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves. The Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross and its higher grade Oak Leaves was awarded to recognise extreme battlefield bravery or successful military leadership. Legally it was Nazi Germany's highest military decoration at the time of its presentation to Herbert Schultze, although the later higher ranked Swords and Diamonds grades to the Knight's Cross had already been awarded in June and July 1941.\n\nSchultze was born in Kiel. He joined the \"Reichsmarine\" on 1 April 1930 as a member of \"Crew 30\" (the incoming class of 1930). He underwent basic military training in the 2nd department of the standing ship division of the Baltic Sea in Stralsund (1 April 1930 – 30 June 1930). Schultze was then transferred to the training ship \"Niobe\" (1 July 1930 – 9 October 1930), attaining the rank of \"Seekadett\" (midshipman) on 9 October 1930. Following a 14-month stay onboard the cruiser \"Emden\" (10 October 1930 – 4 January 1932), he advanced in rank to \"Fähnrich zur See\" (officer cadet) on 1 January 1932.\n\nSchultze then underwent a number of officer training courses at the Naval Academy at Mürwik before transferring to the light cruiser \"Leipzig\" (2 October 1933 – 7 October 1934). During this assignment, he was promoted to \"Oberfähnrich zur See\" (senior midshipman) on 1 April 1934 and to \"Leutnant zur See\" (acting sub-lieutenant) on 1 October 1934. He also served aboard the cruiser with other future U-boat aces, including Heinrich Lehmann-Willenbrock.\n\nIn May 1937, now an \"Oberleutnant zur See\", Schultze transferred to the U-boat force, taking command of the Type IIA U-boat on 31 January 1938. \"U-2\" was assigned to the \"U-Bootschulflottille\" (U-boat school flotilla); he spent the next year and a half training with the sub.\n\nOn 22 April 1939 Schultze commissioned , a Type VIIB U-boat. \"U-48\" was later to become the most successful submarine of the war. She was assigned to the 7th U-boat Flotilla, and spent the next four months in training. On 1 June 1939 Schultze was promoted to \"Kapitänleutnant\".\n\nOn 19 August 1939, on the eve of World War II, Schultze took \"U-48\" out on her first patrol. On this patrol, which took U-48 to the North Atlantic, southwest of Ireland and to the Rockall Bank before returning to Kiel on 17 September, \"Leutnant zur See\" Reinhard Suhren served as 1st watch officer. \"U-48\"s 2nd watch officer on this patrol was \"Leutnant zur See\" Otto Ites.\n\nHe was at sea when the war started on 1 September 1939. On 11 September 1939 he sank the British freighter \"Firby\". After the sinking he sent the plain language radio message \"\"cq - cq- cq - transmit to Mr. Churchill. I have sunk the British steamer \"Firby\". Posit 59.40 North and 13.50 West. Save the crew, if you please. German submarine.\"\" This message, addressed to the First Lord of the Admiralty Winston Churchill directly. Schultze and his crew had already sunk \"Royal Sceptre\" on 5 September and \"Winkleigh\" three days later for a combined total of .\n\nSchultze intercepted the freighter \"Browning\" some time later and ordered to pick up survivors from \"Royal Sceptre\". Schultze's cease-fire action was on the provision that the British crew did not use their radios to report him. After returning to base, Schultze gave an interview to William L. Shirer, an American reporter, on 29 September 1939. The patrol yielded of shipping.\n\nThe second patrol began on 4 October and ended 21 days later. During the sortie he sank in 22 days. From 12–17 October 1939, Schultze sank five ships. Tanker \"Emile Miguet\" (), \"Heronspool\" \"Louisiane\" , \"Sneaton\" and \"Clan Chisholm\". Schultze abided by prize law in all but the sinking of \"Clan Chisholm\" which sailed in convoy HG 3. Nine men were killed aboard Schultze's first eight victims. During the attack he ordered the stern torpedo fired at a destroyer—probably HMS \"Escort\"—with no result. A number of the ships were photographed during their sinking by the German crew.\n\nSchultze's third patrol lasted from 20 November to 20 December. The boat sank . Over 8 and 9 December Schultze intercepted \"Brandon\" () and \"San Alberto\" and the \"Germaine\" for on 15 December. The patrol lasted only seven days. Upon Schultze's departure from the Atlantic Ocean on 19 December there were no U-boats in the sea for five days.\n\nIn January 1940 B-Dienst intercepted British naval signals suggesting \"Ark Royal\" was a en route through the English Channel. Schultze was ordered to take up position at the Western end with two other boats—\"U-26\" and \"U-37\"—and sink her. They were ordered to take up their stations on 12 February. Schultze, believing the other boats were joining him to attack a convoy he was shadowing, decided to stay with the convoy and ignored the orders of \"Befehlshaber der U-Boote\" (BdU). He proceeded to expend all but one torpedo and missed the carrier which docked in Portsmouth unmolested. Schultze received a mild reprimand by Dönitz. Schultze's fourth patrol yielded four more ships from 10–17 February 1940. Two Dutch ships and one Finnish ship accompanied the \"Sultan Star\", sunk on 14 February 1940. Schultze was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross for his successes on 2 March. He had sunk of shipping.\n\nOn 9 April 1940 the \"Kriegsmarine\" executed Operation Weserübung. In support of the invasions of Norway and Denmark U-48 carried out combat operations against warships. On 14 April Schultze attacked the battleship \"Warspite\" but the torpedoes failed. \"U-25\" made attacks against the battleship in Vestfjorden without success, and probably due to torpedo failure. In a third attack, \"U-47\" commanded by Günther Prien attempted to sink the battleship but failed for the same reason. The widespread mechanical failures of torpedoes at this stage of the war threatened morale. Detailed reports were made to Dönitz. On 20 May 1940 Schultze handed command of \"U-48\" over to Hans Rudolf Rösing due to illness stemming from a stomach and kidney disorder. Schultze was sent to a naval hospital to recuperate. From October 1940 Schultze became part of the naval staff of the 7th U-boat Flotilla, at St Nazaire, in France.\n\nOn 17 December 1940 Schultze resumed command of \"U-48\", relieving Heinrich Bleichrodt. His resumption of combat operations coincided with the period known as the \"First Happy Time.\" In the midst of his next patrol—6 February 1941—Hitler issued Directive 23. The order singled out the British sea lanes as a priority target for the navy and Luftwaffe.\n\nOn 20 January 1941 Schultze began his sixth patrol which ended on 17 February. \"Nicolas Angelos\", a ship, was sunk from convoy OB 279 on 1 February and \"Nailsea Lass\", followed from convoy SLS 64 23 days later. The convoy was attacked by \"Admiral Hipper\" and several other U-boats. A seventh patrol from 17 March–8 April 1941 resulted in four sinkings. Schultze intercepted HX 115 on 29 March and sank three ships. The \"Hylton\" , \"Germanic\", , and \"Limbourg\", . The detached \"Beaverdale\" was sunk on 2 April which increased the tally by . In Schultze's eighth and penultimate patrol from 22 May–17 June 1941, he sank five ships. On 3 June \"Inversuir\" from convoy OB 327, on the 5th \"Wellfield\" from convoy OB 328, and on the 6th and 8th \"Tregarthen\" and then \"Pendrecht\" from convoy OB 329. \"Empire Dew\" from convoy OG 64 was Schultze's final victim.\n\nSchultze was thus awarded the Oak Leaves to his Knight's Cross on 12 June 1941. The presentation was made on 30 June 1941 by Hitler at the \"Führer\" Headquarter \"Wolfsschanze\" (Wolf's Lair) in Rastenburg (now Kętrzyn in Poland).\n\nOn 27 July 1941 Schultze left \"U-48\" to take command of the 3rd U-boat Flotilla operating from La Rochelle, also in France. He served in this capacity until March 1942, when he was assigned to the staff of \"Marinegruppe Nord\" as Admiral Staff Officer for U-boats. He was assigned to the staff of Admiral Karl Dönitz in December 1942. On 1 April 1943 he was promoted to \"Korvettenkapitän\". In March 1944 he was assigned as commander of Department II, \"Marineschule Mürwik\", where he served to the end of the war.\n\nIn August 1945 he was employed by the Allies as commander of the Naval Academy at Mürwik near Flensburg and the Heinz Krey-bearing. In November 1945, now a civilian, he took the job of manager of the naval facilities in Flensburg-Mürwik until October 1946.\n\nOn 2 July 1956, Schultze joined the \"Bundesmarine\" of West Germany and served in a string of staff positions. His first disposition was commander of the 3rd Ship Home Department. He served in this capacity from 2 July 1956 to 15 February 1959. He then served as Staff Officer Personnel (A1) on the command staff of the naval base, was commander of convoy ships, teaching group leaders at the Naval Academy and head of the volunteer adoption headquarters of the Navy until his retirement on 30 September 1968 with the rank of \"Kapitän zur See\". Schultze died on 3 June 1987 in London.\n\nAs commander of , Schultze is credited with the sinking of 26 ships for a total of , further damaging three ships of and damaging one further ship of .\n\n\"Reichsmarine\"\n\n\n\"Kriegsmarine\"\n\n\n\"Bundesmarine\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2273872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273872", "title": "Georg Lassen", "text": "Georg Lassen\n\nGeorg Lassen (12 May 1915 – 18 January 2012) was a German U-boat commander during World War II. He was a Watch Officer on at the outbreak of the war and later the skipper of the and recipient of the Iron Cross.\n\nLassen became a businessman after the war and later worked as a managing director for a large company. In a traffic accident he lost an arm. His wife died after 55 years of marriage. In old age he moved to a retirement home in Mallorca, where he died on 18 January 2012 at the age of 96.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273873", "title": "Tuskaloosa", "text": "Tuskaloosa\n\nTuskaloosa (\"Tuskalusa\", \"Tastaluca\", \"Tuskaluza\") (died 1540) was a paramount chief of a Mississippian chiefdom in what is now the U.S. state of Alabama. His people were possibly ancestors to the several southern Native American confederacies (the Choctaw and Creek peoples) who later emerged in the region. The modern city of Tuscaloosa, Alabama, is named for him.\n\nTuskaloosa is notable for leading the Battle of Mabila at his fortified village against the Spanish conquistador Hernando de Soto. After being taken hostage by the Spanish as they passed through his territory, Tuskaloosa organized a surprise attack on his captors at Mabila, but was ultimately defeated.\n\nContemporary records describe the paramount chief as being very tall and well built, with some of the chroniclers saying Tuaskaloosa stood a foot and a half taller than the Spaniards. His name, derived from the western Muskogean language elements \"taska\" and \"losa\", means \"Black Warrior\".\n\nTuskaloosa and his chiefdom are recorded in the chronicles of Hernando de Soto's expedition, which arrived in North America in 1539. De Soto had been appointed Governor of Cuba by King Carlos I of Spain, who directed him to conquer Florida, as \"adelantado\". This was believed to comprise what is now the Southern United States. \n\nIn 1539, De Soto landed near Tampa, Florida, with 600-1,000 men and 200 horses and began a circuitous exploration of modern-day Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Alabama, often engaging in violent conflict with the indigenous peoples. As they traveled, the expedition kidnapped natives to act as bearers and interpreters of the many different language families (Muskogean, Yamasee, Iroquoian, Cherokee, and others) of the Southeast. The conquistadors frequently took a local chief hostage to guarantee safe passage through his territory. By October 1540, the expedition had reached the middle of modern-day Alabama.\n\nTuskaloosa's province consisted of a series of villages, located mostly along the Coosa and Alabama rivers. Each village had its own chief, who was a vassal to Tuskaloosa, the paramount chief. After traveling through the Coosa Province, the De Soto expedition came to the village of Talisi on September 18, 1540; the modern town of Childersburg, Alabama developed near here. The chief of Talisi and his vassals had fled the town before them, but de Soto sent messages to the chief, who returned on September 25.\n\nOnce Chief Talisi had shown his obedience by supplying the Spaniards with requested deerskins, food, bearers, and women, de Soto released the paramount chief of Coosa, whom they had held hostage while traveling through his territory. Chief Coosa was angry that he was taken so far from his home village and that de Soto still held his sister. She was likely the mother of his successor as chief, as the tribe had a matrilineal kinship system. De Soto evidently thought Talisi was subject to Coosa, although the village was closer to Tuskaloosa. As such the chief may have had dual allegiances to both chiefdoms and balanced between them.\n\nTuskaloosa sent an envoy led by his son and several head men to meet the Spanish in Talisi. The envoy intended to assess Spanish expedition in order to prepare a trap for them. The Spanish rested at Talisi for several weeks, then departed on October 5. During the next several days, they reached about one village of the Tuskaloosa province per day. These included Casiste, situated on a stream; and Caxa, another village on a stream, possibly Hatchett Creek, the boundary between the Coosa and the Tuskaloosa. The next day they camped on the Coosa River, across from the village of Humati, near the mouth of Shoal Creek. On October 8 they came to a newly built settlement named Uxapita, possibly near modern Wetumpka, Alabama. On October 9, de Soto crossed the Tallapoosa River, and by the end of the day, his party was within a few miles of Tuskalusa's village, Atahachi.\n\nDe Soto sent a messenger to tell the chief he and his army had arrived, and the chief responded that they could go to the court whenever de Soto liked. The next day de Soto sent Luis de Moscoso Alvarado to tell the chief that they were on their way. The paramount village was a large, recently built, fortified community with a platform mound and plaza. Upon entering the village, de Soto was taken to meet the chief under a portico on top of the mound.\n\nMoscoso and his men mounted their horses and galloped around the plaza, playing \"juego de cañas\", a dangerous sport involving jousting with lances. The men occasionally feinted toward Tuskaloosa, hoping to frighten him, a technique of manipulation de Soto had used against the Inca Atahualpa at Cajamarca. The chief sat unmoved. Afterward the Indians served the Spaniards food, and the residents of Atahachi danced in the plaza. This reminded the Spaniards of rural dances in their own country. When de Soto demanded porters and women from the chief, the chief said that he was accustomed to being served, and not vice versa. De Soto had Tuskaloosa taken hostage. The expedition began making plans to leave the next day, and Tuskaloosa relented, providing bearers for the Spaniards. He informed de Soto that they would have to go to his town of \"Mabila\" (or \"Mauvila\") to receive the women. De Soto gave the chief a pair of boots and a red cloak to reward him for his cooperation.\n\nThe expedition departed Atachaci on October 12, and the next day arrived in the village of Piachi, situated high on a cliff overlooking the Alabama River. Here the Spaniards began noticing signs of resistance from the native population. De Soto demanded canoes from the people of Piachi, but the chief claimed his people did not have any. The expedition was forced to wait two days as they built rafts to cross to the north side of the river. After crossing, they noticed that two Spaniards were missing, Juan de Villalobos (who liked to explore the countryside) and an unnamed man looking for a runaway Indian slave. De Soto ordered Tuskaloosa to have his people produced or he would be burned at the stake; the chief said only that the men would be returned at Mabila.\n\nOn October 18, de Soto and the expedition arrived at Mabila, a small, heavily fortified village situated on a plain. It had a wooden palisade encircling it, with bastions every so often for archers to shoot from. The Spaniards knew something was amiss: the population of the town was almost exclusively male, young warriors and men of status. There were several women, but no children. The Spaniards also noticed the palisade had been recently strengthened, and that all trees, bushes and even weeds had been cleared from outside the settlement for the length of a crossbow shot. Outside the palisade in the field, they saw an older warrior haranguing younger men, or leading them in mock skirmishes and military exercises. A small community in southeast Kentucky bears his name along with other towns and cities.\n\nAs de Soto approached the town, the chief of Mabila came out to greet him, bringing him three robes of marten skins as a gift. De Soto and several of his men dismounted and entered the town, as the native bearers placed the Spaniards' supplies next to the palisade. The Mabilians danced and sang to the Spaniards, seemingly to allay their fears and to distract them. While the spectacle unfolded, Tuskaloosa told de Soto he was tired of marching with the Spaniards, and wished to stay in Mabila. De Soto refused, and the chief asked to confer with some of his nobles in one of the large wattle and daub houses on the plaza. De Soto sent Juan Ortiz to retrieve him, but the Mabilians refused him entrance to the house. Tuskaloosa told de Soto and his expedition to leave in peace, or he and his allies would force him to leave.\n\nWhen de Soto sent men into the house to retrieve the chief, they discovered it was full of armed warriors prepared to protect their chief. De Soto asked the Chief of Mabila to demand the porters promised by Tuskaloosa, and the Spaniards would leave. The man refused, and a Spaniard grabbed him; in the ensuing scuffle, the chief had his arm cut off by the Spaniard's sword. With this, the Mabilians attacked the Spanish, who immediately ran for the gate and their horses. Natives came from all of the houses and attacked the Spaniards. The Mabilians grabbed the provisions and equipment left outside the palisade and brought the supplies into the town. After making it outside, the Spaniards regrouped and assaulted the village. After numerous assaults and many hours (the battle lasted eight or nine hours), the Spaniards were able to hack holes into the walls of the palisade and reenter the town.\n\nThe Spaniards burned down Mabila, and nearly all the Mabilians and their allies were killed, either in the battle, in the subsequent fires, or by suicide. Chief Tuskaloosa's son was found among the dead, although the chief was not. Biedma asserts that over five thousand were in the town, of which almost none was able to escape. For several weeks afterward, the Spanish made forays to neighboring villages for supplies of maize, deerskins, and other goods, finding many wounded and dead Mabilians in the houses. The natives had made two serious mistakes: they had not realized the Spaniards' advantage when mounted on horses, and they had relied too heavily on their palisade. Once the Spanish breached the palisade, the Mabilians were too crowded in the village to mount a successful defense.\n\nOver the next few centuries, the Tuskaloosa, Coosa, Plaquemine Mississippian peoples from the Mississippi and Pearl River valleys, and other native peoples came together to form a confederacy that became the historic tribe known as the Choctaw.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273877", "title": "Heinrich Liebe", "text": "Heinrich Liebe\n\nHeinrich Liebe (29 January 1908 – 27 July 1997) was a German naval officer during World War II. He served as a U-boat commander and then in the High Command of the Kriegsmarine. Liebe was credited with sinking of 34 ships for a total of . He was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves of Nazi Germany. It was the country's highest military decoration at the time of its presentation to Liebe.\n\nBorn in Gotha, Liebe began his \"Reichsmarine\" career in 1927. Promoted to \"Oberfähnrich zur See\" on 1 June 1931, Liebe served on the World War I battleship for four years. In September 1935, Liebe transferred to the U-boat arm.\n\nOn 1 October 1936, Liebe was promoted to \"Kapitänleutnant\" (lieutenant) and assigned commander of , a Type II U-boat attached to the U-Bootschulflottille. On 24 October 1938, Liebe commissioned , a Type IX U-boat assigned to 6th U-boat Flotilla.\n\n\"U-38\" embarked on her first war time patrol on 19 August 1939 from Wilhelmshaven. Operating off Lisbon, Portugal on the outbreak of war, Liebe managed to sink two British freighters before returning to port on 18 September. On 2 November, Liebe set sail for Norwegian water on his second patrol.\n\nLiebes fourth patrol, on 8 April 1940 was also set in Norwegian waters, to support Operation Weserübung, the invasion of Norway. During this patrol, Liebe shared the same negative experience of failed torpedoes as many other u-boat captains operating in the area. In mid April 1940, Liebe fired on the British heavy cruiser , but all the torpedoes fired failed to detonate.\n\n\"U-38\" left on her fifth patrol on 6 June 1940, tasked with patrolling the Western Approaches off southern Ireland. Liebe managed to sink six ships during this patrol, and also succeeded in landing a German agent in Ireland on 12 June. During his sixth patrol, Liebe sank three ships, and were ordered to the new 6th U-boat Flotilla base in Lorient, France. During this patrol, on 14 August, Liebe received the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross.\n\nOn 9 April 1941, Liebe set sail for operations off Freetown, Africa. This was Liebe's ninth and last patrol with \"U-38\", during which he sank eight ships for a total of . For these successes, Liebe was awarded the Oak Leaves to his Knight's Cross on 10 June 1941. On 29 June, \"U-38\" returned to Lorient. The presentation was made on 30 June 1941 by Hitler at the \"Führer\" Headquarter \"Wolfsschanze\" (Wolf's Lair) in Rastenburg (now Kętrzyn in Poland). On 22 July, Liebe transferred off the \"U-38\", which was put under the command of Heinrich Schuch.\n\nFollowing his departure from \"U-38\", Liebe was assigned to the staff of Oberkommando der Marine. In August 1944, he was transferred to the staff of the Commander-in-Chief of Submarines (\"Befehlshaber der Unterseeboote\" or BdU), Hans-Georg von Friedeburg, during which tenure he was promoted to \"Fregattenkapitän\" (frigate captain) on 1 October 1944.\n\nAfter the war Liebe returned to his hometown in the Soviet sector to live with his parents. Since he refused to train Soviet submariners, he felt that was to blame for his being held to menial occupations. He died in July 1997 and is buried in Eisenach, Germany.\n\nAs commander of \"U-38\" Liebe was credited with the sinking of 34 commercial ships for , and damaged another of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273878", "title": "Hurricane Lorena", "text": "Hurricane Lorena\n\nThe name Lorena has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273880", "title": "Richard T. Ely", "text": "Richard T. Ely\n\nRichard Theodore Ely (April 13, 1854 – October 4, 1943) was an American economist, author, and leader of the Progressive movement who called for more government intervention in order to reform what they perceived as the injustices of capitalism, especially regarding factory conditions, compulsory education, child labor, and labor unions. Ely is best remembered as a founder and the first Secretary of the American Economic Association, as a founder and secretary of the Christian Social Union, and as the author of a series of widely read books on the organized labor movement, socialism, and other social questions.\n\nRichard Theodore Ely was born on April 13, 1854, in Ripley, New York, the eldest of three children of Ezra Sterling and Harriet Gardner (Mason) Ely. Soon after Ely's birth, his father moved the family to a 90-acre farm near Fredonia, New York, where Ely would spend the next 16 years. The elder Ely was a self-taught engineer and lacked the skills and knowledge to farm successfully, relying too heavily on popular, sometimes erroneous, information he obtained from farm magazines.\n\nAlthough harsh weather and fluctuating market prices provided further hardship to the family, Ely credited his early farm life with instilling in him many valuable qualities. From a young age he had numerous responsibilities in maintaining the farm, including carrying wood, churning butter, picking up rocks out of the fields, and milking the cows. His parents were Presbyterian but Ely transferred his affiliation to the Episcopal Church when in college.\n\nEly attended Columbia University in New York City, from which he received a bachelor's degree in 1876 and a master's degree in 1879. He received a Doctor of Philosophy degree in economics from the University of Heidelberg in that same year, where he had studied with Karl Knies, who belonged to the historical school of economics, and Johann Kaspar Bluntschli. He later received a Doctorate of Laws from Hobart College, receiving the degree in 1892.\n\nEly was a professor and head of the Department of Political Economy at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland from 1881 to 1892.\n\nIn 1885, Ely was a founder of the American Economic Association, serving until 1892 as the group's Secretary. He later served a term as President of the organization, holding that position from 1899 to 1901. AEA still entitles the keynote address at its annual meeting the Richard T. Ely Lecture and recently honored him in the association's annual Economists' Calendar. Ely also founded Lambda Alpha International in 1930. Its purposes included the encouragement of the study of land economics in universities; the promotion of a closer affiliation between its members and the professional world of land economics; and the furtherance of the highest ideals of scholarship and honesty in business and the universities. Richard T. Ely is known as the \"Father of Land Economics\".\n\nIn April 1891, Ely was a founder and the first Secretary of the Christian Social Union, a membership organization advocating the application of Christian principles to the social problems of the world.\n\nFrom 1892 until 1925, he was professor of Political Economy and director of the School of Economics, Political Science, and History at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. In 1894 an unsuccessful attempt was made to depose him from his chair at Wisconsin for purportedly teaching socialistic doctrines. This effort failed, with the Wisconsin state Board of Regents issuing a ringing proclamation in favor of academic freedom, acknowledging the necessity for freely \"sifting and winnowing\" among competing claims of truth.\n\nIn 1925, Ely moved to Northwestern University in Chicago, where he accepted a position as professor of Economics. He remained at Northwestern until his retirement in 1933.\n\nAlthough regarded as a radical by his detractors on the political right, Ely was in fact opposed to socialism. \"I condemn alike,\" he declared, \"that individualism that would allow the state no room for industrial activity, and that socialism which would absorb in the state the functions of the individual.\" He argued that socialism was not needed, and \"the alternative of socialism is our complex socio-economic order, which is based, in the main, upon private property.\" He warned that the proper \"balance between private and public enterprise\" is \"menaced by socialism, on the one hand, and by plutocracy, on the other.\"\n\nEly's critique of socialism made him a political target of the socialists themselves. In his 1910 book, \"Ten Blind Leaders of the Blind,\" Arthur Morrow Lewis acknowledged that Ely was a \"fair opponent\" who had \"done much to obtain a hearing for [socialism] among the unreasonable,\" but charged he was merely one of those \"bourgeois intellectuals\" who were \"not sufficiently intellectual to grasp the nature of our position.\"\n\nEly was a product of the German historical school with an emphasis on evolution to new forms, and never accepted the marginalist revolution that was transforming economic theory in Britain and the U.S. He was strongly influenced by Herbert Spencer and strongly favored competition over monopoly or state ownership, with regulation to \"secure its benefits\" and \"mitigate its evils.\" What was needed was \"to raise its moral and ethical level.\" However, whereas Herbert Spencer believed that free competition was best served by deregulation and a smaller state, Richard Ely believed that more regulation and a more interventionist state was the policy to follow. Also on social Darwinism, Herbert Spencer believed that the state should not get involved in supporting one ethnic group over another — whereas Richard Ely believed that the state should support white \"Nordic\" people against people of other races (in line with the opinions of his colleagues at the University of Wisconsin, Edward Alsworth Ross and Charles R. Van Hise).\n\nEly did support labor unions and opposed child labor, as did many leaders of the Progressive Movement, including such conservatives as Mark Hanna. Ely was close to the Social Gospel movement, emphasizing that the Gospel of Christ applied to society as a whole and was not merely individualistic; he worked hard to convince churches to advocate on behalf of workers. Ely strongly influenced his friend Walter Rauschenbusch, a leading spokesman for the Social Gospel.\n\nDuring World War I, Ely was active in the political movement to build popular support for the American war effort, taking part in the activities of the League to Enforce Peace. Ely was the head of the committee of arrangements for a \"Win the War Convention\" held in Madison from November 8–10, 1918. Richard Ely's political activities during the First World War included his strong campaign to remove Senator Robert M. La Follette from politics. Although La Follette was generally a Progressive in politics, his lack of support for the war had made him unfit for office, in the opinion of Richard Ely, and so Ely campaigned to both have him removed from the United States Senate and to end his influence in the politics of Wisconsin.\n\nEly edited Macmillan's \"Citizen's Library of Economics, Politics, and Sociology\" and its \"Social Science Textbook Series,\" Crowell's \"Library of Economics and Politics,\" and was a frequent contributor to periodical literature, both scientific and popular.\n\nRichard Ely died in Old Lyme, Connecticut on October 4, 1943. A large portion of his library was purchased by Louisiana State University and is now a part of LSU's Special Collections division.\n\nEly is honored together with William Dwight Porter Bliss with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA) on October 8.\n\nThe American Economic Association instituted the annual \"Richard T. Ely Lecture\" in 1960 in his memory, which, unlike the Association's other honors is also open to non-American economists.\n\nHis former home, now known as the Richard T. Ely House, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273890", "title": "Hurricane Lowell", "text": "Hurricane Lowell\n\nThe name Lowell has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "2273891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273891", "title": "Luís Marques Mendes", "text": "Luís Marques Mendes\n\nLuís Manuel Gonçalves Marques Mendes, GCIH (b. Guimarães, Azurém, 5 September 1957) is a Portuguese lawyer and politician, and a former Leader of the Social Democratic Party.\n\nHe is a son of António Marques Mendes and wife Maria Isabel Gonçalves.\n\nHe is a Licentiate in Law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra.\n\nHe started his career as a lawyer.\n\nAs a member of the Social Democratic Party he became Secretary of State and Spokesman of the Government of Prof. Aníbal Cavaco Silva. He has also been a Deputy to the Portuguese Assembly of the Republic.\n\nHe was elected the President of his Party in 2005 after Pedro Santana Lopes and was succeeded in September 2007 by Luís Filipe Menezes.\n\nHe is also a Member of the Portuguese Council of State, elected by the Assembly of the Republic.\n\nHe married in Guimarães, Vermil, on 24 April 1982, to Rosa Sofia Pinto Martins Salazar, born in Guimarães, Vermil, on 8 May 1957, a Licentiate in Modern Literatures and Languages (English and German), daughter of António Martins Fernandes Salazar (b. Guimarães, Vermil, Calçada, 19 May 1931), an Industrialist, one of the pioneers of the Ave, Subregion industrialization, and wife (m. Vila do Conde, São Miguel de Arcos, 21 April 1955) Berta da Silva Pinto (Penafiel, Penafiel, 23 May 1934 – Guimarães, Creixomil, 13 February 1995), and paternal granddaughter of José Fernandes Salazar (Guimarães, Vermil, 3 March 1890 – Porto, Miragaia, 1 December 1975), an Industrialist, one of the pioneers of the Ave, Subregion industrialization, and wife (m. Guimarães, Ronfe, 19 February 1925) Rosa Correia da Silva Martins (Guimarães, Ronfe, 2 January 1897 – Porto, Cedofeita, 31 August 1972). The couple has three children: \n\n\n! align=\"center\" colspan=\"4\"|Ballot: 5 May 2006\n! align=\"center\" colspan=2 style=\"width: 60px\"|Candidate\n! align=\"center\" style=\"width: 50px\"|Votes\n! align=\"center\" style=\"width: 50px\"|%\n\n! align=\"center\" colspan=\"4\"|Ballot: 28 September 2007\n! align=\"center\" colspan=2 style=\"width: 60px\"|Candidate\n! align=\"center\" style=\"width: 50px\"|Votes\n! align=\"center\" style=\"width: 50px\"|%\n"}
{"id": "2273899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273899", "title": "Orfeón (Mexican record label)", "text": "Orfeón (Mexican record label)\n\nOrfeón is a record label from Mexico, which has released many recordings for the Latin American market since at least the 1950s. During the 1960s, the label signed American rockers Bill Haley & His Comets and the band had numerous regional hits on the label, most notably the partial instrumental \"Florida Twist\" and the Spanish-language \"Twist Espanol\". The label also sponsored a musical television series, \"Orfeón a Go-Go\".\n\nOrfeón was affiliated with the Dimsa label in the 1960s, releasing some material (including a number of Haley albums) under this label. Another major American act that recorded for the label was Big Joe Turner in 1966 (his recordings were backed by Haley's Comets and Turner performed one of the songs along with Haley and the Comets on an episode of \"Orfeón a Go-Go\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2273901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273901", "title": "Barrio Fino", "text": "Barrio Fino\n\nBarrio Fino (; English: \"Fine Hood\") is the third studio album by Puerto Rican rapper Daddy Yankee, released on July 13, 2004, in the United States by V.I. Music and El Cartel Records and internationally by Machete Music and Polydor Records. Released two years after his previous studio album, \"El Cangri.com\" (2002), the album was recorded in Puerto Rico between 2003 and 2004. It explores themes ranging from dance, sex, romance, introspection, and protest against political corruption and violence against women. \"Barrio Fino\" was instrumental in popularizing reggaeton in the mainstream market, enhancing Daddy Yankee's career, as well as cementing his status as one of the most successful Latin artists of the 2000s.\n\nDaddy Yankee wrote all the tracks, with co-writing credits on seven, and is credited as executive producer. Four of the 21 songs were released as singles. The first single, \"Gasolina\", charted within the top 10 in Denmark, Italy, Norway, Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Austria, while \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\" peaked at number two on the US Hot Latin Songs chart. \"Barrio Fino\" reached number one on the US Tropical Albums and the Top Latin Albums charts. It became the first reggaeton recording to debut and peak atop the latter chart. It ranked within the top 30 on the United States, Portugal, Switzerland and Spain.\n\nThe album was Daddy Yankee's first international commercial success, and garnered a Latin Grammy Award for Best Urban Music Album, while \"Gasolina\" became the first reggaeton song to receive a nomination for a Latin Grammy Award for Record of the Year. \"Barrio Fino\" produced two \"Billboard\" Hot 100 entries, but despite the album's success, none of its four \"Billboard\" Hot Latin Songs entries reached number one. \"Barrio Fino\" was ranked number 44 in the \"Top 50 Records of 2005\" list by \"Rolling Stone\" and was included in \"Billboard\"s \"50 Greatest Latin Albums of the Past 50 Years\" in 2015. The album received a platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America, denoting shipments of over one million copies in the United States, where it became the top-selling Latin album of 2005 and the 2000s decade and is the seventh best-selling Latin album of all-time in the country.\n\nIn 1991, Daddy Yankee (born Ramón Luis Ayala Rodríguez) began his musical career on a collaborative project with American disc jockey and producer DJ Playero. Daddy Yankee was later featured on Playero's \"37\" and \"38\" studio albums, before releasing his first solo record titled \"No Mercy\" in 1995. At the age of 17, while taking a break from a recording session, Ayala was shot in the leg after being caught inadvertently in the middle of a shootout, ending his aspirations of becoming a professional baseball player. Following his injuries, Daddy Yankee continued working on underground reggaeton records, and released his first album as a producer, \"El Cartel de Yankee\" (1997). After the release of his 2001 independent album \"El Cartel II: Los Cangris\", Daddy Yankee released his second studio album \"El Cangri.com\" (2002), which is cited as the record that made him well known outside his natal Puerto Rico. Prior to \"Barrio Fino\", Daddy Yankee released a compilation album titled \"Los Homerun-es\", which became his first record to chart within the top 10 on the US Top Latin Albums, reaching number seven. Later that year, he was featured on Dominican duo Luny Tunes' debut studio album, \"Mas Flow\", on the track \"Cógela Que Van Sin Jockey\", whose outro included Daddy Yankee promoting \"Barrio Fino\".\n\nThe album's lyrics explore themes ranging from dance, sex, romance, introspection, and social issues, which are recurring themes in the rapper's repertoire. The intro, performed by ex-convict poet Gavilán, is a poetic piece focusing on the humble side of Puerto Rico's poor neighborhoods or \"barrios\". On the next track, \"King Daddy\", the rapper describes his career and predicts how \"Barrio Fino\" will revolutionize reggaeton music and validate his stage name as a successful Latin artist in the United States. \"Dale Caliente\" is a reggaeton dance song inspired by dancehall and Jamaican music, featuring backing vocals by Puerto Rican singer Glory and Jamaican artist Blacka-Nice. \"No Me Dejes Solo\" features lead vocals by Puerto Rican duo Wisin & Yandel and backing vocals by Glory. Its sexually suggestive lyrics are about the fears of losing a girlfriend.\n\n\"Gasolina\", the album's lead single, was inspired by a Puerto Rican phrase about having a good time partying. Before the release of \"Barrio Fino\", Daddy Yankee shared an apartment with his wife and three children in the Villa Kennedy housing project, where he occasionally heard people in the streets shouting \"¡Cómo le gusta la gasolina!\" (\"How she likes gasoline!\") at women who accepted rides from men with fancy cars. The hook \"a mí me gusta la gasolina, dame más gasolina\" (\"I like gasoline, give me more gasoline\") was born after he chanted rhythmically what he was hearing outside. He contacted his colleague and friend Eddie Dee to work with him on the song's lyrics.\n\n\"Like You\" is Daddy Yankee's first Spanglish song. Musically, it is a fusion of reggaeton and rhythm and blues, featuring backing vocals by May-Be and Raymond Acosta and guitars by Puerto Rican producer Arnaldo \"Naldo\" Santos. Daddy Yankee decided to write a song with English-language lyrics, so he \"could be understood by people who liked reggaeton but did not speak Spanish.\" \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\", the album's second single, fuses reggaeton and merengue music, giving it \"a Caribbean tropical sound.\" \"Tu Príncipe\" is a romantic track that features Puerto Rican duo Zion & Lennox, with lyrics describing the dilemmas of falling in love with a best friend and the fears following a revelation of one's feelings. \"Cuéntame\" is another romantic reggaeton song recorded in order to \"balance the production\" by creating a similar track to \"Tu Príncipe\".\n\n\"Santifica tus Escapularios\" is a rap recording that allowed Daddy Yankee to \"vent against all spiritual evil.\" \"Sabor a Melao\" fuses reggaeton and salsa music and features Puerto Rican singer-songwriter Andy Montañez, using a chorus from his Batacumbele orchestra. \"El Muro\" and \"El Empuje\" are \"classic hardcore reggaeton\" tracks that were recorded in order to balance the variety of the recording's offerings. The reggaeton and R&B-blended track, \"¿Qué Vas a Hacer?\", features vocals from May-Be and guitars by Jeorge Salgado and focuses on violence against women. The song was written as a conversation between a man and a woman. \"Salud y Vida\" is a hip hop track with Mexican banda influences with lyrics that suggest that people value materialistic objects more than their own well-being. Latin music journalist Ramiro Burr wrote that on this track Daddy Yankee reflected on his neighborhood questioning \"society's endless pursuit of material things.\" The song features backing vocals by American artist Norman \"Notch\" Howell and Marcelo Castro performing trumpet.\n\nThe interlude, performed by Gavilán, is another poem about the roughness of the barrio, serving as a prelude to the next track. \"Corazones\" is a socially conscious rap song that \"describes how every heart in the world is different and feels different things. So intentions, emotions and even the most similar of situations are always unique to each individual.\" Daddy Yankee wrote the lyrics because he believes that the mass media focuses more on reporting negative news rather than positive ones. He also took notice about the needs of poor people and \"barrios\". The track mentions politics, crime, hope and Christian spirituality. \"Golpe de Estado\" is a personal song featuring novice rapper Tommy Viera whose lyrics are about Daddy Yankee's, and \"Barrio Fino\" role in the reggaeton music movement. \"Dos Mujeres\", performed humorously, takes the point of view of a man who secretly maintains a relationship with two women. \"Saber Su Nombre\" fuses reggaeton and dancehall music, and tells the story of a man who shows interest in a woman he met at a nightclub. The album's outro, titled \"Historia\", was written to represent the people of Puerto Rican neighborhoods. Daddy Yankee stated that he wanted to \"bring them to life in a story that's very humble but full of pride.\"\n\nLuny Tunes produced nine of the 21 tracks on \"Barrio Fino\", including the singles \"Gasolina\", \"Like You\", and \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\". Puerto Rican production duo Monserrate & DJ Urba produced three songs, including the single \"No Me Dejes Solo\". Puerto Rican singer and producer Fido, one half of Alexis & Fido, and Puerto Rican pianist Eliel each produced two tracks. Puerto Rican producers Naldo, DJ Nelson, Echo, Diesel, Nely, Edgardo Matta, and Salvadoran production duo Crooked Stilo produced or co-produced one track on the album. The intro, interlude and outro were produced by Ramsis.\n\n\"Barrio Fino\" was recorded between 2003 and 2004 at Daddy Yankee's El Cartel Studios in Villa Kennedy, San Juan, Puerto Rico and Luny Tunes' Mas Flow Studios in Carolina, Puerto Rico. The album was mixed by Luny Tunes, Paul \"Echo\" Irizarry and Jose \"Hyde\" Cotto at Mas Flow Studios and The Lab Studios. The cover art features Daddy Yankee in a black-and-white aesthetic. He hired Elastic People music video director and designer Carlos Perez, who wanted to \"position him as one of the founders of the movement and portray him on a sophisticated note.\" Daddy Yankee suggested a \"monumental\" black-and-white cover inspired from historical photographs involving American professional boxer and activist Muhammad Ali.\n\n\"Barrio Fino\" was released on July 13, 2004. In the week ending on July 31, the record debuted at number one on the US Top Latin Albums, becoming the first reggaeton album to peak and debut at the top of that chart. It also debuted at number one on the US Tropical Albums and at number 67 on the \"Billboard\" 200. The release of \"Gasolina\" as the album's lead single enhanced its chart performance and it topped the Top Latin Albums chart for a second week in 2005, remaining there for another 22 non-consecutive weeks, for a total of 24 weeks at number one. It also re-entered the \"Billboard\" 200 in the week ending on December 18, 2004, and peaked at number 26 on the April 16, 2005, issue. It topped the Tropical Albums chart for 28 non-consecutive weeks. It also charted for 54 weeks on the \"Billboard\" 200, and 42 weeks on Tropical Albums. A bonus track version of \"Barrio Fino\", which includes a salsa remix of \"Sabor a Melao\" and a \"bachata\" remix for \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\", was released on May 23, 2005.\n\nIn 2005, the album became the first reggaeton record to chart in Europe, peaking at number 26 in Portugal and Spain, at number 28 in Switzerland, at number 46 in Italy, at number 51 in Austria, and at number 67 in France. On May 17, 2005, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) certified \"Barrio Fino\" platinum for having shipped one million copies in the United States. On March 3, 2006, it was also certified platinum by the Mexican Association of Producers of Phonograms and Videograms (AMPROFON) for sales of one hundred thousand units in Mexico. The album also received a platinum certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers (CAPIF) on March 22, 2005, for sales of over forty thousand units. In Canada, sales for \"Barrio Fino\" were considerably lower. Despite Daddy Yankee being one of the first reggaeton artists to receive airplay there, the album had sold only 9,300 units as of September 2005, according to Nielsen SoundScan. According to \"The Record\", \"Barrio Fino\" shipped five million copies worldwide as of June 2006. In the United States, \"Barrio Fino\" became the best-selling reggaeton album of 2004, the best- selling tropical recording of 2004, and the best-selling Latin album of 2005 and the 2000s decade. , the record has sold 1,083,000 copies in the United States, making it the seventh best-selling Latin album in the country according to Nielsen SoundScan.\n\nThe bonus track version was re-released for digital stores and streaming platforms on July 21, 2017, under El Cartel Records and The Orchard, celebrating the album's 13th anniversary. It subsequently re-entered the US Top Latin Albums chart at number 13 on August 12, 2017. On the US Top Latin Albums chart, \"Barrio Fino\" charted for 136 non-consecutive weeks from July 31, 2004 to July 22, 2006 and from August 12, 2017 onwards.\n\n\"Gasolina\" became the first of two of the album's singles to achieve a \"Billboard\" Hot 100 entry, peaking at number 32 in the week ending on January 29, 2005. It also charted on the US Hot Rap Songs and Hot Latin Songs charts, reaching number 10 and number 17, respectively. Leila Cobo of \"Billboard\" stated that the song did not manage to pass its number 17 peak on the Hot Latin Songs chart because of the lack of urban music played on US Spanish-language radio stations at the time. Internationally, the song also charted within the top five in Denmark, Italy, Norway, Ireland and the United Kingdom. \"Gasolina\" did not chart in Japan, despite the track having shipped one hundred thousand units in the country as of September 2005.\n\nThe album's second single, \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\", did not manage to chart on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 but received the necessary amount of airplay on Latin radio stations to peak at number two on Hot Latin Songs on September 24, 2005. It also became Daddy Yankee's first number one on the US Tropical Airplay chart on March 12, 2005. Internationally, \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\" peaked at number 35 in Switzerland. \"No Me Dejes Solo\" peaked at number 32 on Hot Latin Songs, and at number eight on Tropical Airplay. \"Like You\" received significant airplay on mainstream radio stations in the United States, peaking at number 78 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. \"Tu Príncipe\" peaked at number 35 on the US Hot Latin Songs chart on the issue dated April 8, 2006. Daddy Yankee stated in October 2014 that \"Tu Príncipe\" was not released as a single nor a promotional song, and that it charted \"on its own, because of the fans.\"\n\nJason Birchmeier of AllMusic gave the album a 4.5 out of 5 score, praising its first half as \"remarkably solid\" but commenting that its final quarter \"begins to grow tiresome\" because of the record's length. He states that Daddy Yankee \"deserves a lot of credit for the success of \"Barrio Fino\", for his charisma, energy level, and command of the proceedings are well evident and often infectious.\" Birchmeier selected \"Gasolina\" and \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\" as the album's highlights, with minor highlights including \"Dale Caliente,\" \"No Me Dejes Solo,\" \"Tu Príncipe,\" and \"¿Qué Vas a Hacer?\". He ended the review by saying that \"Barrio Fino\" is \"a milestone reggaetón release for its time\" alongside Don Omar's \"The Last Don\".\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" magazine's Christian Hoard gave it a 3.5 out of 5, stating that \"Barrio Fino\" is \"the blingiest and most modern disc in current reggaeton\" and highlighted the track \"Gasolina\" for its \"slinky hook.\" The album was later ranked by the magazine as the 44th best record of 2005. On the 2005 year-end ranking of \"Rolling Stone Argentina\", the album was ranked as the 47th best record of 2005, with the comment that \"Daddy Yankee exploits a boricua version of 50 Cent's style.\" The magazine praised the album for its \"elegant and fabulous rhythms\" and ended the review by adding that \"\"Barrio Fino\" is an agitated excursion to reggaeton's most rough pleasures.\"\n\nAdam Webb of the BBC stated in his review that Daddy Yankee's \"sheer energy\" is where he \"reigns supreme over the majority of his hip hop peers.\" He felt that the fusion of salsa, dancehall and hip hop on \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\", \"Sabor a Melao\" and \"Gasolina\" \"is like being strapped to a particularly lascivious booty.\" Journalist Ramiro Burr gave a positive review of the album. He said that \"Gasolina\" is \"the engine driving this collection,\" describing the song as a basic reggae beat with a catchy chorus, and highlighted the dance tracks \"No Me Dejes Solo\" and \"Like You\". He also gave credit to Andy Montañez's vocals on \"Sabor a Melao\", which added \"a soulful flavor to the track.\"\n\nKitty Empire of \"The Guardian\" wrote about \"Gasolina\" as a song that has \"a spendidly infectious lurch.\" She also stated that the rest of the album \"doesn't let up\" by \"updating the subgenre of Spanish-language hip-hop with a new swagger.\" An editor of the Indian music magazine \"The Record\" wrote a mixed review of \"Barrio Fino\", stating that anyone who is not intimidated by the Spanish language barrier \"will find this to be a good album,\" praising his \"strong rhyming skills.\" The reviewer criticized the record because it \"is not nearly as catchy or accessible as you might have expected it to be\" but says that Daddy Yankee almost \"lives up to the promise of the hype surrounding him.\" The album received a score of 3 out of 5.\n\n\"Barrio Fino\" received a Latin Grammy Award for Best Urban Music Album at the 6th Annual Latin Grammy Awards. The lead single, \"Gasolina\", was nominated for Record of the Year, becoming the first reggaeton song to be so honored. The album also received a Billboard Music Award for Latin Album of the Year at the 16th Billboard Music Awards, ceremony where \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\" was nominated for Top Latin Song and Daddy Yankee was awarded Latin Albums Artist of the Year. \"Barrio Fino\" also received a Billboard Latin Music Award for Reggaeton Album of the Year, a Lo Nuestro Award for Urban Album of the Year, and a Latin Music Fan Award for Album of the Year.\n\n\"Gasolina\" also received the Catchiest Tune award at the 2nd Premios Juventud. Its music video received a Latin Music Fan Award for Music Video of the Year and was nominated for a MTV2 Award at the 22nd MTV Video Music Awards and a MTV Video Music Awards Japan for Best Reggae Video. \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\" won an Urban Song of the Year award at the 18th Lo Nuestro Awards.\n\nIn 2006, Daddy Yankee received an ASCAP Award for Latin Songwriter of the Year for his work on \"Gasolina\", \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\" and \"No Me Dejes Solo\", among other songs. He was also awarded Artist of the Year at the 13th Billboard Latin Music Awards, and Urban Artist of the Year at the 18th Lo Nuestro Awards. He received the Premios Juventud award for Voice of the Moment and Favorite Urban Artist at the 2nd Premios Juventud awards show, and was also nominated for a Favorite Latin Artist award at the 33rd American Music Awards.\n\nThe success of the album brought wealth to Daddy Yankee, who became the \"messiah of reggaeton\" according to \"Billboard\", and inked a multi-year deal with the global athletic footwear company Reebok, launching a signature sport collection called DY in 2006. In August 2005, he signed a five-year contract with American record label Interscope Records, which distributed his subsequent albums \"Barrio Fino en Directo\" (2005), \"\" (2007) and \"Talento de Barrio\" (2008). That year, he produced and starred in his own semi-autobiographical feature film, \"Talento de Barrio\", distributed by Paramount Pictures. The film, released in 2008, grossed $1.6 million at the box office in the United States as of November 2008.\n\n\"Barrio Fino\" made history as the first reggaeton record to peak at number one on the US Top Latin Albums chart, as well as becoming the best-selling Latin album in the United States in 2005 and the 2000s decade. According to \"Billboard\" magazine, the commercial success of \"Barrio Fino\" \"introduced Daddy Yankee to the mainstream market and made reggaeton an international [music] genre.\" In 2015, the magazine included the recording on its list of \"50 Essential Latin Albums of the Last 50 years\" (1965–2015). That same year, \"Gasolina\" was ranked ninth on \"Billboard\"s 50 Greatest Latin Songs of All Time, described as \"the track that internationalized reggaeton\" by making the genre a global phenomenon. \"Billboard\" included Daddy Yankee on its list of \"The 30 Most Influential Latin Artists of All Time\", citing \"Gasolina\" as the song that \"brought the underground urban sound of the [Puerto Rican hoods] to the world.\"\n\nThe album also enhanced Luny Tunes' production career. They were later recognized as the genre's hit-makers following the release of their studio albums \"Mas Flow 2\" in 2005 and \"\" in 2006. Daddy Yankee credited Wisin & Yandel's collaboration on the track \"No Me Dejes Solo\" as the boost they needed to be internationally recognized. He considers \"No Me Dejes Solo\" as a \"nightclub anthem\" and \"Lo Que Pasó, Pasó\" a \"Latin anthem\" saying that both are contemporary and well received by fans. According to Leila Cobo of \"Billboard\", the success of \"Barrio Fino\" \"detonated a global reggaeton explosion that irrevocably altered the business, sound and aesthetic of Latin music.\"\n\nThe commercial success of \"Gasolina\" in the United States led to the creation of a new radio format and a \"Billboard\" chart: Latin Rhythm Airplay. According to Nestor Casonu, CEO of Casonu Strategic Management, \"Daddy Yankee and 'Gasolina' triggered the explosion of urban Latin music worldwide.\" Daddy Yankee has claimed that the album's success gave impoverished children from \"barrios\" the hope of fame through a music career. Rachel Grace Amelda of \"Vice\" stated that \"Daddy Yankee transcended being reduced to a one-hit wonder and started a movement that sent one resounding message to \"barrio\" kids: if Yankee can, I can too.\"\n\nOn \"I'm the Boss\", a track from his 2013 mixtape \"King Daddy\", Daddy Yankee revealed that \"he is still spending his \"Barrio Fino\" money.\" In 2019, he celebrated the 15th anniversary of the album by posting on social media that it \"changed the culture around the world, broke frontiers, and opened the doors for reggaeton music and the [urban movement] around the globe\".\n\nCredits adapted from AllMusic and Discogs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273909", "title": "Tropical Storm Madeline", "text": "Tropical Storm Madeline\n\nThe name Madeline has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Madeline has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Western Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273917", "title": "Tropical Storm Manuel", "text": "Tropical Storm Manuel\n\nThe name Manuel was used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nAfter the 2013 storm, the name \"Manuel\" was retired and replaced with \"Mario\" for the 2019 season.\n"}
{"id": "2273918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273918", "title": "St Catherine's School, Ventnor", "text": "St Catherine's School, Ventnor\n\nSt Catherine's School, in Ventnor, on the Isle of Wight, UK, is a non-maintained residential special school for children and young people aged seven to 19 years who have speech, language and communication needs. Many students have multiple conditions and a range of abilities are supported.\n\nSome of the difficulties the students have include: ADD; ADHD; auditory memory difficulties; autistic spectrum disorders; dyslexia; dyspraxia; (verbal/fine/gross); severe expressive and receptive speech disorders; and specific language disorders.\n\nSt. Catherine's centre provides: specialist education; intensive speech, language and occupational therapy which is integrated into the curriculum; excellent residential facilities; comprehensive vocational training programmes; and life skills and opportunities to develop social interaction skills to prepare young people for their transition to independence.\n\nSt. Catherine's approach supports effective learning; builds confidence and self-esteem; and reinforces the importance of providing wide-ranging personal development opportunities.\n\nEach class has a teacher, a speech and language therapist and an occupational therapist who work together to plan programmes and agree targets. Additionally, occupational therapy assistants and learning support assistants work with students both within the classroom and on a one-to-one basis.\n\nSt Catherine's Home was opened in November 1879, on the festival of All Saints and, until 1984, was known as St Catherine's Home although it was locally known as St Catherine's School. It has been a School since 1915 when the cases of advanced tuberculosis decreased and the arrival of Sister Kathleen saw the transformation of the Home into a school for delicate and Asthmatic children.\n\nIt had been felt by many people that a comfortable and quiet retreat was required for patients with advanced consumption, who having come to Ventnor for the benefit of their health, eventually became too ill to travel home again. Many of these people were not in a position to pay for the best lodging and constant attention which they certainly needed at such a time. It was therefore resolved to assist them in their need, and soon the indefatigable exertions of Mrs Willan, a committee of gentleman was formed under the presidency of the Lord Bishop of Winchester and subscriptions and donations amounting to over £1500 was received. With this money a start was made to provide a home for these cases for a small weekly payment of ten shillings and sixpence from each patient for every necessary comfort. For this they were well fed and attentively nursed by the Nursing Sisters of St Margaret's, East Grinstead. Peak House was purchased for this purpose and alterations made. When finished it contained 12 beds in two wards, male and female with three special rooms for extreme cases.\n\nAs reported in the \"Ventnor Times\" on 13 December 1879, there were 13 patients in the home and a sale of needlework was to be held in the Royal Hotel in aid of funds for St Catherine's.\n\nBy 1890 another property had been purchased called Grove House and was to be altered to provide accommodation for up to 24 patients. From November 1879 to December 1889 over 400 patients had been admitted to the Home and there was a growing need for more space.\n\nSt Catherine's Home enjoyed the patronage of the Duchess of Edinburgh and had a committee headed by the Bishop of Winchester and, among its other members, Dr Tatham of the Brompton Consumption Hospital. The Reverend W. W. Willan, the Vicar of Ventnor, was the Chaplain to the Home and his wife the Secretary. \nNursing of the home was undertaken by the Sisters of St Margaret's from East Grinstead in West Sussex. They also took over the administration as well as the nursing with the Trust being responsible for the property. The Society of St Margaret's was founded in 1855 by the Reverend John Mason Neale. The sisterhood was of the Church of England.\n\nIn 1908 Sister Kathleen arrived at St Catherine's. She became Sister-in-Charge in 1910 and her word was law! Sister Kathleen was deeply conscious of the fact that, at the time, there was little or no provision for the care of delicate children. She set her heart on rectifying this and in 1915 she reorganised St Catherine's Home to make it both a nursing home and a School with 20 beds – 10 for boys and 10 for girls.\n\nIn October 1915 the first child was admitted and by the beginning of 1916 ten children were in residence. Originally the children came to stay for three months but this often was extended to five or six months by the Doctor. Further properties were acquired over several years and in 1923 Elm Grove became part of St Catherine's, for housing the older boys. The extensive grounds of Elm Grove provided a playground for the children and, to the north of the house, much needed gardens for vegetables and fruit.\n\nIn 1926 numbers 1 and 2 Grove Hill Cottages (opposite the main building) were acquired for accommodating the older girls. Berkshire Villa was taken over in 1936 and renamed 'St. Anne's’ and was used as a residence for the Sisters.\nFrom the earliest days life at St Catherine's Home has centred around the Chapel. The solemn consecration took place on 11 December 1925 and the silver altar and the statues of Our Lady, St Catherine and St Joan were placed in the Chapel at the same time.\n\nThe 1930s worldwide depression brought several problems, financial and otherwise. But to Sister Kathleen and her loyal band of helpers it was a challenge to be met. Delicate and sick children had to be cared for and those who were privileged to work with her soon came to share her love of children.\n\nAt that time all the children remained at the Home throughout the year, even during School holidays. Changeovers of children took place almost weekly. During the School holidays, outings were arranged to many different places of interest on the Island. One of the highlights of the Summer holiday was always 17 August which was Sister Kathleen's birthday. If the weather was good the whole afternoon was given over to sports and a picnic tea in the grounds of Elm Grove.\n\nIt was during the 1930s that the number of children at St Catherine's Home reached its peak. Sometimes there were up to 160 children in residence. They came from all over the country including the island itself. During the war, a large house known as The Hermitage in Whitwell was taken over and all the children in the younger age groups were housed there. Only the older boys remained in Ventnor. They were divided between the buildings to minimise the number of casualties should any bomb damage occur. In the summer of 1945 all the children returned to Ventnor.\n\nBy 1960 Sister Kathleen was reluctantly compelled to give up her position as Sister-in-Charge as she was then 87 years old. She always took a lot of interest in the events and happenings of St Catherine's despite being retired and was always happy to see former pupils. Sister Kathleen died on 11 November 1966, deeply mourned by all who had known her.\n\nSister Joanna was appointed as Sister-in-Charge and she introduced the going home of children for School holidays at Christmas, Easter and August. Sometimes it was a struggle for a young child to understand the reason for being sent to Ventnor, being given no explanation as to why they were sent away from home, not knowing if they would ever see their families again. Some believed they had been sent away because their parents did not want them or because they had been naughty. Of course this was not true, most of the children were very ill indeed. The homesickness was very hard to bear. For some it became a wonderful respite from bombed out houses and a life of not knowing where their next meal was coming from and also a place to be able to play and enjoy the seashore, which would never have happened if they had not been ill. Many made many friends that they still keep in contact with even now and believe that St Catherine's helped them with their illnesses so they could live a normal and happy life.\nThe nuns left St Catherine's in the late 1970s and a speech and language unit was installed.\nSt Catherine's celebrated its centenary in 1979 and the Duchess of Gloucester and Earl Mountbatten visited the School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273922", "title": "Tropical Storm Marie", "text": "Tropical Storm Marie\n\nTropical Storm Marie may refer to:\n\nMarie is used on the modern six-year lists for tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific:\n\nMarie was also used for nine tropical cyclones in the Western Pacific:\n\n"}
{"id": "2273924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273924", "title": "Asaita", "text": "Asaita\n\nAsaita ( - Afar AfarAsayəta : Aysaqiita), also known as Aussa(Awsa), is a town in northeastern Ethiopia, and before 2007, it was the capital of the Afar Region of Ethiopia. Located in the Afambo woreda, part of the Region's Administrative Zone 1, the town has a latitude and longitude of and an elevation of .\n\nAsaita was briefly the capital of the Adal Sultanate and Harari Imamate of Aussa as well as seat of the Aussa Sultanate, the chief Afar monarchy, but is south by unpaved road from Awash–Asseb highway. A telephone line from Kombolcha to Asaita was in operation in 1964. The town of Semera, a planned settlement situated squarely on this highway, at some point before 2007 became the new capital of the region.\n\nTo the southeast of Asaita, located at the southern edge of the Danakil Desert, are a group of twenty salt lakes which cover the territory to the border with neighboring Djibouti. These lakes include Lake Gummare, known for its flamingos, and Lake Abbe, the final destination of the Awash River.\n\nBased on figures from the Central Statistical Agency in 2005, the town has an estimated total population of 22,718, of whom 12,722 were males and 9,996 were females. According to the 1994 national census, the town had a population of 15,475.\n\nAussa was once home to the extinct Harla people, their moniker still exists within clans in rural areas. Aussa is unique to the Afar region since it is the only area today that Afar people are engaged in agriculture. Farming was established by Harla as far back as the fourteenth century. The town also seems to have been a haven for mutineers of the Harari kingdom early on. Aussa became prominent when it served as capital of the Adal Sultanate in 1577. After Adal's demise, the Imamate of Aussa was established by Hararis and continued ruling the southern parts of Afar region until they were overthrown in the eighteenth century by the Mudaito dynasty of Afar who later established the Sultanate of Aussa.\n\nAussa is unique to the Afar region since it is the only area today where Afar people are engaged in agriculture. Farming is believed to be introduced by Harla as far back as the fourteenth century. \n\nAsaita was flooded by the Awash River in August 1954, and again in September, 1998.\n\nIn late June 1971 a fight during the market between the Afar and highland people left 16 workers dead and 34 wounded. Of more than 1,000 small farmers who had moved from the highlands to Awsa there were only 250-300 still living in Asaita after the violence.\n\nIn March 1975 the Derg nationalized all rural lands, including those of Ras Bitwoded Alimirah Hanfadhe, Sultan of the Afar. When they offered to fly him to Addis Ababa to negotiate the transfer of his lands, he refused the offer. That June, the Derg dispatched a battalion of troops to capture the sultan. Although the Ottaways note their sources agree that the ensuing two-day battle was a \"massacre\", they differ in the details:\n\nJon Kalb, who was working in the Afar region at the time, provides a narrative which reconciles the two accounts. According to Kalb, Ras Alimirah had fled in May across the border to Djibouti, where his brother-in-law was in charge. \n\nFollowing the fall of the Derg, Ras Alimirah, who had in the meantime founded the Afar Liberation Front (ALF), returned to Asaita with his son, Hanfadhe Alimirah. However, on 8 November 1995, Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) troops surrounded their family residence in Assayita, then after exchanging gunfire overpowered Alimirah's guards, and entered the residence, where they confiscated weapons and other items. According to observers, this action against the Sultan and the ALF was another effort to reduce his influence in the Afar Region. Despite the EPRDF's persistent efforts to bring the group under its control, the ALF is said to have remained independent.\n\nAsaita is located in the central of Afar Region. .\n"}
{"id": "2273925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273925", "title": "Tom Marshall (singer)", "text": "Tom Marshall (singer)\n\nTom Marshall (born November 12, 1963) is an American lyricist, keyboardist and singer-songwriter best known for his association with Trey Anastasio and the rock band Phish. He has been the primary external lyricist for Phish during their career (1983–2004, 2009–present), with songwriting credits for more than 95 originals. In addition to his songwriting work, Marshall also fronts the rock band Amfibian and hosts the Phish podcast Under the Scales. Marshall is the co-founder of Osiris, a podcast network in partnership with Jambase.\n\nMarshall attended Princeton Day School in New Jersey with Anastasio. The duo began writing songs together as early as the eighth grade (the reggae tune \"Makisupa Policeman\" is often regarded as the duo's first collaboration and the very first Phish original song). Other early collaborations include \"Bivouac Jaun\", a project recorded by Marshall, Anastasio, and their friend Marc Daubert (who occasionally played percussion with Phish in 1984 and wrote the lyrics to their classic \"The Curtain With\"). Many of the pieces recorded on \"Bivouac Jaun\" appeared on \"The White Tape\". Marshall also was instrumental in influencing \"The Man Who Stepped into Yesterday\", a Phish concept album and song cycle about the mystical land of Gamehendge written by Anastasio and used as his senior thesis at Goddard College in 1987.\n\nMarshall, Anastasio, and friends would meet at \"The Rhombus\", a giant piece of art located in a park next to the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, and embark on lengthy songwriting sessions. Many characters and locations mentioned in early Phish songs reference these songwriting sessions. In one instance, Marshall wrote the original lyrics to the Gamehendge song \"McGrupp and the Watchful Hosemasters\" and nailed them to Anastasio's front door. By 1985, Anastasio and Marshall had parted ways as Anastasio became more involved with Phish at the University of Vermont.\n\nYears later in 1989, Marshall apparently heard Phish's \"Junta\" album and thought to himself, \"these guys really need lyrics.\" Marshall and Anastasio reunited and began a long songwriting partnership that resulted in over 100 songs over the next fifteen years. Anastasio's 2005 solo album \"Shine\" marks the first time since the pre-\"Junta\" years that he has not worked with Marshall.\n\nIn addition to working closely with Anastasio, Marshall fronts his own band, Amfibian, currently on hiatus.\n\nIn the fall of 2010, Marshall collaborated with CT jam band The McLovins to co-write \"Cohesive\", recorded with Marshall and Anthony Krizan (of Spin Doctors fame) at Krizan's Sonic Boom studios. In mid-November 2010, Marshall joined his longtime friend Trey Anastasio on stage at the historic Richardson Auditorium in Alexander Hall Princeton University bringing them back to their roots.\n\nMarshall has a wife named Lea-Lea, a daughter named Anna and a son named Brodie. He is also a lover of good beer and witty banter.\n\nThis is an incomplete list of titles whose lyrics Tom Marshall has written or co-written.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273931", "title": "Tropical Storm Marty", "text": "Tropical Storm Marty\n\nThe name Marty has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nIt is used on the six-year lists in the Eastern Pacific:\n\nIt was also used on the old lists in the Western Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2273932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273932", "title": "Tugendhat", "text": "Tugendhat\n\nThe Tugendhat family was a family of Czech-Jewish textile and oil industrialists. World War II scattered them through Europe and America, and descendants have become influential politicians and academics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273933", "title": "Gasosaurus", "text": "Gasosaurus\n\nGasosaurus () () is a genus of tetanuran theropod that lived approximately 171.6 to 161.2 million years ago during the middle of the Jurassic Period. The name \"\"Gasosaurus\"\" is derived from the English \"\"gasoline\"\" and the Greek σαῦρος () (\"lizard / generic reptile\"). Only one species is currently recognised, \"G. constructus\", from which the specific name honours the gasoline company that found the Dashanpu fossil quarry in Sichuan Province, China, now named as the Lower Shaximiao Formation.\n\nThe first and to date only fossils, albeit postcranial (missing the skull), were recovered in 1985 during the construction of a gas facility, which explains the dinosaur's unusual name. It consists of laterally compressed teeth, 4 cervical, 7 dorsal, 5 sacral, and 7 caudal vertebrae, both humeri, and highly abraded and reconstructed pelvic and hind limb material that includes the left ilium, left ischium, left pubis, left femur, left tibia and left fibula. The fossils were defined as the type species \"Gasosaurus constructus\" by the paleontologists Dong Zhiming and Tang Zilu.\n\n\"Gasosaurus\" is a carnivorous theropod with strong legs but short arms. It measured between in length, with a weight of around . However, some estimates put its weight as high as , as very little is known about it.\n\nMany potentially informative features of the holotype skeleton (IVPP V7264) are difficult to assess based on published descriptions and images. The taxon represents a tetanuran based on the presence of a pubic peduncle of the ilium that is substantially larger than the ischial peduncle. Examination of casts reveals that the lesser trochanter does not rise above the level of the femoral head, and instead, the proximal portion of the femoral head is broken and the lesser trochanter reaches approximately midlevel of the head as in non-coelurosaurian tetanurans.\n\nFurthermore, it is recognized by an amphiplatyan cervical centra with incipient weak ventral keel, dorsals with amphiplatyan centra, low neural arches and plate-like neural spines, dorsal neural spines lacking expanded bulks at tips, five sacral centra and arches firmly fused while neural spines not fused, presence of a humeral foramen, low ilium with a less developed anterior process, and distal ends of pubis and ischium expanded but lacking foot-like processes.\n\nTraditionally thought to be a megalosauroid, Holtz (2000) found it to be a basal coelurosaurian, although later Holtz \"et al.\" (2004) suggested it was a basal carnosaur (possibly a metriacanthosaurid) on the basis of data from undescribed specimens. It may in fact be the most basal coelurosaurian yet known, or may even be close to the common ancestor of the two groups; in any case, it represents one of the oldest definitive tetanuran theropods. Some paleontologists have speculated that \"Gasosaurus\" and \"Kaijiangosaurus\" may be one and the same species.\n\nBecause of the fragmentary nature of the known \"Gasosaurus\" fossils, it has an uncertain position within Tetanurae, and probably lays outside Coelurosauria. A detailed restudy of the holotype is underway that may change its classification.\n\n\"Gasosarurus\" lived during the mid-Jurassic period (Bathonian and/ or Callovian stages), around 164 million years ago. It coexisted with other mid-range theropods such as \"Chuandongocoelurus\" and \"Kaijiangosaurus\", two other dinosaurs found from the Lower Shaximiao Formation. These three taxa pertain to medium to large bodied theropods and are known from associated prostcranial skeletons. China, boasts the highest taxic diversity of Middle Jurassic theropods of all body sizes from anywhere in the world. Most Middle Jurassic theropods from china are 'medium-sized', as are the majority of Middle Jurassic theropods globally.\n\nThese similar dinosaurs show an intriguing combination of derived tetanuran synapomorphies and primitive features shared with non-tetanurans, which suggest they occupy a basal position within Tetanurae. Understanding the anatomy of Chinese Jurassic taxa may reveal further details of primitive tetanuran anatomy and help resolve the early evolution of this successful theropod clade. Future exploration of the Chinese Middle Jurassic theropod record may bring new insights into the diversification of Tetanurae, the origin of larger body sizes among more derived theropods, and Middle Jurassic paleobiogeography.\n"}
{"id": "2273941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273941", "title": "Hugh Marshall Hole", "text": "Hugh Marshall Hole\n\nLieutenant-Colonel Hugh Marshall Hole, CMG (16 May 1865 – 18 May 1941) was an English pioneer, administrator and author and best known for issuing the \"Marshall Hole currency\".\n\nMarshall Hole was born in Tiverton in Devon, England. He was educated at Blundell's School and Balliol College (where he won the Newte exhibition).\n\nMarshall Hole came to South Africa in 1889 and met the mine magnate and politician Cecil Rhodes in Kimberley. Rhodes offered him a job as the first clerk to the newly formed British South Africa Company. In 1891 Marshall Hole took up the position of private secretary to Sir Starr Jameson in Mashonaland (who was shortly to be appointed Administrator of the Company's territories).\n\nMarshall Hole's other appointments included:\n\n\nCecil Rhodes took a great liking to Marshall Hole and in 1901 had sent him on missions to Arabia to devise means for the introduction of Arab labour to Southern Rhodesia. Marshall Hole also took charge of the arrangements for Rhodes' burial in the Matopo Hills in 1902.\n\nMarshall Hole retired from Government service in 1913 and at the outbreak of World War I he joined The Norfolk Regiment, was mentioned in despatches and retired in 1919.\n\nMarshall Hole is best known for issuing \"Marshall Hole currency\" in Bulawayo in 1900. During the Anglo-Boer War there was a shortage of small change and circulating coinage in Rhodesia. Marshall Hole, who was then serving as Government Secretary for Matabeleland and Civil Commissioner of Bulawayo, authorised the issue of small cards bearing a British South Africa Company postage stamp on the obverse, and an official handstamped signature on the reverse, and these cards circulated as emergency currency between 1 August 1900 and their withdrawal on 1 October 1900. Smith (1967: p332) says \"£20,000's worth of stamps were used, and when circulation ceased... it was found that almost exactly £1,000's worth was still outstanding... This £1,000... was clear profit to the Administration and compensated Mr Hole for the ridicule the experiment provoked when he first proposed it.\"\n\nThe currency cards were issued in denominations of 2d, 3d, 4d, 6d, 1/-, 2/-, 2/6, 4/-, 5/- and 10/-, and bore two types of validation stamp. One type is inscribed \"ADMINISTRATOR'S OFFICE * BULAWAYO\". The other type is inscribed \"ADMINISTRATOR'S OFFICE\". The validation stamps were applied at Marshall Hole's office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273948", "title": "Endangered Species (Big Pun album)", "text": "Endangered Species (Big Pun album)\n\nEndangered Species is a posthumous compilation of unreleased tracks, guest appearances, and greatest hits by the late rapper Big Pun, released on April 4, 2001 by Loud Records, following his death in February 2000. The proceeds from the album were to be given to Pun's widow, Liza Rios, and their three children. The album reached a peak chart position of #7. Liza Rios claims to have only received a small royalty check from the sales of \"Endangered Species\", and in response, auctioned off her husband's Terror Squad medallion in July 2005.\n\nThe single from the album was \"How We Roll\", which featured at time, R&B newcomer Ashanti on the chorus & outro. The video to the song was made into a cartoon and helped remember Big Pun throughout. Fellow rapper and close friend Fat Joe, who was also the compilation's executive producer, revealed in the liner notes of the album that the title chosen for the compilation was in fact the original title for 2000's \"Yeeeah Baby\". All of Pun's lyrics were included in the booklet of the disc, partly due to the limited amount of promotional tools available to the label, and partly because of a desire to emphasize Pun's technique as a lyricist.\n"}
{"id": "2273949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273949", "title": "Hurricane Max", "text": "Hurricane Max\n\nThe name Max has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "2273952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273952", "title": "Richard Nicolls", "text": "Richard Nicolls\n\nRichard Nicholls (1624 in Ampthill, Bedfordshire – 28 May 1672 on the North Sea, off Suffolk) was the first English colonial governor of New York province.\n\nNicholls was born in 1624 in Ampthill in Bedfordshire, England. He was the son of Francis Nicolls (1582–1624), a barrister and Member of Parliament, and Margaret (née Bruce) Nicolls (1577–1652), who were married at Abbots Langley in 1609. His mother was a daughter of Sir George Bruce of Carnock (c. 1550–1625), a Scottish merchant who built Culross Palace, and a niece of Edward Bruce, 1st Lord Kinloss (1548–1611).\n\nHe commanded a royalist troop of horse (i.e., cavalry) during the English Civil War, and on the defeat of the king went into exile. Soon after the Restoration he became Groom of the Chamber to the Duke of York. \n\nThrough the influence of the Duke of York, in 1664 he was appointed on a commission with Sir Robert Carr (d. 1667), George Cartwright, and Samuel Maverick, to conquer New Netherlands from the Dutch and to regulate the affairs of the New England colonies and settle disputes among them. The expedition set sail from Portsmouth on 25 May 1664, and arrived in New Amsterdam on 27 August 1664. New Amsterdam was surrendered to Nicolls on 8 September 1664. Under authority of a commission from the Duke (later King James) Nicolls assumed the position of deputy-governor of New Netherlands (New York).\nHe made 74th Street, beginning at the East River, the southern border patent line (which was called the \"Harlem Line\") of the village of Nieuw Haarlem (later, the village of Harlem); the English also renamed the village \"Lancaster\".\n\nHis policy was vigorous but tactful, and the transition to the new regime was made smoothly and with due regard to the interests of the conquered people. The formerly Dutch colonists were guaranteed in the possession of their property rights, their laws of inheritance, and the enjoyment of religious freedom. The English system of law and administration was at once introduced into Long Island, Staten Island and Westchester, where the English element already predominated, but the change was made much more slowly in the Dutch sections. A code of laws, known as the \"Duke's Laws\", drafted by the governor with the help of his secretary, and nephew, Matthias Nicolls (c. 1630–1687), and dated 12 March, was proclaimed at Hempstead, Long Island, on 1 March 1665 and continued in force until 1683; the code was compiled from the codes of the New England colonies, and it provided for trial by jury, for proportional taxation on property, for the issuance of new patents for land and for land tenure only by licence from the duke. \n\nNicolls returned to England in the summer of 1668 and continued in the service of the Duke of York and was replaced by Francis Lovelace as governor. He was killed in the naval battle of Southwold Bay on 28 May 1672. His monument at Ampthill incorporates the cannonball that killed him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273961", "title": "Barbara Willard", "text": "Barbara Willard\n\nBarbara Mary Willard (12 March 1909 – 18 February 1994) was a British novelist best known for children's historical fiction. Her \"Mantlemass Chronicles\" is a family saga set in 15th to 17th-century England. For one chronicle, \"The Iron Lily\" (1973), she won the annual Guardian Children's Fiction Prize, a once-in-a-lifetime book award judged by panel of British children's writers.\n\nWillard was born in Brighton, Sussex in 1909, the daughter of the Shakespearean actor Edmund Willard and Mabel Theresa Tebbs. She was also the great-niece of Victorian-era actor Edward Smith Willard. The young Willard was educated at a convent school in Southampton.\n\nBecause of her family connections, Willard originally went on the stage as an actress and also worked as a playreader, but she was unsuccessful and abandoned acting in her early twenties. She wrote numerous books for adults before she turned to children's literature. \n\nVery little about the author was written during her lifetime, because of her private nature. She died at a nursing home in Wivelsfield Green, East Sussex, on 18 February 1994.\n\n\"The Grove of Green Holly\" (1967), which was a story about a group of 17th century travelling players who were hiding in a forest in Sussex from Oliver Cromwell's soldiers, spawned her most famous work, the Mantlemass series (1970–1981) including her Guardian Prize-winning book. Some other books were \"Hetty\" (1956), \"Storm from the West\" (1963), \"Three and One to Carry\" (1964), and \"Charity at Home\" (1965).\n\nOne of her last books, \"The Forest - Ashdown in East Sussex\", published by Sweethaws Press in 1989, gives a detailed account of Ashdown Forest. In the introduction to the book, Christopher Robin Milne notes that Willard had moved from her home on the Sussex Downs to the edge of Ashdown Forest in 1956 and that her new surroundings had provided the inspiration and setting for ten of her children's historical novels (eight in the \"Mantlemass\" series and two others). It is evident by her own account in her book that she actively involved herself in the affairs of the forest. She was a representative of the forest Commoners elected to the forest's Board of Conservators in 1975, and she remained in that capacity for ten years. She tells how she was later heavily involved in the fundraising campaign which enabled East Sussex County Council to purchase the forest in 1988, enabling it to remain as a place of beauty and tranquility open to the public.\n\n\nOther sources\n"}
{"id": "2273965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273965", "title": "Hurricane Miriam", "text": "Hurricane Miriam\n\nThe name Miriam has been used for eight tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2273966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273966", "title": "Gervase of Tilbury", "text": "Gervase of Tilbury\n\nGervase of Tilbury (; 1150–1220) was an English canon lawyer, statesman and cleric. He enjoyed the favour of Henry II of England and later of Henry's grandson, Emperor Otto IV, for whom he wrote his best known work, the \"Otia Imperialia\".\n\nGervase was of aristocratic stock, claiming kinship with Patrick, Earl of Salisbury. He was born in West Tilbury, in Essex, a manor in the hands of Henry II, but was brought up in Rome.\n\nHe travelled widely, studied and taught canon law at Bologna, was in Venice in 1177, at the reconciliation of Pope Alexander III and Frederick Barbarossa, and spent some time in the service of Henry II of England, and of his son, \"Henry the Young King\". For the latter he composed a \"Liber facetiarum\" (‘Book of entertainment’), now lost, as well as the basis for what would become the \"Otia Imperialia\". He also served Henry's uncle William of Champagne, Archbishop of Reims (where Gervase's famous attempt to seduce an unwilling girl precipitated her condemnation by the archbishop as a cathar). \n\nSome time after 1183 Gervase found service at the court of William II, the Norman king of Sicily, who had married Henry's daughter Joan. From William he received the gift of a villa at Nola in Campania. After the King of Sicily's death in 1189, Gervase moved to the court of the Otto of Brunswick, a grandson of Henry II. Under Otto's auspices, Gervase married (which bought him a palace) and settled in Arles. In 1198, Otto – now one of the two rival kings of the Holy Roman Empire – appointed Gervase Marshal of the Kingdom of Arles. Gervase accompanied Otto to Rome in 1209 on the occasion of his Imperial coronation. The following year Gervase was enmeshed in the papacy's struggle with his patron Otto, who was excommunicated by Pope Innocent III. Gervase employed the next years, from 1210 to 1214, writing the \"Otia Imperialia\" (\"Recreation for an Emperor\") for his patron. He also wrote a \"Vita abbreviata et miracula beatissimi Antonii\" (\"Shortened life and miracles of the most blessed Antony\") and a \"Liber de transitu beate virginis et gestis discipulorum\" (\"Book of the passing of the blessed virgin and acts of the disciples\").\n\nDetails of his latter years are uncertain. It has been suggested that, after the resounding defeat of Otto and his English ally John at the Battle of Bouvines (1214), Gervase was forced to retire to the duchy of Braunschweig, where he became, and died, provost of Ebstorf, and it is apparent that his work was known to the authors of the Ebstorf world map ( 1234–40). However, it is recorded by Ralph of Coggeshall that he became a canon in later life, and other evidence suggests that he may have been a member of the Premonstratensians of l'Huveaune.\n"}
{"id": "2273968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273968", "title": "Yangchuanosaurus", "text": "Yangchuanosaurus\n\nYangchuanosaurus is an extinct genus of metriacanthosaurid theropod dinosaur that lived in China during the Bathonian and Callovian stages of the Middle Jurassic, and was similar in size and appearance to its North American and European relative, \"Allosaurus\". It hails from the Upper Shaximiao Formation and was the largest predator in a landscape that included the sauropods \"Mamenchisaurus\" and \"Omeisaurus\" and the stegosaurs \"Chialingosaurus\", \"Tuojiangosaurus\" and \"Chungkingosaurus\". It was named after the area in which was discovered, Yongchuan, in China.\n\nDong \"et al.\" (1978) named \"Yangchuanosaurus shangyouensis\" on the basis of CV 00215, a complete skull and skeleton which was collected from the Shangshaximiao Formation, near Yongchuan, Yongchuan District, Sichuan. It dates to the Bathonian to Callovian stage of the Middle Jurassic period, about 161.2-154 million years ago. It was discovered in June 1977 by a construction worker during the construction of the Shangyou Reservoir Dam. A second species from the same locality, \"Y. magnus\", was named by Dong \"et al.\" (1983) on the basis of CV 00216, another complete skull and skeleton. A detailed revision of tetanuran phylogeny by Carrano, Benson & Sampson (2012) revealed that both species are conspecific. Dong \"et al.\" (1978) and Dong \"et al.\" (1983) differentiated these species primarily on the basis of size. In addition, Dong \"et al.\" (1983) noted that the maxilla of \"Y. magnus\" has an additional fenestra within the antorbital fossa, whereas \"Y. shangyouensis\" possessed only a fossa in this location. However, it is considered to be an intraspecific, possibly ontogenetic, variation. Furthermore, the apparent difference in cervical vertebral morphology can be explained by comparing different positions within the column. Hence, the holotypes of the two species of \"Yangchuanosaurus\" are effectively identical, and their codings are identical in Carrano \"et al.\" (2012) matrix. Gregory S. Paul (1988) regarded this genus the same as \"Metriacanthosaurus\", but this has not been supported.\nCarrano \"et al.\" (2012) assigned a third specimen to \"Y. shangyouensis\". CV 00214 is represented by a partial postcranial skeleton lacking the skull. It was collected in the Wujiaba Quarry, near Zigong city, Sichuan, from the lower part of the Shangshaximiao Formation. CV 00214 was initially listed by Dong \"et al.\" (1978) in a faunal list as a new species of \"Szechuanosaurus\", \"Szechuanosaurus\" \"yandonensis\". There is no description or illustration of it, making \"S.\" \"yandonensis\" a \"nomen nudum\". Later, Dong \"et al.\" (1983) described it, and assigned it to \"Szechuanosaurus campi\", a dubious species which is known only from four teeth. Carrano \"et al.\" (2012) noted that CV 00214 can't be assigned to \"S. campi\" because the holotype materials of \"S. campi\" (IVPP V.235, V.236, V.238, V.239; teeth) are non-diagnostic and no teeth are preserved in CV 00214. A recent restudy of CV 00214 by Daniel Chure (2001) concluded that it represented a new taxon, informally named \"Szechuanoraptor dongi\", into which \"Szechuanosaurus zigongensis\" should also be subsumed. However, the most recent revision (by Carrano \"et al.\" (2012)) suggested that CV 00214 and \"S.\" \"zigongensis\" cannot be cospecific as there are no autapomorphies shared between them, and the latter derives from the underlying Xiashaximiao Formation. A phylogenetic analysis found CV 00214 to be most closely related to \"Y. shangyouensis\", and thus the former is assignable to it. Furthermore, \"Szechuanosaurus zigongensis\" was found to be closely related to \"Y. shangyouensis\" and therefore was designated as the second species of \"Yangchuanosaurus\".\n\n\"Yangchuanosaurus zigongensis\" is known from four specimens including ZDM 9011 (holotype), a partial postcranial skeleton; ZDM 9012, a left maxilla; ZDM 9013, two teeth and ZDM 9014, a right hind limb. It was first described by Gao (1993), and all specimens were collected from the Middle Jurassic Xiashaximiao Formation in the Dashanpu Dinosaur Quarry of Zigong, Sichuan.\n\nThe type specimen of \"Y. shangyouensis\" had a skull long, and its total body length was estimated at about . Another specimen, assigned to the new species \"Y. magnus\", was even larger, with a skull length of . It may have been up to long, and weighed as much as . Gregory S. Paul suggested that these are the same species and gave a length of 11 meters (36 feet) and a weight of 3 metric tons (3.3 short tons). There was a bony ridge on its nose and multiple hornlets and ridges, similar to \"Ceratosaurus\".\n\n\"Yangchuanosaurus\" was a large, powerful meat-eater. It walked on two large, muscular legs, had short arms, a strong, short neck, a big head with powerful jaws, and large, serrated teeth. It had a long, massive tail that was about half of its length. Its arms were short. The first digit of its foot was a small dewclaw. The three outer toes were used to bear weight and each was equipped with a large claw.\n\nA phylogenetic analysis by Carrano \"et al.\" (2012) found \"Yangchuanosaurus\" to be the basalmost known metriacanthosaurid and the only non-metriacanthosaurine metriacanthosaurid. The cladogram presented below follows their study.\n\nThe cladogram presented below follows Zanno & Makovicky (2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "2273976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273976", "title": "Hurricane Narda", "text": "Hurricane Narda\n\nThe name Narda has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273984", "title": "Thank You for Smoking", "text": "Thank You for Smoking\n\nThank You for Smoking is a 2005 American satirical black comedy film written and directed by Jason Reitman and starring Aaron Eckhart, based on the 1994 satirical novel of the same name by Christopher Buckley. It follows the efforts of Big Tobacco's chief spokesman, Nick Naylor, who lobbies on behalf of cigarettes using heavy spin tactics while also trying to remain a role model for his 12-year-old son. Maria Bello, Adam Brody, Sam Elliott, Katie Holmes, Rob Lowe, William H. Macy, J. K. Simmons, and Robert Duvall appear in supporting roles.\n\nThe film was released in a limited run on March 17, 2006, and had a wide release on April 14. As of 2007, the film had grossed a total of more than $39 million worldwide. The film was released on DVD in the US on October 3, 2006, and in the UK on January 8, 2007.\n\nNick Naylor is a handsome, smooth-talking tobacco spokesman who attempts to influence the act of people in daily life and the vice-president of a tobacco lobby called the \"Academy of Tobacco Studies\", which has been researching whether smoking tobacco causes lung diseases or not. They claim that their research—funded primarily by tobacco companies—has found no definitive evidence for it. Nick's job is mainly defending Big Tobacco on television programs by presenting this research to the public. Naylor and his friends, firearm lobbyist Bobby Jay Bliss and alcohol lobbyist Polly Bailey, meet every week and jokingly call themselves the \"Merchants of Death\" or \"The MOD Squad\".\n\nAs anti-tobacco campaigns mount and numbers of young smokers decline, Naylor suggests that product placement of cigarettes could once again boost cigarette sales. Naylor's boss, BR, sends Naylor to Los Angeles to bargain for cigarette placement in upcoming movies. Naylor takes along his young son, Joey, in hopes of bonding with him. The next day, Naylor is sent to meet with Lorne Lutch, the cancer-stricken man who once played the Marlboro Man in cigarette ads and is now campaigning against cigarettes. As his son watches, Naylor successfully offers Lutch a suitcase of money for his silence. During the drive back, Nick and Joey discuss the beauty of argument.\n\nSenator Finistirre, one of Naylor's most vehement critics, is the promoter of a bill to add a skull and crossbones POISON warning to cigarette packaging. During a televised debate with Finistirre, Naylor receives a death threat from a caller. Despite the threat, Naylor still plans to appear before a U.S. Senate committee to fight Finistirre's bill. Naylor is then kidnapped by a clandestine group and covered in nicotine patches. Awakening in a hospital, he gets to know that he is saved due to smoking a lot of cigarettes which made him somewhat immune to nicotine. But now he is very sensitive to tobacco and cannot smoke cigarettes.\n\nMeanwhile, Naylor has been seduced by a young reporter named Heather Holloway. During their steamy fling, the besotted Naylor tells Holloway all about his life and career—information that she happily publishes in an exposé that appears just after the kidnapping. Her article relentlessly criticizes Naylor and his work, exposing Lutch's bribe, the product-placement scheme, and the MOD squad. It accuses Naylor of training his son Joey to follow his amoral example. All public sympathy due to Naylor's kidnapping evaporates, and Naylor is fired by BR.\n\nNaylor falls into depression until Joey helps him recall the integrity in his job of defending corporations that almost no one feels deserve a defense. Rejuvenated, Naylor tells the press about his affair with Holloway and promises to clear the names of everyone mentioned in her article. He also declares that he will still appear before the Senate committee. At the hearing, Naylor admits to the dangers of smoking but argues that public awareness is already high enough without extra warnings. He emphasizes consumer choice and responsibility and, to the dismay of Senator Finistirre, claims that if tobacco companies are guilty of tobacco-related deaths, then perhaps Finistirre's state of Vermont, as a major cheese producer, is likewise guilty of cholesterol-related deaths.\n\nBR congratulates Naylor on the speech and offers him his old job but Naylor has a change of heart. Seeing Big Tobacco settling claims of liability, Naylor remarks that he has left just in time. He also mentions Heather was humiliated upon being terminated by the paper for her article and is working as a weather reporter on a local news station. Naylor supports his son's newfound interest in debating and opens a private lobbying firm. The MOD squad continues to meet with new members that represent the fast-food, oil, and biohazard industries. Now Naylor runs an agency called \"Naylor Strategic Relations\" and consults i. e. cellphone industry representatives concerned about claims that cellphones cause brain cancer, he narrates: \"Michael Jordan plays ball. Charles Manson kills people. I talk. Everyone has a talent.\"\n\n\nDirector Jason Reitman asked many of his prospective actors and actresses to be in the film by writing each of them a personal letter. Every one of his first choices accepted his or her part and most thanked Reitman for his letter. Reitman was also able to persuade Eckhart, Holmes, Macy, and Lowe to sign on to the film with minimum pay.\n\nMel Gibson's Icon Productions bought the rights to Buckley's novel prior to its release. Initially, Gibson saw himself as starring as Nick Naylor in the adaptation. However, due to the satiric nature of the book, the studio lacked a way to film it and the project lacked a usable script. Reitman became interested in heading an adaptation after reading the book, and independently wrote a draft for Icon executives after he discovered they owned the rights to the film. Reitman saw himself as a comic writer with a voice similar to Buckley's, and consciously attempted to maintain the satiric flavor of the book for his draft. The script was received favorably by Icon, and Gibson called Reitman to tell him how much he loved it. But over the next three years, the project languished due to a lack of financing and big studio interest, as most studios wanted Reitman to rewrite his script to include a more anti-smoking and uplifting ending. According to Reitman, studios wanted Naylor to have a change of heart by the film's end and repent for his past.\n\nIt was only after meeting David O. Sacks, who had made his fortune as the former COO of the Internet payment company PayPal, that Reitman found a financier for his script. A first-time producer, Sacks spent over a year trying to acquire the rights to the film from Icon. He financed most of the film's $8.5 million budget and let Reitman keep most of his original draft. The project marked Reitman's first feature-length film as a director, though he previously directed short films and commercials and had worked on the set of his father, director Ivan Reitman.\n\nDuring the filming, Reitman made the conscious decision not to show any actual smoking of cigarettes. The only scenes that include smoking are older films the characters watch, such as when John Wayne lights up in \"Sands of Iwo Jima\".\n\nBefore the film was screened at the Sundance Film Festival, internet rumors claimed that an extended nudity scene between Eckhart and Holmes had been cut down due to pressure from Holmes' husband, Tom Cruise. Reitman and executives denied that such a scene had ever existed but welcomed the publicity it garnered for the film. Reitman later said that \"Half the questions that I've been getting are thoughtful questions about the moral of lobbying and how does satire work. And the rest is just, 'Is there actually any nude footage out there?'\"\n\nControversy also erupted after the film was screened at the Toronto Film Festival. \"Thank You for Smoking\" was met with tremendous popular reception and afterward disputed claims emerged as to who had signed a distribution deal with Sacks. Fox Searchlight Pictures and Paramount Classics both issued competing press releases claiming that they had secured rights for the film's distribution. Sacks later claimed that he never reached a firm deal with Paramount, and noted that Fox Searchlight had offered $7 million for distribution, while Paramount Classics offered $6.7 million. Allegedly, Sacks called Paramount at 1:15 a.m. saying he was uncomfortable with their initial deal. Ruth Vitale, co-president of Paramount Classics said \"He can't resell the film\" and noted \"I can only think that because of his naiveté and inexperience he would do this.\"\n\nSerial entrepreneur Elon Musk is credited on IMDb as Executive Producer of \"Thank You for Smoking\". His participation was discussed during episode #1470 of the Joe Rogan Experience podcast (at 1:35:40), with Musk as Rogan’s guest.\n\nThe film received mostly positive reviews from film critics. Film-review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 86% of 180 critics have given the film a positive review, with a rating average of 7.3/10. The site's general consensus is that \"Loaded with delightfully unscrupulous characters and a witty, cynical script, \"Thank You For Smoking\" is a sharp satire with a brilliantly smarmy lead performance from Aaron Eckhart.\" Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from film critics, has a rating score of 71 based on 36 reviews. Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" describing it as \"acutely hilarious\" and gave the film 3.5 out of 4 stars. \"USA Today\" film critic Claudia Puig called it a \"razor-sharp satire\" that was \"the wittiest dark comedy of the year thus far. It has appeal to all sides of the political spectrum.\" She praised the film for a \"quirky and intelligent rarity that elicits wry smiles and hearty laughs alike\" and compared it in tone to \"Election\" (1999). Kenneth Turan of the \"Los Angeles Times\" also favorably reviewed the film, calling it a \"very smart and funny movie\" that had been \"shrewdly\" adapted to film from novel.\n\n\"Thank You for Smoking\" initially opened at the box office in the U.S. as a limited release in just five theaters, and grossed $262,923 in its debut weekend for an average of $52,584 per theater, making it one of the top 100 average gross per theater films of all time. The film was later released in 1,015 theaters across the U.S. on April 14, 2006, and has gone on to gross $24,793,509 domestically and $14,529,518 outside the country, for a total of $39,323,027 worldwide. The highest it ever rated at the North American box office was #8 on the weekend of its wide release. Although the film's box office performance was excellent for Reitman's directorial debut, it paled in comparison with his next two films, \"Juno\" and \"Up in the Air\", both of which went on to make well over $150,000,000 worldwide. As of 2017, the movie is the 14th highest-grossing political satire film.\n\nThe main contention most critics had with the film was its lack of continuity. Karina Longworth of Cinematical notes \"\"Thank You for Smoking\" has a vague emotional arc, but narratively it plays out like a constellation of sitcom sketches, connected by the most tenuous threads of character evolution\", while \"Empire\" observes \"the problem's not so much with the movie's aim, as with the number of targets it's aiming at.\" Other reviewers criticized the film's overacting. Manohla Dargis of \"The New York Times\" notes \"although he [Reitman] steers his cast through its paces with facility, he tends to oversell jokes that were already plenty loud in the book.\" Other comments come from \"The Hollywood Reporter\": \"While often entertaining, the film keeps hitting the same comic notes\", and Salon: \"The actors here are entertaining enough to watch, even if they sometimes seem to be taking their mission (whatever they think it is) a bit too seriously.\"\n\nThe Nick Naylor character has been compared to real-life Richard Berman of the Center for Consumer Freedom.\n\nWhile \"Thank You for Smoking\" the book was praised as a sharp criticism of both anti-smoking lobbyists and the tobacco industry, the film has received more mixed reviews on its satirical content. Steve Palopoli of \"Metro Silicon Valley\" writes that \"no matter\" how much the hype machine might hard-sell the idea that the movie 'skewers both sides of the issue', \"any child old enough to recognize Joe Camel can tell that underneath the sarcastic joking, this is a bitterly anti-smoking film.\" Palopoli goes on to say \"the supposed case against the anti-smoking lobby has been reduced mostly to some limp jokes at the expense of William H. Macy's senator character, who is fervently against the tobacco lobby\". Many felt the film's relatively sappy ending negated the slicker, darker tone of the book. \"The Washington Post\"s Desson Thomson thought that \"as written and directed by Jason Reitman, 'Smoking' is filtered too heavily with moral redemption.\"\n\nReitman has maintained his purpose was to match the tone and satirical message of the book as closely as possible. \"What I wanted people to think about was political correctness. I wanted them to think about ideas of personal responsibility and personal choice. I think cigarettes are a wonderful location for that discussion because cigarettes are something we know all the answers to\", he posits. \"I wanted to look into this idea of why we feel the need to tell each other how to live and why we can't take personal responsibility for our own actions when we fall ill from things that we know are dangerous.\" Stephanie Zacharek of Salon agrees with Reitman; \"Despite its title, the movie doesn't come packaged with a strong anti-smoking message, because it doesn't need to: Everyone knows that smoking is bad for you, including people who continue to do it.\"\n\nThere is no point during the film at which any of the characters smoke. Dargis of \"The New York Times\" unwittingly states, \"\"Thank You for Smoking\" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes mild violence, discreet sex and, of course, countless cigarettes.\" In the film, even Robert Duvall's filtered cigarette maverick \"The Captain\" is shown repeatedly drinking mint juleps rather than smoking cigarettes. Some critics argue that Reitman's reluctance to show the characters smoking is further confirmation of the film's anti-smoking stance. Reitman has issued statements disagreeing with this view. He said in an interview that \"While it's not anti-smoking, it's very important people don't think that this is a pro-smoking movie. It's about freedom of choice.\" Buckley said about the decision to omit smoking that \"[I]t was very deliberate, and I think rather cool.\"\n\nThe tobacco industry itself has been reluctant to take any sides or comment on the film. When \"New York Times\" reporter Michael Jankowsky contacted an Altria publicist about the tobacco giant's reaction, she \"hesitated to respond, insisting that the film looks dated and poorly reflects the industry with depictions of tobacco executives as highly paid sleazeballs.\" Though \"Thank You for Smoking\" pokes fun at the industry, the novel it was adapted from is a much harsher critic of tobacco lobbyists, and the major tobacco companies have mostly kept quiet on the issue.\n\n\"Thank You for Smoking\" did not receive a wide variety of nominations from the major award circuits; however, it did garner two Golden Globe nominations in its year for Best Picture (Musical or Comedy) and Best Actor in the same film genre for Aaron Eckhart's portrayal of Nick Naylor. The Broadcast Film Association recognized Cameron Bright for his performance as Joey with a nomination for Best Young Actor, and also gave the film itself a nomination in the Comedy category. Jason Reitman received the Best Directorial Debut award from the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures.\n\nThe \"Thank You for Smoking\" soundtrack was released April 14, 2006 and the CD came out on April 18, 2006. The first nine tracks are popular songs about smoking taken from the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s. The famous track \"Smoke! Smoke! Smoke! (That Cigarette)\" opens the film. The final four tracks are instrumentals from the original score of Rolfe Kent, who had been nominated for best original score for his work on \"Sideways\". AllMusic wrote that \"The thread is obvious, but the selections sound handpicked rather than researched solely on the basis of their subject matter.\" Other critics have called the soundtrack \"demented.\"\n\n\nThe DVD was released on October 3, 2006 by 20th Century Fox, with both a widescreen and fullscreen edition. Each DVD contains two commentaries, one exclusively with Reitman and another with Reitman, Eckhart, and Koechner. Other extras include thirteen deleted scenes, a Charlie Rose interview, a making-of featurette, an \"America: Living in Spin\" featurette, a poster gallery, and an art gallery. The film has not yet been released on Blu-ray.\n\n\"Variety\" reported on November 24, 2006 that NBC planned to create a television series based on the film. Sacks headed the adaptation as executive producer, with Rick Cleveland attached as head writer. After NBC passed on the project, it was brought to NBC's cable network, USA. James Dodson was set up as head writer as well as co-executive producer alongside Sacks. USA's chief programming executive Jeff Wachtel initially described the character as living between the morally ambiguous character of the film and Robin Hood. The series planned to adopt a different title and sought to start where the movie left off. The project never materialized and no official series of the movie has since developed. However, ABC's show \"Better Off Ted\" has been described as a \"TV-sized version of \"Thank You for Smoking\"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2273988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273988", "title": "Hurricane Newton", "text": "Hurricane Newton\n\nThe name Newton has been used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2273989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273989", "title": "Little Queen", "text": "Little Queen\n\nLittle Queen is the second studio album by American rock band Heart. It was released on May 14, 1977, by Portrait Records. The album was recorded and mixed at Kaye-Smith Studios in Seattle, Washington, from February to April 1977. On June 29, 2004, a remastered version of \"Little Queen\" was released by Epic Records and Legacy Recordings with two bonus tracks.\n\nThe group intended \"Magazine\" to be the official follow-up to their debut album \"Dreamboat Annie\". However, a contract dispute with their label, Mushroom Records, resulted in the group signing with the newly formed Portrait Records, a division of CBS Records (now Sony BMG).\n\nThe Mushroom contract called for two albums and the label took the position that they were owed a second one. On that basis, Mushroom attempted to prevent the release of \"Little Queen\" and any other work by Heart. They took the five unfinished tracks for \"Magazine\" and added a B-side and two live recordings. The first release of the album in early 1977 included a disclaimer on the back cover.\n\nThe dispute dragged on and ended with the court deciding that Heart was free to sign with a new label, but added that Mushroom was indeed owed a second album. Therefore, Heart returned to the studio to re-record, remix, edit, and resequence the \"Magazine\" recordings in a marathon session over four days. A court-ordered guard stood nearby to prevent the master tapes from being erased.\n\n\"Little Queen\" was released on May 14, 1977, and \"Magazine\" was re-released on April 22, 1978. With the successful single \"Barracuda\", \"Little Queen\" outsold \"Magazine\" handily, eventually earning a triple platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). However, the almost simultaneous release also gave the band the distinction of having all three of their albums on the charts at the same time.\n\nAfter the first album became a million seller, Mushroom took out a full-page ad in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine touting the band's success, using the headline \"Million to One Shot Sells a Million\". The ad looked like the front page of a tabloid newspaper and included a photo from the \"Dreamboat Annie\" cover shoot. The caption read: \"Heart's Wilson Sisters Confess: 'It Was Only Our First Time!'\".\n\nAfter this ad surfaced, a Detroit radio promoter asked Ann Wilson where her lover was (referring to sister, Nancy). Ann was outraged and retreated to her hotel room to write a song. When she relayed the incident to Nancy, she, too, was outraged. Nancy joined Ann and contributed a melody and bridge. The song became \"Barracuda\", which peaked at number 11 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and remains one of the band's signature songs.\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Little Queen\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273994", "title": "Bigtop", "text": "Bigtop\n\nBigtop may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2273999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273999", "title": "Tropical Storm Nora", "text": "Tropical Storm Nora\n\nThe name Nora has been used for six tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific.\n\nThe name is used on the modern six-year lists:\n\nIt was also used for ten tropical cyclones in the Western Pacific:\n\nIt has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Australian Region:\n"}
{"id": "2274000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274000", "title": "Lidérc", "text": "Lidérc\n\nA lidérc () is a unique supernatural being of Hungarian folklore. It has three known varieties, which often borrow traits from one another.\n\nThe first, more traditional form of the lidérc is as a miracle chicken, \"csodacsirke\" in Hungarian, which hatches from the first egg of a black hen kept warm under the arm of a human. Some versions of the legend say that an unusually tiny black hen's egg, or any egg at all, may become a lidérc, or that the egg must be hatched by placing it in a heap of manure.\nThe lidérc attaches itself to people to become their lover. If the owner is a woman, the being shifts into a man, but instead of pleasuring the woman, it fondles her, sits on her body, and sometimes sucks her blood, making her weak and sick after a time. From this source comes a Hungarian word for nightmare -- \"lidércnyomás\", which literally means \"lidérc pressure\", from the pressure on the body while the being sits on it. Alternate names for the lidérc are \"iglic\", \"ihlic\" in Csallóköz, \"lüdérc\", \"piritusz\" in the south, and \"mit-mitke\" in the east.\nThe lidérc hoards gold and thus makes its owner rich. To dispose of this form of the lidérc, it must be persuaded to perform an impossible task, such as haul sand with rope, or water with a sieve. It can also be destroyed by locking it into a tree hollow.\n\nThe second variety of the lidérc is as a tiny being, a temporal devil, \"földi ördög\" in Hungarian. It has many overlapping qualities with the miracle chicken form, and it may also be obtained from a black hen's egg, but more often it is found accidentally in rags, boxes, glass bottles, or in the pockets of old clothes. A person owning this form of the lidérc suddenly becomes rich and is capable of extraordinary feats, because the person's soul has supposedly been given to the lidérc, or even to the Devil.\n\nThe third variety is as a Satanic lover, \"ördögszerető\" in Hungarian, quite similar to an incubus or succubus. This form of the lidérc flies at night, appearing as a fiery light, a will o' the wisp, or even as a bird of fire. In the northern regions of Hungary and beyond, it is also known as \"ludvérc\", \"lucfir\". In Transylvania and Moldavia it goes by the names of \"lidérc\", \"lüdérc\", and sometimes \"ördög\", literally, the Devil. While in flight, the lidérc sprinkles flames. On earth, it can assume a human shape, usually the shape of a much lamented dead relative or lover. Its footprints are that of a horse. The lidérc enters houses through chimneys or keyholes, brings sickness and doom to its victims. It leaves the house with a splash of flames and dirties the walls. Burning incense and birch branches prevent the lidérc from entering one's dwelling. In the eastern regions of Hungary and beyond, it is said the lidérc is impossible to outrun, it haunts cemeteries, and it must disappear at the first crow of a rooster at dawn.\n\nA lidérc is mentioned in the famous historical novel \"The Name of the Rose\" by Umberto Eco.\n\nA shape-shifting lidérc is revealed in \"Lost Girl\" episode \"Caged Fae\" (301).\n\n"}
{"id": "2274001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274001", "title": "Bill Wegman", "text": "Bill Wegman\n\nWilliam Edward Wegman (born December 19, 1962) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher.\n\nAfter graduating from Oak Hills High School, Wegman was drafted by the Milwaukee Brewers in the 5th round of the 1981 amateur draft, where he played throughout his entire eleven-year career, ending October 1, 1995. In 1983, Wegman won the Ray Scarborough Award as the Brewers' Minor League Player of the Year.. Wegman won a career-high 15 games in 1991, with a 2.84 earned run average.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274010", "title": "Hurricane Norbert", "text": "Hurricane Norbert\n\nThe name Norbert has been used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n"}
{"id": "2274015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274015", "title": "Hurricane Norma", "text": "Hurricane Norma\n\nThe name Norma has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2274017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274017", "title": "Riojasaurus", "text": "Riojasaurus\n\nRiojasaurus (meaning \"Rioja lizard\") was a herbivorous sauropodomorph dinosaur named after La Rioja Province in Argentina where it was found in the Los Colorados Formation in the Ischigualasto-Villa Unión Basin by José Bonaparte. It lived during the Late Triassic (Norian stage) and grew to about long. \"Riojasaurus\" is the only known riojasaurid to live in South America.\n\n\"Riojasaurus\" had a heavy body, bulky legs, and a long neck and tail. Its leg bones were dense and massive for an early sauropodomorph. By contrast, its vertebrae were lightened by hollow cavities, and unlike most early sauropodomorphs, \"Riojasaurus\" had four sacral vertebrae instead of three. It has been thought it probably moved slowly on all fours and was unable to rear up on its back legs. The nearly equal length of the fore and hindlimbs has also been interpreted as suggestive of an obligatorily quadrupedal gait. However, in 2016, Scott Hartman found the hand anatomy, relatively straight back and largely immobile shoulder girdle of \"Riojasaurus\" supported it being a biped.\n\nNo skull was found with the first skeleton of \"Riojasaurus\", although a well-preserved skull attributed to \"Riojasaurus\" was found later. The teeth of \"Riojasaurus\" were leaf shaped and serrated. The upper jaw contained 5 teeth at the front, with 24 more behind them in a row that ended under the eyes.\n\nComparisons between the scleral rings of \"Riojasaurus\" and modern birds and reptiles suggest that it may have been cathemeral, active throughout the day at short intervals.\n\nMany scientists think that \"Riojasaurus\" was closely related to \"Melanorosaurus\", known from the Triassic-Early Jurassic period. However, studies at Bristol University, England, suggest that it is unique in some key ways, such as the longer bones in its neck. It is certainly quite different from other sauropodomorphs found in the Los Colorados Formation of Argentina.\n\nDue to their size and limb anatomy \"Riojasaurus\" and the possibly related \"Melanorosaurus\" have been considered close relatives of the earliest sauropods.\n"}
{"id": "2274018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274018", "title": "Tropical Storm Norman", "text": "Tropical Storm Norman\n\nThe name Norman has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nNorman has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Southern Hemisphere:\n"}
{"id": "2274029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274029", "title": "Hurricane Octave", "text": "Hurricane Octave\n\nThe name Octave has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2274040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274040", "title": "Hurricane Odile (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Odile (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Odile was used for three other tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\nAfter the 2014 storm, the name \"Odile\" was retired and replaced with \"Odalys\" for the 2020 season.\n"}
{"id": "2274043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274043", "title": "Prairieville", "text": "Prairieville\n\nPrairieville may refer to a place in the United States:\n\n"}
{"id": "2274046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274046", "title": "Tropical Storm Olivia", "text": "Tropical Storm Olivia\n\nThe name Olivia has been used for ten tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\n\nThe name Olivia has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Australian region. \n"}
{"id": "2274050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274050", "title": "Hurricane Orlene", "text": "Hurricane Orlene\n\nThe name Orlene has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n\n"}
{"id": "2274054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274054", "title": "United Mine Workers of America v. Bagwell", "text": "United Mine Workers of America v. Bagwell\n\nUnited Mine Workers of America v. Bagwell, 512 U.S. 821 (1994), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court laid out the constitutional limitations for the use of contempt powers by courts.\n\nA trial court enjoined striking unions in Virginia from undertaking certain unlawful activities (throwing things, threatening, obstructing, and picketing without supervision); when union members repeatedly violated the injunction, the trial court established a schedule of $100,000 fine for future violent breaches, $20,000 fine for future non-violent breaches; after more violations of the injunction, the trial court ended up assessing $64 million, including $12 million to the plaintiff in the civil case and $52 million to the county and the commonwealth of Virginia. The parties settled, but the trial court refused to vacate the fines to be paid to the county and commonwealth. The Virginia appellate court reversed the trial court, but the Virginia Supreme Court reversed the appellate court. Appeal was then taken to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nWere these fines civil, or were they criminal (in which case due process and jury would be required)?\n\nThe Court, in an opinion by Justice Blackmun, held that a contempt sanction is civil if it is remedial and for the benefit of the complainant—if it either coerces the defendant into compliance with the court’s order or compensates the complainant for losses sustained. But where a fine is not compensatory, it is civil only if the contemnor is afforded an opportunity to \"purge\" (avoid or reduce fine through compliance); otherwise, it is criminal contempt.\n\nTherefore, there could be no compensation to the plaintiff as there was no opportunity for the defendant to purge the contempt. Therefore, these were criminal fines, which required appropriate due process—a trial by jury—which had not been afforded.\n\nJustice Scalia wrote a concurring opinion, expressing concern about the judge also acting as rulemaker and enforcer. Justice Ginsburg also wrote a concurring opinion, joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist, further elucidating the distinction between civil and criminal fines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274055", "title": "Hurricane Patricia (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Patricia (disambiguation)\n\nHurricane Patricia (2015) is the strongest storm ever recorded in the Western Hemisphere, the second-strongest worldwide in terms of pressure, and the strongest in terms of 1-minute sustained winds.\n\nThe name Patricia was used for four other tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific:\n\nAfter the 2015 storm, the name \"Patricia\" was retired and replaced with \"Pamela\" for the 2021 season.\n"}
{"id": "2274056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274056", "title": "Madge Weinstein", "text": "Madge Weinstein\n\nMadge Bertha Weinstein is a fictional Internet personality who maintains Yeast Radio, which has developed a cult following and was among the 50 most-subscribed-to podcasts in 2005. Weinstein is the creation and alter ego of underground filmmaker Richard Bluestein and was described by USA Today as \"representative of the type of over-the-top content that would never see the light of day at a mainstream media outlet\".\n\nAlthough Weinstein is a fictional character (and never admitted as such), the majority of opinions, social-political commentary and oblique characteristics of her personality are clearly reflective of Bluestein's own. In essence, Weinstein is both an extension and distortion of Bluestein's actual personality.\n\nWeinstein is an outspoken breast cancer survivor and opinionated Jewish lesbian activist. She is a Vassar College graduate, a \"woman of Luna\" and claims to be a co-founder of the Lilith Fair. She was also the band manager of the now disbanded riot grrrl rock group, 'Goddess Riot Juice'. She is the self-professed \"Margaret Mead of podcasting\" as she is an amateur cultural anthropologist who, in her free time, studies the sordid sexual activities of homosexual men. She is well known for her advocacy on a variety of women's issues including her long tenure as a spokeswoman on behalf of women suffering from vaginal yeast. Weinstein also suffers from food allergies and fibromyalgia.\n\nWeinstein is the daughter of Irving Weinstein, a funeral director and owner of Weinstein & Schlump Funeral Homes. She grew up in the Grand Concourse in the borough of the Bronx in New York City. She is the former lover of Ethel Merman (although she tends to exaggerate the details of their now infamous 1967 tryst during Ethel's daughter's funeral) and has had affairs with Martina Navratilova, Ellen DeGeneres, k.d. lang, Melissa Etheridge and Rosie O'Donnell. In her youth, she claims to have performed oral sex on Nancy Reagan which she now regrets. Weinstein's most notable lesbian relationship was with Gussie Iscowicz (the alter ego of Bluestein's late partner Juan Montealegre), an elderly hairdresser living in Miami, Florida who suffered from Alzheimer's. For many years, Weinstein edited gay pornography for an urban audience (for a company known only as 'the Dorm'). She currently resides in Miami, Florida with her Italian greyhound Trotsky.\n\nWeinstein co-manages the sister site, Insane Films, which features personal video blogs of Madge's alter ego, Richard Bluestein, as well as features by underground filmmakers and miscellaneous visual content. Insane Films is one of the earliest videoblogs ever created, originating sometime in 2000. However, Madge Weinstein's fame grew largely from her indie podcast Yeast Radio, which began in late November 2004 . Weinstein gained notoriety for her viral video, \"Cooking With Madge: Lesbians On Acid\", which featured a disheveled Madge and her unstable, ambiguously gendered friends attempting to cook \"les beans\" while high on LSD. A pioneer of the podcasting medium, Adam Curry, helped promote the show in its early life. In late April 2005, Weinstein created Yeast2, a free-form experimental channel in which \"anyone (could) contribute to the strange, ugly, pretty macabra [sic] and surreal.\" Yeast2 closed in 2008.\n\nIn early July 2005, Weinstein became one of the first members of Adam Curry's PodShow and was featured heavily in the program, which aired on Sirius Satellite Radio from 6-10 p.m. EST on weekdays before the company's ties with the radio network were controversially severed on May 1, 2007. Weinstein's contract with PodShow ended in April 2008.\n\nAround the same time, Madge Weinstein co-created \"Eat This Hot Show\" a collaborative podcast featuring five notable members of the ever-growing \"queercast\" community: Weinstein, Ragan Fox, Wanda Wisdom, Fausto Fernos and his partner Marc Felion. However, Fausto and Marc were expelled from the show after ten episodes due to internal conflicts with fellow hosts, and the three featured a weekly guest in the episodes following. The show eventually dissipated in this format although, in April 2008, the show was revived with Madge, Wanda and new co-host Auntie Vera Charles. As of 2014, after another hiatus and the departure of Auntie Vera Charles, new episodes are being recorded sporadically with current co-hosts Ragan Fox and Wanda Wisdom. Madge Weinstein and Wanda Wisdom also co-created the online community Qpodder.org, which collects podcasts by gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people or characters. Sibling site NellyGator.com allows listeners to subscribe to a single RSS feed containing all podcast episodes from the members of Qpodder. In mid-October 2005, Weinstein, a self-described \"pioneering lesbian,\" began heavily promoting the medium of queer video blogging to coincide with the advent of the video iPod. Her new endeavor Faggregator.com does to videoblogging what Nellygator did for podcasting, and features a single page which houses all the video material submitted by members of the Qpodder community.\n\nBluestein experienced two personal losses in 2006. Juan Montealegre died on February 11, 2006, after a battle with cancer. Not long thereafter, on May 2, 2006, his 14-year-old dog Chauncey, a heavy fixture on the show in its early days including a memorable episode where Weinstein angrily cleaned up his feces, also died. On September 27, 2006, Richard Bluestein announced on Yeast Radio that he was retiring the character Madge and taking over hosting duties himself due to creative concerns. Madge was reported to be in a hospital in Guadalajara, Mexico, where she received adjustable gastric band surgery for her ongoing weight problem. The surgery went horribly wrong, leaving her in a critical condition. Madge eventually recovered and returned to the show on November 7, 2006.\n\nIn early January 2008, with the threat of her expiring PodShow contract, Weinstein relaunched Yeast Radio as a live show, airing on her website from 10:00 CT on Fridays. The live format continued until the end of May 2008 when Weinstein decided to return to a more free-form, unscheduled format. In early 2009, Weinstein resumed streaming live shows sporadically. The 1000th episode of Yeast Radio was streamed live on February 12, 2010.\n\nWeinstein's rebellious, queer punk ethics and her podcast's unconventional content, strong, coarse language and stream-of-consciousness structure have made her an endlessly controversial icon within the more conservative podcasting community. Her show serves as an ongoing protest against censorship, the commercialization of mainstream radio and the continued marginalization of gays and lesbians by the growing monoculture.\n\nWeinstein features a variety of crude and eccentric characters on her show. Some frequent contributors:\n\n\nThe show regularly features audio clips involving psychic Sylvia Browne, feminist writer Helen Gurley Brown, \"Big Meets Bigger\", \"My Strange Addiction\" and other television programs about morbid obesity and bizarre personal habits.\n\nWeinstein has also interviewed political activist Cindy Sheehan, Wigstock founder Lady Bunny, Democracy Now! reporter Amy Goodman, pioneer of the transgressive art movement Nick Zedd, collaborative documentary filmmaker Kent Bye of The Echo Chamber Project and the experimental, underground filmmakers Usama Alshaibi and Kristie Alshaibi. The show frequently features original compositions from Taylor E. Ross (described as Madge's \"cunt doctor\"), the mysterious \"Mr. Zeeche\" and Dave from the Chub Creek's podcast. Because of her prominence within the community, Madge also regularly features fellow queer podcasters on her show such as Ragan Fox, Wanda Wisdom, Auntie Vera Charles, Lady Raptastic and Rebecca Nay.\n"}
{"id": "2274063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274063", "title": "Tropical Storm Paul", "text": "Tropical Storm Paul\n\nThe name Paul has been used for eleven tropical cyclones worldwide: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274066", "title": "Hurricane Pauline (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Pauline (disambiguation)\n\nHurricane Pauline was a 1997 Category 4 hurricane that made landfall in Mexico, killing between 230 and 500 people, and causing 447.8 million (1997 USD) in damage.\n\nThe name Pauline was used for three other tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific:\n\n\nFollowing the hurricane in 1997, the name \"Pauline\" was retired and replaced with \"Patricia\" for the 2003 season.\n\nThe name Pauline has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Western Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2274068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274068", "title": "William Wegman", "text": "William Wegman\n\nWilliam Wegman may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2274070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274070", "title": "Billy Silverman", "text": "Billy Silverman\n\nWilliam Daley (born 1962) better known by his ring name Billy Silverman, is a professional wrestling referee who worked for World Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation.\n\nSilverman started with the World Wrestling Federation in 1986 and worked there until 1997. Soon after his departure from the WWF, he signed with World Championship Wrestling. He stayed with WCW until the company was purchased by Vince McMahon and the WWF in March 2001.\nHe returned to the World Wrestling Federation and became a member of The Alliance..\n\nSilverman appeared in the 2000 movie \"Ready to Rumble\". And the 2003 movie \" Mystic River\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2274074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274074", "title": "Hurricane Priscilla", "text": "Hurricane Priscilla\n\nThe name Priscilla has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean:\n\nThe name Priscilla has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Western Pacific Ocean: \n"}
{"id": "2274077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274077", "title": "Hurricane Polo", "text": "Hurricane Polo\n\nThe name Polo has been used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274079", "title": "Harry Oakes", "text": "Harry Oakes\n\nSir Harry Oakes, 1st Baronet (23 December 1874 – 7 July 1943) was an American-born gold mine owner, entrepreneur, investor and philanthropist. He earned his fortune in Canada and moved to the Bahamas in the 1930s for tax purposes. He became a British citizen and was granted the hereditary title of baronet in 1939.\n\nOakes was murdered in 1943 under mysterious circumstances, and the subsequent trial ended with acquittal of the accused. No further legal proceedings have taken place on the matter, the cause of death and the details surrounding it have never been entirely determined, and the case has been the subject of several books and four films.\n\nOakes was born in Sangerville, Maine, one of five children of William Pitt Oakes and Edith Nancy Lewis. His father was a prosperous lawyer. Harry Oakes graduated from Foxcroft Academy and went on to Bowdoin College in 1896, and he spent two years at the Syracuse University Medical School. One of his sisters, Gertrude Oakes, died in the 1935 sinking of the ocean liner SS \"Mohawk\" off the New Jersey coast.\n\nIn 1898, Oakes left medical school before graduation and made his way to Alaska, at the height of the Klondike Gold Rush, in hopes of making his fortune as a prospector. For 15 years, he sought gold around the world, from California to Australia.\n\nOakes arrived in Kirkland Lake in Northern Ontario, Canada, on 19 June 1911. On September 23, 1911, he registered the transfer of claim T-1663, purchased from George Minaker, and established Lake Shore Mine. Twenty years later, the gold mine was the most productive in the Western Hemisphere, and it ultimately proved to be the second-largest gold mine in the Americas. His lavish lifestyle included a 1928 Hispano-Suiza H6B luxury car.\n\nOakes became a British subject, and he lived in the Bahamas for tax reasons from 1935 until his death. He was invited to the British colony by Sir Harold Christie, a prominent Bahamian real estate developer and legislator, who became a close business associate and friend.\n\nIn 1939, Oakes was created a baronet by King George VI as a reward for his philanthropic endeavours in the Bahamas, Canada and Britain. He donated US$500,000 in two bequests to St George's Hospital in London, and he gave US$1 million to charities in the Bahamas. He became a member of the colony's House of Assembly.\n\nOakes soon proved to be a dynamic investor, entrepreneur and developer in the Bahamas. He had a major role in expanding the airport, Oakes Field, in the capital Nassau; bought the British Colonial Hilton Nassau; built a golf course and country club; and developed farming and new housing. All of this activity greatly stimulated the struggling economy, with only about 70,000 inhabitants in the early 1940s. This activity took place mainly on the principal island of New Providence; it was estimated that Oakes owned about one-third of that island by the early 1940s. Oakes had become the colony's wealthiest, most powerful, and most important resident by the early 1940s.\n\nOn 30 June 1923, Oakes married Eunice Myrtle McIntyre in Sydney, Australia. They had met aboard a cruise ship, and she was approximately half his age when they married.\n\nThey eventually had five children:\n\nOakes became interested in golf and, in the late 1920s, hired top golf course architect Stanley Thompson to build a nine-hole course for him, the \"Sir Harry Oakes Private Course\" in Niagara Falls, Ontario. Completed in 1929, the course is now the Oak Hall Par 3 public course.\n\nOakes was murdered sometime after midnight on July 8, 1943. He was struck four times behind the left ear with a miner's hand pick and was then burned all over his body using insecticide, with the flames being concentrated around the eyes. His body was then sprinkled with feathers from a mattress. When Oakes was discovered, the feathers were still being gently blown over his body by the bedroom fan.\n\nThe Bahamas’ Governor, the Duke of Windsor (formerly King Edward VIII of the United Kingdom), who had become a close friend of Oakes during the previous three years, took charge of the investigation from the outset. The Duke first attempted to enforce press censorship, but this was unsuccessful, since the Bahamas Tribune newspaper broke the story to the world within a few hours. Oakes' vast wealth, fame and British title, combined with the ghastly nature of the crime, generated worldwide interest in the case. Etienne Dupuch, the colony's foremost newspaper publisher and a close friend of Oakes, ensured constant coverage of the case for the several months which followed. Dupuch had called the Oakes residence early on the morning after the crime, since he had previously arranged to visit, and spoke with Harold Christie, who had stayed there overnight; Christie reported the death to Dupuch.\n\nThe Duke believed that the local police lacked the expertise to investigate the crime, and since World War II was raging, making it difficult to bring detectives from Scotland Yard in London, which was what normally would have been done, the Duke turned to two American policemen he knew in the Miami force. The Bahamas was a British Crown Colony at the time, and there were British Security personnel stationed in wartime in New York City and Washington, D.C. who could potentially have traveled easily and quickly to Nassau for an investigation. Bringing in the Miami Captains Melchen and Barker (Melchen had earlier guarded the Duke in Miami) proved an unfortunate decision.\n\nThe two American detectives were, in theory, called upon to assist Bahamian law enforcement, but to the dismay of the local police, they completely took over the investigation. The two American policemen had forgotten their fingerprint kits in Miami, and in any case, the local Bahamas police force did have fingerprint kits available right in Nassau. By evening on the second day of the investigation, 36 hours after Oakes' body was discovered, they had arrested Oakes' son-in-law, Count Alfred de Marigny. De Marigny had eloped with and married Oakes' daughter Nancy in New York City (where she was studying), without her parents' knowledge, two days after her 18th birthday, in 1942. Once she had reached age 18, Nancy no longer needed her parents' permission to wed. De Marigny, 14 years older, had met Nancy at the Nassau Yacht Club, where he was a prominent competitive sailor. The two had been dating for a couple of years before their marriage, without her parents apparently fully realizing the seriousness of their relationship. De Marigny was thought to have been on bad terms with Oakes, due to de Marigny's playboy manners and lack of a meaningful career, the fact that he had been married twice before for short periods to wealthy women, and that he had not asked Oakes' permission to marry Nancy. Oakes and de Marigny had quarreled on several occasions, witnessed by other people.\n\nWhen Nancy was informed of her father's death and her husband's arrest, she was in Miami on her way for the summer to study dance with Martha Graham at Bennington, Vermont. It was her great friend Merce Cunningham who gave her the bad news. She then traveled to Bar Harbor, Maine, the family's summer home, to join her mother, at her husband's request. But Nancy soon returned to Nassau and began to organize her husband's defence. She was convinced that de Marigny was innocent and stood by him when many others, including her family, believed him guilty. The young countess soon became a favourite with the press worldwide for her auburn hair, deep-set eyes, fine figure and mild resemblance to Katharine Hepburn. The murder managed to knock the war off the front pages temporarily. Nancy spent heavily to hire a leading American private investigator, Raymond Schindler, to dig deeply into the case, and a prominent British-trained Bahamian lawyer, Godfrey W. Higgs, to defend her husband. They eventually found serious flaws in the prosecution's case.\n\nDe Marigny was committed for trial, and a rope was ordered for his hanging. However, he was acquitted in a trial that lasted several weeks, after the detectives were suspected of fabricating evidence against him. The chief piece of evidence was a fingerprint of his, which Captain Barker claimed had been found on a Chinese screen in Oakes' bedroom where the body had been found. Later, it was discovered that the print had been lifted from the water glass that de Marigny had used during his questioning by the Miami Police captains, and that de Marigny was being framed.\n\nImmediately after Oakes' funeral had been held in Bar Harbor, Maine (the family's summer home), Captain Barker, visiting by invitation, told Nancy and Lady Oakes that he had already positively identified de Marigny's fingerprints on the Chinese screen, justifying de Marigny's status as the main suspect. Very detailed and thorough cross-examination at the trial, several months later, by de Marigny's lawyer showed that Barker had not in fact positively identified the single fingerprint as belonging to de Marigny until several days later than he had originally claimed - after he had returned to Miami - and that Barker had taken several dozen other fingerprints from Oakes' bedroom, many of which were still unprocessed weeks later. An American fingerprint expert witness, testifying for the defence, called into question the professionalism of the techniques used by Captain Barker in the investigation. The expert testified that the de Marigny print very likely could not have come from the Chinese screen, since none of the background pattern design from the screen appeared on the de Marigny print photograph, although other photos of fingerprints lifted from the screen showed this pattern. De Marigny testified that he had not visited Westbourne, Oakes' home and the murder site, for two years before Oakes' death, because of ongoing conflict with Oakes. Several of de Marigny's dinner party guests from the fateful night testified at the trial, and strengthened de Marigny's alibi that he was hosting the party, and later drove several guests to their homes, late at night, with a witness in the car, near the time when the murder was committed. The approximate time of the murder had been determined by two Bahamian medical examiners. Significantly, the Duke of Windsor arranged to be away from the Bahamas while the murder trial was in progress so he was not available to be called as a witness.\n\nOakes' murderer has never been found, and there were no court proceedings in the case after de Marigny's acquittal. The case received worldwide press coverage at the time, with photos of the beautiful and charming Nancy in court. It has been the subject of continuous interest, including several books and films (see below). The first full-length book on the case -- \"The Murder of Sir Harry Oakes\", was published by the Bahamas Tribune newspaper in 1959; the paper was edited at the time by Etienne Dupuch.\n\nAfter the trial Nancy went with de Marigny to Cuba to stay with their old friend Ernest Hemingway. De Marigny was deported to Cuba after a recommendation by the murder trial's jury, because of his supposedly unsavoury character and frequent advances towards young girls in the Bahamas. De Marigny and Nancy separated in 1945, and divorced in 1949. He moved to Canada in 1945 and served for a time in the Canadian Army, but was later deported from Canada. He married his fourth wife, settled in Central America, and died in 1998. De Marigny was a tall, handsome man, a charming and bright conversationalist and an accomplished competitive sailor who won many regattas, and he later wrote two books.\n\nNancy had left Cuba by the late 1940s, and lived in Hollywood, California, where she had a long affair with 1950s Hollywood actor Richard Greene. She had a daughter, Patricia Oakes. She remained close friends with Greene until his death. In 1952 she married Baron Ernst Lyssardt von Hoyningen-Huene (adopted cousin of the artist George Hoyningen-Huene, the only son of Baron Barthold Theodor Hermann (Theodorovitch) von Hoyningen-Huene, a German nobleman who had estates in Estonia that were confiscated by the Soviets during World War II and was the German ambassador to Portugal during World War II,). They had a son, Baron Alexander von Hoyningen-Huene. The marriage lasted until 1956. Nancy died in 2005 and was survived by her two children and two grandchildren.\n\nOakes' former home in Kirkland Lake, Ontario, is now the Museum of Northern History, dedicated to his life and to the region's mining history. Kirkland Lake is where he made his fortune as a prospector. He was inducted into the Canadian Mining Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Oakes baronetcy of Nassau, was assumed by Oakes's son Sir Sydney Oakes (1927–1966). On his death, Sir Sydney's son Christopher (born 1949) inherited the title. A district in Nassau was named after Oakes, complete with a memorial. Foxcroft Academy, a private school in Dover-Foxcroft, Maine, has its football field named after Harry Oakes.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, Oakes donated a land in what is now the central area of Niagara Falls, Ontario. He funded a make-work project and supplied tools to build a park at the location. Crews worked for $1 per day, switching every five days to permit as much employment as possible.\n\nOakes Park was opened on August 31, 1931. It is a multi-use, municipally owned and operated recreational complex. The main facilities are a baseball stadium used by the Greater Niagara Baseball Association and other elite youth and senior baseball clubs, two smaller baseball fields for younger divisions, a soccer pitch, and athletics facilities including a 400-metre track. The main baseball diamond has outfield dimensions of 318-402-322 ft, and has a press box, electronic scoreboard, and clubhouses.\n\nDesigned as an amphitheatre, Oakes Garden Theatre was opened in September 1937. Oakes, a member of the Niagara Parks Commission, donated the land at the foot of Clifton Hill and Niagara Parkway to the commission in 1936. The landscape architecture was done by Howard and Lorrie Dunington-Grubb, the building's architect was William Lyon Somerville with sculptures by Florence Wyle, Frances Loring and Elizabeth Wyn Wood.\n\nOakes bought property just above Dufferin Islands from the estate of Walter H. Shoellkopf, on July 15, 1924. He constructed a 37-room Tudor- style mansion (by Findlay and Foulis in 1929 and later gatehouse and stables in 1931), where he and his wife lived from 1928 to 1935, known as Oak Hall. Oakes moved to the Bahamas afterward, due to what he felt was excessive taxation by the Canadian government - the Bahamas were virtually tax-free. Oakes' son, Sir Sydney Oakes, later occupied the residence. Since 1982, Oak Hall has been the headquarters for the Niagara Parks Commission. A portion of the estate was sold off in the 1960s and is part of Marineland of Canada.\n\nIn 1938 Oakes and his family purchased a summer home called \"The Willows\" in Bar Harbor, Maine, designed by the firm of Andrews, Jacques and Rantoul in 1913. Lady Eunice Oakes gave it to Bowdoin College in 1958 and operated it as the Oakes Center, a conference center, till the early 1970s when it was sold to brothers James and Sonny Cough. They developed the land and built an oceanfront hotel consisting of several buildings called the Atlantic Oakes. Their heirs renovated the mansion back to its formerly glory. It is now an inn called The Atlantic Oceanside Hotel.\n\nOakes graduated from Foxcroft Academy in Dover-Foxcroft, Maine, founded in 1823, three years after statehood, one of the very few public high school \"academies\" left in Maine. The present campus is on the former Oakes farm on outer Main Street on the way to Sangerville, his birthplace.\n\nAfter the disastrous Florida Hurricane of 1928 and the Great Depression, Oakes bought of partially developed land in northern Palm Beach County, Florida, from Harry Seymour Kelsey, who lacked the finances to rebuild his shattered development. Oakes spent a great deal of money on development of this property, which was later bought by John D. MacArthur, who completed its development. It includes most of North Palm Beach, Lake Park, Palm Beach Gardens and Palm Beach Shores. Oakes' castle-like home in North Palm Beach became the clubhouse for the village country club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274083", "title": "Tropical Storm Rachel", "text": "Tropical Storm Rachel\n\nTropical Storm Rachel may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274088", "title": "Tropical Storm Simon", "text": "Tropical Storm Simon\n\nThe name Simon has been used for three tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Simon has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Australian region. \n"}
{"id": "2274091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274091", "title": "Thomas Rupert Jones", "text": "Thomas Rupert Jones\n\nThomas Rupert Jones FRS (1 October 1819 – 13 April 1911) was a British geologist and palaeontologist.\n\nJones was born on 1 October 1819 in Cheapside, London, the son of John Jones, silk merchant, and his wife Rhoda (née Burberry) Jones of Coventry. While at a private school at Ilminster, his attention was attracted to geology by the fossils that are so abundant in the Lias quarries. In 1835 he was apprenticed to a surgeon at Taunton, and he completed his apprenticeship in 1842 at Newbury in Berkshire.\n\nHe was then engaged in practice mainly in London, until in 1849 he was appointed assistant secretary to the Geological Society of London.\nIn 1862 he was made professor of geology at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst. Having devoted his especial attention to microfossils, he now became the highest authority in Britain on the Foraminifera and those Entomostraca that were regarded Ostracoda later on. He edited the 2nd edition of Mantell's \"Medals of Creation\" (1854), the 3rd edition of Mantell's \"Geological Excursions round the Isle of Wight\" (1854), and the 7th edition of Mantell's \"Wonders of Geology\" (1857); he also edited the 2nd edition of F. Dixon's \"Geology of Sussex\" (1878). Jones was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in June 1872 and was awarded the Lyell Medal by the Geological Society in 1890. For many years he was specially interested in the geology of South Africa.\n\nHe died and was buried at Chesham Bois, Buckinghamshire. He had married twice: firstly to Mary, daughter of William Harris of Charing, Kent, and secondly to Charlotte Ashburnham, daughter of Archibald Archer.\n\nHis publications included:\n"}
{"id": "2274093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274093", "title": "Tropical Storm Trudy", "text": "Tropical Storm Trudy\n\nThe name Trudy has been used for two tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274095", "title": "Vow (song)", "text": "Vow (song)\n\n\"Vow\" is a song by alternative rock band Garbage. It was released as their debut single in early 1995 by Discordant, a label set up by Mushroom Records to launch the group, and Almo Sounds in North America.\n\n\"Vow\" was quietly licensed to a \"Volume\" magazine/CD sampler publication at the end of 1994; it was subsequently picked up and broadcast by BBC Radio 1 DJs Steve Lamacq and John Peel, and then playlisted by modern rock radio stations in Los Angeles and Seattle. \"Vow\" generated such significant buzz through positive reviews and word-of-mouth that it was eventually chosen as Garbage's first single release. After a low-key independent record label pressing in the United Kingdom, where it was packaged in a very limited edition logo embossed aluminium case, \"Vow\" went on to top the alternative charts in Australia and register on the Hot 100 singles chart in the United States.\n\nThe song began as a demo during sessions between band members Butch Vig, Duke Erikson and Steve Marker, and the composition finished after singer Shirley Manson joined the band. The lyrics for \"Vow\" deal with themes of revenge and retaliation, and were inspired by a newspaper article on domestic abuse. In 2007, \"Vow\" was remastered and included as the opening track on Garbage's greatest hits compilation, \"Absolute Garbage\".\n\n\"Vow\" began in rough demo form in January, 1994, as band members Butch Vig, Duke Erikson and Steve Marker performed sessions in Marker's basement recording studio and Vig and Marker's own Smart Studios business in Madison, Wisconsin. After Marker saw Shirley Manson's group Angelfish on \"120 Minutes\", the band invited Manson to Smart Studios to sing on a couple of tracks. After a dreadful first audition, she returned to Angelfish, which folded shortly thereafter. Manson decided to test for Garbage again, and after the successful second audition, she began to work on the then-skeletal \"Queer\" and \"Vow\". While performing \"Vow\", Manson ad-libbed the lyrics \"I can't use what I can't abuse\" and \"like Joan of Arc coming back for more\". The song is written in the key of A minor, set in time signature of common time with a tempo of 126 beats per minute. It opens with Erikson playing a guitar through a noise gate \"with a lot of echo on it\", and has a chord progression is A–C-F in the verses, D-B♭-A-Em-D-B♭-F in the bridge, and F-C-D-G in the chorus, with a segue into F# minor in the interlude.\n\nAccording to Vig, the inspiration for the song was a newspaper article about a woman who had gone back to get revenge on an abusive husband, \"so we thought it would be cool to get a bit of retribution in there.\" Vig also said he noted violence could also come from psychological stand point by seeing the story of a sado-masochistic couple who could not keep away from each other. Lyrically, Manson claimed \"'Vow' is about having feelings [of vengeance]. You have to face your feelings of revenge and work out why you feel that way. It's about that conundrum when you're really angry but in reality you're in a pitiful state. Angry, twisted, but deep down, vulnerable.\" During promotion for the song, Garbage joked to journalists that \"Vow\" was about John and Lorena Bobbitt.\n\nGarbage had not initially planned to release \"Vow\" as their first single, as a single at all, or even include it on their debut album. The band felt that \"Vow\" was not representative of the album's genre-hopping body of work, although they later came to appreciate the situation that led to the song becoming their debut. Manson declared that \"now we can do whatever and people won't know what to expect\", but if the band had instead settled for \"of the more clubby tunes\" as a single, \"we would have been pigeonholed as a dance band and that's a hard tag to shake\".\n\nMidway through the recording sessions for the band's debut album, the band's label, Mushroom Records, secured the group an inclusion on \"Volume\", a magazine that released compilation albums. However, the deadline given for accepting a track was only three days. The only song the band had completed in any shape or form was \"Vow\". After \"Volume\" was released in December 1994, \"Vow\" began to receive radio airplay from BBC Radio 1 DJs Steve Lamacq, John Peel and Johnnie Walker, and record stores in the United Kingdom began to receive requests for a single that did not yet exist. Word-of-mouth on \"Vow\" took the track back to the United States, where KROQ-FM in Los Angeles and KNDD in Seattle discovered the song, and put it into rotation on their station playlists. By May 1995, alternative radio stations across the country had picked up on \"Vow\", and it began to receive heavy rotation nationwide. Garbage were still putting the finishing touches to their debut set, which was still three months away from release.\n\nOn the back of the surprise attention that \"Vow\" had garnered, the band's UK record label Mushroom were keen to capitalise on the song. The terms of the licensing deal regarding the inclusion of \"Vow\" on \"Volume\" meant that the track could only be released on a limited basis. Concerned that at the time that their label was only known in the UK for the \"Neighbours\" theme tune, Mushroom founded the Discordant label for the sole purpose of launching Garbage. Prior to its release \"Vow\" had already topped \"NME\"'s playlist chart for 5 weeks and received \"Single of the Week\" status in seven publications.\n\nOn March 20, 1995 \"Vow\" was issued in a limited edition 7\" vinyl format, backed with a remix of the title track and packaged in an embossed aluminium sleeve. A total of 1,000 copies were pressed, of which only 934 were made available to buy, barely enough to reach the U.K. Top 100. \"Vow\" sold out in one day. The single was the first of six specially packaged Garbage singles Mushroom Records released between 1995 and 1996, which were costly investment - posting a 70p per-unit loss on each single - but the investment paid off as each subsequent single became bigger hits. The limited pressing helped the \"Vow\" single to become a highly sought collectible, with copies selling for £100 by the time Mushroom launched follow-up single \"Subhuman\".\n\nFrom the week of April 24, both KROQ in Los Angeles and KNDD in Seattle added \"Vow\" to their station playlists. The track had been picked up by the station DJs on import. The following week, Q101 in Chicago did the same. \"Vow\" was officially serviced by Almo Sounds/Geffen to radio on June 5th; by this time 34 radio stations were already playing it and it was racking up almost 500 plays a week. \"Vow\" debuted on the Modern Rock Tracks chart at #39 in mid-June 1995. On June 20th, Almo Sounds released the track to record stores on CD and cassette single, both formats backed-with the band's own \"Vow\" remix, titled \"Vow (Torn Apart)\". On its fourth week, \"Vow\" rose to #26, before dropping the following week and returning for a second peak at the same position in mid-July. During this time, airplay and single sales of \"Vow\" led to the song registering at #5 on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles, a chart which shows the most popular songs in the United States that have not yet reached the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The same week that the track hit its second peak at alternative radio, \"Vow\" shot up to #1 on the Bubbling Under chart.\n\nAt the end of July, \"Vow\" debuted at #97 on the Hot 100, and due to being the only new entry on the list, broke the record for the lowest-ever \"Hot Shot Debut\" in the 37-year history of the Hot 100 chart. \"Billboard\" credited the song's debut on the charts to it being the most played record on the Austin radio station KNNC. \"Vow\" spent a second week at the #97 before leaving the Hot 100. By mid-August, \"Vow\" completed a nine-week run on the Modern Rock charts. Despite not being able to capitalize on the single's popularity at alternative radio, Almo Sounds released the band's self-titled debut album \"Garbage\" across the United States and Canada the following week, where it debuted at the end of the month on the developing artists Top Heatseekers album chart.\n\nDiscordant's parent label Mushroom licensed \"Vow\" for distribution internationally at the same time as the North American release. In Australia and New Zealand, \"Vow\" was released by their White Records imprint; two CD singles, one of which was a limited edition packaged in an embossed rubber wallet; and a cassette single. All formats included two b-sides, both written during the sessions for the debut album: \"Subhuman\" and \"#1 Crush\". The single debuted at #53 on the Australian ARIA singles chart dated week ending August 20, 1995, and rose to #32 in its fifth week on the chart. In New Zealand, \"Vow\" debuted at #48 at the end of September, and peaked at #41 a week later. Mushroom also licensed \"Vow\" to local BMG labels across Europe and in South Africa as a CD single prior to the release of \"Garbage\".\n\nFollowing the international release of \"Vow\", Mushroom Records planned to re-release the song in the UK; at the last minute, a decision was taken to issue \"Subhuman\" as the A-side, as they considered the song strong enough to support a single release. \"Vow\" was included as a bonus track on the \"Subhuman\" CD single. The \"Vow\" music video was sent to music channels to promote \"Subhuman\".\n\nIn 1996, when the band's third North American single \"Only Happy When it Rains\" had driven the sales of \"Garbage\" into the top half of the \"Billboard\" 200 for the first time, Almo Sounds considered re-releasing \"Vow\", feeling that on its initial release the song had not gotten a full chance at radio and video. Instead, the label ultimately chose to move forward with fourth single \"Stupid Girl\".\n\n \n\n\nThe music video for \"Vow\" was directed by Samuel Bayer and filmed over 12 hours in Los Angeles at the start of June 1995. The video premiered in the United States on June 12, 1995.\n\nA performance piece, the video features strobe lighting and falling glitter cut into shots of Garbage performing against a golden backdrop surrounded by television sets relaying real time footage of the band playing. Throughout the clip, there is also shots of a semi-naked man with running black eyeliner crawling on the floor, an Australian born actor and model named Greg Brown who appeared in other Samuel Bayer projects such as videos for David Bowie and Nirvana.\n\nBayer asked the group to perform \"Vow\" live while he filmed the takes for the video shoot. Garbage had never performed live as group prior to this, and had initially had not considered ever performing live onstage. \"We set up amps and played the guitars. Butch was pounding away and Shirley had a live mic. After the first run-through, we all looked at each other and said, 'This feels really good.'\" Erikson later recalled. The group enjoyed the experience of performing together so much that they quickly changed their minds, and scheduled tourdates later that year.\n\nThe \"Vow\" music video was first commercially released on VHS and Video-CD on 1996's \"Garbage Video\". A remastered version was later included on Garbage's 2007 greatest hits DVD \"Absolute Garbage\".\n\n\"Vow\" was acclaimed by critics. The song took on elements from various styles, including glam rock, punk, and art rock. \"The Times\" described it as \"the missing link between Courtney Love and PJ Harvey\" while Paul Yates of \"Q\" magazine said \"Garbage's signature lies in songs like 'Vow', good pop tunes dealt a rough treatment and brazen vocals\". \"NME\"'s Emma Morgan wrote \"it's the simplicity of the lyrics that strikes the winning goal\", while earlier in the year \"NME\" had made \"Vow\" its Single of the Week, writing \"[\"Vow\" is] a shape-shifting squalling epic. It shimmers like Siouxsie's 'Christine'. It's a credit to the band's producing skills that such an ambitious thing is lashed together at all\" \"Melody Maker\" also named \"Vow\" as Single of the Week, describing the song as \"surreal pop heaven mixed with industrial nightmares\".\nand later saying the song \"has classic written all over it\". \"Kerrang!\" magazine's Paul Rees described \"Vow\" as \"edgy dislocated pop with a sparkling chorus\" and \"the most brilliant pop song of 1995\". Select's Ian Harrison liked the song, but felt that it \"pilfers from The Smiths 'How Soon Is Now?'\". In a review for \"Billboard\", Larry Flick rated \"Vow\" his Critic's Choice and wrote, \"Move over Courtney Love. Garbage combine the tough-headed hooks of Hole with an unforgettable vocal prowl which rivals 'Miss World'. A numbed female vocal cries before a raging guitar riff begins to shatter a pain-filled pop texture. Commit to it.\" Dan Dinello, of \"Alternative Press\", described \"Vow\" as \"menacing tale of violence and revenge sounds like Patti Smith fronting The Clash while quoting the Beatles \"No Reply\".\" \"Spin\"s Charles Aaron likened the band to \"Bunnymen wannabes doing '90s reverb angst\" and compared Erikson's guitar to Aldo Nova, but ultimately considered that \"even though they sound totally prefab, the singer hints at a pleasantly pissed personality\". Jude Rogers of \"The Guardian\" described the song as a \"\"Kerrang\"-friendly rout of skronky rawk guitars, with Ms Manson offering a gentle hello: \"I came to cut you UP/I came knock you DOWN/I came around to TEAR your little WORLD a-PART!\"\n\n\"Vow\" also appeared in a number of year-end lists: #45 in John Peel's Festive Fifty, #15 in Triple J's \"Hottest 100 of 1995\", and #66 in KROQ's \"Top 106.7 of 1995\".\n\nGarbage\n\nPublishing\nProduction\n\n\"Vow (Torn Apart)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2274099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274099", "title": "Tropical Storm Vance", "text": "Tropical Storm Vance\n\nVance is used on the modern six-year lists in the Eastern Pacific:\n\nVance was also used to name at least one cyclone in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274103", "title": "Saurornithoides", "text": "Saurornithoides\n\nSaurornithoides ( ) is a genus of troodontid maniraptoran dinosaur, which lived during the Late Cretaceous period. These creatures were predators, which could run fast on their hind legs and had excellent sight and hearing. The name is derived from the Greek stems \"saur~\" (lizard), \"ornith~\" (bird) and \"eides\" (form), referring to its bird-like skull.\n\n\"Saurornithoides\" is a member of the troodontids, a group of small, bird-like, gracile maniraptorans. All troodontids have many unique features of the skull, such as closely spaced teeth in the lower jaw, and large numbers of teeth. Troodontids have sickle-claws and raptorial hands, and some of the highest non-avian encephalization quotients, meaning they were behaviourally advanced and had keen senses. \"Saurornithoides\" was a rather small troodontid. Though a possible adult, the type specimen has a midline skull length of 189 millimetres, compared to 272 millimetres for \"Zanabazar junior\", itself estimated at 2.3 metres long. It had large eye sockets and stereoscopic vision, allowing for good depth perception. It probably had good vision in light and very good night vision. It had a long, low head, a depressed muzzle, sharp teeth and a relatively large brain. Swift and smart, like its North American cousin \"Troodon\", \"Saurornithoides\" probably scoured the Gobi Desert, looking for small mammals or reptiles to eat. Like other troodontids, it had an enlarged retractable claw on the second toe of each foot, that in this case was of moderate size though rather curved.\n\nA revision of the genus in 2009 provided a differential diagnosis, a list of traits in which \"Saurornithoides\" differed from certain relevant relatives, especially concentrating on determining its place in the evolutionary tree. That \"Saurornithoides mongoliensis\" might be more derived, higher in the tree, than \"Sinornithoides\" and \"Sinusonasus\", is indicated by the lack of a \"fenestra promaxillaris\", a small opening at the front side of the snout, and the possession of large denticles on the rear tooth edges as well as the presence of the high number of six sacral vertebrae. That \"S. mongoliensis\" might be more basal, lower in the tree, than \"Zanabazar\" and \"Troodon\", is shown by the presence of a \"recessus tympanicus dorsalis\", the upper one of three small openings on the side of the braincase, in the inner ear region.\n\nOriginally, only one or possibly two individuals of \"Saurornithoides\" were known, closely associated within the same layer of the Djadochta Formation of Mongolia. The fossils were found on 9 July 1923 by a Chinese employee of an American Museum of Natural History expedition, Chih. The material contained a single skull and jaw in association, and vertebrae, a partial pelvis, hindlimb and foot associated nearby. More bones were initially included but later shown to belong to \"Protoceratops\". Henry Fairfield Osborn at first intended to name the animal \"Ornithoides\", the \"bird-like one\", and in 1924 mentioned this name in a popular publication but without a description so that it remained an invalid \"nomen nudum\". He then formally described the remains in the same year, finding them to be a new genus and species, which he named \"Saurornithoides mongoliensis\". The generic name was chosen because of the bird-like bones of the taxon, which was thought to represent a megalosaurian, translating as \"saurian with bird-like rostrum\". \"Saurornithoides\" was noted to resemble \"Velociraptor\", although more sluggish according to Osborn. The holotype specimen is AMNH 6516. This specimen was the first troodontid skeleton found, though at the time the connection with \"Troodon\", then known only from its teeth, was not realised.\nIn 1964, another specimen was described from the Late Cretaceous of Mongolia. The first specimen ever collected by a professional Mongolian palaeontologist, it was given the specimen number IGM 100/1. In 1974, it was described by Rinchen Barsbold as a new species, \"Saurornithoides junior\". It was assigned to the genus based on cranial comparisons, as well as the similar provincialism. However, since the description, many more troodontids have been described with cranial material, and as such, a 2009 study on \"Saurornithoides\" reassigned this species to its own genus, \"Zanabazar\".\n\nSeveral other \"Saurornithoides\" species were named, though none of these is today seen as valid. In 1928, baron Franz Nopcsa coined \"Saurornithoides sauvagei\". However, this was the result of a printing error: he had planned to name a \"Teinurosaurus sauvagei\". In 1982, Kenneth Carpenter renamed \"Stenonychosaurus inequalis\" Sternberg 1932 into \"Saurornithoides inequalis\". Today this is usually seen as a junior synonym of \"Troodon formosus\". In 1991, George Olshevsky renamed \"Pectinodon asiamericanus\" Nesov 1985 into \"Saurornithoides asiamericanus\". In 1995 he made it a \"Troodon asiaamericanus\". In view of its provenance from the Cenomanian of Uzbekistan, it is usually seen as a different taxon from \"Saurornithoides\". In 2000, Olshevsky renamed \"Troodon isfarensis\" Nessov 1995 into \"Saurornithoides isfarensis\". In 2007, this was shown to have been a hadrosaurid fossil.\n\nOsborn at first placed \"Saurornithoides\" in the Megalosauridae, noticing the resemblance to \"Velociraptor\", named in the same paper. Only in 1974, Barsbold, while describing \"S. junior\", understood the connection with American forms such as \"Stenonychosaurus\" and named an encompassing Saurornithoididae. In 1987, Philip John Currie showed that this concept was a junior synonym of Troodontidae, implying that \"Saurornithoides\" were a troodontid too.\nThe cladogram below follows a 2012 analysis by Turner, Makovicky and Norell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274104", "title": "Hurricane Roslyn", "text": "Hurricane Roslyn\n\nThe name Roslyn has been used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2274106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274106", "title": "Hurricane Seymour", "text": "Hurricane Seymour\n\nThe name Seymour has been used for two tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274120", "title": "Tropical Storm Tina", "text": "Tropical Storm Tina\n\nThe name Tina has been used for five tropical cyclones worldwide:\n\nIn the Eastern Pacific:\n\nIn the Western Pacific:\n\nIn the Southern Hemisphere:\n"}
{"id": "2274122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274122", "title": "United States R-class submarine", "text": "United States R-class submarine\n\nThe R-class submarines were a class of United States Navy submarines active from 1918 until 1945. With the first of the class laid down following the American entry into World War I, they were built rapidly. Although \"R-15\" through \"R-20\" were completed July–October 1918, they did not serve overseas, and the bulk of the class were not completed until after the Armistice.\n\n\n\nThe Group 1 boats were decommissioned in 1931, but were recommissioned in 1940, patrolling in the Caribbean or being used as sonar targets at Key West, Florida, also patrolling between Submarine Base New London, Connecticut and Bermuda. At least two R-boats unsuccessfully fired torpedoes at German U-boats on the Bermuda patrols. Three (\"R-3\", \"R-17\", and \"R-19\") were transferred to the United Kingdom's Royal Navy as , , and in 1941-1942. \"P.514\" was lost on 21 June 1942 in a collision with the Canadian minesweeper due to being mistaken for a U-boat. \"R-12\" was lost on 12 June 1943 in an accident off Key West.\n\nAt some point between the wars the US R class were modified for improved rescue ability in the event of sinking. A motor room hatch was added, the motor room being the aftermost compartment. The tapered after casing became a step as a result of this modification.\n\nAt least one R-class submarine can be seen briefly in the 1943 movie \"Crash Dive\", filmed at the New London submarine base.\n\nElectric Boat built four R-class boats for the Peruvian Navy (\"R-1\" to \"R-4\"). Built after World War I using materials assembled from cancelled S-class submarines, they were refitted in 1935–36 and 1955–56, and renamed \"Islay\", \"Casma\", \"Pacocha\", and \"Arica\" in 1957. They were discarded in 1960.\n\nThe 27 submarines of the R class were:\n\nGroup 1 (Electric Boat design)\nGroup 2 (Lake Torpedo Boat Company design)\n\n"}
{"id": "2274125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274125", "title": "Tropical Storm Virgil", "text": "Tropical Storm Virgil\n\nThe name Virgil has been used for two tropical cyclones worldwide:\n\nIn the Eastern Pacific:\n\nIn the Western Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2274126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274126", "title": "Alireza Sagharchi", "text": "Alireza Sagharchi\n\nAlireza Sagharchi RIBA FRSA (born 1959) is a United Kingdom-Iranian architect. He received his Diploma in Architecture from the University of Westminster, London in 1986. Before setting up his own practice, Sagharchi was for 15 years the Senior Associate at Porphyrios Associates, a firm whose work follows the principles of traditional architecture and urbanism.\n\nHe has been responsible for a number of high-profile projects. These include master-planning in the commercial, resort/leisure and private residential sectors in the United Kingdom, Europe, North America and the Middle East. Notable among these projects are master plans for residential resorts in Croatia and Romania, Embassies in Mayfair and Belgravia, London, a Palace complex in Madrid and masterplanning of equestrian facilities in Spain and major residences in the middle-east.\n\nHe was formerly the senior associate in charge at the firm of Porphyrios Associates for projects including the New Quadrangle and Theatre for Magdalen College in Oxford, the Kings Cross regeneration preliminary master plan in London, Princeton University Whitman College master plan, office buildings in Athens, Reading and Birmingham, England and luxury hotels in Germany, Greece and Egypt. His Danube Delta Resort project was distinguished and selected for exhibition by the judges at the Philippe Rotthier European Prize for Architecture.\n\nAlireza has taught at the Prince of Wales' Institute of Architecture, and held masterclasses at The Prince's Foundation and lectured and been visiting critic at the University of Notre Dame's Rome Programme. He is a founder member and the current Chairman of the Traditional Architecture Group at the R.I.B.A. He is a member of The Prince's Foundation, a trustee of the International Network for Traditional Building, Architecture & Urbanism (INTBAU), whose patron is the Prince of Wales, and sits on the Casework Panel of the Georgian Group. He is a Built Environment Expert (BEE) at the Design Council and the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment, and is also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.\n\nAlireza has written a number of books and publications, most recently New Palladians, Modernity and Sustainability for the 21st Century, Co-Author with Lucien Steil. Alireza's latest book explores the global resurgence of Traditional Architecture published by Rizzoli titled Contemporary Classical Architects Timeless Architecture for the Twenty-First Century, has a foreword by the Prince of Wales and a preface by Leon Krier.\n\n\nLectures\n\nArticles\n\n\nExhibitions\n\n"}
{"id": "2274127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274127", "title": "Arthur Button", "text": "Arthur Button\n\nAir Vice Marshal Arthur Daniel Button (26 May 1916 – 27 May 1991) was a Royal Air Force officer.\n\nHe was educated at Ilford County High School and University College, Southampton (later the University of Southampton; BSc Hons (Lond.)).\n\nHe joined the RAF Educational Service in 1938. He married Eira Waterhouse in 1944. He was on general duties, 1941-6; his pilot experience during this time was mainly for instructional purposes. In 1946 he received the Queen's Commendation for Valuable Service in the Air, and returned to the RAF Education Branch. He was a senior maths instructor until 1949, followed by other varied duties such as armament staff officer at HQ RAF Bomber Command. He rose to become Director of the RAF Educational Services 1972–6.\n\nAfter his retirement, he was director of the Association of Recognised English Language Schools (ARELS) Examinations Trust, 1976–86. He was a member of the council of the RAF Benevolent Fund and the RAF Association, 1980-9 and the Lord Kitchener National Memorial Fund, 1983–1991. He was Honorary President, ARELS-FELCO (Federation of English Language Course Organisations), from 1990 and a governor of the Duke of Kent School, 1981–6.\n\nHe was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1959 and a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274128", "title": "Northumbria Police", "text": "Northumbria Police\n\nNorthumbria Police is the territorial police force responsible for policing the areas of Northumberland and Tyne and Wear in North East England.\n\nNorthumbria Police is the sixth largest police force in England and Wales with 3,486 police officers, 1,505 police staff, 245 special constables and 200 police community support officers The force headquarters are located at Middle Engine lane in Wallsend, North Tyneside. However, significant numbers of functions have been dispersed to various locations throughout the force area as part of plans to reduce costs, with the stated intention of operating without a traditional headquarters function. As of February 2018, the acting Chief Constable is Winton Keenen, whose appointment became effective on October 2017. Former chief constables include Sir Stanley Bailey (1975–1991); John Stevens, Baron Stevens of Kirkwhelpington (1991–1996); Crispian Strachan CBE (1998–2005), Mike Craik (2005–2010), Sue Sim (2010–2015, including a period as temporary chief constable) and Steve Ashman (2015–2017).\n\nThe force was formed in 1974 and was a merger of the old Northumberland Constabulary along with part of the Durham Constabulary. The police forces for the county boroughs of South Shields, Gateshead, Sunderland, Newcastle upon Tyne and Tynemouth had already been amalgamated into their respective county forces in 1969, with the Berwick-upon-Tweed police having been merged into Northumberland County Constabulary in 1921.\n\nUnder proposals made by the Home Secretary on 6 February 2006, Northumbria was to merge with Cleveland Police and Durham Constabulary to form a single strategic police force for North East England. Both Northumbria and Durham favoured this proposal, while Cleveland expressed a wish that it be merged with the southern area of the Durham force. All proposals regarding force mergers were subsequently dropped nationwide.\n\nIn July 2010, Raoul Moat targeted Northumbria Police officers after his release from Durham Prison. A manhunt was started by Northumbria Police with assistance from Durham Constabulary, Cleveland Police, Cumbria Police, West Yorkshire Police, South Yorkshire Police, and Humberside Police. As the situation developed over a period of days, more support was made available with the Metropolitan Police sending 40 firearms officers, most specialised in the use of sniper rifles. Also, the Police Service of Northern Ireland sent 20 armoured Mitsubishi Shoguns to help in the search on rough terrain in Northumberland.\n\nIn January 2014 Northumbria Police launched Operation Sanctuary to investigate sexual abuse gangs targeting vulnerable young white girls. In June 2014 the operation had identified 80 victims and the number of arrests had reached 104.\n\nIn April 2014, Northumbria Police came under controversy when they threatened teenagers with an ASBO for building a den out of sticks in the woods.\n\nIn May 2016, details emerged of an affair between former Chief Constable Mike Craik and then Assistant Chief Constable Carolyn Peacock. Peacock's husband — also then a serving police officer — found out about the affair at a barbecue, and attacked Craik. Officers from Northumbria Police were called to the incident, which was later removed from all police logs on order of the Chief Constable, and legally banned from reporting in the courts. The legal bans were lifted, after the former Head of Legal sued the force for unfair dismissal.\n\nAs of July 2019, the Chief Officer team consists of the following:\n\nNorthumbria Police is divided into three Area Commands. The number of police stations is in the process of being rationalised as part of significant ongoing budget reductions.\n\nNorthumbria Police has numerous teams dedicated to neighbourhood policing attached to the area commands as the table below outlines. A number of these teams are now based within community hubs rather than traditional police stations.\n\nNorthumbria Police has faced budget cuts of 23% since 2010, higher than any other police force in England and Wales. Former Chief constable, Steve Ashman expressed fears Northumbria police could soon be unable to provide an adequate service. Ashman said, \"If the day of not being able to provide a professional service was here, I would say. It is not here, but it is getting very, very close.\" Northumbria police received £259.6 million for the year 2017–18 which is up slightly from £259.5 in 2016–17. This small rise is insufficient to compensate for inflation currently at just under 3% per year. Northumbria police experienced a funding cut in real terms.\nMost Northumbrian police stations now close at 8.00pm and people needing the police after that time must use the telephone or an interactive service.\n\nThere are two inter-operable communication centres:\n\n\n\nThe Police Roll of Honour Trust lists and commemorates all British police officers killed on and in the line of duty.\n\nSince 1900, the following officers of Northumbria Police and its predecessors are listed by the Trust as having been killed while attempting to prevent, stop or solve a criminal act:\n\nOn November 6, 2017, Constable John Davidson of the Abbotsford Police Department in British Columbia, Canada, was shot and killed while trying to arrest a suspect who had allegedly opened fire in the parking lot of a shopping centre. Davidson had served with the Northumbria Police from 1993 to 2005 before emigrating to join the Abbotsford Police.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274131", "title": "Tropical Storm Winifred", "text": "Tropical Storm Winifred\n\nThe name Winifred has been used for two tropical cyclones worldwide.\n\nIn the Eastern Pacific: \n\nIn the Australian Region: \n"}
{"id": "2274133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274133", "title": "Tropical Storm Xavier", "text": "Tropical Storm Xavier\n\nThe name Xavier has been used for three tropical cyclones and one extratropical cyclone worldwide.\n\nIn the Eastern Pacific:\n\nIn the South Pacific: \n\nIn Europe: \n\n"}
{"id": "2274137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274137", "title": "Tropical Storm Yolanda", "text": "Tropical Storm Yolanda\n\nThe name Yolanda has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Yolanda has been used in the Philippines by PAGASA in the Western Pacific.\nDue to the extreme damage caused by the 2013 typhoon, the name Yolanda has been retired by PAGASA and replaced by Yasmin.\n\nThe name Yolanda has been used for one extratropical cyclone.\n"}
{"id": "2274140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274140", "title": "Tropical Storm Zeke", "text": "Tropical Storm Zeke\n\nThe name Zeke has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Eastern Pacific and two in the Western Pacific.\n\nEastern Pacific:\n\nWestern Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2274143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274143", "title": "Hurricane Rosa", "text": "Hurricane Rosa\n\nThe name Rosa has been used for seven tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name Rosa has been used for one tropical cyclone in the Australian region.\n"}
{"id": "2274148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274148", "title": "Tropical Storm Rick", "text": "Tropical Storm Rick\n\nThe name Rick has been used for four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific.\n\nThe name is used on the modern six-year lists:\n\nIt was also used for one tropical cyclone in the Western Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2274154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274154", "title": "Hurricane Raymond", "text": "Hurricane Raymond\n\nThe name Raymond has been used for five tropical cyclones worldwide.\n\nEastern Pacific: \n\nAustralian Region: \n"}
{"id": "2274158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274158", "title": "Steve Bauer", "text": "Steve Bauer\n\nSteven Todd Bauer, MSM (born June 12, 1959) is a former professional road bicycle racer from Canada. He is an Olympic medalist and winner of several professional races. He is the winner of the first Olympic medal in road cycling for Canada.\n\nBauer joined the Canadian national cycling team in 1977, competing in team pursuit. He would remain on the national team for seven years, winning the national road race championship in 1981, 1982, and 1983, competing in the Commonwealth Games (1978, 1982), the Pan American Games (1979).\n\nHe capped his amateur career with a silver medal in the men's cycling road race at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. This was the first medal in road cycling for Canada at the Olympics.\n\nBauer turned professional following the Olympics, and in his second professional race, won the bronze medal at the world cycling championship road race in Barcelona.\n\nBetween 1985 and 1995, he competed in 11 Tours de France.\nHe began his professional career in 1985 on the La Vie Claire team of Bernard Hinault and Greg LeMond, where he stayed until leaving for Weinmann / La Suisse in 1988.\nBauer finished fourth in the 1988 Tour, winning the first stage and wearing the yellow jersey for five days, the second Canadian to wear the jersey. The first was Alex Stieda in 1986, who was also the first North American to wear the yellow jersey.\n\nAt the 1988 world championship, Bauer disputed the final sprint with Belgium’s Claude Criquielion and Italy’s Maurizio Fondriest. As he veered to the right, Bauer pushed Criquielion towards the barriers, causing him to strike the barrier footings and crash. Meanwhile, Fondriest passed and won the race. Bauer was disqualified, but once Criquielion sued Bauer for assault and battery, the municipal court of Oudenaarde ruled in Bauer's favour. The ruling was upheld in both the Appeal Court and the Supreme court, at which stage Criquielion was fined for bringing the case a third time in a process that lasted for more than five years. \n\nIn 1989 Bauer won the Züri-Metzgete. In 1990, he took second place in Paris–Roubaix to Belgian Eddy Planckaert. The finish was so close that the officials had to study the photo-finish for more than ten minutes before Planckaert was finally declared the winner. After 266 kilometers of racing, Planckaert had just edged Bauer by less than a centimeter, making it the closest finish of the race's history.\n\nRiding for 7-Eleven, Bauer wore the Yellow Jersey for nine stages during the 1990 Tour, finishing 27th. For his 1993 Paris-Roubaix campaign, he had a bike built by the Merckx factory with \"an extreme rearward seat position\" to test his theory that it would \"engag[e] the quadriceps more efficiently\" and with it \"more power to the pedals\". He failed to make the top ten (finishing over 4 minutes behind the winner in 23rd place ) and never rode the bike again.\n\nIn 1994, he was awarded the Meritorious Service Medal (civil division) for having \"paved the way for Canada's coming generations of cycling enthusiasts\".\n\nIn 1996, with professionals allowed in the Olympics, Bauer became a member of the Canadian team for the 1996 Summer Olympics, finishing 41st in the road race. He announced his retirement later that year at 37. The following year, he co-founded Steve Bauer Bike Tours.\n\nIn 2005 Steve was inducted to the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame and the Canadian Sport Hall of Fame. Bauer also participated in the Red Bull Road Rage held on Tuna Canyon, Malibu, California.\n\nIn 2013, Bauer raced in the Canadian Cycling Championships in the Men's 50-59 road race and finished fourth.\n\nIn 2015, Bauer raced in the Canadian Track Championships in the Men's 50-59 and finished 1st in the Scratch race, 1st in the Individual Pursuit and 2nd in the Points Race.\n\nIn September 2007, Bauer co-founded Cycle Sport Management which developed and owned a UCI Continental men road cycling team for 2008-2010 and a UCI Pro Continental men road cycling team 2011 & 2012.\n\nBauer was the co-owner and head directeur sportif of the team, which raced under a UCI Continental licence as in 2008, in 2009 and in 2010, before it stepped up to UCI Professional Continental status for 2011 and 2012 under the name .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274161", "title": "Tropical Storm Olaf", "text": "Tropical Storm Olaf\n\nThe name Olaf has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific.\n\nThe name is used on the modern six-year lists:\n\nThe name Olaf was also used for one tropical cyclone in the Southwest Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2274163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274163", "title": "Beth (song)", "text": "Beth (song)\n\n\"Beth\" is a song by American hard rock band KISS, originally released on their 1976 album, \"Destroyer\". To date, it is their highest-charting single in the US, reaching #7 on \"Billboard's\" Hot 100 chart. It is one of only two gold selling singles for the band (the other being 1979's \"I Was Made for Lovin' You\"), and their first of two Top Ten singles (along with 1990's \"Forever\", #8) in the US. \"Beth\" ranked #3 in VH1's 25 Greatest Power Ballads.\n\nKISS' drummer Peter Criss sings the song, which was co-written by Criss and guitarist Stan Penridge. The song was written before Criss had joined the band, while he and Penridge were members of Chelsea. A bootleg exists of the song from 1971, but the song was sung \"Beck, what can I do?\" \"Beck\" was the nickname of fellow Chelsea member Mike Brand's wife, Becky, who would call often during practices to ask Mike when he was coming home. In an article for \"Rolling Stone,\" Paul Stanley questioned Criss' role in co-writing the song, saying, \"Peter had nothing to do with it.\" Lydia Criss (who was married to Peter Criss throughout the 1970s) says that she alone is responsible for the name change.\n\nThe song was a last-minute addition to the \"Destroyer\" album. According to Bill Aucoin, the manager of Kiss at that time, Simmons and Stanley did not want \"Beth\" on the album because it was not a typical Kiss song. Aucoin insisted on keeping the song on the record. During the recording sessions for the song, Criss was the only Kiss member in the studio, making it the only Kiss song that features no instrumental performances by any member of the band. Criss is backed by a piano and a string orchestra, a stark departure from the band's usual hard rock-oriented sound.\n\nWhen released as a single, \"Beth\" was initially the B-side of \"Detroit Rock City\". Some of the initial credit for the flip-hit goes to Rosalie Trombley, at the time the music director at \"The Big 8\" CKLW in Windsor, Ontario. Trombley's daughter had a copy of the 45 and was hooked on \"Beth\", and began nagging her mother about it. \"Beth\" wasn't being promoted as the \"A\" side, but Trombley added it to CKLW's playlist. After \"Beth\" became a smash, Kiss presented Trombley's daughter with a gold record. Kiss and Casablanca Records reissued \"Beth\" as an A-side with \"Detroit Rock City\" as the B-side, and it was far more successful. The single went gold in the US (the first Kiss single to do so) on January 5, 1977 and in Canada on December 1, 1976.\n\n\"Beth\" is also credited as invigorating sluggish sales of the \"Destroyer\" album, which many fans initially saw as a misstep. In 1977, Kiss received a People's Choice Award for \"Beth\", one of the few industry awards the band ever won.\n\nThe song's television debut was on The Paul Lynde Halloween Special on October 29, 1976, where Criss lip-synced a shortened version of the song while miming on piano. Live, \"Beth\" was performed by Criss alone on stage backed by a tape of the instrumental track. The acoustic version featured on \"Kiss Unplugged\" is the only recording with members of Kiss solely backing up Criss. The version of \"Beth\" featured on the group's 2003 \"\" DVD and subsequent album would be the only time the song was performed live with an ensemble. In 2010, the song was performed live for the first time with Eric Singer on acoustic guitar during their Sonic Boom Over Europe Tour and again on their The Hottest Show on Earth Tour in 2011. It has since been again removed from setlists, but the band occasionally performs the song at meet and greet sessions. On the 2019 End of the Road World Tour, the song has been performed by Singer, miming it on the piano.\n\nAt the time of the release of KISS's 1988 compilation album, \"Smashes, Thrashes & Hits\", Eric Carr had replaced Peter Criss as the band's drummer. A re-recording of \"Beth\" was produced just for this greatest hits album with Carr singing the vocals in the same room of the Record Plant studio where the song was originally recorded. This recording used the same backing track as Criss' version, but Carr also overdubbed some drum parts.\n\n\n\n\"Beth\" appears on the following Kiss albums:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274165", "title": "Ontera", "text": "Ontera\n\nOntera is a telecommunications company in Ontario, Canada and a division of NorthernTel. It provides local telephone service in the Northern Ontario towns of Bear Island, Iroquois Falls, Marten River, Moosonee, Moose Factory and Temagami, and also offers long-distance services in most of area code 705. \n\nOntera was founded as the Ontario Northland Telecommunications division of the Ontario Northland Transportation Commission, a Crown agency of the Government of Ontario, in 1902. It was the exclusive provider of long-distance calling services in many rural Northeastern Ontario markets until the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) approved long-distance competition in 2000. The name was changed to O.N.Tel Inc. in the 1990s, then changed its trading name to O.N.Telcom in 2000, and then renamed to Ontera in 2004. \n\nIn April 2014, the Ontario government announced it would sell Ontera to Bell Aliant. The acquisition was completed in October 2014. Bell Canada, which had been the largest shareholder in Bell Aliant and most of its predecessors throughout their respective histories, took full ownership of Bell Aliant in late 2014.\n\nOntera provides customer-premises LAN, VoIP and Internet security systems, DSL, fibre optic and wireless data services. The company owns and operates an extensive fibre optic telecommunications network throughout most of Northeastern Ontario.\n\nIn September 2008, Ontera announced plans to install a ring network, to strengthen network reliability, which was completed by spring 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2274178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274178", "title": "Jobaria", "text": "Jobaria\n\nJobaria is a genus of sauropod dinosaur that lived in what is now Niger during the middle Jurassic Period, between 164–161 million years ago. \"Jobaria\" is currently the only known valid sauropod from the Tiouraren, where it was discovered in 1997.\n\n\"Jobaria\" was a primitive sauropod, about long and estimated to weigh about . Its backbone and tail were simple compared to the complex vertebrae and whiplash tail of the later North America sauropods \"Diplodocus\" and \"Apatosaurus\".\n\nIt may also have been able to rear up on its hind legs as Paul Sereno concluded, after comparing the ratios of humerus and femur circumferences in \"Jobaria\" to extant elephants. The weight distribution of \"Jobaria\" indicates that it was supported by the rear limbs rather than the forelimbs (as in elephants) and is speculated that as elephants can rear up, then \"Jobaria\" would have been able to more easily.\n\nDiscovered in the fall of 1997, during a four-month expedition to the Sahara desert led by paleontologist Dr. Paul Sereno, it was found in a mass-death site in the Tiourarén Formation of Niger. With over 95% of its skeleton preserved it is among the most complete sauropods ever found.\n\nThe genus is named after a local mythical giant beast, Jobar, whose bones some Tuaregs believed the fossils to be. The specific name \"tiguidensis\" comes from the cliff of Tiguidi, the site of discovery.\n\nThe sediments in which it was found were originally thought to represent the Hauterivian to Barremian stages of the early Cretaceous Period, dating \"Jobaria\" to approximately 132 million years ago. However, re-interpretation of the sediments showed that they are more likely from the Bathonian to Oxfordian stages of the middle Jurassic in age, between 167 and 161 million years ago.\n\nThe phylogenetic relationships of \"Jobaria\" are uncertain; it has been interpreted either as a basal macronarian, or as a non-neosauropod eusauropod, basal to the neosauropod clade.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274182", "title": "Anarchism in the United States", "text": "Anarchism in the United States\n\nAnarchism in the United States began in the mid-19th century and started to grow in influence as it entered the American labor movements, growing an anarcho-communist current as well as gaining notoriety for violent propaganda of the deed and campaigning for diverse social reforms in the early 20th century.\n\nIn the post-World War II era, anarchism regained influence through new developments such as anarcho-pacifism, the American New Left and the counterculture of the 1960s.\n\nIn contemporary times, anarchism in the United States influenced and became influenced and renewed by developments both inside and outside the worldwide anarchist movement such as platformism, insurrectionary anarchism, the new social movements (anarcha-feminism, queer anarchism and green anarchism) and the alter-globalization movements.\n\nFor American anarchist historian Eunice Minette Schuster, American individualist anarchism \"stresses the isolation of the individual—his right to his own tools, his mind, his body, and to the products of his labor. To the artist who embraces this philosophy it is 'aesthetic' anarchism, to the reformer, ethical anarchism, to the independent mechanic, economic anarchism. The former is concerned with philosophy, the latter with practical demonstration. The economic anarchist is concerned with constructing a society on the basis of anarchism. Economically he sees no harm whatever in the private possession of what the individual produces by his own labor, but only so much and no more. The aesthetic and ethical type found expression in the transcendentalism, humanitarianism, and romanticism of the first part of the nineteenth century, the economic type in the pioneer life of the West during the same period, but more favorably after the Civil War\".\n\nIt is for this reason that it has been suggested that in order to understand American individualist anarchism one must take into account \"the social context of their ideas, namely the transformation of America from a pre-capitalist to a capitalist society ... the non-capitalist nature of the early U.S. can be seen from the early dominance of self-employment (artisan and peasant production). At the beginning of the 19th century, around 80% of the working (non-slave) male population were self-employed. The great majority of Americans during this time were farmers working their own land, primarily for their own needs\" and so \"individualist anarchism is clearly a form of artisanal socialism ... while communist anarchism and anarcho-syndicalism are forms of industrial (or proletarian) socialism\".\n\nHistorian Wendy McElroy reports that American individualist anarchism received an important influence of three European thinkers: \"One of the most important of these influences was the French political philosopher Pierre-Joseph Proudhon whose words \"Liberty is not the Daughter But the Mother of Order\" appeared as a motto on \"Liberty's\" masthead\" (influential individualist anarchist publication of Benjamin Tucker). \"Another major foreign influence was the german philosopher Max Stirner\". \"The third foreign thinker with great impact was the British philosopher Herbert Spencer\". Other influences to consider include William Godwin's \"anarchism (which) exerted an ideological influence on some of this, but more so the socialism of Robert Owen and Charles Fourier.\n\nThe emergence and growth of anarchism in the United States in the 1820s and 1830s has a close parallel in the simultaneous emergence and growth of abolitionism. No one needed anarchy more than a slave.\n\nAfter success of his British venture, Owen himself established in 1825 a cooperative community within the United States at New Harmony, Indiana. One member of this commune was Josiah Warren (1798–1874), considered to be the first individualist anarchist. After New Harmony failed Warren shifted his ideological loyalties from socialism to anarchism (which was no great leap, given that Owen's socialism had been predicated on Godwin's anarchism)\". Warren is widely regarded as the first American anarchist and the four-page weekly paper he edited during 1833, \"The Peaceful Revolutionist\", was the first anarchist periodical published, an enterprise for which he built his own printing press, cast his own type and made his own printing plates. Warren was a follower of Owen and joined Owen's community at New Harmony. Warren termed the phrase \"Cost the limit of price\", with \"cost\" here referring not to monetary price paid but the labor one exerted to produce an item. Therefore, \"[h]e proposed a system to pay people with certificates indicating how many hours of work they did. They could exchange the notes at local time stores for goods that took the same amount of time to produce\". He put his theories to the test by establishing an experimental \"labor for labor store\" called the Cincinnati Time Store, where trade was facilitated by notes backed by a promise to perform labor. The store proved successful and operated for three years after which it was closed so that Warren could pursue establishing colonies based on mutualism. These included \"Utopia\" and \"Modern Times\". Warren said that Stephen Pearl Andrews' \"The Science of Society\", published in 1852, was the most lucid and complete exposition of Warren's own theories. Catalan historian Xavier Diez report that the intentional communal experiments pioneered by Warren were influential in European individualist anarchists of the late 19th and early 20th centuries such as Emile Armand and the intentional communities started by them.\nHenry David Thoreau (1817–1862) was an important early influence in individualist anarchist thought in the United States and Europe. Thoreau was an American author, poet, naturalist, tax resister, development critic, surveyor, historian, philosopher and leading transcendentalist. \"Civil Disobedience\" (\"Resistance to Civil Government\") is an essay by Thoreau that was first published in 1849. It argues that people should not permit governments to overrule or atrophy their consciences, and that people have a duty to avoid allowing such acquiescence to enable the government to make them the agents of injustice. Thoreau was motivated in part by his disgust with slavery and the Mexican–American War. It would influence Mohandas Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr., Martin Buber and Leo Tolstoy through its advocacy of nonviolent resistance. It is also the main precedent for anarcho-pacifism. Anarchism started to have an ecological view mainly in the writings of American individualist anarchist and transcendentalist Thoreau. In his book \"Walden\", he advocates simple living and self-sufficiency among natural surroundings in resistance to the advancement of industrial civilization: \"Many have seen in Thoreau one of the precursors of ecologism and anarcho-primitivism represented today in John Zerzan. For George Woodcock this attitude can be also motivated by certain idea of resistance to progress and of rejection of the growing materialism which is the nature of American society in the mid-19th century\". Zerzan himself included the text \"Excursions\" (1863) by Thoreau in his edited compilation of anti-civilization writings called \"\" from 1999. Walden made Thoreau influential in the European individualist anarchist green current of anarcho-naturism.\nFor American anarchist historian Eunice Minette Schuster, \"[i]t is apparent ... that Proudhonian Anarchism was to be found in the United States at least as early as 1848 and that it was not conscious of its affinity to the Individualist Anarchism of Josiah Warren and Stephen Pearl Andrews ... William B. Greene presented this Proudhonian Mutualism in its purest and most systematic form\". William Batchelder Greene (1819–1878) was a 19th-century mutualist individualist anarchist, Unitarian minister, soldier and promoter of free banking in the United States. Greene is best known for the works \"Mutual Banking\" (1850), which proposed an interest-free banking system; and \"Transcendentalism\", a critique of the New England philosophical school.\n\nAfter 1850, he became active in labor reform and was elected vice president of the New England Labor Reform League, the majority of the members holding to Proudhon's scheme of mutual banking, and in 1869 president of the Massachusetts Labor Union. He then published \"Socialistic, Mutualistic, and Financial Fragments\" (1875). He saw mutualism as the synthesis of \"liberty and order\". His\n\nassociationism ... is checked by individualism ... \"Mind your own business,\" \"Judge not that ye be not judged.\" Over matters which are purely personal, as for example, moral conduct, the individual is sovereign, as well as over that which he himself produces. For this reason he demands \"mutuality\" in marriage—the equal right of a woman to her own personal freedom and property.\n\nStephen Pearl Andrews was an individualist anarchist and close associate of Josiah Warren. Andrews was formerly associated with the Fourierist movement, but converted to radical individualism after becoming acquainted with the work of Warren. Like Warren, he held the principle of \"individual sovereignty\" as being of paramount importance. Contemporary American anarchist Hakim Bey reports that \"Steven Pearl Andrews ... was not a fourierist, but he lived through the brief craze for phalansteries in America and adopted a lot of fourierist principles and practices ... a maker of worlds out of words. He syncretized abolitionism, Free Love, spiritual universalism, Warren, and Fourier into a grand utopian scheme he called the Universal Pantarchy ... He was instrumental in founding several \"intentional communities,\" including the \"Brownstone Utopia\" on 14th Street in New York and \"Modern Times\" in Brentwood, Long Island. The latter became as famous as the best-known fourierist communes (Brook Farm in Massachusetts and the North American Phalanx in New Jersey) — in fact, Modern Times became downright notorious for \"Free Love\" and finally foundered under a wave of scandalous publicity. Andrews (and Victoria Woodhull) were members of the infamous Section 12 of the 1st International, expelled by Marx for its anarchist, feminist, and spiritualist tendencies\".\n\nAn important current within American individualist anarchism was Free love. Free love advocates sometimes traced their roots back to Josiah Warren and to experimental communities, and viewed sexual freedom as a clear, direct expression of an individual's self-ownership. Free love particularly stressed women's rights since most sexual laws discriminated against women: for example, marriage laws and anti-birth control measures. The most important American free love journal was \"Lucifer the Lightbearer\" (1883–1907) edited by Moses Harman and Lois Waisbrooker but also there existed Ezra Heywood and Angela Heywood's \"The Word\" (1872–1890, 1892–1893). M. E. Lazarus was an important American individualist anarchist who promoted free love. Hutchins Hapgood was a U.S. journalist, author, individualist anarchist/philosophical anarchist who was well known within the Bohemian environment of around the start of 20th-century New York City. He advocated free love and committed adultery frequently. Hapgood was a follower of the German philosophers Max Stirner and Friedrich Nietzsche. The mission of \"Lucifer the Lightbearer\" was, according to Harman, \"to help woman to break the chains that for ages have bound her to the rack of man-made law, spiritual, economic, industrial, social and especially sexual, believing that until woman is roused to a sense of her own responsibility on all lines of human endeavor, and especially on lines of her special field, that of reproduction of the race, there will be little if any real advancement toward a higher and truer civilization.\" The name was chosen because \"Lucifer, the ancient name of the Morning Star, now called Venus, seems to us unsurpassed as a cognomen for a journal whose mission is to bring light to the dwellers in darkness.\" In February 1887, the editors and publishers of \"Lucifer\" were arrested after the journal ran afoul of the Comstock Act for the publication of a letter condemning forced sex within marriage, which the author identified as rape. The Comstock Act specifically prohibited the public, printed discussion of any topics that were considered \"obscene, lewd, or lascivious,\" and discussing rape, although a criminal matter, was deemed obscene. A Topeka district attorney eventually handed down 216 indictments. In February 1890, Harman, now the sole producer of \"Lucifer\", was again arrested on charges resulting from a similar article written by a New York physician. As a result of the original charges, Harman would spend large portions of the next six years in prison. In 1896, \"Lucifer\" was moved to Chicago; however, legal harassment continued. The United States Postal Service seized and destroyed numerous issues of the journal and, in May 1905, Harman was again arrested and convicted for the distribution of two articles - \"The Fatherhood Question\" and \"More Thoughts on Sexology\" by Sara Crist Campbell. Sentenced to a year of hard labor, the 75-year-old editor's health deteriorated greatly. After 24 years in production, \"Lucifer\" ceased publication in 1907 and became the more scholarly \"American Journal of Eugenics\". They also had many opponents, and Moses Harman spent two years in jail after a court determined that a journal he published was \"obscene\" under the notorious Comstock Law. In particular, the court objected to three letters to the editor, one of which described the plight of a woman who had been raped by her husband, tearing stitches from a recent operation after a difficult childbirth and causing severe hemorrhaging. The letter lamented the woman's lack of legal recourse. Ezra Heywood, who had already been prosecuted under the Comstock Law for a pamphlet attacking marriage, reprinted the letter in solidarity with Harman and was also arrested and sentenced to two years in prison.\nHeywood's philosophy was instrumental in furthering individualist anarchist ideas through his extensive pamphleteering and reprinting of works of Josiah Warren, author of \"True Civilization\" (1869), and William B. Greene. At a 1872 convention of the New England Labor Reform League in Boston, Heywood introduced Greene and Warren to eventual \"Liberty\" publisher Benjamin Tucker. Heywood saw what he believed to be a disproportionate concentration of capital in the hands of a few as the result of a selective extension of government-backed privileges to certain individuals and organizations. \"The Word\" was an individualist anarchist free love magazine edited by Ezra Heywood and Angela Heywood, issued first from Princeton, Massachusetts; and then from Cambridge, Massachusetts. \"The Word\" was subtitled \"A Monthly Journal of Reform,\" and it included contributions from Josiah Warren, Benjamin Tucker, and J.K. Ingalls. Initially, \"The Word\" presented free love as a minor theme which was expressed within a labor reform format. But the publication later evolved into an explicitly free love periodical. At some point Tucker became an important contributor but later became dissatisfied with the journal's focus on free love since he desired a concentration on economics. In contrast, Tucker's relationship with Heywood grew more distant. Yet, when Heywood was imprisoned for his pro-birth control stand from August to December 1878 under the Comstock laws, Tucker abandoned the \"Radical Review\" in order to assume editorship of Heywood's \"The Word\". After Heywood's release from prison, \"The Word\" openly became a free love journal; it flouted the law by printing birth control material and openly discussing sexual matters. Tucker's disapproval of this policy stemmed from his conviction that \"Liberty, to be effective, must find its first application in the realm of economics\".\n\nM. E. Lazarus (18221895 or 1896) was an American individualist anarchist from Guntersville, Alabama. He is the author of several essays and anarchist pamphlettes including \"Land Tenure: Anarchist View\" (1889). A famous quote from Lazarus is \"Every vote for a governing office is an instrument for enslaving me.\" Lazarus was also an intellectual contributor to Fourierism and the Free Love movement of the 1850s, a social reform group that called for, in its extreme form, the abolition of institutionalized marriage.\n\nFreethought as a philosophical position and as activism was important in North American individualist anarchism. In the United States \"freethought was a basically anti-Christian, anti-clerical movement, whose purpose was to make the individual politically and spiritually free to decide for himself on religious matters. A number of contributors to \"Liberty\" were prominent figures in both freethought and anarchism. The individualist anarchist George MacDonald was a co-editor of \"Freethought\" and, for a time, \"The Truth Seeker\". E.C. Walker was co-editor of the free-thought/free love journal \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\"\". \"Many of the anarchists were ardent freethinkers; reprints from freethought papers such as \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\", \"Freethought\" and \"The Truth Seeker\" appeared in \"Liberty\"...The church was viewed as a common ally of the state and as a repressive force in and of itself\".\n\nVoltairine de Cleyre was an American anarchist writer and feminist. She was a prolific writer and speaker, opposing the state, marriage, and the domination of religion in sexuality and women's lives. She began her activist career in the freethought movement. De Cleyre was initially drawn to individualist anarchism but evolved through mutualism to an \"anarchism without adjectives.\" She believed that any system was acceptable as long as it did not involve force. However, according to anarchist author Iain McKay, she embraced the ideals of stateless communism. In her 1895 lecture entitled \"Sex Slavery,\" de Cleyre condemns ideals of beauty that encourage women to distort their bodies and child socialization practices that create unnatural gender roles. The title of the essay refers not to traffic in women for purposes of prostitution, although that is also mentioned, but rather to marriage laws that allow men to rape their wives without consequences. Such laws make \"every married woman what she is, a bonded slave, who takes her master's name, her master's bread, her master's commands, and serves her master's passions.\"\nIndividualist anarchism found in the United States an important space of discussion and development within what is known as \"Boston anarchists.\" Even among the 19th-century American individualists, there was not a monolithic doctrine, as they disagreed amongst each other on various issues including intellectual property rights and possession versus property in land. A major schism occurred later in the 19th century when Tucker and some others abandoned their traditional support of natural rights – as espoused by Lysander Spooner – and converted to an \"egoism\" modeled upon Stirner's philosophy. Lysander Spooner, besides his individualist anarchist activism, was also an important anti-slavery activist and became a member of the First International. Some \"Boston anarchists\", including Benjamin Tucker, identified themselves as socialists, which in the 19th century was often used in the sense of a commitment to improving conditions of the working class (i.e. \"the labor problem\"). The \"Boston Anarchists\" such as Tucker and his followers are considered socialists to this day due to their opposition to usury. By around the start of the 20th century, the heyday of individualist anarchism had passed.\n\"Liberty\" was a 19th-century anarchist periodical published in the United States by Benjamin Tucker, from August 1881 to April 1908. The periodical was instrumental in developing and formalizing the individualist anarchist philosophy through publishing essays and serving as a format for debate. Contributors included Benjamin Tucker, Lysander Spooner, Auberon Herbert, Dyer Lum, Joshua K. Ingalls, John Henry Mackay, Victor Yarros, Wordsworth Donisthorpe, James L. Walker, J. William Lloyd, Florence Finch Kelly, Voltairine de Cleyre, Steven T. Byington, John Beverley Robinson, Jo Labadie, Lillian Harman, and Henry Appleton. Included in its masthead is a quote from Pierre Proudhon saying that liberty is \"Not the Daughter But the Mother of Order.\"\nSome of the American individualist anarchists later in this era, such as Benjamin Tucker, abandoned natural rights positions and converted to Max Stirner's Egoist anarchism. Rejecting the idea of moral rights, Tucker said that there were only two rights, \"the right of might\" and \"the right of contract.\" He also said, after converting to Egoist individualism, \"In times past ... it was my habit to talk glibly of the right of man to land. It was a bad habit, and I long ago sloughed it off ... Man's only right to land is his might over it.\" In adopting Stirnerite egoism (1886), Tucker rejected natural rights which had long been considered the foundation of libertarianism. This rejection galvanized the movement into fierce debates, with the natural rights proponents accusing the egoists of destroying libertarianism itself. So bitter was the conflict that a number of natural rights proponents withdrew from the pages of \"Liberty\" in protest even though they had hitherto been among its frequent contributors. Thereafter, \"Liberty\" championed egoism although its general content did not change significantly.\" Several publications \"were undoubtedly influenced by \"Liberty\"'s presentation of egoism. They included: \"I\" published by C.L. Swartz, edited by W.E. Gordak and J.William Lloyd (all associates of \"Liberty\"); \"The Ego\" and \"The Egoist\", both of which were edited by Edward H. Fulton. Among the egoist papers that Tucker followed were the German \"Der Eigene\", edited by Adolf Brand, and \"The Eagle\" and \"The Serpent\", issued from London. The latter, the most prominent English-language egoist journal, was published from 1898 to 1900 with the subtitle 'A Journal of Egoistic Philosophy and Sociology. Among those American anarchists who adhered to egoism include Benjamin Tucker, John Beverley Robinson, Steven T. Byington, Hutchins Hapgood, James L. Walker, Victor Yarros and Edward H. Fulton. Robinson wrote an essay called \"Egoism\" in which he states that \"Modern egoism, as propounded by Stirner and Nietzsche, and expounded by Ibsen, Shaw and others, is all these; but it is more. It is the realization by the individual that they are an individual; that, as far as they are concerned, they are the only individual.\" Steven T. Byington was a one-time proponent of Georgism who later converted to egoist stirnerist positions after associating with Benjamin Tucker. He is known for translating two important anarchist works into English from German: Max Stirner's \"The Ego and Its Own\" and Paul Eltzbacher's \"\" (also published by Dover with the title \"The Great Anarchists: Ideas and Teachings of Seven Major Thinkers\"). James L. Walker (sometimes known by the pen name \"Tak Kak\") was one of the main contributors to Benjamin Tucker's \"Liberty\". He published his major philosophical work called \"Philosophy of Egoism\" in the May 1890 to September 1891 in issues of the publication \"Egoism\".\n\nBy the 1880s anarcho-communism was already present in the United States as can be seen in the publication of the journal \"Freedom: A Revolutionary Anarchist-Communist Monthly\" by Lucy Parsons and Lizzy Holmes. Lucy Parsons debated in her time in the US with fellow anarcha-communist Emma Goldman over issues of free love and feminism. Described by the Chicago Police Department as \"more dangerous than a thousand rioters\" in the 1920s, Parsons and her husband had become highly effective anarchist organizers primarily involved in the labor movement in the late 19th century, but also participating in revolutionary activism on behalf of political prisoners, people of color, the homeless and women. She began writing for \"The Socialist\" and \"The Alarm\", the journal of the International Working People's Association (IWPA) that she and Parsons, among others, founded in 1883. In 1886 her husband, who had been heavily involved in campaigning for the eight-hour day, was arrested, tried and executed on November 11, 1887, by the state of Illinois on charges that he had conspired in the Haymarket Riot — an event which was widely regarded as a political frame-up and which marked the beginning of May Day labor rallies in protest.\n\nAnother anarcho-communist journal later appeared in the US called \"The Firebrand\". Most anarchist publications in the US were in Yiddish, German, or Russian, but \"Free Society\" was published in English, permitting the dissemination of anarchist communist thought to English-speaking populations in the US. Around that time these American anarcho-communist sectors entered in debate with the individualist anarchist group around Benjamin Tucker. Encouraged by news of labor struggles and industrial disputes in the United States, the German anarchist Johann Most emigrated to the USA upon his release from prison in 1882. He promptly began agitating in his adopted land among other German émigrés. Among his associates was August Spies, one of the anarchists hanged for conspiracy in the Haymarket Square bombing, whose desk police found to contain an 1884 letter from Most promising a shipment of \"medicine,\" his code word for dynamite.\nMost was famous for stating the concept of the propaganda of the deed (Attentat): \"The existing system will be quickest and most radically overthrown by the annihilation of its exponents. Therefore, massacres of the enemies of the people must be set in motion.\" Most is best known for a pamphlet published in 1885: \"The Science of Revolutionary Warfare,\" a how-to manual on the subject of bomb-making which earned the author the moniker \"Dynamost.\" He acquired his knowledge of explosives while working at an explosives plant in New Jersey.\nA gifted orator, Most propagated these ideas throughout Marxist and anarchist circles in the United States and attracted many adherents, most notably Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman. In February 1888 Berkman left for the United States from his native Russia. Soon after his arrival in New York City, Berkman became an anarchist through his involvement with groups that had formed to campaign to free the men convicted of the 1886 Haymarket bombing. He, as well as Goldman, soon came under the influence of Johann Most, the best-known anarchist in the United States, and an advocate of propaganda of the deed—\"attentat\", or violence carried out to encourage the masses to revolt. Berkman became a typesetter for Most's newspaper \"Freiheit\". Inspired by Most's theories of Attentat, Goldman and Berkman, enraged by the deaths of workers during the Homestead strike, put words into action with Berkman's attempted assassination of Homestead factory manager Henry Clay Frick in 1892. Berkman and Goldman were soon disillusioned as Most became one of Berkman's most outspoken critics. In \"Freiheit\", Most attacked both Goldman and Berkman, implying Berkman's act was designed to arouse sympathy for Frick. Goldman's biographer Alice Wexler suggests that Most's criticisms may have been inspired by jealousy of Berkman. Goldman was enraged, and demanded that Most prove his insinuations. When he refused to respond, she confronted him at next lecture. After he refused to speak to her, she lashed him across the face with a horsewhip, broke the whip over her knee, then threw the pieces at him. She later regretted her assault, confiding to a friend, \"At the age of twenty-three, one does not reason.\"\nEmma Goldman was an anarchist known for her political activism, writing, and speeches. She played a pivotal role in the development of anarchist political philosophy in North America and Europe in the first half of the 20th century. Born in Kovno in the Russian Empire (present-day Kaunas, Lithuania), Goldman emigrated to the U.S. in 1885 and lived in New York City, where she joined the burgeoning anarchist movement in 1889. Attracted to anarchism after the Haymarket affair, Goldman became a writer and a renowned lecturer on anarchist philosophy, women's rights, and social issues, attracting crowds of thousands. She and anarchist writer Alexander Berkman, her lover and lifelong friend, planned to assassinate industrialist and financier Henry Clay Frick as an act of propaganda of the deed. Although Frick survived the attempt on his life, Berkman was sentenced to twenty-two years in prison. Goldman was imprisoned several times in the years that followed, for \"inciting to riot\" and illegally distributing information about birth control. In 1906, Goldman founded the anarchist journal \"Mother Earth\". In 1917, Goldman and Berkman were sentenced to two years in jail for conspiring to \"induce persons not to register\" for the newly instated draft. After their release from prison, they were arrested—along with hundreds of others—and deported to Russia. Initially supportive of that country's Bolshevik revolution, Goldman quickly voiced her opposition to the Soviet use of violence and the repression of independent voices. In 1923, she wrote a book about her experiences, \"My Disillusionment in Russia\". While living in England, Canada, and France, she wrote an autobiography called \"Living My Life\". After the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War, she traveled to Spain to support the anarchist revolution there. She died in Toronto on May 14, 1940, aged 70. During her life, Goldman was lionized as a free-thinking \"rebel woman\" by admirers, and denounced by critics as an advocate of politically motivated murder and violent revolution. Her writing and lectures spanned a wide variety of issues, including prisons, atheism, freedom of speech, militarism, capitalism, marriage, free love, and homosexuality. Although she distanced herself from first-wave feminism and its efforts toward women's suffrage, she developed new ways of incorporating gender politics into anarchism. After decades of obscurity, Goldman's iconic status was revived in the 1970s, when feminist and anarchist scholars rekindled popular interest in her life.\n\nThe anti-authoritarian sections of the First International were the precursors of the anarcho-syndicalists, seeking to \"replace the privilege and authority of the State\" with the \"free and spontaneous organization of labor.\"\n\nAfter embracing anarchism Albert Parsons, husband of Lucy Parsons, turned his activity to the growing movement to establish the 8-hour day. In January 1880, the Eight-Hour League of Chicago sent Parsons to a national conference in Washington, D.C., a gathering which launched a national lobbying movement aimed at coordinating efforts of labor organizations to win and enforce the 8-hour workday. In the fall of 1884, Parsons launched a weekly anarchist newspaper in Chicago, \"The Alarm.\" The first issue was dated October 4, 1884, and was produced in a press run of 15,000 copies. The publication was a 4-page broadsheet with a cover price of 5 cents. \"The Alarm\" listed the IWPA as its publisher and touted itself as \"A Socialistic Weekly\" on its page 2 masthead. On May 1, 1886, Parsons, with his wife Lucy and their two children, led 80,000 people down Michigan Avenue, in what is regarded as the first-ever May Day Parade, in support of the eight-hour work day. Over the next few days 340,000 laborers joined the strike. Parsons, amidst the May Day Strike, found himself called to Cincinnati, where 300,000 workers had struck that Saturday afternoon. On that Sunday he addressed the rally in Cincinnati of the news from the \"storm center\" of the strike and participated in a second huge parade, led by 200 members of The Cincinnati Rifle Union, with certainty that victory was at hand. In 1886, the Federation of Organized Trades and Labor Unions (FOTLU) of the United States and Canada unanimously set 1 May 1886, as the date by which the eight-hour work day would become standard. In response, unions across the United States prepared a general strike in support of the event. On 3 May, in Chicago, a fight broke out when strikebreakers attempted to cross the picket line, and two workers died when police opened fire upon the crowd. The next day, 4 May, anarchists staged a rally at Chicago's Haymarket Square. A bomb was thrown by an unknown party near the conclusion of the rally, killing an officer. In the ensuing panic, police opened fire on the crowd and each other. Seven police officers and at least four workers were killed. Eight anarchists directly and indirectly related to the organisers of the rally were arrested and charged with the murder of the deceased officer. The men became international political celebrities among the labor movement. Four of the men were executed and a fifth committed suicide prior to his own execution. The incident became known as the Haymarket affair, and was a setback for the labor movement and the struggle for the eight-hour day. In 1890 a second attempt, this time international in scope, to organise for the eight-hour day was made. The event also had the secondary purpose of memorializing workers killed as a result of the Haymarket affair. Although it had initially been conceived as a once-off event, by the following year the celebration of International Workers' Day on May Day had become firmly established as an international worker's holiday. Albert Parsons is best remembered as one of four Chicago radical leaders convicted of conspiracy and hanged following a bomb attack on police remembered as the Haymarket affair. Emma Goldman, the activist and political theorist, was attracted to anarchism after reading about the incident and the executions, which she later described as \"the events that had inspired my spiritual birth and growth.\" She considered the Haymarket martyrs to be \"the most decisive influence in my existence\". Her associate, Alexander Berkman also described the Haymarket anarchists as \"a potent and vital inspiration.\" Others whose commitment to anarchism crystallized as a result of the Haymarket affair included Voltairine de Cleyre and \"Big Bill\" Haywood, a founding member of the Industrial Workers of the World. Goldman wrote to historian, Max Nettlau, that the Haymarket affair had awakened the social consciousness of \"hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people\".\nTwo individualist anarchists who wrote in Benjamin Tucker's \"Liberty\" were also important labor organizers of the time. Jo Labadie was an American labor organizer, individualist anarchist, social activist, printer, publisher, essayist, and poet. Without the oppression of the state, Labadie believed, humans would choose to harmonize with \"the great natural laws ... without robbing [their] fellows through interest, profit, rent and taxes.\" However, he supported community cooperation, as he supported community control of water utilities, streets, and railroads. Although he did not support the militant anarchism of the Haymarket anarchists, he fought for the clemency of the accused because he did not believe they were the perpetrators. In 1888, Labadie organized the Michigan Federation of Labor, became its first president, and forged an alliance with Samuel Gompers. Dyer Lum was a 19th-century American individualist anarchist labor activist and poet. A leading anarcho-syndicalist and a prominent left-wing intellectual of the 1880s, he is remembered as the lover and mentor of early anarcha-feminist Voltairine de Cleyre. Lum was a prolific writer who wrote a number of key anarchist texts, and contributed to publications including \"Mother Earth\", \"Twentieth Century\", \"Liberty\" (Benjamin Tucker's individualist anarchist journal), \"The Alarm\" (the journal of the IWPA) and \"The Open Court\" among others. He developed a \"mutualist\" theory of unions and as such was active within the Knights of Labor and later promoted anti-political strategies in the American Federation of Labor (AFL). Frustration with abolitionism, spiritualism, and labor reform caused Lum to embrace anarchism and radicalize workers, as he came to believe that revolution would inevitably involve a violent struggle between the working class and the employing class. Convinced of the necessity of violence to enact social change he volunteered to fight in the American Civil War, hoping thereby to bring about the end of slavery. The \"Freie Arbeiter Stimme\" was the longest-running anarchist periodical in the Yiddish language, founded initially as an American counterpart to Rudolf Rocker's London-based \"Arbeter Fraynd\" (\"Workers' Friend\"). Publication began in 1890 and continued under the editorial of Saul Yanovsky until 1923. Contributors have included David Edelstadt, Emma Goldman, Abba Gordin, Rudolf Rocker, Moishe Shtarkman, and Saul Yanovsky. The paper was also known for publishing poetry by Di Yunge, Yiddish poets of the 1910s and 1920s.\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) was founded in Chicago in June 1905 at a convention of two hundred socialists, anarchists, and radical trade unionists from all over the United States (mainly the Western Federation of Miners) who were opposed to the policies of the AFL.\n\nItalian anti-organizationalist individualist anarchism was brought to the United States by Italian born individualists such as Giuseppe Ciancabilla and others who advocated for violent propaganda by the deed there. Anarchist historian George Woodcock reports the incident in which the important Italian social anarchist Errico Malatesta became involved \"in a dispute with the individualist anarchists of Paterson, who insisted that anarchism implied no organization at all, and that every man must act solely on his impulses. At last, in one noisy debate, the individual impulse of a certain Ciancabilla directed him to shoot Malatesta, who was badly wounded but obstinately refused to name his assailant.\" Some anarchists, such as Johann Most, were already advocated publicizing violent acts of retaliation against counter-revolutionaries because \"we preach not only action in and for itself, but also action as propaganda.\" By the 1880s, people inside and outside the anarchist movement began to use the slogan, \"propaganda of the deed\" to refer to individual bombings and targeted killings of members of the ruling class, including regicides, and tyrannicides, at times when such actions might garner sympathy from the population, such as during periods of heightened government repression or labor conflicts where workers were killed. From 1905 onwards, the Russian counterparts of these anti-syndicalist anarchist-communists become partisans of economic terrorism and illegal 'expropriations'.\" Illegalism as a practice emerged and within it \"The acts of the anarchist bombers and assassins (\"propaganda by the deed\") and the anarchist burglars (\"individual reappropriation\") expressed their desperation and their personal, violent rejection of an intolerable society. Moreover, they were clearly meant to be \"exemplary\" invitations to revolt.\".\n\nOn September 6, 1901, the American anarchist Leon Czolgosz went armed with a .32 caliber Iver Johnson \"Safety Automatic\" revolver he had purchased four days earlier and assassinated the President of the United States William McKinley. After the jury deliberated for only one hour, Czolgosz was convicted on September 24, 1901. On September 26, the jury unanimously recommended the death penalty and Czolgosz was electrocuted by three jolts, each of 1800 volts, in Auburn Prison on October 29, 1901, just 45 days after his victim's death. Emma Goldman was arrested on suspicion of being involved in the assassination, but was released, due to insufficient evidence. She later incurred a great deal of negative publicity when she published \"The Tragedy at Buffalo\". In the article, she compared Czolgosz to Marcus Junius Brutus, the killer of Julius Caesar, and called McKinley the \"president of the money kings and trust magnates.\" Other anarchists and radicals were unwilling to support Goldman's effort to aid Czolgosz, believing that he had harmed the movement.\n\nLuigi Galleani was an Italian anarchist active in the United States from 1901 to 1919, viewed by historians as an anarcho-communist and an insurrectionary anarchist. He is best known for his enthusiastic advocacy of \"propaganda of the deed\", i.e. the use of violence to eliminate \"tyrants\" and \"oppressors\" and to act as a catalyst to the overthrow of existing government institutions. From 1914 to 1932, Galleani's followers in the United States (known as \"Galleanists\"), carried out a series of bombings and assassination attempts against institutions and persons they viewed as class enemies. After Galleani was deported from the United States to Italy in June 1919, his followers are alleged to have executed the Wall Street bombing of 1920, which resulted in the deaths of 38 people. Galleani held forth at local anarchist meetings, assailed \"timid\" socialists, gave fire-breathing speeches, and continued to write essays and polemical treatises.The foremost proponent of \"propaganda by the deed\" in the United States, Galleani was the founder and editor of the anarchist newsletter \"Cronaca Sovversiva\" (\"Subversive Chronicle\"), which he published and mailed from offices in Barre. Galleani published the anarchist newsletter for fifteen years until the United States government closed it down under the Sedition Act of 1918. Galleani attracted numerous radical friends and followers known as \"Galleanists\", including Frank Abarno, Gabriella Segata Antolini, Pietro Angelo, Luigi Bacchetti, Mario Buda also known as \"Mike Boda\", Carmine Carbone, Andrea Ciofalo, Ferrucio Coacci, Emilio Coda, Alfredo Conti, Nestor Dondoglioalso known as \"Jean Crones\", Roberto Elia, Luigi Falzini, Frank Mandese, Riccardo Orciani, Nicola Recchi, Giuseppe Sberna, Andrea Salsedo, Raffaele Schiavina, Carlo Valdinoci, and, most notably, Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti.\nSacco and Vanzetti were suspected anarchists who were convicted of murdering two men during the 1920 armed robbery of a shoe factory in South Braintree, Massachusetts. After a controversial trial and a series of appeals, the two Italian immigrants were executed on August 23, 1927. Since their deaths, critical opinion has overwhelmingly felt that the two men were convicted largely on their anarchist political beliefs and unjustly executed. In 1977, Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis issued a proclamation that Sacco and Vanzetti had been unfairly tried and convicted and that \"any disgrace should be forever removed from their names.\" Many famous socialists and intellectuals campaigned for a retrial without success. John Dos Passos came to Boston to cover the case as a journalist, stayed to author a pamphlet called \"Facing the Chair\", and was arrested in a demonstration on August 10, 1927, along with Dorothy Parker. After being arrested while picketing the State House, Edna St. Vincent Millay pleaded her case to the governor in person and then wrote an appeal: \"I cry to you with a million voices: answer our doubt ... There is need in Massachusetts of a great man tonight.\" Others who wrote to Fuller or signed petitions included Albert Einstein, George Bernard Shaw and H. G. Wells. The president of the American Federation of Labor cited \"the long period of time intervening between the commission of the crime and the final decision of the Court\" as well as \"the mental and physical anguish which Sacco and Vanzetti must have undergone during the past seven years\" in a telegram to the governor. In August 1927, the IWW called for a three-day nationwide walkout to protest the pending executions. The most notable response came in the Walsenburg coal district of Colorado, where 1,132 out of 1,167 miners participated, which led directly to the Colorado coal strike of 1927. Italian anarchist Severino Di Giovanni, one of the most vocal supporters of Sacco and Vanzetti in Argentina, bombed the American embassy in Buenos Aires a few hours after Sacco and Vanzetti were condemned to death. A few days after the executions, Sacco's widow thanked Di Giovanni by letter for his support and added that the director of the tobacco firm \"Combinados\" had offered to produce a cigarette brand named \"Sacco & Vanzetti\". On November 26, 1927, Di Giovanni and others bombed a Combinados tobacco shop.\n\nThe Modern Schools, also called Ferrer Schools, were U.S. schools established in the early 20th century that were modeled after the Escuela Moderna of Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia, the Catalan educator and anarchist. They were an important part of the anarchist, free schooling, socialist, and labor movements in the U.S., intended to educate the working-classes from a secular, class-conscious perspective. The Modern Schools imparted day-time academic classes for children, and night-time continuing-education lectures for adults. The first, and most notable, of the Modern Schools was founded in New York City, in 1911, two years after Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia's execution for sedition in monarchist Spain on 18 October 1909. Commonly called the Ferrer Center, it was founded by notable anarchists — including Leonard Abbott, Alexander Berkman, Voltairine de Cleyre, and Emma Goldman — first meeting on St. Mark's Place, in Manhattan's Lower East Side, but twice moved elsewhere, first within lower Manhattan, then to Harlem. Besides Berkman and Goldman, the Ferrer Center faculty included the Ashcan School painters Robert Henri and George Bellows, and its guest lecturers included writers and political activists such as Margaret Sanger, Jack London, and Upton Sinclair. Student Magda Schoenwetter, recalled that the school used Montessori methods and equipment, and emphasized academic freedom rather than fixed subjects, such as spelling and arithmetic. \"The Modern School\" magazine originally began as a newsletter for parents, when the school was in New York City, printed with the manual printing press used in teaching printing as a profession. After moving to the Stelton Colony, New Jersey, the magazine's content expanded to poetry, prose, art, and libertarian education articles; the cover emblem and interior graphics were designed by Rockwell Kent. Acknowledging the urban danger to their school, the organizers bought 68 acres (275,000 m²) in Piscataway Township, New Jersey, and moved there in 1914, becoming the center of the Stelton Colony. Moreover, beyond New York City, the Ferrer Colony and Modern School was founded (ca. 1910–1915) as a Modern School-based community, that endured some forty years. In 1933, James and Nellie Dick, who earlier had been principals of the Stelton Modern School, founded the Modern School in Lakewood, New Jersey, which survived the original Modern School, the Ferrer Center, becoming the final surviving such school, lasting until 1958.\nRoss Winn (1871–1912) was an American anarchist writer and publisher from Texas who was mostly active within the Southern United States. Born in Dallas, Texas, Winn wrote articles for \"The Firebrand\", a short-lived, but renowned weekly out of Portland, Oregon; \"The Rebel\", an anarchist journal published in Boston; and Emma Goldman's \"Mother Earth\". Winn began his first paper, known as \"Co-operative Commonwealth\". He then edited and published \"Coming Era\" for a brief time in 1898 and then \"Winn's Freelance\" in 1899. In 1902, he announced a new paper called \"Winn's Firebrand\". In 1901, Winn met Emma Goldman in Chicago, and found in her a lasting ally. As she wrote in his obituary, Emma \"was deeply impressed with his fervor and complete abandonment to the cause, so unlike most American revolutionists, who love their ease and comfort too well to risk them for their ideals.\" Winn kept up a correspondence with Goldman throughout his life, as he did with other prominent anarchist writers at the time. Joseph Labadie, a prominent writer and organizer in Michigan, was another friend to Winn, and contributed several pieces to \"Winn's Firebrand\" in its later years. Enrico Arrigoni (pseudonym: Frank Brand) was an Italian American individualist anarchist Lathe operator, house painter, bricklayer, dramatist and political activist influenced by the work of Max Stirner. In the 1910s he started becoming involved in anarchist and anti-war activism around Milan. From the 1910s until the 1920s he participated in anarchist activities and popular uprisings in various countries including Switzerland, Germany, Hungary, Argentina and Cuba. He lived from the 1920s onwards in New York City and there he edited the individualist anarchist eclectic journal \"Eresia\" in 1928. He also wrote for other American anarchist publications such as \"L' Adunata dei refrattari\", \"Cultura Obrera\", Controcorrente and Intessa Libertaria. During the Spanish Civil War, he went to fight with the anarchists but was imprisoned and was helped on his release by Emma Goldman. Afterwards Arrigoni became a longtime member of the Libertarian Book Club in New York City. \"Vanguard: A Libertarian Communist Journal\" was a monthly anarchist political and theoretical journal, based in New York City, published between April 1932 and July 1939, and edited by Samuel Weiner, among others. \"Vanguard\" began as a project of the Vanguard Group, composed of members of the editorial collective of the \"Road to Freedom\" newspaper, as well as members of the Friends of Freedom group. Its initial subtitle was \"An Anarchist Youth Publication\", but changed to \"A Libertarian Communist Journal \" after Issue 1. Within several issues \"Vanguard\" would become a central sounding board for the international anarchist movement, including reports of developments during the Spanish Revolution as well as movement reports by Augustin Souchy and Emma Goldman.\n\nOther tendencies were also present within American anarchist circles. As such American anarcho-syndicalist Sam Dolgoff shows some of the criticism that some people on other anarchist currents at the time had. \"Speaking of life at the Stelton Colony of New York in the 1930s, noted with disdain that it, \"like other colonies, was infested by vegetarians, naturists, nudists, and other cultists, who sidetracked true anarchist goals.\" One resident \"always went barefoot, ate raw food, mostly nuts and raisins, and refused to use a tractor, being opposed to machinery, and he didn't want to abuse horses, so he dug the earth himself.\" Such self-proclaimed anarchists were in reality \"ox-cart anarchists,\" Dolgoff said, \"who opposed organization and wanted to return to a simpler life.\" In an interview with Paul Avrich before his death, Dolgoff also grumbled, \"I am sick and tired of these half-assed artists and poets who object to organization and want only to play with their belly buttons\"\".\nAttorney General Alexander Mitchell Palmer and J. Edgar Hoover, head of the U.S. Department of Justice's General Intelligence Division, were intent on using the Anarchist Exclusion Act of 1918 to deport any non-citizens they could identify as advocates of anarchy or revolution. \"Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman,\" Hoover wrote while they were in prison, \"are, beyond doubt, two of the most dangerous anarchists in this country and return to the community will result in undue harm.\" At her deportation hearing on October 27, she refused to answer questions about her beliefs on the grounds that her American citizenship invalidated any attempt to deport her under the Anarchist Exclusion Act, which could be enforced only against non-citizens of the U.S. She presented a written statement instead: \"Today so-called aliens are deported. Tomorrow native Americans will be banished. Already some patrioteers are suggesting that native American sons to whom democracy is a sacred ideal should be exiled.\" The Labor Department included Goldman and Berkman among 249 aliens it deported \"en masse\", mostly people with only vague associations with radical groups who had been swept up in government raids in November.\n\nGoldman and Berkman traveled around Russia during the time of the Russian civil War after the Russian revolution and they found repression, mismanagement, and corruption instead of the equality and worker empowerment they had dreamed of. They met with Vladimir Lenin, who assured them that government suppression of press liberties was justified. He told them: \"There can be no free speech in a revolutionary period.\" Berkman was more willing to forgive the government's actions in the name of \"historical necessity\", but he eventually joined Goldman in opposing the Soviet state's authority. After a short trip to Stockholm, they moved to Berlin for several years; during this time she agreed to write a series of articles about her time in Russia for Joseph Pulitzer's newspaper, the \"New York World\". These were later collected and published in book form as \"My Disillusionment in Russia\" (1923) and \"My Further Disillusionment in Russia\" (1924). The titles of these books were added by the publishers to be scintillating and Goldman protested, albeit in vain. In July 1936, the Spanish Civil War started after an attempted \"coup d'état\" by parts of the Spanish Army against the government of the Second Spanish Republic. At the same time, the Spanish anarchists, fighting against the Nationalist forces, started an anarchist revolution. Goldman was invited to Barcelona and in an instant, as she wrote to her niece, \"the crushing weight that was pressing down on my heart since Sasha's death left me as by magic\". She was welcomed by the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) and Federación Anarquista Ibérica (FAI) organizations, and for the first time in her life lived in a community run by and for anarchists, according to true anarchist principles. \"In all my life\", she wrote later, \"I have not met with such warm hospitality, comradeship and solidarity.\" After touring a series of collectives in the province of Huesca, she told a group of workers: \"Your revolution will destroy forever [the notion] that anarchism stands for chaos.\" She began editing the weekly \"CNT-FAI Information Bulletin\" and responded to English-language mail.\n\nThe first prominent American to reveal his homosexuality was the poet Robert Duncan. This occurred when in 1944, using his own name in the anarchist magazine \"Politics\", he wrote that homosexuals were an oppressed minority.\n\nAn American anarcho-pacifist current developed in this period as well as a related Christian anarchist one. For Andrew Cornell \"Many young anarchists of this period departed from previous generations both by embracing pacifism and by devoting more energy to promoting avant-garde culture, preparing the ground for the Beat Generation in the process. The editors of the anarchist journal \"Retort\", for instance, produced a volume of writings by WWII draft resistors imprisoned at Danbury, Connecticut, while regularly publishing the poetry and prose of writers such as Kenneth Rexroth and Norman Mailer. From the 1940s to the 1960s, then, the radical pacifist movement in the United States harbored both social democrats and anarchists, at a time when the anarchist movement itself seemed on its last legs.\" As such anarchism influenced writers associated with the Beat Generation such as Allen Ginsberg and Gary Snyder.\n\nAnarcho-pacifism is a tendency within the anarchist movement which rejects the use of violence in the struggle for social change. The main early influences were the thought of Henry David Thoreau and Leo Tolstoy while later the ideas of Mohandas Gandhi gained importance. It developed \"mostly in Holland, Britain, and the United States, before and during the Second World War. Dorothy Day, (1897–1980) was an American journalist, social activist and devout Catholic convert; she advocated the Catholic economic theory of distributism. She was also considered to be an anarchist, and did not hesitate to use the term. In the 1930s, Day worked closely with fellow activist Peter Maurin to establish the Catholic Worker movement, a nonviolent, pacifist movement that continues to combine direct aid for the poor and homeless with nonviolent direct action on their behalf. The cause for Day's canonization is open in the Catholic Church. Ammon Hennacy (1893 –1970) was an American pacifist, Christian anarchist, vegetarian, social activist, member of the Catholic Worker Movement and a Wobbly. He practiced tax resistance and established the Joe Hill House of Hospitality in Salt Lake City, Utah.\n\nAnarchism continued to influence important American literary and intellectual personalities of the time, such as Paul Goodman, Dwight Macdonald, Allen Ginsberg, Leopold Kohr, Judith Malina, Julian Beck and John Cage. Paul Goodman was an American sociologist, poet, writer, anarchist, and public intellectual. Goodman is now mainly remembered as the author of \"Growing Up Absurd\" (1960) and an activist on the pacifist Left in the 1960s and an inspiration to that era's student movement. He is less remembered as a co-founder of Gestalt Therapy in the 1940s and '50s. In the mid-1940s, together with C. Wright Mills, he contributed to \"politics\", the journal edited during the 1940s by Dwight Macdonald. In 1947, he published two books, \"Kafka's Prayer\" and \"Communitas\", a classic study of urban design coauthored with his brother Percival Goodman.\nAnarchism proved to be influential also in the early environmentalist movement in the United States. Leopold Kohr (1909–1994) was an economist, jurist and political scientist known both for his opposition to the \"cult of bigness\" in social organization and as one of those who inspired the \"Small Is Beautiful\" movement, mainly through his most influential work \"The Breakdown of Nations\". Kohr was an important inspiration to the Green, bioregional, Fourth World, decentralist, and anarchist movements, Kohr contributed often to John Papworth's \"journal for the Fourth World\", Resurgence. One of Kohr's students was economist E. F. Schumacher, another prominent influence on these movements, whose best-selling book \"Small Is Beautiful\" took its title from one of Kohr's core principles. Similarly, his ideas inspired Kirkpatrick Sale's books \"Human Scale\" (1980) and \"Dwellers in the Land: The Bioregional Vision\" (1985). In 1958, Murray Bookchin defined himself as an anarchist, seeing parallels between anarchism and ecology. His first book, \"Our Synthetic Environment,\" was published under the pseudonym Lewis Herber in 1962, a few months before Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\". The book described a broad range of environmental ills but received little attention because of its political radicalism. His groundbreaking essay \"Ecology and Revolutionary Thought\" introduced ecology as a concept in radical politics. In 1968 he founded another group that published the influential \"Anarchos\" magazine, which published that and other innovative essays on post-scarcity and on ecological technologies such as solar and wind energy, and on decentralization and miniaturization. Lecturing throughout the United States, he helped popularize the concept of ecology to the counterculture. \"Post-Scarcity Anarchism\" is a collection of essays written by Murray Bookchin and first published in 1971 by Ramparts Press. It outlines the possible form anarchism might take under conditions of post-scarcity. It is one of Bookchin's major works, and its radical thesis provoked controversy for being utopian and messianic in its faith in the liberatory potential of technology. Bookchin argues that post-industrial societies are also post-scarcity societies, and can thus imagine \"the fulfillment of the social and cultural potentialities latent in a technology of abundance\". The self-administration of society is now made possible by technological advancement and, when technology is used in an ecologically sensitive manner, the revolutionary potential of society will be much changed. In 1982, his book \"The Ecology of Freedom\" had a profound impact on the emerging ecology movement, both in the United States and abroad. He was a principal figure in the Burlington Greens in 1986 to 1990, an ecology group that ran candidates for city council on a program to create neighborhood democracy. In \"From Urbanization to Cities\" (originally published in 1987 as \"The Rise of Urbanization and the Decline of Citizenship\"), Bookchin traced the democratic traditions that influenced his political philosophy and defined the implementation of the libertarian municipalism concept. A few years later \"The Politics of Social Ecology\", written by his partner of 20 years, Janet Biehl, briefly summarized these ideas.\nThe Libertarian League was founded in New York City in 1954 as a political organization building on the Libertarian Book Club. Members included Sam Dolgoff, Russell Blackwell, Dave Van Ronk, Enrico Arrigoni and Murray Bookchin. Its central principle, stated in its journal \"Views and Comments\", was \"equal freedom for all in a free socialist society\". Branches of the League opened in a number of other American cities, including Detroit and San Francisco. It was dissolved at the end of the 1960s. Sam Dolgoff (1902–1990) was a Russian American anarchist and anarcho-syndicalist. After being expelled from the Young People's Socialist League, Dolgoff joined the Industrial Workers of the World in the 1922 and remained an active member his entire life, playing an active role in the anarchist movement for much of the century. He was a co-founder of the \"Libertarian Labor Review\" magazine, which was later renamed \"Anarcho-Syndicalist Review\". In the 1930s, he was a member of the editorial board of \"Spanish Revolution\", a monthly American publication reporting on the largest Spanish labor organization taking part in the Spanish Civil War. Among his books were \"Bakunin on Anarchy\", \"\", and \"The Cuban Revolution\" (Black Rose Books, 1976), a denunciation of Cuban life under Fidel Castro.\n\nAnarchism was influential in the counterculture of the 1960s and anarchists actively participated in the late sixties students and workers revolts. The New Left in the United States also included anarchist, countercultural and hippie-related radical groups such as the Yippies who were led by Abbie Hoffman and Black Mask/Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers. For David Graeber: \"As SDS splintered into squabbling Maoist factions, groups like the Diggers and Yippies (founded in '68) took the first option. Many were explicitly anarchist, and certainly, the late '60s turn towards the creation of autonomous collectives and institution building was squarely within the anarchist tradition, while the emphasis on free love, psychedelic drugs, and the creation of alternative forms of pleasure was squarely in the bohemian tradition with which Euro-American anarchism has always been at least tangentially aligned.\" By late 1966, the Diggers opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art. The Diggers took their name from the original English Diggers led by Gerrard Winstanley and sought to create a mini-society free of money and capitalism. On the other hand, the Yippies employed theatrical gestures, such as advancing a pig (\"Pigasus the Immortal\") as a candidate for President in 1968, to mock the social status quo. They have been described as a highly theatrical, anti-authoritarian and anarchist youth movement of \"symbolic politics\". Since they were well known for street theater and politically themed pranks, many of the \"old school\" political left either ignored or denounced them. According to ABC News, \"The group was known for street theater pranks and was once referred to as the 'Groucho Marxists'.\" By the 1960s, Christian anarchist Dorothy Day earned the praise of counterculture leaders such as Abbie Hoffman, who characterized her as the first hippie, a description of which Day approved.\n\nAnother influential personality within American anarchism was Noam Chomsky. Chomsky described himself as an anarcho-syndicalist. He is a member of the Campaign for Peace and Democracy and the Industrial Workers of the World international union. Since the 1960s, he has become known more widely as a political dissident, an anarchist, and a libertarian socialist intellectual. After the publication of his first books on linguistics, Chomsky became a prominent critic of the Vietnam War, and since then has continued to publish books of political criticism. He has become well known for his critiques of U.S. foreign policy, state capitalism and the mainstream news media. His media criticism has included \"\" (1988), co-written with Edward S. Herman, an analysis articulating the propaganda model theory for examining the media.\n\nAndrew Cornell reports that \"Sam Dolgoff and others worked to revitalize the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), alongside new syndicalist formations like the Chicago-based Resurgence group and Boston's Root & Branch; Bookchin's Anarchos collective deepened the theoretical links between ecological and anarchist thought; the \"Fifth Estate\" drew heavily on French ultra-leftist thinking and began pursuing a critique of technology by decade's end. Meanwhile, the Social Revolutionary Anarchist Federation connected individuals and circles across the country through a mimeographed monthly discussion bulletin. Just as influential to the anarchist milieu that has taken shape in the decades which have followed, however, were the efforts of the Movement for a New Society (MNS), a national network of feminist radical pacifist collectives that existed from 1971 to 1988.\" David Graeber reports that in the late 1970s in the northeast \"The main inspiration for anti-nuclear activists—at least the main organizational inspiration—came from a group called the Movement for a New Society (MNS), based in Philadelphia. MNS was spearheaded by a gay rights activist named George Lakey, who—like several other members of the group—was both an anarchist, and a Quaker ... Many of what have now become standard features of formal consensus process—the principle that the facilitator should never act as an interested party in the debate, for example, or the idea of the \"block\"—were first disseminated by MNS trainings in Philadelphia and Boston.\" For Andrew Cornell \"MNS popularized consensus decision-making, introduced the spokescouncil method of organization to activists in the United States, and was a leading advocate of a variety of practices—communal living, unlearning oppressive behavior, creating co-operatively owned businesses—that are now often subsumed under the rubric of \"prefigurative politics.\"\n\nFredy Perlman was a Czech-born, naturalized American author, publisher, and militant. His most popular work, the book \"Against His-Story, Against Leviathan!\", details the rise of state domination with a retelling of history through the Hobbesian metaphor of the Leviathan. The book remains a major source of inspiration for anti-civilization perspectives in contemporary anarchism, most notably on the thought of philosopher John Zerzan. Zerzan is an American anarchist and primitivist philosopher and author. His five major books are \"Elements of Refusal\" (1988), \"Future Primitive and Other Essays\" (1994), \"Running on Emptiness\" (2002), \"Against Civilization: Readings and Reflections\" (2005) and \"Twilight of the Machines\" (2008). Zerzan was one of the editors of \"Green Anarchy\", a controversial journal of anarcho-primitivist and insurrectionary anarchist thought. He is also the host of \"Anarchy Radio\" in Eugene on the University of Oregon's radio station KWVA. He has also served as a contributing editor at \"Anarchy Magazine\" and has been published in magazines such as \"AdBusters\".\n\n\"The Match!\" is an atheist/anarchist journal published since 1969 in Tucson, Arizona. \"The Match!\" is edited, published, and printed by Fred Woodworth. \"The Match!\" is published irregularly; new issues usually appear once or twice per year. Over 100 issues have been published to date. \"Green Anarchy\" was a magazine published by a collective located in Eugene, Oregon. It had a circulation of 8,000, partly in prisons, the prison subscribers given free copies of each issue as stated in the magazine. Author John Zerzan was one of the publication's editors. \"Fifth Estate\" is a US periodical based in Detroit established in 1965, but with remote staff members across North America. Its editorial collective sometimes has divergent views on the topics the magazine addresses but generally shares anarchist, anti-authoritarian outlook and a non-dogmatic, action-oriented approach to change. The title implies that the periodical is an alternative to the fourth estate (traditional print journalism). \"Fifth Estate\" is frequently cited as the longest running English language anarchist publication in North America, although this is sometimes disputed since it became only explicitly anti-authoritarian in 1975 after ten years of publishing as part of the 1960s Underground Press movement. \"\" is a North American anarchist magazine, and was one of the most popular anarchist publications in North America in the 1980s and 1990s. Its influences could be described as a range of post-left anarchism and various strains of insurrectionary anarchism and sometimes primitivism. It was founded by members of the Columbia Anarchist League of Columbia, Missouri, and continued to be published there for nearly fifteen years, eventually under the sole editorial control of Jason McQuinn (who initially used the pseudonym \"Lev Chernyi\"), before briefly moving to New York City in 1995 to be published by members of the Autonomedia collective. The demise of independent distributor Fine Print nearly killed the magazine, necessitating its return to the Columbia collective after just two issues. It remained in Columbia from 1997 to 2006. it is published bi-annually by a group based in Berkeley, California. The magazine is noted for spearheading the Post-left anarchy critique (\"beyond the confines of ideology\"), as articulated by such writers as Hakim Bey, Lawrence Jarach, John Zerzan, Bob Black, and Wolfi Landstreicher (formerly Feral Faun/Feral Ranter among other noms de plume).\nAnarchists became more visible in the 1980s, as a result of publishing, protests and conventions. In 1980, the First International Symposium on Anarchism was held in Portland, Oregon. In 1986, the Haymarket Remembered conference was held in Chicago, to observe the centennial of the infamous Haymarket Riot. This conference was followed by annual, continental conventions in Minneapolis (1987), Toronto (1988), and San Francisco (1989). Recently there has been a resurgence in anarchist ideals in the United States. In the 1980s anarchism became linked with squats/social centers like C-Squat and ABC No Rio both in New York City. The Institute for Anarchist Studies is a non-profit organization founded by Chuck W. Morse following the anarchist-communist school of thought, in 1996 to assist anarchist writers and further develop the theoretical aspects of the anarchist movement. In 1984 Workers Solidarity Alliance was founded as an anarcho-syndicalist political organization which published \"Ideas and Action\" and was at one time affiliated to the International Workers Association (IWA-AIT), an international federation of anarcho-syndicalist unions and groups.\n\nIn the late 1980s, started as a newspaper and in 1991 expanded into a continental federation. It brought new ideas to the movement's mainstream, such as white privilege, and new people, including anti-imperialists and former members of the Trotskyist Revolutionary Socialist League. It collapsed in 1998 amid disagreements about the organization's racial justice tenets and the viability of anarchism. Love and Rage involved hundreds of activists across the country at its peak and included a section based in Mexico City, Amor Y Rabia, which published a newspaper of the same name. Contemporary anarchism, with its shift in focus from class-based oppression to all forms of oppression, began to address race-based oppression in earnest in the 1990s with Black anarchists Lorenzo Ervin and Kuwasi Balagoon, the journal \"Race Traitor\", and movement-building organizations including Love and Rage, , , and .\n\nIn the mid-1990s, an insurrectionary anarchist tendency also emerged in the United States mainly absorbing southern European influences. CrimethInc., is a decentralized anarchist collective of autonomous cells. CrimethInc. emerged during this period initially as the hardcore punk zine \"Inside Front\", and began operating as a collective in 1996. It has since published widely read articles and zines for the anarchist movement and distributed posters and books of its own publication.\nCrimethInc. cells have published books, released records and organized national campaigns against globalization and representative democracy in favor of radical community organizing.\n\nAmerican anarchists increasingly became noticeable at protests, especially through a tactic known as the Black bloc. U.S. anarchists became more prominent as a result of the anti-WTO protests in Seattle. Common Struggle – Libertarian Communist Federation or Lucha Común – Federación Comunista Libertaria (formerly the North Eastern Federation of Anarchist Communists (NEFAC) or the Fédération des Communistes Libertaires du Nord-Est) was a platformist/anarchist communist organization based in the northeast region of the United States which was founded in 2000 at a conference in Boston following the 1999 World Trade Organization protests in Seattle. Following months of discussion between former Atlantic Anarchist Circle affiliates and ex-Love and Rage members in the United States and ex-members of the Demanarchie newspaper collective in Quebec City. Founded as a bi-lingual French and English-speaking federation with member and supporter groups in the northeast of the United States, southern Ontario and the Quebec province, the organization later split up in 2008. The Québécoise membership reformed as the Union Communiste Libertaire (UCL) and the U.S. membership retained the name NEFAC, before changing its name to Common Struggle in 2011 before merging into Black Rose Anarchist Federation. Former members based in Toronto went on to help found an Ontario-based platformist organization known as Common Cause.\n\nIn the wake of Hurricane Katrina, anarchist activists were visible as founding members of the Common Ground Collective. Anarchists also had an early role in the Occupy movement. In November 2011, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine credited American anarchist and scholar David Graeber with giving the Occupy Wall Street movement its theme: \"We are the 99 percent\". \"Rolling Stone\" reported that Graeber helped create the first New York City General Assembly, with only 60 participants, on August 2, 2011. He spent the next six weeks involved with the burgeoning movement, including facilitating general assemblies, attending working group meetings, and organizing legal and medical training and classes on nonviolent resistance. Following the Occupy Wall Street movement, author Mark Bray wrote \"Translating Anarchy: The Anarchism of Occupy Wall Street\", which gave a first hand account of anarchist involvement.\n\nIn the period before and after the Occupy movement several new organizations and efforts became active. A series invitational conferences called the Class Struggle Anarchist Conference, initiated by Workers Solidarity Alliance and joined by others, aimed to bring together a number of local and regional based anarchist organizations. The conference was first held in New York City in 2008 and brought together hundreds of activists and subsequent conferences were held in Detroit in 2009, Seattle in 2010 and Buffalo in 2012. One group that was founded during this period was May First Anarchist Alliance in 2011 with members in Michigan and Minnesota which defines itself as having a working class orientation and promoting a non-doctrinaire anarchism. Another group founded during this period is Black Rose Anarchist Federation (BRRN) in 2013 which combined a number of local and regional group including Common Struggle (formerly known as the Northeastern Federation of Anarchist Communists or NEFAC), Four Star Anarchist Organization in Chicago, Miami Autonomy and Solidarity, Rochester Red and Black, and Wild Rose Collective based in Iowa City. Some individual members of the Workers Solidarity Alliance joined the new group but the organization voted to remain separate. The group has a variety of influences, most notably Anarchist-Communism, Anarcho-Syndicalism, Especifismo, and Platformism. Early activity of the group was coordinating the \"Struggling to Win: Anarchists Building Popular Power In Chile\" tour in 2014 of two anarchist organizers from Chile which had events in over 20 cities. In 2016 the organization published the online booklet \"Black Anarchism: A Reader\". In May 2017, a member published an op-ed in \"The Oregonian\" responding to police repression of the Portland International Workers Day march and was also featured in a Vice News segment looking at left-wing Antifa protests in Portland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274184", "title": "Finnieston Crane", "text": "Finnieston Crane\n\nThe Finnieston Crane or Stobcross Crane is a disused giant cantilever crane in the centre of Glasgow, Scotland. It is no longer operational, but is retained as a symbol of the city's engineering heritage. The crane was used for loading cargo, in particular steam locomotives, onto ships to be exported around the world.\n\nIt is one of four such cranes on the River Clyde, a fifth one having been demolished in 2007, and one of only eleven giant cantilever cranes remaining worldwide. The crane can be seen in the background of news broadcasts from BBC Pacific Quay.\n\nQueens Dock was opened in August 1877 as a dock for exporting goods from the centre of Glasgow. A steam crane was constructed west of the current one in the 1890s, until it was demolished to make way for a proposed bridge crossing between Finnieston Quay and Mavisbank Quay that was never built. The present crane, constructed as a replacement, was the last giant cantilever crane to be built on the Clyde.\n\nIt was commissioned in June 1928 by the Clyde Navigation Trust, the operators of the port and dock facilities in Glasgow, completed in 1931 and commenced operation in 1932. The tower was built by Cowans, Sheldon & Company of Carlisle and the cantilever by the Cleveland Bridge & Engineering Company, under the supervision of Daniel Fife, mechanical engineer to the Clyde Navigation Trust. The contract to build the crane did not go to Sir William Arrol & Co., who had significant experience in dock cranes, and built a number of other cranes along the Clyde including the Titan Clydebank, although Arrol was involved in the design of the foundations.\n\nThe total cost of the crane and foundations was £69,000, 85% of which was met by the Trust. It is properly known as the \"Stobcross Crane\" or \"Clyde Navigation Trustees crane #7\", but its proximity to Finnieston Quay, and the fact that it was intended to replace the previous Finnieston Crane, has led to its being popularly known as the Finnieston Crane.\n\nIn the summer of 1987, a full-size replica locomotive made from straw by local sculptor George Wyllie was hauled from the old Hyde Park Works in Springburn and suspended from the crane, then hauled back to Springburn and burned to reveal the metal framework underneath.\n\nAfter Wyllie's death in May 2012, a giant question mark was suspended from the crane in an acknowledgement of his work. In 2013, microphones were attached to the crane by American artist Bill Fontana, to record the sounds made by the structure.\n\nConnected to a spur of the Stobcross Railway, the crane's primary purpose was the lifting of heavy machinery, such as tanks and steam locomotives, onto ships for export. As many as 30,000 locomotives were hauled through the streets of Glasgow by Clydesdale horses, traction engines and diesel tractors, from the works at Springburn to the crane for export to the British Empire. The crane is (as of 1988) not in working order, but is retained as a symbol of the city's engineering heritage.\n\nThe Finnieston Crane is a giant cantilever crane, tall with a cantilever jib. It has a lifting capacity of 175 tons, and could perform a full rotation in three and a half minutes. It can be ascended either by a steel staircase or an electric lift, the only example of such a personnel lift in Britain. It is also the only crane fitted with a horizontal rail to permit movement of the jigger hoist, an auxiliary crane intended to handle lighter loads.\n\nThe docks serviced by the crane were closed in 1969, and have since been filled in and redeveloped. The North Rotunda (part of the defunct Clyde Harbour Tunnel) stands to the east of the crane, and the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre and the Clyde Auditorium to the west.\n\nIt is one of four such cranes on the Clyde, after the Fairfield Titan was demolished in 2007, and one of only eleven giant cantilever cranes remaining worldwide. The crane can be seen in the background of \"Reporting Scotland\" broadcasts from BBC Pacific Quay and also in the backdrop of \"Live at Five\" on STV 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "2274194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274194", "title": "James Owen", "text": "James Owen\n\nJames Owen may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274197", "title": "Stegoceras", "text": "Stegoceras\n\nStegoceras is a genus of pachycephalosaurid (dome-headed) dinosaur that lived in what is now North America during the Late Cretaceous period, about 77.5 to 74 million years ago (mya). The first specimens from Alberta, Canada, were described in 1902, and the type species Stegoceras validum was based on these remains. The generic name means \"horn roof\", and the specific name means \"strong\". Several other species have been placed in the genus over the years, but these have since been moved to other genera or deemed junior synonyms. Currently only \"S. validum\" and S. novomexicanum, named in 2011 from fossils found in New Mexico, remain. The validity of the latter species has also been debated.\n\n\"Stegoceras\" was a small, bipedal dinosaur about long, and weighed around . It had a rigid vertebral column, and a stiffened tail. The pelvic region was broad, perhaps due to an extended gut. The skull was roughly triangular with a short snout, and had a thick, broad, and relatively smooth dome on the top. The back of the skull had a thick \"shelf\" over the occiput, and it had a thick ridge over the eyes. Much of the skull was ornamented by tubercles (or round \"outgrowths\") and nodes (or \"knobs\"), many in rows, and the largest formed small horns on the shelf. The teeth were small and serrated. The skull is thought to have been flat in juvenile animals and to have grown into a dome with age.\n\nOriginally known only from skull domes, \"Stegoceras\" was one of the first known pachycephalosaurs, and the incompleteness of these initial remains led to many theories about the affinities of this group. A complete \"Stegoceras\" skull with associated parts of the skeleton was found in 1924, which shed more light on these animals. Pachycephalosaurs are today grouped with the horned ceratopsians in the group Marginocephalia. \"Stegoceras\" itself has been considered basal (or \"primitive\") compared to other pachycephalosaurs. \"Stegoceras\" was most likely herbivorous, and it probably had a good sense of smell. The function of the dome has been debated, and competing theories include use in intra-specific combat (head or flank-butting), sexual display, or species recognition. \"S. validum\" is known from the Dinosaur Park Formation and the Oldman Formation, whereas \"S. novomexicanum\" is from the Fruitland and Kirtland Formation.\n\nThe first known remains of \"Stegoceras\" were collected by Canadian palaeontologist Lawrence Lambe from the Belly River Group, in the Red Deer River district of Alberta, Canada. These remains consisted of two partial skull domes (specimens CMN 515 and CMN 1423 in the Canadian Museum of Nature) from two animals of different sizes collected in 1898, and a third partial dome (CMN 1594) collected in 1901. Based on these specimens, Lambe described and named the new monotypic genus and species \"Stegoceras validus\" in 1902. The generic name \"Stegoceras\" comes from the Greek \"stegè\"/στέγη, meaning \"roof\" and \"keras\"/κέρας meaning \"horn\". The specific name \"validus\" means \"strong\" in Latin, possibly in reference to the thick skull-roof. Because the species was based on multiple specimens (a syntype series), CMN 515 was designated as the lectotype specimen by John Bell Hatcher in 1907.\n\nAs no similar remains had been found in the area before, Lambe was unsure of what kind of dinosaur they were, and whether they represented one species or more; he suggested the domes were \"prenasals\" situated before the nasal bones on the midline of the head, and noted their similarity to the nasal horn-core of a \"Triceratops\" specimen. In 1903, Hungarian palaeontologist Franz Nopcsa von Felső-Szilvás suggested that the fragmentary domes of \"Stegoceras\" were in fact frontal and nasal bones, and that the animal would therefore have had a single, unpaired horn. Lambe was sympathetic to this idea of a new type of \"unicorn dinosaur\" in a 1903 review of Nopscsa's paper. At this time, there was still uncertainty over which group of dinosaur \"Stegoceras\" belonged to, with both ceratopsians (horned dinosaurs) and stegosaurs (plated dinosaurs) as contenders. Hatcher doubted whether the \"Stegoceras\" specimens belonged to the same species and whether they were dinosaurs at all, and suggested the domes consisted of the frontal, occipital, and parietal bones of the skull. In 1918, Lambe referred another dome (CMN 138) to \"S. validus\", and named a new species, \"S. brevis\", based on specimen CMN 1423 (which he originally included in \"S. validus\"). By this time, he considered these animals as members of Stegosauria (then composed of both families of armoured dinosaurs, Stegosauridae and Ankylosauridae), in a new family he called Psalisauridae (named for the vaulted or dome-shaped skull roof).\n\nIn 1924, the American palaeontologist Charles W. Gilmore described a complete skull of \"S. validus\" with associated postcranial remains (specimen UALVP 2 in the University of Alberta Laboratory for Vertebrate Palaeontology), until then the most complete remains of a dome-headed dinosaur. This find confirmed Hatcher's interpretation of the domes as consisting of the frontoparietal area of the skull. UALVP 2 was found with small, disarticulated bony elements, then thought to be gastralia (abdominal ribs), which are not known in other ornithischian dinosaurs (one of the two main groups of dinosaurs). Gilmore pointed out that the teeth of \"S. validus\" were very similar to those of the species \"Troodon formosus\" (named in 1856 and by then only known from isolated teeth), and described a skull dome discovered close to the locality where \"Troodon\" was found. Therefore, Gilmore considered \"Stegoceras\" an invalid junior synonym of \"Troodon\", thereby renaming \"S. validus\" into \"T. validus\", and suggested that even the two species might be the same. Furthermore, he found \"S. brevis\" to be identical to \"S. validus\", and therefore a junior synonym of the latter. He also placed these species in the new family Troodontidae (since Lambe had not selected a type genus for his Psalisauridae), which he considered closest to the ornithopod dinosaurs. Because the skull seemed so specialized compared to the rather \"primitive\"-looking skeleton, Nopcsa doubted whether these parts actually belonged together, and suggested the skull belonged to a nodosaur, the skeleton to an ornithopod, and the supposed gastralia (belly ribs) to a fish. This claim was rebutted by Gilmore and Loris S. Russell in the 1930s.\n\nGilmore's classification was supported by the American palaeontologists Barnum Brown and Erich Maren Schlaikjer in their 1943 review of the dome-headed dinosaurs, by then known from 46 skulls. From these specimens, Brown and Schlaikjer named the new species \"T. sternbergi\" and \"T. edmontonensis\" (both from Alberta), as well as moving the large species \"T. wyomingensis\" (which was named in 1931) to the new genus \"Pachycephalosaurus\", along with two other species. They found \"T. validus\" distinct from \"T. formosus\", but considered \"S. brevis\" the female form of \"T. validus\", and therefore a junior synonym. By this time, the dome-headed dinosaurs were either considered relatives of ornithopods or of ankylosaurs. In 1945, after examining casts of \"T. formosus\" and \"S. validus\" teeth, the American palaeontologist Charles M. Sternberg demonstrated differences between the two, and instead suggested that \"Troodon\" was a theropod dinosaur, and that the dome-headed dinosaurs should be placed in their own family. Though \"Stegoceras\" was the first member of this family to be named, Sternberg named the group Pachycephalosauridae after the second genus, as he found that name (meaning \"thick head lizard\") more descriptive. He also considered \"T. sternbergi\" and \"T. edmontonensis\" members of \"Stegoceras\", found \"S. brevis\" valid, and named a new species, \"S. lambei\", based on a specimen formerly referred to \"S. validus\". The split from \"Troodon\" was supported by Russell in 1948, who described a theropod dentary with teeth almost identical to those of \"T. formosus\".\n\nIn 1953, Birger Bohlin named \"Troodon\" \"bexelli\" based on a parietal bone from China. In 1964, Oskar Kuhn considered this as an unequivocal species of \"Stegoceras\"; \"S. bexelli\". In 1974, the Polish palaeontologists Teresa Maryańska and Halszka Osmólska concluded that the \"gastralia\" of \"Stegoceras\" were ossified tendons, after identifying such structures in the tail of the pachycephalosaur \"Homalocephale\". In 1979, William Patrick Wall and Peter Galton named the new species \"Stegoceras browni\", based on a flattened dome, formerly described as a female \"S. validus\" by Galton in 1971. The specific name honours Barnum Brown, who found the holotype specimen (specimen AMNH 5450 in the American Museum of Natural History) in Alberta. In 1983, Galton and Hans-Dieter Sues moved \"S. browni\" to its own genus, \"Ornatotholus\" (\"ornatus\" is Latin for \"adorned\" and \"tholus\" for \"dome\"), and considered it the first known American member of a group of \"flat-headed\" pachycephalosaurs, previously known from Asia. In a 1987 review of the pachycephalosaurs, Sues and Galton emended the specific name \"validus\" to \"validum\", which has subsequently been used in the scientific literature. These authors synonymized \"S. brevis\", \"S. sternbergi\", and \"S. lambei\" with \"S. validum\", found that \"S. bexelli\" differed from \"Stegoceras\" in several features, and considered it an indeterminate pachycephalosaur.\n\nIn 1998, Goodwin and colleagues considered \"Ornatotholus\" a juvenile \"S. validum\", therefore a junior synonym. In 2000, Robert M. Sullivan referred \"S. edmontonensis\" and \"S. brevis\" to the genus \"Prenocephale\" (until then only known from the Mongolian species \"P. prenes\"), and found it more likely that \"S. bexelli\" belonged to \"Prenocephale\" than to \"Stegoceras\", but considered it a \"nomen dubium\" (dubious name, without distinguishing characters) due to its incompleteness, and noted its holotype specimen appeared to be lost. In 2003, Thomas E. Williamson and Thomas Carr considered \"Ornatotholus\" a \"nomen dubium\", or perhaps a juvenile \"Stegoceras\". In a 2003 revision of \"Stegoceras\", Sullivan agreed that \"Ornatotholus\" was a junior synonym of \"Stegoceras\", moved \"S. lambei\" to the new genus \"Colepiocephale\", and \"S. sternbergi\" to \"Hanssuesia\". He stated that the genus \"Stegoceras\" had become a wastebasket taxon for small to medium-sized North American pachycephalosaurs until that point. By this time, dozens of specimens had been referred to \"S. validum\", including many domes too incomplete to be identified as \"Stegoceras\" with certainty. UALVP 2 is still the most complete specimen of \"Stegoceras\", upon which most scientific understanding of the genus is based.\n\nIn 2002, Williamson and Carr described a dome (specimen NMMNH P-33983 in the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science) from the San Juan Basin, New Mexico, which they considered a juvenile pachycephalosaur of uncertain species (though perhaps \"Sphaerotholus goodwini\"). In 2006, Sullivan and Spencer G. Lucas considered it a juvenile \"S. validum\", which would expand the range of the species considerably. In 2011, Steven E. Jasinski and Sullivan considered the specimen an adult, and made it the holotype of the new species \"Stegoceras novomexicanum\", with two other specimens (SMP VP-2555 and SMP VP-2790) as paratypes. A 2011 phylogenetic analysis by Watabe and colleagues did not place the two \"Stegoceras\" species close to each other. In 2016, Williamson and Stephen L. Brusatte restudied the holotype of \"S. novomexicanum\" and found that the paratypes did not belong to the same taxon as the holotype, and that all the involved specimens were juveniles. Furthermore, they were unable to determine whether the holotype specimen represented the distinct species \"S. novomexicanum\", or if it was a juvenile of either \"S. validum\" or \"Sphaerotholus goodwini\", or another previously known pachycephalosaur. In 2016, Jasinski and Sullivan defended the validity of \"S. novomexicanum\"; they agreed that some features used to diagnose the species were indicative of a sub-adult stage, but presented additional diagnostic features in the holotype that distinguish the species. They also pointed out some adult features, which may indicate heterochrony (difference in timing of ontogenetic changes between related taxa) in the species. They conceded that the paratypes and other assigned specimens differed from the holotype in having more highly domed skulls, instead referring to them as cf. \"S. novomexicanum\" (difficult to identify), but found it likely they all belonged to the same taxon (with the assigned specimens being adults), due to the restricted stratigraphic interval and geographic range.\n\n\"Stegoceras\" is one of the most completely known North American pachycephalosaurs, and one of the few known from postcranial remains; \"S. validum\" specimen UALVP 2 is the most complete \"Stegoceras\" individual known to date. Its length is estimated to have been about , comparable to the size of a goat. The weight has been estimated to be about . \"Stegoceras\" was small to medium in size compared to other pachycephalosaurs. \"S. novomexicanum\" appears to have been smaller than \"S. validum\", but it is disputed whether the known specimens (incomplete skulls) are adults or juveniles.\n\nThe vertebral column of \"Stegoceras\" is incompletely known. The articulation between the zygagophyses (articular processes) of successive dorsal (back) vertebrae appears to have prevented sideways movement of the vertebral column, which made it very rigid, and it was further strengthened by . Though the neck vertebrae are not known, the downturned occipital condyle (which articulates with the first neck vertebra) indicates that the neck was held in a curved posture, like the \"S\"- or \"U\"-shape of most dinosaur necks. Based on their position in \"Homalocephale\", the ossified tendons found with UALVP 2 would have formed an intricate \"\" in the tail, consisting of parallel rows, with the extremities of each tendon contacting the next successively. Such structures are called , and are otherwise only known in teleost fish; the feature is unique to pachycephalosaurs among tetrapod (four-limbed) animals, and may have functioned in stiffening the tail.\n\nThe scapula (shoulder blade) was longer than the humerus (upper arm bone); its blade was slender and narrow, and slightly twisted, following the contour of the ribs. The scapula did not expand at the upper end but was very expanded at the base. The coracoid was mainly thin and plate-like. The humerus had a slender shaft, was slightly twisted along its length, and was slightly bowed. The (where the deltoid and pectoral muscles attached) was weakly developed. The ends of the ulna were expanded, and ridges extended along the shaft. The radius was more robust than the ulna, which is unusual. When seen from above, the pelvic girdle was very broad for a bipedal archosaur, and became wider towards the hind part. The broadness of the pelvic region may have accommodated a rear extension of the gut. The ilium was elongated and the ischium was long and slender. Though the pubis is not known, it was probably reduced in size like that of \"Homalocephale\". The femur (thigh bone) was slender and inwards curved, the tibia was slender and twisted, and the fibula was slender and wide at the upper end. The metatarsus of the foot appears to have been narrow, and the single known ungual (claw bone) of a toe was slender and slightly curved. Though the limbs of \"Stegoceras\" are not completely known, they were most likely like other pachycephalosaurs in having five-fingered hands and four toes.\n\nThe skull of \"Stegoceras\" was roughly triangular in shape when viewed from the side, with a relatively short snout. The frontal and parietal bones were very thick and formed an elevated dome. The suture between these two elements was obliterated (only faintly visible in some specimens), and they are collectively termed the \"frontoparietal\". The frontoparietal dome was broad and had a relatively smooth surface, with only the sides being rugose (wrinkled). It was narrowed above and between the orbita (eye sockets). The frontoparietal narrowed at the back, was wedged between the squamosal bones, and ended in a depression above the at the back of the skull. The parietal and squamosal bones formed a thick shelf over the occiput termed the parietosquamosal shelf, whose extent varied between specimens. The squamosal was large, not part of the dome, and the back part was swollen. It was ornamented by irregularly spaced tubercles (or round outgrowths), and a row of nodes (knobs) extended along its upper edges, ending in a pointed tubercle (or small horn) on each side at the back of the skull. An inner row of smaller tubercles ran parallel with the larger one. Except for the upper surface of the dome, much of the skull was ornamented with nodes, many arranged in rows.\n\nThe large orbit was shaped like an imperfect ellipse (with the longest axis from front to back), and faced to the side and slightly forward. The infratemporal fenestra (opening) behind the eye was narrow and sloped backwards, and the supratemporal fenestra on the top back of the skull was very reduced in size, due to the thickening of the frontoparietal. The (floor of the ) was shortened and distanced from the regions below the orbits and around the palate. The occiput sloped backwards and down, and the occipital condyle was deflected in the same direction. The lacrimal bone formed the lower front margin of the orbit, and its surface had rows of node-like ornamentation. The prefrontal and palpebral bones were fused and formed a thick ridge above the orbit. The relatively large jugal bone formed the lower margin of the orbit, extending far forwards and down towards the jaw joint. It was ornamented with ridges and nodes in a radiating arrangement.\n\nThe nasal openings were large and faced frontwards. The nasal bone was thick, heavily sculpted, and had a convex profile. It formed a boss (shield) on the middle top of the skull together with the frontal bone. The lower front of the premaxilla (front bone of the upper jaw) was rugose and thickened. A small foramen (hole) was present in the suture between the premaxillae, leading into the nasal cavity, and possibly connected to the Jacobson's organ (an olfactory sense organ). The maxilla was short and deep, and probably contained a sinus. The maxilla had a series of foramina that corresponded with each tooth position there, and these functioned as passages for erupting replacement teeth. The mandible articulated with the skull below the back of the orbit. The tooth-bearing part of the lower jaw was long, with the part behind being rather short. Though not preserved, the presence of a predentary bone is indicated by facets at the front of the lower jaw. Like other pachycephalosaurs, it would have had a small beak.\n\n\"Stegoceras\" had teeth that were heterodont (differentiated) and (placed in sockets). It had marginal rows of relatively small teeth, and the rows did not form a straight cutting edge. The teeth were set obliquely along the length of the jaws, and overlapped each other slightly from front to back. On each side, the most complete specimen (UALVP 2) had three teeth in the premaxilla, sixteen in the maxilla (both part of the upper jaw), and seventeen in the dentary of the lower jaw. The teeth in the premaxilla were separated from those behind in the maxilla by a short diastema (space), and the two rows in the premaxilla were separated by a toothless gap at the front. The teeth in the front part of the upper jaw (premaxilla) and front lower jaw were similar; these had taller, more pointed and recurved crowns, and a \"heel\" at the back. The front teeth in the lower jaw were larger than those of the upper jaw. The front edges of the crowns bore eight denticles (serrations), and the back edge bore nine to eleven. The teeth in the back of the upper (maxilla) and lower jaw were triangular in side view and compressed in front view. They had long roots that were oval in section, and the crowns had a marked at their bases. The denticles here were compressed and directed towards the top of the crowns. Both the outer and inner side of the tooth crowns bore enamel, and both sides were divided vertically by a ridge. Each edge had about seven or eight denticles, with the front edge usually having the most.\n\nThe skull of \"Stegoceras\" can be distinguished from those of other pachycephalosaurs by features such as its pronounced parietosquamosal shelf (though this became smaller with age), the \"incipient\" doming of its frontopariental (though the doming increased with age), its inflated nasal bones, its ornamentation of tubercles on the sides and back of the squamosal bones, rows of up to six tubercles on the upper side of each squamosal, and up to two nodes on the backwards projection of the parietal. It is also distinct in its lack of nasal ornamentation, and in having a reduced diastema. The skull of \"S. novomexicanum\" can be distinguished from that of \"S. validum\" in features such as the backwards extension of the parietal bone being more reduced and triangular, having larger supratemporal fenestrae (though this may be due to the possible juvenile status of the specimens), and having roughly parallel suture contacts between the squamosal and parietal. It also appears to have had a smaller frontal boss than \"S. validum\", and seems to have been more gracile overall.\n\nDuring the 1970s, more pachycephalosaur genera were described from Asian fossils, which provided more information about the group. In 1974, Maryańska and Osmólska concluded that pachycephalosaurs are distinct enough to warrant their own suborder within Ornithischia, Pachycephalosauria. In 1978, the Chinese palaeontologist Dong Zhiming split Pachycephalosauria into two families; the dome-headed Pachycephalosauridae (including \"Stegoceras\") and the flat-headed Homalocephalidae (originally spelled Homalocephaleridae). Wall and Galton did not find suborder status for the pachycephalosaurs justified in 1979. By the 1980s, the affinities of the pachycephalosaurs within Ornithischia were unresolved. The main competing views were that the group was closest to either ornithopods or ceratopsians, the latter view due to similarities between the skeleton of \"Stegoceras\" and the \"primitive\" ceratopsian \"Protoceratops\". In 1986, American palaeontologist Paul Sereno supported the relationship between pachycephalosaurs and ceratopsians, and united them in the group Marginocephalia, based on similar cranial features, such as the \"shelf\"-structure above the occiput. He conceded that the evidence for this grouping was not overwhelming, but the validity of the group was supported by Sues and Galton in 1987.\n\nBy the early 21st century, few pachycephalosaur genera were known from postcranial remains, and many taxa were only known from domes, which made classification within the group difficult. Pachycephalosaurs are thus mainly defined by cranial features, such as the flat to domed frontoparietal, the broad and flattened bar along the postorbital and squamosal bones, and the squamosal bones being deep plates on the occiput. In 1986, Sereno had divided the pachycephalosaurs into different groups based on the extent of the doming of their skulls (grouped in now invalid taxa such as \"Tholocephalidae\" and \"Domocephalinae\"), and in 2000 he considered the \"partially\" domed \"Stegoceras\" a transition between the supposedly \"primitive\" flat-headed and advanced \"fully\" domed genera (such as \"Pachycephalosaurus\"). The dome-headed/flat-headed division of the pachycephalosaurs was abandoned in the following years, as flat heads were considered paedomorphic (juvenile-like) or derived traits in most revisions, but not a sexually dimorphic trait. In 2006, Sullivan argued against the idea that the extent of doming was useful in determining taxonomic affinities between pachycephalosaurs. In 2003, Sullivan found \"Stegoceras\" itself to be more basal (or \"primitive\") than the \"fully-domed\" members of the subfamily Pachycephalosaurinae, elaborating on conclusions reached by Sereno in 1986.\n\nA 2013 phylogenetic analysis by Evans and colleagues found that some flat-headed pachycephalosaur genera were more closely related to \"fully\" domed taxa than to the \"incompletely\" domed \"Stegoceras\", which suggests they represent juveniles of domed taxa, and that flat heads do not indicate taxonomic affinities. The cladogram below shows the placement of \"Stegoceras\" within Pachycephalocauridae according to Schott et al., 2016:\nThe biogeography and early evolutionary history of pachycephalosaurs is poorly understood, and can only be clarified by new discoveries. Pachycephalosaurs appear abruptly in the fossil record, and are present in both North America and Asia, so it is unknown when they first originated, and from which direction they dispersed. The oldest known members of the group (such as \"Acrotholus\") are \"fully domed\" and known from the Santonian stage of the Late Cretaceous period (about 84 million years ago). This is before the supposedly more primitive \"Stegoceras\" from the Middle Campanian (77 million years ago) and \"Homalocephale\" from the Early Maastrichtian (70 million years ago), so the doming of the skull may be a homoplastic trait (a form of convergent evolution). The late occurrence of pachycephalosaurs compared to the related ceratopsians indicates a long ghost lineage (inferred, but missing from the fossil record) spanning 66 million years, from the Late Jurassic to the Cretaceous. Since pachycephalosaurs were mainly small, this may be due to taphonomic bias; smaller animals are less likely to be preserved through fossilisation. More delicate bones are also less likely to be preserved, which is why pachycephalosaurs are mainly known from their robust skulls.\n\nIt is not entirely certain what pachycephalosaurs ate; having very small, ridged teeth they could not have chewed tough, fibrous plants as effectively as other dinosaurs of the same period. It is assumed that their sharp, serrated teeth were ideally suited for a mixed diet of leaves, seeds, fruit and insects. \"Stegoceras\" may have had an entirely herbivorous diet, as the tooth crowns were similar to those of iguanid lizards. The premaxillary teeth show wear facets from contact with the predentary bone, and the maxillary teeth have double wear facets similar to those seen in other ornithischian dinosaurs. Every third maxillary tooth of UALVP 2 are erupting replacement teeth, and tooth replacement happened in backwards progression in sequential threes. The occipital region of \"Stegoceras\" was well-demarcated for muscle-attachment and it is believed that the jaw movement of \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaurs was mostly limited to up-and-down motions with only a slight capability for jaw rotation. This is based on the structure of the jaw and dental microwear and wear facets of the teeth indicate that the bite-force was used more for shearing than for crushing.\n\nSeveral explanations have historically been proposed for the variation seen in the skulls of \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaurs. Brown and Schlaikjer suggested that there was sexual dimorphism in the degree of doming, and hypothesized that flat-headed specimens such as AMNH 5450 (\"Ornatotholus\") represented the female morph of \"Stegoceras\". This idea was supported by a 1981 morphometric study by Champan and colleagues, which found that males had larger and thicker domes. After other flat-headed pachycephalosaurs were discovered, the degree of doming was proposed to be a feature with taxonomic importance, and AMNH 5450 was therefore considered a distinct taxon from 1979 onwards. In 1998, Goodwin and colleagues instead proposed that the inflation of the dome was an ontogenetic feature that changed with age, based on a histological study of an \"S. validum\" skull that showed the dome consisted of vascular, fast-growing bone, consistent with an increase in doming through age. These authors found that the supposedly distinct features of \"Ornatotholus\" could easily be the results of ontogeny.\n\nIn 2003, Williamson and Carr published a hypothetical growth series of \"S. validum\", showing \"Ornatotholus\" as the juvenile stage. They suggested that juveniles were characterized by a flat, thickened frontoparietal roof, with larger supratemporal fenestrae, and studded with closely spaced tubercles and nodes. The parietosquamosal shelf was not reduced in size, and the frontoparietal suture was open. Sub-adults had mound-like domes, with the back part of the parietal and skull-roof being flat. The supratemporal fenestrae showed asymmetry in size, and the closure of the frontoparietal suture was variable. The nodes were stretched or almost obliterated as the dome expanded during growth, with a tesserated surface remaining. The pattern was often obliterated at the highest point (apex) of the dome, the area where maximum expansion occurred. The tubercles on the skull were stretched in different directions, and those at the margin of the parietosquamosal shelf may have been hypertrophied (enlarged) tubercles. The back and sides of sub-adult and adult skulls were ornamented by less modified tubercles. Before being incorporated into the enlarging dome, the skull bones expanded, resulting in junctions between these bones. The adult dome was broad and convex, and incorporated most of the shelf, which was reduced in size and overhung the occiput as a thick \"lip\". The supratempooral fenestrae were closed, but the suture between the frontoparietal and connected skull bones was not always closed in adults and subadults.\n\nIn 2011, Ryan Schott and colleagues made a more comprehensive analysis of cranial dome ontogeny in \"S. validum\". The study found that the parietosquamosal shelf conserved the arrangement of ornamentation throughout growth, and that vascularity of the frontoparietal domes decreased with size. It also found that dome shape and size was strongly correlated with growth, and that growth was allometric (in contrast to isometric) from flat to domed, supporting \"Ornatotholus\" as a juvenile \"Stegoceras\". They also hypothesized that this model of dome growth, with dramatic changes from juvenile to adult, was the common developmental trajectory of pachycephalosaurs. These researchers noted that though Williamson and Carr's observation that the supratemporal fenestrae closed with age was generally correct, there was still a high degree of individual variation in the size of these fenestrae, regardless of the size of the frontoparietal, and this feature may therefore have been independent of ontogeny.\n\nA 2012 study by Schott and David C. Evans found that the number and shape of the individual nodes on the squamosal shelf of the examined \"S. validum\" skulls varied considerably, and that this variability does not seem to correlate with ontogenic changes, but was due to individual variation. These researchers found no correlation between the width of supratemporal fenestrae and the size of the squamosal.\n\nThe function of pachycephalosaur domes has been debated, and \"Stegoceras\" has been used as a model for experimentation in various studies. The dome has mainly been interpreted as a weapon used in intra-specific combat, a sexual display structure, or a means for species recognition. The hypothesis that the domed skulls of \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaurs were used for butting heads was first suggested by American palaeontologist Edwin Colbert in 1955. In 1970 and 1971, Galton elaborated on this idea, and argued that if the dome was simply ornamental, it would have been less dense, and that the structure was ideal for resisting force. Galton suggested that when \"Stegoceras\" held its skull vertically, perpendicular to the neck, force would be transmitted from the skull, with little chance of it being dislocated, and the dome could therefore be used as a battering-ram. He believed it was unlikely to have been used mainly as defence against predators, because the dome itself lacked spikes, and those of the parietosquamosal shelf were in an \"ineffective\" position, but found it compatible with intra-specific competition. Galton imagined the domes were bashed together, while the vertebral column was held in a horizontal position. This could either be done while facing each other while dealing blows, or while charging each other with lowered heads (analogous to modern sheep and goats). He also noted that the rigidity of the back would have been useful when using the head for this purpose. In 1978, Sues agreed with Galton that the anatomy of pachycephalosaurs was consistent with transmitting dome-to-dome impact stress, based on tests with plexi-glass models. The impact would be absorbed through the neck and body, and neck ligaments and muscles would prevent injuries by glancing blows (as in modern bighorn sheep). Sues also suggested that the animals could have butted each other's flanks.\n\nIn 1997, the American palaeontologist Kenneth Carpenter pointed out that the dorsal vertebrae from the back of the pachycephalosaur \"Homalocephale\" show that the back curved downwards just before the neck (which was not preserved), and unless the neck curved upwards, the head would point to the ground. He therefore inferred that the necks of \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaurs were held in a curved posture (as is the norm in dinosaurs), and that they would therefore not have been able to align their head, neck, and body horizontally straight, which would be needed to transmit stress. Their necks would have to be held below the level of the back, which would have risked damaging the spinal cord on impact. Modern bighorn sheep and bison overcome this problem by having strong ligaments from the neck to the tall neural spines over the shoulders (which absorb the force of impact), but such features are not known in pachycephalosaurs. These animals also absorb the force of impact through sinus chambers at the base of their horns, and their foreheads and horns form a broad contact surface, unlike the narrow surface of pachycephalosaur domes. Because the dome of \"Stegoceras\" was rounded, it would have given a very small area for potential impact, and the domes would have glanced off each other (unless the impact was perfectly centred). Combating pachycephalosaurs would have had difficulty seeing each other while their heads were lowered, due to the bony ridges above the eyes.\n\nBecause of the problems he found with the head-butting hypothesis, Carpenter instead suggested the domes were adaptations for flank-butting (as seen in some large African mammals); he imagined that two animals would stand parallel, facing each other or the same direction, and direct blows to the side of the opponent. The relatively large body width of pachycephalosaurs may consequently have served to protect vital organs from harm during flank-butting. It is possible that \"Stegoceras\" and similar pachycephalosaurs would have delivered the blows with a movement of the neck from the side and a rotation of the head. The upper sides of the dome have the greatest surface area, and may have been the point of impact. The thickness of the dome would have increased the power behind a blow to the sides, and this would ensure that the opponent felt the force of the impact, without being seriously injured. The bone rim above the orbit may have protected the aggressor's eye when making a blow. Carpenter suggested that the pachycephalosaurs would have first engaged in threat display by bobbing and presenting their heads to show the size of their domes (intimidation), and thereafter delivered blows to each other, until one opponent signalled submission.\n\nIn 1987, J. K. Rigby and colleagues suggested that pachycephalosaur domes were heat-exchange organs used for thermoregulation, based on their internal \"radiating structures\" (trabeculae). This idea was supported by a few other writers in the mid-1990s. In 1998, Goodwin and colleagues considered the lack of sinuses in the skull of \"Stegoceras\" and the \"honeycomb\"-like network of vascular bone in the dome ill-suited for head-butting, and pointed out that the bones adjacent to the dome risked fracture during such contact. Building on the idea that the ossified tendons that stiffened the tails of \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaurs enabled them to take a tripodal stance (first suggested by Maryańska and Osmólska in 1974), Goodwin et al. suggested these structures could have protected the tail against flank-butting, or that the tail itself could have been used as a weapon. In 2004, Goodwin and colleagues studied the cranial histology of pachycephalosaurs, and found that the vascularity (including the trabeculae) of the domes decreased with age, which they found inconsistent with a function in either head-butting or heat-exchange. They also suggested that a dense layer of Sharpey's fibers near the surface of the dome indicated that it had an external covering in life, which makes it impossible to know the shape of the dome in a living animal. These researchers instead concluded that the domes were mainly for species recognition and communication (as in some African bovids) and that use in sexual display was only secondary. They further speculated that the external covering of the domes was brightly coloured in life, or may have changed colour seasonally.\n\nIn 2008, Eric Snively and Adam Cox tested the performance of 2D and 3D pachycephalosaur skulls through finite element analysis, and found that they could withstand considerable impact; greater vaulting of the domes allowed for higher forces of impact. They also considered it likely that pachycephalosaur domes were covered in keratin, a strong material that can withstand much energy without being permanently damaged (like the osteoderms of crocodilians), and therefore incorporated keratin into their test formula. In 2011, American palaeontologists Kevin Padian and John R. Horner proposed that \"bizarre structures\" in dinosaurs in general (including domes, frills, horns, and crests) were primarily used for species recognition, and dismissed other explanations as unsupported by evidence. Among other studies, these authors cited Goodwin et al.'s 2004 paper on pachycephalosaur domes as support of this idea, and they pointed out that such structures did not appear to be sexually dimorphic. In a response to Padian and Horner the same year, Rob J. Knell and Scott D. Sampson argued that species recognition was not unlikely as a secondary function for \"bizarre structures\" in dinosaurs, but that sexual selection (used in display or combat to compete for mates) was a more likely explanation, due to the high cost of developing them, and because such structures appear to be highly variable within species. In 2013, the British palaeontologists David E. Hone and Darren Naish criticized the \"species recognition hypothesis\", and argued that no extant animals use such structures primarily for species recognition, and that Padian and Horner had ignored the possibility of mutual sexual selection (where both sexes are ornamented).\n\nIn 2011, Snively and Jessica M. Theodor conducted a finite element analysis by simulating head-impacts with CT scanned skulls of \"S. validum\" (UALVP 2), \"Prenocephale prenes\" and several extant head-butting artiodactyls. They found that the correlations between head-striking and skull morphologies found in the living animals also existed in the studied pachycephalosaurs. \"Stegoceras\" and \"Prenocephale\" both had skull shapes similar to the bighorn sheep with cancellous bone protecting the brain. They also shared similarities in the distribution of compact and cancellous regions with the bighorn sheep, white-bellied duiker and the giraffe. The white-bellied duiker was found to be the closest morphological analogue to \"Stegoceras\"; this head-butting species has a dome which is smaller but similarly rounded. \"Stegoceras\" was better capable of dissipating force than artiodactyls that butt heads at high forces, but the less vascularized domes of older pachycephalosaurs, and possibly diminished ability to heal from injuries, argued against such combat in older individuals. The study also tested the effects of a keratinous covering of the dome, and found it to aid in performance. Though \"Stegoceras\" lacked the pneumatic sinuses that are found below the point of impact in the skulls of head-striking artiodactyls, it instead had vascular struts which could have similarly acted as braces, as well as conduits to feed the development of a keratin covering.\n\nIn 2012, Schott and Evans suggested that the regularity in squamosal ornamentation throughout the ontogeny of \"Stegoceras\" was consistent with species recognition, but the change from flat to domed frontoparietals in late age suggests that the function of this feature changed through ontogeny, and was perhaps sexually selected, possibly for intra-specific combat. In 2012, Caleb M. Brown and Anthony P. Russell suggested that the stiffened tails were probably not used as defence against flank-butting, but may have enabled the animals to take a tripodal stance during intra-specific combat, with the tail as support. Brown and Russell found that the tail could thereby help in resisting compressive, tensile, and torsional loading when the animal delivered or received blows with the dome.\n\nA 2013 study by Joseph E. Peterson and colleagues identified lesions in skulls of \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaurs, which were interpreted as infections caused by trauma. Lesions were found on 22% of sampled pachycephalosaur skulls (a frequency consistent across genera), but were absent from flat-headed specimens (which have been interpreted as juveniles or females), which is consistent with use in intra-specific combat (for territory or mates). The distribution of lesions in these animals tended to concentrate at the top of the dome, which supports head-butting behaviour. Flank-butting would probably result in fewer injuries, which would instead be concentrated on the sides of the dome. These observations were made while comparing the lesions with those on the skulls and flanks of modern sheep skeletons. The researchers noted that modern head-butting animals use their weapons for both combat and display, and that pachycephalosaurs could therefore also have used their domes for both. Displaying a weapon and willingness to use it can be enough to settle disputes in some animals.\n\nIn 1989, Emily B. Griffin found that \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaurs had a good sense of smell (olfaction), based on the study of cranial endocasts that showed large olfactory bulbs in the brain. In 2014, Jason M. Bourke and colleagues found that \"Stegoceras\" would have needed cartilaginous nasal turbinates in the front of the nasal passages for airflow to reach the olfactory region. Evidence for the presence of this structure is a bony ridge to which it could have attached. The size of the olfactory region also indicates that \"Stegoceras\" had a keen sense of smell. The researchers found that the dinosaur could have had either a scroll-shaped turbinate (like in a turkey) or a branched one (as in an ostrich) as both could have directed air to the olfactory region. The blood vessel system in the passages also suggest that the turbinates served to cool down warm arterial blood from the body that was heading to the brain. The skull of \"S. validum\" specimen UALVP 2 was suited for a study of this kind due to its exceptional preservation; it has ossified soft tissue in the nasal cavity, which would otherwise be cartilaginous and therefore not preserved through mineralization.\n\n\"S. validum\" is known from the late Late Cretaceous Belly River Group (the Canadian equivalent to the Judith River Group in the US), and specimens have been recovered from the Dinosaur Park Formation (late Campanian, 76.5 to 75 mya) in Dinosaur Provincial Park (including the lectotype specimen), and the Oldman Formation (middle Campanian, 77.5 to 76.5 mya) of Alberta, Canada. The pachycephalosaurs \"Hanssuesia\" and \"Foraminacephale\" are also known from both formations. \"S. novomexicanum\" is known from the Fruitland (late Campanian, about 75 mya) and lower Kirtland Formation (late Campanian, about 74 mya) of New Mexico, and if this species correctly belongs in \"Stegoceras\", the genus would have had a broad geographic distribution. The presence of similar pachycephalosaurs in both the west and north of North America during the latest Cretaceous shows that they were an important part of the dinosaur faunas there. It has traditionally been suggested that pachycehalosaurs inhabited mountain environments; wear of their skulls was supposedly a result of them having been rolled by water from upland areas, and comparisons with bighorn sheep reinforced the theory. In 2014, Jordan C. Mallon and Evans disputed this idea, as the wear and original locations of the skulls is not consistent with having been transported in such a way, and they instead proposed that North American pachycephalosaurs inhabited alluvial (associated with water) and coastal plain environments.\n\nThe Dinosaur Park Formation is interpreted as a low-relief setting of rivers and floodplains that became more swampy and influenced by marine conditions over time as the Western Interior Seaway transgressed westward. The climate was warmer than present-day Alberta, without frost, but with wetter and drier seasons. Conifers were apparently the dominant canopy plants, with an understory of ferns, tree ferns, and angiosperms. Dinosaur Park is known for its diverse community of herbivores. As well as \"Stegoceras\", the formation has also yielded fossils of the ceratopsians \"Centrosaurus\", \"Styracosaurus\" and \"Chasmosaurus\", the hadrosaurids \"Prosaurolophus\", \"Lambeosaurus\", \"Gryposaurus\", \"Corythosaurus\", and \"Parasaurolophus\", and the ankylosaurs \"Edmontonia\" and \"Euoplocephalus\". Theropods present include the tyrannosaurids \"Gorgosaurus\" and \"Daspletosaurus\". Other dinosaurs known from the Oldman Formation include the hadrosaur \"Brachylophosaurus\", the ceratopsians \"Coronosaurus\" and \"Albertaceratops\", ornithomimids, therizinosaurs and possibly ankylosaurs. Theropods included troodontids, oviraptorosaurs, the dromaeosaurid \"Saurornitholestes\" and possibly an albertosaurine tyrannosaur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274210", "title": "Homalocephale", "text": "Homalocephale\n\nHomalocephale (from Greek ὁμαλός, \"homalos\", \"even\", and κεφαλή, \"kephalē\", \"head\") is a genus of dinosaur belonging to the pachycephalosaurid family, which lived during the late Cretaceous period of what is now Mongolia, 80 million years ago. The genus was described in 1974 by Halszka Osmólska & Teresa Maryańska, and consists of a single species, \"H. calathocercos\", though this may be a synonym (and juvenile form) of \"Prenocephale\". \"Homalocephale\" was long and herbivorous.\n\nUnlike other definitely adult pachycephalosaurs (though similar to probable juvenile specimens referred to \"Dracorex\" and \"Goyocephale\"), \"Homalocephale\" sported a flat, wedge-shaped skull roof. Nonetheless, the surface of the skull was fairly thickened.\n\nThe species is also noted for having an unusually broad pelvis, which lead some paleontologists to suggest that the wide hips were for giving birth to live young. Others have suggested that the width served to protect vital organs from harm during flank-butting. \"Homalocephale\" also had rather long legs, indicating a fast-moving gait.\n\nThe type species, \"H. calathocercos\", was described from an incomplete skull and postcranial material. The specimen has large openings on the top of the skull, a distinct frontoparietal suture, low and long infratemporal fenestrae, and a large, round eye socket. The forehead is notably rough, with multiple nodules on the lateral and posterior sides of the squamosal bone. Palaeontologists concluded that the specimen was an adult, despite the fact that the sutures are discernible and that it had a flat skull (a juvenile trait in many pachycephalosaurid species). In 2010, a study by Nick Longrich and colleagues suggested that flat-headed pachycephalosaurs were just juvenile forms of dome-headed adults, a view also supported by the earlier analysis of Horner and Goodwin in 2009. Longrich and colleagues suggested that \"Homalocephale\" is actually the juvenile or sub-adult stage of \"Prenocephale\".\n\n\n\n"}
