{"id": "2242917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242917", "title": "M320 Grenade Launcher Module", "text": "M320 Grenade Launcher Module\n\nM320 Grenade Launcher Module (GLM) is the U.S. military's designation for a new single-shot 40 mm grenade launcher system to replace the M203 for the U.S. Army, while other services initially kept using the older M203. The M320 uses the same High-Low Propulsion System as the M203.\n\nIn 2004, the Army announced a requirement for a commercial off-the-shelf 40 mm grenade launcher. It had to be more reliable, ergonomic, accurate, and safer than the M203. It had to be able to fire all 40 mm low-velocity grenades, but be loaded from the breech to accept future longer projectiles. Heckler & Koch's submission was selected in May 2005.\n\nAfter the U.S. Army at Picatinny Arsenal conducted a competitive bidding process for a new 40 mm grenade launching system, Heckler & Koch was awarded a contract to provide the XM320 beginning in 2006. The M320 was developed from but is not identical to the Heckler & Koch AG36 (a key distinguishing feature being the addition of a folding foregrip ahead of the trigger for use when the weapon is in stand-alone configuration, a feature the AG36 lacks). The M320 entered production in November 2008.\n\nFielding of the M320 was planned to begin in February 2009, with 71,600 GLMs planned to phase out the M203 by 2015. The weapon was officially fielded in July 2009 at Fort Bragg by the 1st Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division. In June 2017, Bravo Company, 2nd Combat Engineer Battalion became the first U.S. Marine Corps unit to be issued the M320. Following initial experiments, the Marines expect to issue 7,000 launchers between 2019 and 2022.\n\nThe M320 has three major parts: a grenade launcher with rifled barrel, Day/Night Sight (DNS) produced by Insight Technology, Inc and a hand held Laser Range Finder (LRF). Some of the benefits are:\n\nThe M320 is based on the earlier Heckler & Koch AG-C, but with some Army-specific modifications. It includes a folding foregrip and shorter barrel for a more compact package. The sights had to be reconfigured to shoot accurately with the slightly different ballistics from the shorter barrel length. The system was supposed to be lighter than the M203 (it is actually slightly heavier) and does not require specific mounting hardware. Breech loading allows the grenadier to load a shell while keeping the sight on target. It weighs in its base configuration, with the LRF and electronic sight, and with the stock attached. The sights on the M320 are located to the side of the launcher, avoiding the problems that the M203 had with its sight design, which were mounted on top of the launcher and could interfere with the rifle's sights, so they had to be attached separately. This meant two separate operations had to be performed when adding the grenade launcher to the weapon, and since the sights were not integral to the M203, they had to be re-zeroed every time the launcher was reattached to the rifle. The LRF helps eliminate range estimation errors common in shots greater than 100 meters, thus increasing first round hit probability.\n\nThe M320 can fire all NATO high-explosive, smoke, and illumination grenades. Its breech opens to the side, allowing it to fire a variety of newer rounds which are longer, in particular certain non-lethal rounds, such as Federal Laboratories' \"exact impact\" (brand name) non-lethal sponge batons or sponge grenades. The M320 operates in double-action mode, with an ambidextrous safety. In case of misfire, the M320 operator merely has to pull the trigger again. The M203 used a single-action mode, which cocks the weapon as the barrel is opened. The M203 operator has to open the barrel by unlocking it and pushing forward to cock the weapon and then re-close the barrel, then pull the trigger again. The problem with this is that in opening the barrel, the grenade is designed to eject and the operator must ensure that it does not fall to the ground.\n\nThe weapon's introduction was not without criticism. Soldiers complained about switching from the simple, more streamlined M203 to one with more sophisticated attachments (although this could be attributed simply to the change from a long-standing \"tried and true\" system to a new one). Complaints ranged from the forward grip and sighting system, the pistol grip handle catching on things, and the side loading mechanism. They even criticized its ability to act as a stand-alone launcher, a feature included in response to troops re-acquiring Vietnam-era M79 grenade launchers that supposedly gave better accuracy when fired from the shoulder than if slung under a rifle, although the collapsible stock is somewhat short for the task.\n\nThe M320 has the ability to fire detached from a rifle. Soldiers have reported difficulties carrying it unmounted, as its one-point sling does not hold it securely. Carrying by the sling would cause it to bounce around and sometimes be dragged through dirt. Soldiers wanted to carry the M320 in a holster to provide protection, rather than just putting it in their rucksack. The Natick Soldier Systems Center began the M320GL Holster Soldier Enhancement Program (SEP) in November 2012. Three commercial vendors produced 167 holsters each. The SEP used the \"buy-try-decide\" concept, which allows the Army to test the functionality of equipment without spending much time on research and development. Soldiers from the 75th Ranger Regiment were given a dozen holsters and went through standardized tests in mid-May 2013, after which they filled out surveys. The next step was to test them with an entire brigade. As of July 2013, the holsters were being evaluated by soldiers in Afghanistan. Project officials were to make a recommendation to Fort Benning by the beginning of fiscal year 2014.\n\nThe M320 is one of two 40 mm grenade launchers capable of firing Pike Missile (developed by Raytheon) without modification—the other being the FN EGLM (Enhanced Grenade Launching Module) developed for the FN SCAR.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2242938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242938", "title": "Self in Jungian psychology", "text": "Self in Jungian psychology\n\nThe Self in Jungian psychology is a dynamic concept which has undergone numerous modifications since it was first conceptualised as one of the \"Jungian archetypes\". \n\nHistorically, the Self, according to Carl Jung, signifies the unification of consciousness and unconsciousness in a person, and representing the psyche as a whole.\nIt is realized as the product of individuation, which in his view is the process of integrating various aspects of one's personality. For Jung, the Self is an encompassing whole which acts as a container. It could be symbolized by a circle, a square, or a mandala.\n\nThe idea that there are two centers of the personality distinguished Jungian psychology at one time. The ego has been seen as the center of consciousness, whereas the Self is defined as the center of the total personality, which includes consciousness, the unconscious, and the ego; the Self is both the whole and the center. While the ego is a self-contained center of the circle contained within the whole, the Self can be understood as the greater circle.\n\nJung considered that from birth every individual has an original sense of wholeness—of the Self—but that with development a separate ego-consciousness crystallizes out of the original feeling of unity. This process of ego-differentiation provides the task of the first half of one's life-course, though Jungians also saw psychic health as depending on a periodic return to the sense of Self, something facilitated by the use of myths, initiation ceremonies, and rites of passage.\n\nOnce ego-differentiation had been more or less successfully achieved and the individual is somewhat anchored in the external world, Jung considered that a new task then arose for the second half of life - a return to, and conscious rediscovery of, the Self: individuation. Marie-Louise von Franz states that \"The actual processes of individuation - the conscious coming-to-terms with one's own inner center (psychic nucleus) or Self - generally begins with a wounding of the personality\". The ego reaches an impasse of one sort or another; and has to turn for help to what she termed \"a sort of hidden regulating or directing tendency...[an] organizing center\" in the personality: \"Jung called this center the 'Self' and described it as the totality of the whole psyche, in order to distinguish it from the 'ego', which constitutes only a small part of the psyche\".\n\nUnder the Self's guidance, a succession of archetypal images emerges, gradually bringing their fragmentary aspects of the Self increasingly closer to its totality. The first to appear, and the closest to the ego, would be the shadow or personal unconscious - something which is at the same time the first representation of the total personality,and which may indeed be at times conflated with the Self. Next to appear would be the Anima and Animus, the soul-image, which may be taken as symbolising the whole Self. Ideally however, the animus or anima comes into play in a mediating role between the ego and the Self. The third main archetype to emerge is the Mana figure of the wise old man/woman - a representative of the collective unconscious akin to the Self.\n\nThereafter comes the archetype of the Self itself - the last point on the route to self-realization of individuation. In Jung's words, \"the Self...embraces ego-consciousness, shadow, anima, and collective unconscious in indeterminable extension. As a totality, the self is a \"coincidentia oppositorum\"; it is therefore bright and dark and yet neither\". Alternatively, he stated that \"the Self is the total, timeless man...who stands for the mutual integration of conscious and unconscious\". Jung recognized many dream images as representing the self, including a stone, the world tree, an elephant, and the Christ.\n\nVon Franz considered that \"the dark side of the Self is the most dangerous thing of all, precisely because the Self is the greatest power in the psyche. It can cause people to 'spin' megalomanic or fall into other delusionary fantasies that catch them up\", so that the subject \"thinks with mounting excitement\" that he has grasped the great cosmic riddles. He therefore risks losing all touch with human reality. \n\nIn everyday life, aspects of the Self may be projected onto outside figures or concepts such as the state, God, the universe or fate. When such projections are withdrawn, there can be a destructive inflation of the personality - one potential counterbalance to this being however the social or collective aspects of the Self.\n\nYoung-Eisendrath and Hall write that 'in Jung's work, self can refer to the notion of inherent subjective individuality, the idea of an abstract center or central ordering principle, and the account of a process developing over time'.<!-- Commenting out this garbled citation. If someone can make it make sense, please reintroduce it into the text. Thanks. <ref>Polly Young-Eisendrath/James Albert Hall, \"\n"}
{"id": "2242951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242951", "title": "Numismatic Guaranty Corporation", "text": "Numismatic Guaranty Corporation\n\nNumismatic Guaranty Corporation (NGC) is a privately owned, international coin certification service based in Sarasota, Florida. It has certified more than 35 million coins. NGC certification consists of authentication, grading, attribution, and encapsulation in clear plastic holders. NGC is a member of Certified Collectibles Group (CCG), which owns five collectible certification services. NGC has been the official grading service of the American Numismatic Association (ANA) since 1995 and the Professional Numismatists Guild (PNG) since 2004.\n\nNGC was founded in 1987 in Parsippany, N.J. as one of the first independent third-party coin grading companies. In 1995, NGC was named the official grading service of the ANA. NGC commenced operations at its new location in Sarasota, Florida in 2002. That same year, NGC was named the official grading service of the PNG. In 2006, NGC relocated to a 60,000-square-foot secure building that also houses its four CCG-owned sister companies: Numismatic Conservation Services (NCS), Paper Money Guaranty (PMG), Certified Guaranty Company (CGC), and Classic Collectible Services (CCS). In 2008, ancient coin certification began (NGC Ancients). NGC has other locations in Hong Kong, China, and Germany.\n\nNGC certifies most US, world, and ancient coins, tokens, and medals. The certification process consists of authentication, grading, attribution, and encapsulation in plastic holders (aka slabs). Certification fees are tiered according to value, turnaround times, and extra services. NGC has certified over 35 million coins. NGC certification offers significant protection against counterfeiting, misattribution, overgrading, and damage, but does not necessarily determine exact value. Even within the same grade, coins can have widely differing values.\n\nThe NGC grading scale is based on the 70-point Sheldon coin grading scale. Strike designations include Prooflike and Deep Prooflike for circulation issue coins and Cameo and Ultra Cameo for Proof coins. Coins deemed high-end will receive a \"Plus\" designation. Coins considered attractive get a \"Star\" moniker. Cleaned, scratched, or otherwise impaired coins can be encapsulated and assigned a verbal \"details\" grade, but not a numerical one.\n\nNGC employs more than 30 full-time graders. At least two graders examine each coin. NGC employees are prohibited from participating in the commercial buying and selling of coins, which reduces potential conflict of interest. NGC backs its evaluations with a guarantee: they will financially compensate for any overgrading or other assessment mistakes, based on their opinion of a coin's true market value.\n\nNGC has used EdgeView® Holders since 2007 for the Presidential Dollar series and for all other coins since 2008. Since 2009, a scratch-resistant holder coating, similar to that used on eyeglass lenses, has been employed. NGC offers Oversize holders for coins larger than 45 mm and up to 120 mm, and Mega holders for coins larger than 120 mm and up to 180 mm. NGC's label lists a coin's denomination, variety, grade, pedigree, serial number, and other info.\n\nNGC Cert Lookup verifies all NGC certified coins and helps combat against holder counterfeiting. Using the label serial number, NGC will reveal a coin’s date, denomination, grade, photo (if any), and pricing and Census info. NGC Coin Explorer lists key info about many coin issues, such as mintages and values. The NGC Census reports how many examples of each issue NGC has certified by grade, which helps determine relative rarity. Census figures are often falsely inflated due to resubmissions of the same coins. NGC Coin Price Guide lists pricing data for most US coin (and some modern Chinese) issues. NGC Auction Central reports\nauction prices realized.\n\nA survey of major coin dealers, conducted by the trade associations PNG and Industry Council For Tangible Assets (ICTA), revealed the dealers' \"Superior\" rating for NGC, the highest given for any service. Of the other 10 grading services evaluated in the survey, only the Professional Coin Grading Service (PCGS) also received the \"Superior\" rating. Survey respondents gave their professional opinions about 11 grading services based on 12 criteria, such as grading and authentication accuracy. Each category was ranked by the respondents on a 10-point scale ranging from the lowest, \"Unacceptable\", to the highest, \"Outstanding\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2242966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242966", "title": "Hosea Stout", "text": "Hosea Stout\n\nHosea Stout (September 18, 1810 – March 2, 1889) was an early leader in the Latter Day Saint movement, a Mormon pioneer, soldier, chief of police, lawyer, missionary, and politician in Utah Territory.\n\nStout was from Kentucky and one of the few early Mormons to come from The South. The Latter Day Saint Church occasionally opposed slavery which largely discouraged converts from this region of the U.S. \n\nStout was born in Pleasant Hill, Kentucky into the large family of Joseph Stout and Ann Smith, both strict quakers. As a child, Stout was temporarily put in a Shaker school due to his family's financial hardships. However, after four years in the school, his father's circumstances improved and removed him from the school.\n\nIn 1832, Hosea Stout enlisted with United States Mounted Ranger Battalion under Major Henry Dodge to fight in the Black Hawk War. The U.S. Rangers recruited from frontiersmen who served a one year enlistment and had to provide their own rifles and horses.\n\nDuring the time of the Black Hawk War, Hosea Stout became acquainted with the Latter Day Saints movement and was taught by later apostle Charles C. Rich. In 1837 he sold his business and move to Caldwell County, Missouri where the Latter Day Saints had gathered after their expulsion from Jackson County, Missouri and Kirtland, Ohio. Here he married Samantha Peck. Shortly after this he was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.\n\nDuring the Missouri Mormon War, of 1838 Hosea Stout was a member of the Danites, a Latter Day Saint vigilante group and took a central role in the events of the 1838 Mormon War, and fought in the Battle of Crooked River. After the Latter Day Saints were forced to leave Missouri and moved to Nauvoo, Illinois,Hosea Stout served as a bodyguard for Joseph Smith During this period he was also a commander in the Nauvoo Legion and the Chief of Police of Nauvoo. He was further set apart as President of the eleventh Quorum of Seventies and made a member of the Council of Fifty, an organization created by Joseph Smith in preparation for the Second Coming of Christ.\n\nShortly after the death of Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum in 1844 at the hands of a unit of the Illinois State Militia, their brother Samuel H. Smith also died under allegedly suspicious circumstances. Samuel Smith's daughter and William Smith, who was the only surviving Smith brother, later claimed that Stout had poisoned Samuel under orders from Brigham Young and Willard Richards, members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. However, Stout was never tried for this alleged crime and Smith's claims are disputed.\n\nAfter Brigham Young and the LDS Church were forced to leave Nauvoo in 1846, Stout served as the chief of police in Winter Quarters, Nebraska when the Latter-day Saints migrated there. An early Mormon pioneer, Stout arrived in the Salt Lake Valley as a member Heber C. Kimball's company in September 1848.\n\nSometime after leaving Navuoo, Hosea Stout married additional wives, consistent with teachings and practices of the LDS church at the time. He wed a total of six wives.\n\nIn 1852 Stout was called on the first mission to China along with three other individuals: Chapman Duncan, James Lewis, and Walter Thompson. However, these missionaries did not meet with much success and soon returned home.\n\nOn August 28, 1852, a decision was made by the Mormon missionary leaders that Elders Hosea Stout, James Lewis and Chapman Duncan were to travel on a mission to China. Stout and his peers did not know the Chinese language. Stout traveled to Hong Kong, a British colony. Unfortunately, the people in Hong Kong did not receive his missionary message. In late 1853, Stout and his peers returned to United States. His missions to China and Hong Kong were unsuccessful.\n\nIn November 1856, Stout helped rescue a snowbound handcart company caught in Wyoming. During the Utah War of 1857-1858, Stout helped build and maintain fortifications in Echo Canyon meant to deter federal forces from entering Utah Territory. In later years, \"Wild Bill\" Hickman admitted to murdering one Richard Yates during this period at the mouth of Echo Canyon. In a deal for immunity from prosecution, Hickman implicated Stout and other Mormon leaders in the murder. Stout was arrested for the crime in 1871 and was incarcerated for six months at Fort Douglas before being released and acquitted. In 1877, he retired from public life due to poor health and died 11 years later near Salt Lake City.\n\nIn Utah, Stout started a long career in both law and politics. He was elected to the Utah Territory's House of Representatives in 1849 and was a part of the delegation to create a constitution for the proposed State of Deseret. Stout served as the first Attorney General of Utah Territory, and in 1851, he was one of the first lawyers admitted to the bar of Utah. From 1856 to 1857, he served as the speaker of the House. Later, he was chairman of the code commissioners, a territorial prosecutor, and U.S. Attorney.\n\nOne of Stout's greatest contributions was as a diarist. The \"Diary of Hosea Stout\" has become an invaluable resource for historians of the Latter-day Saints in the nineteenth-century.\n\nCurrent editions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2242975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242975", "title": "Wavelet packet decomposition", "text": "Wavelet packet decomposition\n\nOriginally known as Optimal Subband Tree Structuring (SB-TS) also called Wavelet Packet Decomposition (WPD)\n(sometimes known as just Wavelet Packets or Subband Tree) is a wavelet transform where the discrete-time (sampled) signal is passed through more filters than the discrete wavelet transform (DWT).\n\nIn the DWT, each level is calculated by passing only the previous wavelet approximation coefficients (cA) through discrete-time low and high pass quadrature mirror filters. However, in the WPD, both the detail (cD (in the 1-D case), cH, cV, cD (in the 2-D case)) and approximation coefficients are decomposed to create the full binary tree.\n\nFor n levels of decomposition the WPD produces 2 different sets of coefficients (or nodes) as opposed to (n + 1) sets for the DWT. However, due to the downsampling process the overall number of coefficients is still the same and there is no redundancy.\n\nFrom the point of view of compression, the standard wavelet transform may not produce the best result, since it is limited to wavelet bases that increase by a power of two towards the low frequencies. It could be that another combination of bases produce a more desirable representation for a particular signal. The best basis algorithm by Coifman and Wickerhauser finds a set of bases that provide the most desirable representation of the data relative to a particular cost function (e.g. entropy).\n\nThere were relevant studies in signal processing and communications fields to address the selection of subband trees (orthogonal basis) of various kinds, e.g. regular, dyadic, irregular, with respect to performance metrics of interest including energy compaction (entropy), subband correlations and others.\n\nDiscrete wavelet transform theory (continuous in the variable(s)) offers an approximation to transform discrete (sampled) signals. In contrast, the discrete subband transform theory provides a perfect representation of discrete signals.\n\nWavelet packets were successfully applied in preclinical diagnosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2242981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242981", "title": "Downwinders", "text": "Downwinders\n\nDownwinders refers to the individuals and communities in the intermountain area between the Cascade and Rocky Mountain ranges primarily in Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico and Utah but also in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho who were exposed to radioactive contamination or nuclear fallout from atmospheric or underground nuclear weapons testing, and nuclear accidents.\n\nMore generally, the term can also include those communities and individuals who are exposed to ionizing radiation and other emissions due to the regular production and maintenance of coal ash, nuclear weapons, nuclear power, nuclear waste and geothermal energy. In regions near U.S. nuclear sites, downwinders may be exposed to releases of radioactive materials into the environment that contaminate their groundwater systems, food chains, and the air they breathe. Some downwinders may have suffered acute exposure due to their involvement in uranium mining and nuclear experimentation.\n\nSeveral severe adverse health effects, such as an increased incidence of cancers, thyroid diseases, CNS neoplasms, and possibly female reproductive cancers that could lead to congenital malformations have been observed in Hanford \"downwind\" communities exposed to nuclear fallout and radioactive contamination. The impact of nuclear contamination on an individual is generally estimated as the result of the dose of radiation received and the duration of exposure, using the linear no-threshold model (LNT). Sex, age, race, culture, occupation, class, location, and simultaneous exposure to additional environmental toxins are also significant, but often overlooked, factors that contribute to the health effects on a particular \"downwind\" community.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1980, the United States, the U.S.S.R., the United Kingdom, France and China exploded 504 nuclear devices in atmospheric tests at thirteen primary sites yielding the explosive equivalent of 440 megatons of TNT. Of these atmospheric tests, 330 were conducted by the United States. Accounting for all types of nuclear tests, official counts show that the United States has conducted 1,054 nuclear weapons tests to date, involving at least 1,151 nuclear devices, most of which occurred at Nevada Test Site and the Pacific Proving Grounds in the Marshall Islands, with ten other tests taking place at various locations in the United States, including Alaska, Colorado, Mississippi, and New Mexico. There have been an estimated 2,000 nuclear tests conducted worldwide; the number of nuclear tests conducted by the United States alone is currently more than the sum of nuclear testing done by all other known nuclear states (the USSR, Great Britain, France, China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea) combined.\n\nThese nuclear tests infused vast quantities of radioactive material into the world's atmosphere, which was widely dispersed and then deposited as global fallout.\n\nAboveground nuclear explosions produce a characteristic mushroom cloud, which moves downwind as it reaches its stabilization height. Dispersion of the radioactive elements causes vertical and lateral cloud movement, spreading radioactive materials over adjacent regions. While the large particles settle nearby the site of the detonation, smaller particles and gases may be dispersed around the world. Additionally, some explosions injected radioactive material into the stratosphere, more than 10 kilometers above ground level, meaning it may float there for years before being subsequently deposited uniformly around the earth. Global fallout is the result, which exposes everything to an elevated level of man-made background radiation. While \"downwinders\" refers to those who live and work closest to the explosion site and are thus most acutely affected, there is a global effect of increased health risks due to ionizing radiation in the atmosphere.\n\nThe earliest concerns raised about the health effects of exposure to nuclear fallout had to do with fears of genetic alterations that may occur among the offspring of those most exposed. However, the observed inheritable effects of radiation exposure by groups with histories of acute risk are considered minimal compared with the significant increase in thyroid cancer, leukemia and certain solid tumors that have developed within a decade or more after exposure. As studies of biological samples (including bone, thyroid glands and other tissues) have been undertaken, it has become increasingly clear that specific radionuclides in fallout are implicated in fallout-related cancers and other late effects.\n\nIn 1980, American popular weekly magazine \"People\" reported that from about 220 cast and crew who filmed in a 1956 movie, \"The Conqueror\", on location near St. George, Utah, ninety-one had come down with cancer, and 50 had died of cancer. Of these, forty-six had died of cancer by 1980. Among the cancer deaths were John Wayne, Pedro Armendáriz and Susan Hayward, the stars of the film. However, the lifetime odds of developing cancer for men in the U.S. population are 43 percent and the odds of dying of cancer are 23 percent (38 percent and 19 percent, respectively, for women). This places the cancer mortality rate for the 220 primary cast and crew quite near the expected average.\n\nAfter adopting the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty in 1996, the U.S. and several other nuclear states pledged to stop nuclear testing. However, the United States Senate has not yet ratified the treaty.\n\nFrom 1951 – mid-1962, the Nevada Test Site (NTS) was a primary site used for both surface and above-ground nuclear testing, with 86 tests at or above ground level, and 14 other tests underground, all of which involved releases of significant amounts of radioactive material into the atmosphere.\n\nIn the 1950s, people who lived in the vicinity of the NTS were encouraged to sit outside and watch the mushroom clouds that were created by nuclear bomb explosions. Many were given radiation badges to wear on their clothes, which were later collected by the Atomic Energy Commission to gather data about radiation levels.\n\nIn a report by the National Cancer Institute, released in 1997, it was determined that the nearly ninety atmospheric tests at the Nevada Test Site (NTS) left high levels of radioactive iodine-131 (5.5 exabecquerels, Ebq) across a large area of the continental United States, especially in the years 1952, 1953, 1955, and 1957. \nThe National Cancer Institute report estimates that doses received in these years are estimated to be large enough to produce 10,000 to 75,000 additional cases of thyroid cancer in the U.S. \nA 1999 review of the 1997 report considered that their estimates of collective doses were in \"good agreement\" and \"should provide confidence that the NCI estimate is not grossly under or over the actual value.\" \nA 2006 report, published by the Scientific Research Society, estimates that about 22,000 additional radiation-related cancers and 2,000 additional deaths from radiation-related leukemia are expected to occur in the United States because of external and internal radiation from both NTS and global fallout.\nA 2010 report evaluating data on thyroid cancer incidence from 1973 to 2004 also supports a relationship between exposure from fallout and increased thyroid cancer incidence.\nThe threat of downwind exposure to radioactivity remaining at the Nevada Test Site from nuclear weapons tests was still an issue as late as 2007. The Pentagon planned to test a 700-ton ammonium nitrate-and-fuel oil \"bunker buster\" weapon. The planned \"Divine Strake\" test would have raised a large mushroom cloud of contaminated dust that could have blown toward population centers such as Las Vegas, Boise, Salt Lake City, and St. George, Utah. This project was cancelled in February 2007, in large part due to political pressure inspired by the threat of downwind exposure to radioactivity.\n\nWhile many downwinders were exposed to weapons testing, millions more have been affected by radioactive fallout due to U.S. sites engaged in the production of nuclear weapons and/or nuclear power. For example, Hanford is a former nuclear weapons production site located in south central Washington state, where the Washington state Department of Health collaborated with the citizen-led Hanford Health Information Network (HHIN) to publicize significant data about the health effects of Hanford's operations. Established in 1943, Hanford released radioactive materials into the air, water and soil, releases which largely resulted from the site's routine operation, though some were also due to accidents and intentional releases.\n\nBy February 1986, mounting citizen pressure forced the U.S. Department of Energy to release to the public 19,000 pages of previously unavailable historical documents about Hanford's operations. These reports revealed there had been radioactive materials released into the air and Columbia River. The reactors used large amounts of water from the river for cooling, which caused materials in the river water to become radioactive as they passed through the reactor. The water and the radioactive materials it contained were released into the river after passing through the reactors, thus contaminating both groundwater systems and aquatic animals downstream as far west as the Washington and Oregon coasts.\n\nThe Hanford Thyroid Disease Study, an epidemiologic study of the relationship between estimated exposure doses to radioiodine and incidence of thyroid disease amongst Hanford's downwinders, led by the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, was inconclusive. A consolidated lawsuit brought by two thousand Hanford downwinders for personal injury against the contractors that ran Hanford has been in the court system for many years. The defense in the litigation is fully funded by taxpayer dollars due to Price Anderson indemnification agreements. The first six bellwether plaintiffs went to trial in 2005, to test the legal issues applying to the remaining plaintiffs in the suit.\nIn October 2015, the Department of Energy resolved the final cases. The DOE paid more than $60 million in legal fees and $7 million in damages.\n\nWhile the term \"downwinders\" generally connotes nuclear fallout victims based in the continental U.S. near sites such as Hanford and NTS, the population of the Marshall Islands bore a large brunt of nuclear testing under the United States' Pacific Proving Ground program. Now known officially as the Republic of the Marshall Islands, it was a United Nations Trust Territory administered by the United States from 1944 to 1979, years during which the United States tested 66 nuclear weapons in the Marshall Islands.\n\nOne of these many tests, the March 1, 1954, explosion of Castle Bravo, a U.S. thermonuclear device, was responsible for most of the radiation the Marshall Islanders were exposed to. The fallout-related doses of this single test are believed to be the highest recorded in the history of worldwide nuclear testing. Many of the Marshall Islands which were part of the Pacific Proving Grounds remain contaminated by nuclear fallout, and many of those downwinders who were living on the islands at the time of testing have suffered from a highly increased incidence of several types of cancers and birth defects.\n\nThe primary long-term health hazard associated with exposure to ionizing radiation as a result of nuclear fallout is an increased risk for cancers of the thyroid, other solid tumor cancers, and leukemia. The relationship between radiation exposure and subsequent cancer risk is considered \"the best understood, and certainly the most highly quantified, dose-response relationship for any common environmental human carcinogen\", according to report by the National Cancer Institute. Overall, men in the United States develop cancer at a rate 22% higher than that of women. However, women develop cancer from radiation at a rate from 37.5% to 52% higher than that of men. In recent years, studies conducted by both the National Research Council and the EPA have confirmed that compared to men, women are at a significantly higher risk of radiation-induced cancers, such and that women's sensitivity to radiation-induced cancers is much higher than was previously estimated. The increased radiosensitivity of certain organs in women, such as the breast, ovaries, and thyroid is likely the cause of this difference.\n\nIn the EPA's 1999 Federal Guidance Report #13(FGR 13), \"Cancer Risk Coefficients for Environmental Exposure to Radionuclides\", the authors conclude that women have a 48 percent higher radionuclide-related cancer mortality risk than men. Further evidence of sex-based disparities in radiation-induced cancers was published in the 2006 report by the National Research Council's Committee to Assess Health Risks from Exposure to Low Levels of Ionizing Radiation (known as the BEIR VII report), which found that women's risk due to radiation exposure exceeded men's by 37.5 percent. When one considers rates of cancer incidence separately from rates of cancer fatality, the sex disparities are even greater. The BEIR VII Committee concluded that, given the same level of radiation exposure, women are 52 percent more likely than men to develop cancer, while the EPA report puts the estimate of difference as high as 58 percent.\n\nThe differences in risk are even greater when considering organ-specific cancers, especially given that both reports identify breast, ovarian, lung, colon, and thyroid tissues as the most radiosensitive among women. For example, the FGR 13 has estimated that the ratio of thyroid cancer incidence for women as compared to men is 2.14, while the findings of BEIR VII suggest that women are even more vulnerable to radiation-induced thyroid cancer at a ratio of 4.76.\n\nAs increasing concerns are raised regarding the environmental risks related to breast, the BEIR VII report cited evidence that suggests that \"radiation may interact synergistically with other risk factors for breast cancer\", raising the possibility that endocrine disrupting chemicals like PCBs and dioxins might combine to increase the risks associated with radiation beyond that which would be caused by either separately. A related concern is that radionuclides that may be passed through the breast milk, causing some women who are downwinders to be reluctant to breastfeed their children. While reducing the radioactive intake of their infants is an important preventative measure, it denies women the opportunity to engage a preventative measure for their own health; i.e. breastfeeding has been widely documented as a practice that can reduce women's risk of developing breast cancer. By refraining from breastfeeding, women downwinders' risks of breast cancer incidence becomes even more elevated.\n\nEvidence about radiation-related pregnancy and birth outcomes comes from studies of nuclear bomb and test site survivors and studies of those exposed to diagnostic and therapeutic radiation. Mounting research indicates that above certain levels of radiation a miscarriage will result. It is also clear that fetal malformations are a greater risk if a woman is exposed to high doses of nuclear-related radiation in early pregnancy, when organs are being formed.\nIf acute radiation exposure occurs in the first ten days following conception, when few cells have formed, it is likely that the embryo will fail to develop and spontaneous abortion will occur. \nFetal malformations are most likely to occur if a pregnant woman receives a radiation dose >500 mSv between the 10th and 40th day of pregnancy, the period of organogenesis during which the organs are formed. \nAfter the 40th day, the effects of radiation exposure are likely to include low birth weight, delayed growth, and possible mental deficits rather than fetal malformations.\nRadiation doses above 4,000 mSv are likely to kill both the mother and the fetus.\n\nIt has been shown that radiation damage including genome instability and carcinogenesis may occur transgenerationally in both males and females.\nThe effects of radiation on fetal formation are also particularly relevant as a women's health issue to the extent that female fetuses' ova are formed while the fetus is still in utero.\nAdverse effects on a mother carrying a female fetus may therefore be multigenerational and increase both the daughter's and grandchildren's risks for ovarian cancer, infertility, and other reproductive developmental problems.\n\nThe Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990 established a $100 million compensation package which would pay $50,000 per person to fallout victims, and up to $100,000 to uranium miners who were exposed to unsafe levels of radiation. Downwinders eligible for compensation include those living in specified counties of Nevada, Utah, and Arizona for at least two years between January 1951 and October 1958, or during July 1962-periods when the United States conducted above ground nuclear tests without warning, and who are able to show correlations between certain diseases and their personal exposure to nuclear radiation. Miners' compensation covers workers employed in uranium mines in five states-Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, and Utah-between January 1947 and December 1971. Uranium miners are eligible for $100,000, and onsite participants are eligible for $75,000.\n\nThere are particular obstacles to receiving needed health care and compensation faced by many widows and widowers of Navajo uranium miners, who were affected by disproportionately high incidences of fatal lung cancer. One problem for Navajo widows and widowers seeking the federal benefits for which they are qualified is the requirement that they document their marriages, although many were married in the 1930s and 1940s in undocumented tribal ceremonies. Language and cultural barriers pose further obstacles to Navajo downwinders; since many elderly Navajos do not speak English, their children bear the responsibility to do the research and procure from a tribal law judge a validation certificate of their \ntribal marriage. Similarly, it is difficult to access the outdated medical and occupational documentation that the government required even though the government's and uranium companies' own records for Navajo miners are sparse and difficult to access. An updated version of the RECA bill which expands the territories affected by Downwinders is currently in committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243000", "title": "Lucky 7 (The Reverend Horton Heat album)", "text": "Lucky 7 (The Reverend Horton Heat album)\n\nLucky 7 is the title of the seventh studio album by The Reverend Horton Heat. It was released by Artemis Records in February 2002.\n\nThe song \"Like a Rocket\" (with altered lyrics) was chosen as the official Daytona 500 theme song for 2002.\n\nAll songs written by Jim Heath.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243015", "title": "David Young (wrestler)", "text": "David Young (wrestler)\n\nDavid Williams (born August 25, 1972), better known by his ring name, David Young, is an American professional wrestler. Though he has mainly appeared with NWA Wildside and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, Young has also competed for Ring of Honor, AAA and ZERO-ONE.\n\nWilliams was a professional wrestling fan from an early age, and announced his intention to become a wrestler to his parents at the age of five. On August 17, 1989 a seventeen-year-old Williams attended a wrestling show at which his friend was working as a security guard, and was asked to wrestle. He began training the next day with the Dalton, Georgia-based \"Mountain Wrestling Federation\" under Larry Santo, and adopted the ring name \"David Young\".\n\nYoung, dubbed \"The Messiah of the Spinebuster\", spent his early career in National Championship Wrestling as a singles wrestler before joining the team Body Count with \"Heavy Metal\" Ric Savage. Young and Savage feuded with Rusty Riddle and Kid Kash for the National Championship Wrestling world tag-team titles. Young stayed with NCW as it grew into NWA Wildside where Young became known as a tag team specialist, teaming with Shane Austin as \"The Sex Pistols\". On August 19, 1999 The Sex Pistols defeated Bart Sawyer and Terry Lawler in Loganville, Georgia for the NWA Wildside (Georgia) Tag Team Championship. On November 4, Austin was replaced by Rick Michaels, with Young and Michaels naming themselves Bad Attitude. On November 20, 1999 in Cornelia, Georgia, Young and Michaels lost the Tag Team Championships to The Road Hoggs (Joe Harley and Pan Head Nelson). Bad Attitude continued to pursue the Wildside Tag Team Championships, and on January 11, 2000 they defeated The Underdogs (Mark E. Mark and Big Eddie Cool) for the NWA Wildside Tag Team Championship, which they held until February 19, when they were defeated by The Rock 'n' Roll Express. Bad Attitude reclaimed the Tag Team Titles on June 17 in a two out of three falls match, making Young a three time NWA Wildside Tag Team Champion.\n\nBad Attitude set their sights on the World Tag Team Championship, and on August 15 in Tampa, Florida they defeated Curtis Thompson and Jeff Justice for the NWA World Tag Team Championship. As a result, they were stripped of the Wildside Tag Team Championship on August 19. They held the World Tag Team Championship until February 3, 2001, when they lost to Joey Matthews and Christian York in Nashville, Tennessee. Bad Attitude reclaimed the title in their home territory, Cornelia, on February 17, but soon lost them once more, losing to Dan Factor and David Flair on March 22 in Athens, Georgia. They took the title a third time the next day in Toccoa, Georgia, with what would be their final reign lasting until April 24, when they lost to The New Heavenly Bodies (Casanova Chris and Vivacious Vito) in Tampa.\n\nMichaels and Young eventually parted ways in a somewhat acrimonious split, and Michaels went on to win the NWA Wildside (Georgia) Heavyweight Championship. During a December 22, 2001 title defense against A.J. Styles, Young interfered, enabling Styles to pin Michaels and win the belt. This led to a three-way dance on March 23, 2002 at \"Hardcore Hell 2002\", with Young eventually taking the win and becoming the Wildside Heavyweight Champion. He held the title until June 1, when he lost to Jason Cross. After Cross retired from wrestling, Adam Jacobs won the vacant title, but failed to appear for an August 3 title defence against John Phoenix. Young, a Wildside mainstay, was substituted into the match, and defeated Phoenix to become a two-time Wildside Heavyweight Championship. He held the belt until September 22, 2002 when he lost to Edward Chastaine \"Iceberg\".\n\nDavid Young joined Total Nonstop Action Wrestling in June 2002, and wrestled a dark match against Apolo on June 19. He worked in TNA as a lower-card heel. On September 24, 2003, Young acted as the tag team partner of Simon Diamond when Diamond's usual partner, Johnny Swinger, was sidelined with appendicitis. The next week, Young assumed that he was now a member of Glenn Gilbertti's stable, the New York Connection (NYC), along with Diamond and Swinger, but Gilberti insisted that he first had to \"prove himself\" by defeating The Sandman. Young lost, and was subsequently beaten down by Gilberti and his clients. The following week, Young earned a spot in the group by helping them defeat the 3Live Kru in a six-man tag match.\n\nThe stable began to fall apart, and on January 14, 2004 split into two tag teams; Gilberti and Young, and Simon and Swinger. Gilberti and Young went on to feud with the Insane Clown Posse, with Young claiming to be afraid of clowns. Young then began regularly losing his matches, with his losing streak leading Gilberti to turn on him. On August 11, Young finally broke his losing streak by pinning Gilberti in a \"Final Gut Check match\", then left TNA for several months. He returned on December 24, losing to Abyss. Young appeared sporadically with TNA for several months, and on July 17 at No Surrender 2005 he reforged his alliance with Simon Diamond, who offered to make him \"a diamond in the rough\".\n\nOn February 22, 2007, TNA released David Young.\n\nYoung joined Georgia Championship Wrestling in mid-2004, forming a tag team with Sonny Siaki. Young and Siaki became the first ever GCW Tag Team Champions on July 27, 2004 in Columbus, Georgia when they defeated John Bogey and Jason Cross. They held the title until October 30, when they lost to A.J. Steele and Bull Buchanan.\n\nYoung formed a stable known as \"Bad Company\" with Bull Buchanan, The Wrestler (Ted Allen), and Sonny Siaki. However, on March 5, 2005 Buchanan and Young turned on Siaki and accepted the managerial services of Greg Brown. Young then went on to win the GCW Heavyweight Championship from Siaki, and on April 23 he and Buchanan won the GCW Tag Team Championship in a three-way tag match. On June 11, Buchanan teamed with Chris Stevens, the latter of whom replaced Young due to Young being unavailable for the title defense, and Buchanan and Stevens lost the GCW Tag Team Championship to John Bogie and Lee Thomas. Upon returning, Young teamed with Stevens to regain the titles on June 25.\n\nYoung lost the GCW Heavyweight Championship to Erik Watts on August 13, 2005. In October 2005, the promotion was renamed Great Championship Wrestling. On December 11, 2005, Young regained the GCW Heavyweight Championship from Watts. On January 1, 2006, Young and Stevens lost the GCW Tag Team Championships to Watts and Bogie. On April 22, 2006, Young lost the GCW Heavyweight Championship to Deathrow.\n\nYoung also appeared at Georgia Wrestling Promotions teaming with Bill DeMott to take on a hometown team in the main event. The following week he appeared again with DeMott as they went on to lose against Tank and Iceberg the main event.\n\nYoung continued to work for the company during its transition into \"Great Championship Wrestling\", and was featured on top in major feuds with Sonny Siaki and Johnny Swinger. After a bitter rivalry that lasted for three months with Siaki, the two were slated to battle on September 4 at the 2008 Fred Ward Memorial. However, on August 22, 2008, Great Championship Wrestling severed ties with Young, ending a long-standing business relationship.\n\nDavid has 2 daughters, Amber and Kristina, and a son, Chris. The Williams family lives in Chatsworth, Georgia.\n\nEricules Wrestling Promotions\n\nGreat Championship Wrestling\n\n"}
{"id": "2243016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243016", "title": "Tony Harris (journalist)", "text": "Tony Harris (journalist)\n\nTony Harris (born 1959) is a US-American television reporter, news anchor and producer, currently with Investigation Discovery. Previously Harris was a news anchor at Al Jazeera English, Al Jazeera America and CNN.\n\nTony Harris is a B.A. graduate in English from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.\n\nHe entered broadcasting as a nineteen-year-old radio disc jockey in his native Baltimore, Maryland. Two years later, he moved to television as a features reporter for an afternoon newsmagazine in Cleveland, Ohio. He rose to co-host. Moving to New York City, he worked as an entertainment reporter for \"Entertainment Tonight\" and the Home Box Office. He returned to Cleveland in the early 1990s as a weekend news anchor, then again to New York City, and Los Angeles, as a reporter for the Fox Network prime time newsmagazine \"Front Page\".\n\nHe returned to local news as lead anchor for WBFF and WNUV in Baltimore, and then for WGCL-TV in Atlanta, Georgia, before joining CNN in September 2004. Based at CNN Center in Atlanta, Harris co-anchored \"CNN Saturday Morning\" and \"CNN Sunday Morning\" with Betty Nguyen until he made the move to anchor \"CNN Newsroom\" on September 8, 2008. He was also a frequent substitute anchor on weekday news programs including \"American Morning\". Harris has won an Emmy Award.\n\nHe left CNN at the end of December 2010.\n\nIn April 2011, Harris debuted as an anchor on Al Jazeera English. His first broadcast was at 1600GMT on April 12, 2011.\n\nOn August 20, 2013, he debuted as an anchor on Al Jazeera America. His first broadcast was the first regularly scheduled program ever on the network with the news at 4:00 p.m. eastern time.\n\nIn 2020, Harris began hosting the podcast \"Monster: DC Sniper\".\n\nAfter Harris criticized NASA for naming the new space station treadmill after comedian Stephen Colbert, Colbert responded on September 30, 2009 by naming his in-studio toilet the H.A.R.R.I.S. (Human Ass Receiving Receptacle In Studio).\n"}
{"id": "2243028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243028", "title": "Victorian literature", "text": "Victorian literature\n\nVictorian literature is literature, mainly written in English, during the reign of Queen Victoria (1837–1901) (the Victorian era). It was preceded by Romanticism and followed by the Edwardian era (1901–1910). \n\nWhile in the preceding Romantic period, poetry had been the conquerors, novels were the emperors of the Victorian period. Charles Dickens (1812–1870) dominated the first part of Victoria's reign and most rightly can be called \"The King of Victorian Literature\". His first novel, \"The Pickwick Papers\", was published in 1836, and his last \"Our Mutual Friend\" between 1864–65. William Thackeray's (1811–1863) most famous work \"Vanity Fair\" appeared in 1848, and the three Brontë sisters, Charlotte (1816–1855), Emily (1818–1848) and Anne (1820–1849), also published significant works in the 1840s. A major later novel was George Eliot's (1819–1880) \"Middlemarch\" (1872), while the major novelist of the later part of Queen Victoria's reign was Thomas Hardy (1840–1928), whose first novel, \"Under the Greenwood Tree\", appeared in 1872 and his last, \"Jude the Obscure\", in 1895.\n\nRobert Browning (1812–1889) and Alfred Tennyson (1809–1892) were Victorian England's most famous poets, though more recent taste has tended to prefer the poetry of Thomas Hardy, who, though he wrote poetry throughout his life, did not publish a collection until 1898, as well as that of Gerard Manley Hopkins (1844–1889), whose poetry was published posthumously in 1918. Algernon Charles Swinburne (1837–1909) is also considered an important literary figure of the period, especially his poems and critical writings. Early poetry of W. B. Yeats was also published in Victoria's reign. With regard to the theatre it was not until the last decades of the nineteenth century that any significant works were produced. This began with Gilbert and Sullivan's comic operas, from the 1870s, various plays of George Bernard Shaw (1856–1950) in the 1890s, and Oscar Wilde's (1854–1900) \"The Importance of Being Earnest\".\n\nCharles Dickens is the most famous Victorian novelist. Extraordinarily popular in his day with his characters taking on a life of their own beyond the page; Dickens is still one of the most popular and read authors of the world. His first novel, \"The Pickwick Papers\" (183637) written when he was twenty-five, was an overnight success, and all his subsequent works sold extremely well. The comedy of his first novel has a satirical edge and this pervades his writing. Dickens worked diligently and prolifically to produce the entertaining writing that the public wanted, but also to offer commentary on social problems and the plight of the poor and oppressed. His most important works include \"Oliver Twist\" (1837–39), \"Nicholas Nickleby\" (183839)\", A Christmas Carol\" (1843), \"Dombey and Son\" (1846–1848), \"David Copperfield\" (184950), \"Bleak House\" (185253), \"Little Dorrit\" (18551857), \"A Tale of Two Cities\" (1859), and \"Great Expectations\" (186061). There is a gradual trend in his fiction towards darker themes which mirrors a tendency in much of the writing of the 19th century.\n\nWilliam Thackeray was Dickens' great rival in the first half of Queen Victoria's reign. With a similar style but a slightly more detached, acerbic and barbed satirical view of his characters, he also tended to depict a more middle class society than Dickens did. He is best known for his novel \"Vanity Fair\" (1848), subtitled \"A Novel without a Hero\", which is an example of a form popular in Victorian literature: a historical novel in which recent history is depicted.\n\nAnne, Charlotte and Emily Brontë produced notable works of the period, although these were not immediately appreciated by Victorian critics. \"Wuthering Heights\" (1847), Emily's only work, is an example of Gothic Romanticism from a woman's point of view, which examines class, myth, and gender. \"Jane Eyre\" (1847), by her sister Charlotte, is another major nineteenth century novel that has gothic themes. Anne's second novel \"The Tenant of Wildfell Hall\" (1848), written in realistic rather than romantic style, is mainly considered to be the first sustained feminist novel.\n\nLater in this period George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans), published \"The Mill on the Floss\" in 1860, and in 1872 her most famous work \"Middlemarch\". Like the Brontës she published under a masculine pseudonym.\n\nIn the later decades of the Victorian era Thomas Hardy was an important novelist. His works include \"Under the Greenwood Tree\" (1872), \"Far from the Madding Crowd\" (1874), \"The Mayor of Casterbridge\" (1886), \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\" (1891), and \"Jude the Obscure\" (1895).\n\nOther significant novelists of this era were Elizabeth Gaskell (1810–1865), Anthony Trollope (1815–1882), George Meredith (1828–1909), and George Gissing (1857–1903).\n\nElizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning conducted their love affair through verse and produced many tender and passionate poems. Both Matthew Arnold and Gerard Manley Hopkins wrote poems which sit somewhere in between the exultation of nature of the romantic Poetry and the Georgian Poetry of the early 20th century. However Hopkins's poetry was not published until 1918. Arnold's works anticipate some of the themes of these later poets, while Hopkins drew inspiration from verse forms of Old English poetry such as \"Beowulf\".\n\nThe reclaiming of the past was a major part of Victorian literature with an interest in both classical literature but also the medieval literature of England. The Victorians loved the heroic, chivalrous stories of knights of old and they hoped to regain some of that noble, courtly behaviour and impress it upon the people both at home and in the wider empire. The best example of this is Alfred Tennyson's \"Idylls of the King\", which blended the stories of King Arthur, particularly those by Thomas Malory, with contemporary concerns and ideas. The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood also drew on myth and folklore for their art, with Dante Gabriel Rossetti contemporaneously regarded as the chief poet amongst them, although his sister Christina is now held by scholars to be a stronger poet.\n\nIn drama, farces, musical burlesques, extravaganzas and comic operas competed with Shakespeare productions and serious drama by the likes of James Planché and Thomas William Robertson. In 1855, the German Reed Entertainments began a process of elevating the level of (formerly risqué) musical theatre in Britain that culminated in the famous series of comic operas by Gilbert and Sullivan and were followed by the 1890s with the first Edwardian musical comedies. The first play to achieve 500 consecutive performances was the London comedy \"Our Boys\" by H. J. Byron, opening in 1875. Its astonishing new record of 1,362 performances was bested in 1892 by \"Charley's Aunt\" by Brandon Thomas. After W. S. Gilbert, Oscar Wilde became the leading poet and dramatist of the late Victorian period. Wilde's plays, in particular, stand apart from the many now forgotten plays of Victorian times and have a closer relationship to those of the Edwardian dramatists such as George Bernard Shaw, whose career began in the 1890s. Wilde's 1895 comic masterpiece, \"The Importance of Being Earnest\", was the greatest of the plays in which he held an ironic mirror to the aristocracy while displaying virtuosic mastery of wit and paradoxical wisdom. It has remained extremely popular.\n\nThe Victorians are credited with 'inventing childhood', partly via their efforts to stop child labour and the introduction of compulsory education. As children began to be able to read, literature for young people became a growth industry, with not only established writers producing works for children (such as Dickens' \"A Child's History of England\") but also a new group of dedicated children's authors. Writers like Lewis Carroll, R. M. Ballantyne and Anna Sewell wrote mainly for children, although they had an adult following. Other authors such as Anthony Hope and Robert Louis Stevenson wrote mainly for adults, but their adventure novels are now generally classified as for children. Other genres include nonsense verse, poetry which required a childlike interest (e.g. Lewis Carroll). School stories flourished: Thomas Hughes' \"Tom Brown's Schooldays\" and Kipling's \"Stalky & Co.\" are classics.\n\nRarely were these publications designed to capture a child’s pleasure; however, with the increase in use of illustrations, children began to enjoy literature, and were able to learn morals in a more entertaining way. With the newfound acceptance of reading for pleasure, fairy tales and folk tales became popular. Compiling folk tales by many authors with different topics made it possible for children to read literature by and about lots of different things that interested them. There were different types of books and magazines written for boys and girls. Girls' stories tended to be domestic and to focus on family life, whereas boys' stories were more about adventures.\n\nThe Victorian era was an important time for the development of science and the Victorians had a mission to describe and classify the entire natural world. Much of this writing does not rise to the level of being regarded as literature but one book in particular, Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\", remains famous. The theory of evolution contained within the work challenged many of the ideas the Victorians had about themselves and their place in the world. Although it took a long time to be widely accepted, it would dramatically change subsequent thought and literature. Much of the work of popularizing Darwin's theories was done by his younger contemporary Thomas Henry Huxley, who wrote widely on the subject.\n\nA number of other non-fiction works of the era made their mark on the literature of the period. The philosophical writings of John Stuart Mill covered logic, economics, liberty and utilitarianism. The large and influential histories of Thomas Carlyle: \"The French Revolution, A History\" and \"On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and The Heroic in History\" permeated political thought at the time. The writings of Thomas Babington Macaulay on English history helped codify the Whig narrative that dominated the historiography for many years. John Ruskin wrote a number of highly influential works on art and the history of art and championed such contemporary figures as J. M. W. Turner and the Pre-Raphaelites. The religious writer John Henry Newman's Oxford Movement aroused intense debate within the Church of England, exacerbated by Newman's own conversion to Catholicism, which he wrote about in his autobiography \"Apologia Pro Vita Sua\".\n\nA number of monumental reference works were published in this era, most notably the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" which would eventually become the most important historical dictionary of the English language. Also published during the later Victorian era were the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" and the ninth edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\".\n\nIn the United States, Henry David Thoreau's works and Susan Fenimore Cooper's \"Rural Hours\" (1850) were canonical influences on Victorian nature writing. In the UK, Philip Gosse and Sarah Bowdich Lee were two of the most popular nature writers in the early part of the Victorian era. \"The Illustrated London News\", founded in 1842, was the world's first illustrated weekly newspaper and often published articles and illustrations dealing with nature; in the second half of the 19th century, books, articles, and illustrations on nature became widespread and popular among an increasingly urbanized reading public.\n\nThe old Gothic tales that came out of the late 19th century are the first examples of the genre of fantastic fiction. These tales often centred on larger-than-life characters such as Sherlock Holmes, famous detective of the times, Sexton Blake, Phileas Fogg, and other fictional characters of the era, such as Dracula, Edward Hyde, The Invisible Man, and many other fictional characters who often had exotic enemies to foil.\nSpanning the 18th and 19th centuries, there was a particular type of story-writing known as gothic. Gothic literature combines romance and horror in attempt to thrill and terrify the reader. Possible features in a gothic novel are foreign monsters, ghosts, curses, hidden rooms and witchcraft. Gothic tales usually take place in locations such as castles, monasteries, and cemeteries, although the gothic monsters sometimes cross over into the real world, making appearances in cities such as London.\n\nWriters from the United States and the British colonies of Australia, New Zealand and Canada were influenced by the literature of Britain and are often classed as a part of Victorian literature, although they were gradually developing their own distinctive voices. Victorian writers of Canadian literature include Grant Allen, Susanna Moodie and Catherine Parr Traill. Australian literature has the poets Adam Lindsay Gordon and Banjo Paterson, who wrote \"Waltzing Matilda\", and New Zealand literature includes Thomas Bracken and Frederick Edward Maning. From the sphere of literature of the United States during this time are some of the country's greats including: Emily Dickinson, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr., Henry James, Herman Melville, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Henry David Thoreau, Mark Twain and Walt Whitman. \n\nThe problem with the classification of \"Victorian literature\" is the great difference between the early works of the period and the later works which had more in common with the writers of the Edwardian period and many writers straddle this divide. People such as Arthur Conan Doyle, Rudyard Kipling, H. G. Wells, Bram Stoker, H. Rider Haggard, Jerome K. Jerome and Joseph Conrad all wrote some of their important works during Victoria's reign but the sensibility of their writing is frequently regarded as Edwardian.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243048", "title": "Bojayá massacre", "text": "Bojayá massacre\n\nThe Bojayá massacre () was a massacre that occurred on May 2, 2002 in the Colombian town of Bellavista in the Bojayá municipality of the Chocó department. FARC guerrillas seized the town in an attempt to take control of the Atrato River region from AUC paramilitaries. During the fighting one of Cylinder Bombs (known in Spanish as a \"pipeta\" or \"Cilindro bomba\") launched by the FARC with a mortar at the AUC paramilitaries using the walls of the church for shelter, went trough the roof of the church, landing on the altar inside. Of the approximately 300 inhabitants that had taken refuge in the church, approximately 119 died in the explosion.\n\nThe Colombian government had described the area as subject to \"the armed confrontation in the region between the guerrillas and the illegal self-defence forces is very violent due to the economic and strategic interests in play, including, among others: drug trafficking, the inter-oceanic connection, the development of megaprojects like the Panamerican Highway, and the proximity of ports and hydroelectric stations. The region furthermore represents advantages for these groups as a route for the import of arms and supplies from Central America and to provide favourable routes for drug trafficking.\" \n\nAt least 250 paramilitary combatants moved in to Bellavista, the administrative centre of the municipality of Bojayá, on 21 April 2002. They remained there despite protests by local residents. The UNHCHR sent an official communication to the Colombian government on April 23 expressing their concern regarding the presence of the paramilitaries and the possible consequences for the local people. The Ombudsman's Office of Colombia also visited the region on April 26 and released an early warning regarding the threat of an armed confrontation in the area.\n\nIntense fighting broke out on May 1 in neighboring town Vigía del Fuerte and spread to Bellavista later in the day. Around 300 residents took shelter in the local church, 100 in the adjoining parsonage, and another 100 in the Augustinian Missionary residence, over the course of the night.\n\nAccording to the official UN investigation report, in the morning of May 2 the AUC paramilitaries had established positions around the church, using the rare concrete buildings and the cement wall around the church yard for protection. The FARC took up positions to the north (in Barrio Pueblo Nuevo), and began launching gas cylinder bombs (\"pipetas\") toward the paramilitary positions. Two landed nearby and the third went through the roof of the church, where it exploded on the altar.The explosion resulted in approximately 119 dead and 98 wounded, though the UN was not able to verify exact numbers. A large number of the dead and wounded were children.\n\nThe UN investigation found the FARC in violation of several principles of international humanitarian law, including an indiscriminate attack causing unnecessary civilian casualties, failure to distinguish between civilian and combatant, failure to take efforts to protect civilians from avoidable harm, and attacks against cultural property. Prohibitions against these acts are found in Common Article 3 of the 1949 Geneva Conventions and Articles 4, 13, and 16 of Additional Protocol II. The UN also considered the FARC responsible for the forced displacement of civilians generated as a consequence of the attack on the church, placing the act in violation of Article 17 of Protocol II.\n\nThe UN also found the AUC in violation of various aspects of international humanitarian law, including using civilians as human shields, failing to protect civilians from the effects of their military operations, and for causing massive forced displacement of civilian populations in the region due to their acts, threats and combat operations in the area. Given reports of theft by the AUC of goods, equipment and vehicles belonging to local residents, the UN also found the AUC guilty of pillage (a violation of Article 17 of Protocol II).\n\nThe UNHCHR also found that the Colombian government failed to act in order to prevent the massive human suffering resulting from the events in Bojaya: suffering that was predicted and of which the government was explicitly warned beforehand.\nThe First Administrative Court of Quibdo, Chocó sentenced the Colombian State to a billion and a half Colombian peso compensation to relatives of two of the dead victims on May 29, 2008. It ruled the State was administratively responsible and had neglected to protect its citizens, despite the warnings of the ombudsman.\n\nAt dawn of 22 February 2012, nearly 10 years after the event, a Colombian Air Force EMB-314 aircraft identified the camp of FARC's 57th Front, 15 kilometers north of Bojayá near the border with Panama. The Super Tucano dropped two high-precision bombs, destroying the camp and killing six FARC rebels, including Pedro Alfonso Alvarado alias \"Mapanao\", who are beleived to have been responsible for the massacre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243058", "title": "WPEC", "text": "WPEC\n\nWPEC, virtual channel 12 (VHF digital channel 13), is a CBS-affiliated television station licensed to West Palm Beach, Florida, United States, serving the Gold and Treasure Coasts of South Florida. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, as part of a duopoly with Fort Pierce-licensed CW affiliate WTVX (channel 34); it is also sister to two low-powered, Class A stations: Palm Beach-licensed MyNetworkTV affiliate WTCN-CD (channel 43) and Stuart-licensed Azteca América affiliate WWHB-CD (channel 48). The four stations share studios on Fairfield Drive in Mangonia Park (with a West Palm Beach postal address); WPEC's transmitter is located southeast of Wellington along US 441/SR 7, in unincorporated Palm Beach County. On cable, the station is available on Comcast Xfinity channel 9 (in Martin, Palm Beach, Okeechobee, and southern St. Lucie counties) and channel 12 (in Indian River and northern St. Lucie counties), and in high definition on digital channel 433.\n\nThe station signed-on as an ABC affiliate with the callsign WEAT-TV on January 1, 1955. It was owned by RKO General. Its original studios were on South Congress Avenue in West Palm Beach. RKO sold the station to Rex Rand in 1957. In 1964, Gardens Broadcasting, a company founded by businessman John D. MacArthur bought the station. In 1973, Photo Electronics bought the station from John D. MacArthur. The station moved to its present studio facilities on Fairfield Drive in Mangonia Park that same year. On January 27, 1974, the WEAT calls were changed to the current WPEC which stood for Photo Electronics Corporation in reference to the station's then-current owner, a company founded by local entrepreneur Alexander W. Dreyfoos, Jr.. The previous calls are currently used by an area radio station that is owned by Hubbard Broadcasting.\n\nOn January 1, 1989, it switched affiliations to CBS after the network purchased WCIX in Miami (channel 6, now WFOR-TV on channel 4) from the TVX Broadcast Group. WCIX's over-the-air signal was weaker than the other Miami VHF stations in Fort Lauderdale and Broward County. In contrast, WPEC, like nearly all of the West Palm Beach stations, provides city-grade coverage to most of Broward County. New sign-on WPBF took WPEC's old ABC affiliation, forcing former CBS affiliate WTVX to become an Independent station. A similar situation happened to NBC in 1995 when WCIX moved to channel 4 as WFOR and NBC was demoted to channel 6.\n\nThis caused WPEC to lose much of its Broward County audience to WFOR. As a result, rival West Palm Beach station WPTV gained Broward County NBC market share from WTVJ that was now on channel 6. In 1996, Freedom Communications bought the station. On April 8, 2009, WPEC announced that it was eliminating its 24-hour local weather channel (known as \"CBS 12 Now\") in favor of a new local Spanish-language television station originally known as \"232 Mi Pueblo TV\". However, the weather channel was reinstated on digital channel 12.3 in mid-2009.\n\nFreedom announced on November 2, 2011 that it would bow out of television and sell its stations, including WPEC, to the Sinclair Broadcast Group. Sinclair had earlier announced the acquisition of Four Points Media Group, owner of WTVX, and the two purchases resulted in the first full duopoly in West Palm Beach. Sinclair began operating the Four Points stations (including WTVX and its low-power sisters) through time brokerage agreements at some point in October; the company entered into a similar arrangement with the Freedom stations (including WPEC) two months later. The deal was completed on April 2, 2012, although the physical operations of WPEC and WTVX (along with WTCN and WWHB) initially remained separate. WTVX, WTCN, and WWHB would eventually be merged into WPEC's studios.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWPEC discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 12, on June 9, 2009 (three days before the most full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate on June 12). The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition VHF channel 13 (its former analog channel began being used for the digital signal of WPTV three days later). Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 12.\n\nSyndicated programming on WPEC includes \"Inside Edition\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", and \"Dr. Phil\" among others, all of which are distributed by CBS Television Distribution.\n\nFollowing the May 2009 sweeps period, WPEC finished in third place in household ratings in the early weeknight time slots. WPTV regularly beats WPBF and WPEC in Nielsen ratings as the most watched station in the West Palm Beach market. The NBC affiliate regularly retains its title as the most-watched television station in the state of Florida based on sign-on to sign-off household ratings in metered markets. For most of the time, WPBF has more or less remained at second place.\n\nAfter Fox required most of its affiliates to air local newscasts, the area's affiliate WFLX (then owned by Malrite Communications; eventually acquired by Raycom Media) entered into a news share agreement with WPEC. On September 11, 1991, this station started producing a nightly prime time broadcast on that channel known as \"Fox 29 10 O'Clock News\". Originally thirty minutes long, it soon expanded to a full hour. In 2000, an hour-long weekday morning show at 7 began to air on WFLX entitled \"Fox 29 Morning News\". This effort was expanded to two hours on September 6, 2006. On Friday and Sunday nights, there was also a sports highlight show called \"SportsZone\" that was shown on that channel.\n\nWFLX and WPEC maintained separate news sets and on-air identities but shared a weather set and most on-air personnel (the Fox outlet had its own entertainment reporter/website producer). Although all newscasts originated from WPEC's current studios, presentation on WFLX was done under the direction of Raycom Media which was credited in the closings. The graphics package and music theme used was similar to ones seen on other Raycom-owned stations with in house local news departments. On January 31, 2008, WPEC and WFLX became the second and third stations respectively in West Palm Beach to upgrade local newscast production to high definition level. On both stations, the upgrade included new sets. For WFLX, a separate updated Raycom Media-corporate graphics package was added.\n\nIt was announced on October 22, 2010 that WFLX would end the news share arrangement with WPEC on December 31. On January 1, 2011, WPTV (owned by the E. W. Scripps Company) established a new partnership with WFLX and began producing the two-hour weekday morning show and nightly hour-long prime time program. These newscasts now originate from a secondary set at WPTV's facility. In April 2004, WPEC started using \"Doppler 12000 StormTrac\" (now known as \"CBS 12 StormTrac Radar\") regional weather radar technology similar to the VIPIR system used by rival WPTV. However, unlike that station which actually operates its own radar device, WPEC receives delayed data from the National Weather Service.\n\nOn March 1, 2008, this station added weekend morning newscasts. On September 7, 2013, WPEC canceled its 7 p.m. newscast that was seen Monday through Saturday nights (it was the only television station in the market to air local news in the time slot) in preparation to move resources to launch a weeknight-only primetime newscast at 10 p.m. on WTVX. This half-hour production was expected to begin in January 2014 but was pushed back to March 3. It is WTVX's third showing of local news of any kind since its inception.\n\nOn August 11, 2014, WPEC debuted a half-hour 3:00 p.m. newscast, making it one of the very few stations in the U.S. to have a newscast in that timeslot, and is the only 3:00 p.m. newscast in the South Florida market. This newscast made its debuts as a replacement for the hour-long talk show, \"Bethenny\", which was canceled that season (the second half of the 3:00 p.m. hour was filled by reruns of \"Family Feud\"). This particular newscast is different, since it targets older women, and is anchored by three of WPEC's current news anchors, all of whom are female. It also uses the CBS Daytime talk-show, \"The Talk\" as a lead-in, which also generally targets a female audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243068", "title": "Divorce in Islam", "text": "Divorce in Islam\n\nDivorce in Islam can take a variety of forms, some initiated by the husband and some initiated by the wife. The main traditional legal categories are \"talaq\" (repudiation), \"khulʿ\" (mutual divorce), judicial divorce and oaths. The theory and practice of divorce in the Islamic world have varied according to time and place. Historically, the rules of divorce were governed by sharia, as interpreted by traditional Islamic jurisprudence, though they differed depending on the legal school, and historical practices sometimes diverged from legal theory. In modern times, as personal status (family) laws were codified, they generally remained \"within the orbit of Islamic law\", but control over the norms of divorce shifted from traditional jurists to the state.\n\nAccording to the Quran, marriage is intended to be unbounded in time, as indicated by its characterization as a \"firm bond\" and by the rules governing divorce. The relationship between the spouses should ideally be based on love (\"mawadda wa rahma\", 30:21) and important decisions concerning both spouses should be made by mutual consent. When marital harmony cannot be attained, the Quran allows and even advises the spouses to bring the marriage to an end (2:231), although this decision is not to be taken lightly, and the community is called upon to intervene by appointing arbiters from the two families to attempt a reconciliation (4:35). The Quran establishes two further means to avoid hasty divorces. For a menstruating woman, Al-Baqarah 2:228 prescribes the waiting (Iddah) period before the divorce is finalized, as three monthly periods. Similarly for a non-menstruating woman, prescribes the waiting period. This is to give the husband time to reconsider his decision. Moreover, a man who takes an oath not to have sexual intercourse with his wife, which would lead to automatic divorce, is allowed a four-month period to break his oath (2:226). \n\nThe Quran substantially reformed the gender inequity of divorce practices that existed in pre-Islamic Arabia, although some patriarchical elements survived and others flourished during later centuries. Before Islam, divorce among the Arabs was governed by unwritten customary law, which varied according to region and tribe, and its observance depended on the authority of the individuals and groups involved. In this system, women were particularly vulnerable. The Quranic rules of marriage and divorce provided a fixed set of norms for all Muslims, backed by divine authority and enforced by the community. The early Islamic reforms included giving the wife a possibility to initiate divorce, abrogation of the husband's claim to his wife's property, condemnation of divorce without compelling reason, criminalizing unfounded claims of infidelity made by the husband, and institution of financial responsibilities of the husband toward his divorced wife. In pre-Islamic times, men kept their wives in a state of \"limbo\" by continually repudiating them and taking them back at will. The Quran limited the number of repudiations to three, after which the man cannot take his wife back unless she first marries another man. Additionally, the pre-Islamic bridewealth (\"mahr\"), which was paid by the groom to the bride's family, was transformed into a dower, which became property of the wife, though some scholars believe that the practice of giving at least a part of the \"mahr\" to the bride began shortly before the advent of Islam.\n\nThe subject of divorce is addressed in four different surahs of the Quran, including the general principle articulated in 2:231:\n\nClassical Islamic law is derived from the scriptural sources of Islam (Quran and hadith) using various methodologies developed by different legal schools. It was historically interpreted by jurists (\"muftis\") who were expected to give a legal opinion (\"fatwa\") free of charge in response to any query. Family disputes were handled in sharia courts presided over by a judge (\"qadi\") who had enough legal education to decide some legal questions and queried a mufti if faced with a difficult legal issue. The judges were active members of the local community and were also involved in informal arbitration, which was the preferred method of resolving disputes. In court proceedings, they mediated between the letter of the law and exigences of the local social and moral concerns, with the overarching aim of ensuring social harmony. Actual legal practice sometimes deviated from the precepts of the legal school that was dominant in the area, at times to women's benefit and at times to their disadvantage. Members of all social classes and their witnesses argued their cases in court without professional legal representation, though members of the upper class generally did so through a representative. Women were commonly involved in litigation, usually as plaintiffs, were assertive in arguing their cases, and they were often treated sympathetically by the judge. According to legal doctrine, a woman's testimony in most areas of law carried half the weight of that of a man, though available evidence suggests that practical effects of this rule were limited and the legal standing of women in pre-modern Islam was comparable to or higher than that of their European contemporaries.\n\nThe term \"talaq\" is commonly translated as \"repudiation\" or simply \"divorce\". In classical Islamic law it refers to the husband's right to dissolve the marriage by simply announcing to his wife that he repudiates her. Classical jurists variously classified pronouncement of \"talaq\" as forbidden or reprehensible unless it was motivated by a compelling cause such as impossibility of cohabitation due to irreconcilable conflict, though they did not require the husband to obtain court approval or provide a justification. The jurists imposed certain restrictions on valid repudiation. For example, the declaration must be made in clear terms; the husband must be of sound mind and not coerced. Upon talaq, the wife is entitled to the full payment of \"mahr\" if it had not already been paid. The husband is obligated to financially support her until the end of the waiting period or the delivery of her child, if she is pregnant. In addition, she has a right to child support and any past due maintenance, which Islamic law requires to be paid regularly in the course of marriage.\n\nGiving the husband a prerogative of repudiation was based on the assumption that men would have no interest in initiating a divorce without good cause, given the financial obligations it would incur. Additionally, classical jurists were of the opinion that \"the female nature is wanting in rationality and self-control\". Requiring a justification was seen as being potentially detrimental to the reputation of both spouses, since it may expose family secrets to public scrutiny.\n\nTalaq is considered in Islam to be a reprehensible means of divorce. The initial declaration of talaq is a revocable repudiation (ṭalāq rajʿah) which does not terminate the marriage. The husband can revoke the repudiation at any time during the waiting period (\"‘iddah\") which lasts three full menstrual cycles. The waiting period is intended to give the couple an opportunity for reconciliation, and also a means to ensure that the wife is not pregnant. Resumption of sexual relations automatically retracts the repudiation. The wife retains all her rights during the waiting period. The divorce becomes final when the waiting period expires. This is called a \"minor\" divorce (\"al-baynuna al-sughra\") and the couple can remarry. If the husband repudiates his wife for the third time, it triggers a \"major\" divorce (\"al-baynuna al-kubra\"), after which the couple cannot remarry without an intervening consummated marriage to another man. This is known as \"tahlil\" or \"nikah halala\". Making the third pronouncement irrevocable prevents the husband from using repeated declarations and revocations of divorce as a means of pressuring his wife into making financial concessions in order to \"purchase her freedom\". It also acts as a deterrent to rash repudiations.\n\nWomen often entered marriage with substantial capital in the form of \"mahr\" and the trousseau provided by their family, which they were not obliged to spend on family expenses, and they frequently loaned money to their husbands. Because of this, and the financial obligations incurred, talaq could be a very costly and in many cases financially ruinous enterprise for the husband. Many repudiated women used the divorce payment to buy their ex-husband's share in the family house. In the historical record talaq appears to have been less common than khul'.\n\nAvailable evidence from Mamluk Egypt indicates that talaq was not the principal means of divorce. Talaq was considered to be disastrous for the woman because it deprived her of long-term protection and financial support, preventing her from remarrying, since this would cause her to lose child custody. This led to repudiation without good reason being considered socially improper. Studies of the Ottoman Levant showed that women could invalidate a declaration of talaq by stating that the husband had shown signs of \"diminished rationality\" when he made it, while others used a husband's unrevoked declaration of talaq to obtain divorce at a later date if they could prove that he made it.\n\nTalaq types can be classified into \"talaq al-sunnah\", which is thought to be in accordance with Muhammad's teachings, and \"talaq al-bid'ah\", which are viewed as a bid'ah (innovation) deviations from it. \"Talaq al-sunnah\" is further subdivided into \"talaq al-ahsan\", which is the least disapproved form of talaq, and \"talaq al-hasan\". The \"ahsan\" talaq involves a single revocable pronouncement of divorce and sexual abstinence during the waiting period. The \"hasan\" divorce involves three pronouncements made during the wife's state of ritual purity with menstrual periods intervening between them, and no intercourse having taken place during that time.\n\nIn contrast to \"talaq al-sunnah\", \"talaq al-bid'ah\" does not observe the waiting period and irrevocably terminates the marriage. It may involve a \"triple talaq\", i.e., the declaration of talaq repeated three times, or a different formula such as \"you are \"haram\" for me\". Some legal schools held that a triple talaq performed in a single meeting constituted a \"major\" divorce, while others classified it as a \"minor\" divorce. \"Talaq al-bid'ah\" reflects pre-Islamic divorce customs rather than Quranic principles, and it is considered to be a particularly disapproved, though legally valid form of divorce in traditional Sunni jurisprudence. According to Islamic tradition, Muhammad denounced the practice of triple talaq, and the second caliph Umar punished husbands who made use of it.\n\nShiite jurisprudence does not recognize \"talaq al-bid'ah\".\n\nThe husband can delegate the right of repudiation to his wife. This delegation can be made at the time of drawing up the marriage contract (nikah) or during the marriage, with or without conditions. Many women included such terms in their marriage contracts. Commonly, the contract gave the wife the right to \"repudiate herself\" if the husband married a second wife. Delegated repudiation is called \"ṭalāq al-tafawud\" or \"tafwid\".\n\nKhulʿ is a contractual type of divorce that is initiated by the wife. It is justified on the authority of verse 2:228:\n\nIt is further based on a hadith in which Muhammad instructs a man to agree to his wife's wish of divorce if she gives back a garden received from him as part of her \"mahr\". A khul' is concluded when the couple agrees to a divorce in exchange for a monetary compensation paid by the wife, which cannot exceed the value of the \"mahr\" she had received, and is generally a smaller sum or involves forfeiting the still unpaid portion. Hanafis and Malikis do not require a compensation paid by the wife. The divorce is final and irrevocable, effective when the contract is concluded. The couple cannot reconcile during the waiting period, defined as in the case of talaq, but the husband is required to pay maintenance during its term, unless the requirement is waived by the contract. As in the case of \"talaq\", remarriage is possible until a khul' is concluded for a third time. If the husband pressures his wife to agree to khul' instead of pronouncing talaq, which would let him avoid attendant financial responsibilities, the divorce is considered to be invalid. Like talaq, khulʿ takes place out of court.\n\nRelative frequency of khul' has been noted in studies of Istanbul, Anatolia, Syria, Muslim Cyprus, Egypt and Palestine.\n\nIn studies of Mamluk Egypt and the Balkans under Ottoman rule, khul' was shown to have been the principal means of divorce. Women employed a number of strategies to force a settlement from their husbands. Some neglected their marital and household duties, making family life impossible for the husband. Others demanded immediate payment of the deferred mahr, knowing that the husband had no means to comply and would be jailed if he failed to do so.\n\nIn some cases the khul' contract involved no compensation from the wife, while in other cases women would waive all of their husband's financial obligations. According to studies of the Ottoman Levant, various court procedures were put in place to ensure that a khul' was not actually a talaq.\n\nA marriage can also be dissolved by means of judicial divorce. Either spouse can petition a qadi court to obtain judicial divorce, but they must have compelling grounds for dissolving the marriage. The court starts the process by appointing an arbitrator from each of their families in order to seek a mediated reconciliation. If this effort fails, the court adjudicates the dispute by apportioning fault for the breakdown of the marriage with the associated financial consequences. Examples of fault are cruelty; husband's failure to provide maintenance or pay the immediate installment of \"mahr\"; infidelity; desertion; moral or social incompatibility; certain ailments; and imprisonment harmful to the marriage. Judicial divorce can also be sought over violations of terms stipulated in the marriage contract. Different legal schools recognized different subsets of these grounds for divorce. The Maliki school, which recognized the widest range of grounds for divorce, also stipulates a category of \"harm\" (ḍarar), which gave the judge significant discretion of interpretation.\n\nIn some areas under Ottoman rule it was hardly possible for women to obtain divorce except through khul' due to the restriction imposed by the prevailing Hanafi school, though some exceptions have been found. The most serious problem was abandonment, which was not recognized as grounds for judicial divorce. To address this, in some cases a man setting out for travel would leave his wife a letter authorizing talaq if he did not return within a specified period of time. In other cases, Hanafi judges invited a Maliki or Hanbali colleague to pronounce divorce, or the woman herself took the initiative to seek out a judge from one of these schools. The same approach was used to effect a divorce in cases of failure to provide maintenance. In the Ottoman Balkans a woman could file for divorce on the grounds that her husband was \"not a good Muslim\".\n\nSince marriages between non-Muslim men and Muslim women are forbidden under Islamic law, when a married woman converted to Islam but her husband did not, the marriage would be considered void by Muslim authorities and the woman obtained custody of the children. Seventeenth-century sources indicate that non-Muslim women throughout the Ottoman Empire used this method to obtain a divorce.\n\nThe husband can end marriage through three types of oaths: the oath of continence (\"īlāʿ\" and \"iẓhar\"), the denial of paternity (\"liʿan\"), and conditional ṭalāq. The first two types were pre-Islamic practices confirmed by the Quran (2:226–227 for \"ila\", and 58:2–4 for \"izhar\"), which also makes clear that \"izhar\" is reprehensible despite being legally valid.\n\n\"Ila\" is an oath whereby the husband vows to refrain from sexual relations with his wife for at least four months. If he fulfils his oath, the marriage is dissolved; if he breaks it, the marriage continues. In the \"izhar\" (or \"ẓihār\") oath a man declares that his wife is as sexually prohibited to him as his mother. The husband is able to break the oath and resume the marriage. Breaking either oath requires expiation by means of feeding the poor or fasting.\n\nIn the \"li'an\" oath, the husband denies paternity of his wife's child. The wife is given an opportunity to take an oath denying infidelity, and if she does so and the husband persists in his accusation, the marriage is dissolved by a judge and the couple can never remarry.\n\nIn the oath of conditional ṭalāq, the husband declares that he will divorce his wife if he or she performs a certain act. This oath can serve as a protection for the wife or as a threat by the husband, depending on the specified act.\n\nStudies of practices under Mamluk and Ottoman rule found no instances of the oaths of li'an or abstinence being used, while conditional talaq seems to have played a prominent role. It was used to issue various threats to the wife as well as to make promises. In Ottoman Egypt marriage contracts commonly included stipulations of conditional talaq which were not otherwise recognized by the prevailing Hanafi school as grounds for judicial divorce, such as non-payment of maintenance or marrying a second wife.\n\nIslamic law does not recognize the concept of communal property, and division of property is based on its attribution to either spouse. The wife obtains custody of the children until their majority (whose definition varies according to legal school), while the father retains guardianship.\n\nChild custody practices under Ottoman rule appear to have followed the rules of Hanafi juridprudence, although in Ottoman Egypt children generally stayed with their divorced mother beyond the prescribed age. A divorced woman could keep custody of the children unless she remarried and her husband claimed custody, in which case it generally passed to one of her female relatives. Under the Mamluks, women could waive the right to child support in order to obtain extended custody.\n\n\"Mahr\" is a nuptial gift made by groom to the bride at the time of marriage. Upon receipt, it becomes her sole property with complete freedom of use and disposal. The marriage contract is not valid without the mahr. The amount of the mahr generally depended on the socio-economic status of the bride. The payment of a portion of the mahr was commonly deferred and served as a deterrent to the exercise of the right of unilateral divorce by the husband, although classical jurists disagreed about the permissibility and manner of deferring payment of the mahr.\n\nIslamic jurisprudence has clear guidance on handling of mahr in the case of divorce, depending on who asks for the divorce and whether or not the intercourse occurred. If the husband asks for a divorce and intercourse has occurred, he pays full \"mahr\"; if the husband asks for a divorce and the intercourse has not occurred, the husband pays half the dower; if the wife asks for a divorce and intercourse has occurred, the husband pays half the \"mahr\"; and if the wife asks for a divorce and intercourse has not occurred, then no \"mahr\" is required to be paid by the husband.\n\nIn the modern era, sharia-based laws were widely replaced by statutes based on European models, and its classical rules were largely retained only in personal status (family) laws. Different explanations have been proposed for this phenomenon. Several scholars have argued that because these laws are more extensively specified in the Quran and hadith than others, it has been difficult for believers to accept deviating from these rules. In contrast, Wael Hallaq sees it as a legacy of colonialism: changing family laws would have provided no benefit in colonial administration, and colonial powers promoted the theory that these laws were sacred to the population, advertising their preservation as a mark of respect, which in turn led to them being taken up as a point of reference in modern Muslim identity politics.\n\nImportant changes in family laws took place in the modern era. The laws underwent codification by legislative bodies and were also displaced from their original context into modern legal systems, which generally followed Western practices in court procedure and legal education. This severed them both from the classical interpretative tradition and from the institutional foundations of the pre-modern legal system into which they were embedded. In particular, control over the norms of divorce shifted from traditional jurists to the state, though they generally remained \"within the orbit of Islamic law\".\n\nChanging social conditions have led to increasing dissatisfaction with traditional Islamic law of divorce since the early 20th century. Various reforms have been undertaken in an attempt to restrict the husband's right of unilateral repudiation and give women greater ability to initiate divorce. These reforms have utilized a number of methods, of which the most important are:\n\n\nThe All India Muslim Personal Law Board issued a code of conduct in April 2017 regarding talaq in response to the controversy over the practice of triple talaq in India. It also warned that those who resort to triple talaq, or divorce recklessly, without justification or for reasons not prescribed under Shariat will be socially boycotted.\n\nIn India, The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019 was passed in July, 2019 which made instant triple talaq (talaq-e-biddah) in any form — spoken, written, or by electronic means illegal, void, and punishable by up to three years imprisonment. Under the new law, an aggrieved woman is entitled to demand maintenance for her dependent children. India is among 23 countries that have banned triple talaq.\n\nAccording to Yossef Rapoport, in the 15th century, the rate of divorce was higher than it is today in the modern Middle East, which has generally low rates of divorce. In 15th century Egypt, Al-Sakhawi recorded the marital history of 500 women, the largest sample on marriage in the Middle Ages, and found that at least a third of all women in the Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt and Syria married more than once, with many marrying three or more times. According to Al-Sakhawi, as many as three out of ten marriages in 15th century Cairo ended in divorce. In the early 20th century, some villages in western Java and the Malay peninsula had divorce rates as high as 70%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243071", "title": "Kuriakose Elias Chavara", "text": "Kuriakose Elias Chavara\n\nKuriakose Elias Chavara, C.M.I. (10 February 1805 – 3 January 1871) was an Indian Catholic priest and social reformer. He is the first canonised Catholic male saint of Indian origin and belongs to the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, an Eastern Catholic Church based in the state of Kerala. He was the co-founder and first Prior General of the first congregation for men in the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, now known as the Carmelites of Mary Immaculate (C.M.I.), and of a similar one for women, the Congregation of the Mother of Carmel (C.M.C.).\n\nKuriakose Elias Chavara was born on 10 February 1805 at Kainakary, Kerala in a Nasrani Christian family as the son of Iko (Kuriakose) Chavara and Mariam Thoppil. Nasranis are Saint Thomas Christians (also known as Syriac Christians) who are the ancient Christians of Kerala baptised by Thomas the Apostle in the first century. The name \"Kuriakose\" is derived from the Syriac Aramaic name ܩܘܪܝܩܘܣ (\"Quriaqos\"). He was baptised on 17 February 1805 at St. Joseph's Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, Chennamkary. On 8 September 1805, Chavara was dedicated to Blessed Virgin Mary at St. Mary's Church, Vechoor. The Chavara family has derived from the ancient Nasrani family Meenappally in Kainakary.\n\nIn his childhood, Kuriakose attended the village school. There he studied language and elementary sciences. He entered the seminary in 1818 in Pallipuram where Palackal Thoma Malpan was the Rector. He was ordained a priest on 29 November 1829 and celebrated first Holy Qurbana at St. Andrew's Catholic Forane Church Arthunkal Alappuzha. His special intention during the first Holy Qurabana was the realization of the religious institute which was being contemplated by Palackal Thomas Malpan, Porukara Thomas\nKathanar, Brother Jacob Kaniathara and himself.\n\nKuriakose Elias Chavara joined with two other priests, Palackal Thoma Malpan and Porukara Thoma Kathanar to lead a monastic life. The name of the community they founded was \"Servants of Mary Immaculate\". The foundation for the first monastery at Mannanam was laid on 11 May 1831 by Porukara Thomas Kathanar. Palackal Malpan and Porukara Kathanar died in 1841 and 1846 respectively. On 8 December 1855, Kuriakose Elias Chavara and ten other priests took vows in the Carmelite tradition. He was nominated as the Prior General of Mannanam monastery. The congregation became affiliated as a Third Order institute of the Order of Discalced Carmelites. From that point on they used the postnominal initials of T.O.C.D.\n\nKuriakose Elias Chavara was a social reformer who initiated reforms in the Kerala society much before Narayana Guru(1853) Chattambi Swamikal(1853) and Vakkom Abdul Khadar Maulavi(1854). Though he hailed from a Syriac Christian family, which occupied a higher social status, he played a major role in educating and uplifting people especially of the lower ranks of society.\n\nKuriakose Chavara started an institution for Sanskrit studies at Mannanam in 1846. A tutor belonging to the Variar community was brought from Thrissur, to teach at this Sanskrit institution. After establishing the Sanskrit institution in Mannanam, Chavara took the initiative to start a school in a nearby village called Arpookara. On this Parappurath Varkey wrote in the Chronicles of the Mannanam monastery: “While the work on the Mannanam School began, a place on the Arpookara Thuruthumali hill was located to build a Chapel and school for the converts from the Pulaya caste.\" Chavara was the first Indian who not only dared to admit the untouchables to schools but also provided them with Sanskrit education which was forbidden to the lower castes, thereby challenging social bans based on caste, as early as the former part of the 19th century.\n\nIt was during this time Bishop Bernadine Baccinelly issued a circular in 1864 which would act as the root cause of tremendous growth of education and hundred percent literacy in Kerala. It was a warning circular which stated, “each parish should establish educational institutions, or else they will be debarred from the communion”. The schools in Kerala are commonly called \"Pallikudams\" (school attached to Church (Palli)) because of this circular. Kuriakose Chavara took great interest in implementing the circular. He delegated the members of his Congregation to ensure the implementation of the order in the circular and to actively take up educational activities. Each monastery was to oversee these activities of the parish churches in its neighbourhood.\n\nKuriakose Chavara knew that the schools he started in Mannanam and Arpookara would be successful if the poor students especially dalits were given midday meals. It was his original idea. It inspired Sir C P Ramaswamy Iyer to recommend this to King for being implemented in all government run schools. This practice is continued even today in government schools in India.\n\nKuriakose Chavara a charity practice known as \"Pidiyari\" (a handful of rice) to encourage people to make daily small donations to help the needy. The \"Pidyari\" scheme supported the Midday meal Kuriakose Chavara popularized in schools The \"Pidiyari\" scheme was implemented in the following way: Participants would daily set aside a small quantity of rice in a special collection pot. The rice collected would be brought to Church during the weekends and was used to feed the poor, especially students for midday meal. A pious organization was formed by Kuriakose Chavara called “Unnimishihayude Dharma Sabha” who took care of the \"Pidiyari\"collection.\n\nKuriakose Chavara started St. Joseph's Press at Mannanam in 1846, which was the third printing press in Kerala and the first press founded by a Malayali without the help of foreigners. From this printing press came the oldest existing Malayalam newspaper in circulation \"Nasrani Deepika\".\n\nKuriakose Elias Chavara introduced retreat preaching for the laity for the first time in the Kerala Church. He popularised devotions and piety exercises such as rosary, way of the cross and eucharistic adoration. He was the Vicar General of Syriac Rite Catholics in 1861 in order to counter the influence of Mar Thomas Rochos on Saint Thomas Christians.\n\nIn co-operation with Palackal Thoma Malpan and Thoma Porukara, Kuriakose Elias Chavara founded an Indian religious congregation for men, now known as the Carmelites of Mary Immaculate. Chavara took religious vows on 8 December 1855 and took the name of Kuriakose Elias of the Holy Family.\n\nKuriakose Elias Chavara was the Prior General of all the monasteries of the congregation from 1856 till his death in 1871.He was commonly called under the name 'Common Prior'. The activities of the members of CMI congregation under the leadership of Chavara created huge transformation in the society. This made priests and people to request Chavara to open religious houses in their area. He established seven new monasteries besides Mannanam. They are Koonammavu-1857, Elthurutrh-1858, Plasnal-1858, Vazhakulam-1859, Pulincunnu-1861, Ambazhakad-1868, and Mutholy-1870. In 1864, The Vicar Apostolic transferred St.Chavara to Koonammavu Monastery.\n\nIn 1866, 13 February, Kuriakose Elias Chavara founded the first Carmelite convent for women at Koonamavu under the name 'Third Order of Carmelites Discalced' which would later become CMC and CTC Congregation in Syro Malabar Church and Latin Church respectively. While CMC congregation acknowledges and upholds the role of Kuriakose Chavara in their foundation, CTC congregation denies any role for him and considers Mother Eliswa as the foundress.\n\nKuriakose Chavara hoped and prayed for the establishment of a religious congregation for women in the apostolic Church of St. Thomas. According to Kuriakose Chavara the lack of convents was a 'pathetic situation,' which led to deep sorrow within him. He conceived the covent as a house of sanctity where the girls could learn spiritual matters, grow up as good Christians and work for the intellectual development and education of women to achieve social welfare.\n\nLeopold Beccaro – who was a close associate and confessor of Kuriakose Chavara – with whom Eliswa had communicated her desire to lead a life of chastity, during her meetings with him for confession and spiritual direction, wrote in Italian in his personal diary on 3 January 1871, the day of the death of Chavara: “The founder and the first prior of the Tertiaries of the Discalced Carmelites in Malabar, who with extreme fatigue has founded the monastery of the sisters [e fondato con somme fatiche il monastero delle Monache]...” Again, in another important document, a short biography of Chavara written by Beccaro himself, we come across the following affirmative statements: “Among these, specially, [he] earnestly desired to bring into existence an abode of virtues for the girls of Malayalam and a convent of sisters for learning doctrines and traditions of the Catholic religion as well as to make them grow as good Christian children... It is a fact known to all that even after the starting of the convent, he showed great fervour and interest to conduct everything in order and with virtues...” These two statements made by Beccaro give credence to the fact that Chavara had not only a deep and long-lasting desire to establish a convent for sisters, but had also made every effort, including the spiritual and administrative guidance in the realization of the project.\n\nAll the literary works of Kuriakose Chavara were written between 1829 and 1870. The literary writings of Kuriakose Chavara are unique in two aspects. First, it reflects the religious spiritualism of Christianity. Second, even after a century after the Kuriakose Chavara wrote, there are limited number of literary works with reference to Christianity.\n\nThe writings of Kuriakose Elias Chavara can be divided generally into following categories during the namely:\n\nThe Chronicles (Nalagamangal) narrates the daily events not only of the monastery but also of the society. These writings were originally found in Malayalam, in Kuriakose Chavara's own handwriting. There are two manuscripts under the title 'Mannanam Nalagamangal.' Together with the events of the CMI Congregation the chronicles depict events associated with the Society and Kerala Church of that time. The book 'Complete Works of Chavara', Vol. 1 published in 1990 contains five Chronicles.\n\nIt is an autobiographical poem written in epic style – Mahakavyam (Mahakavya). The poem gives life to life of Jesus from birth to ascension into heaven and life of Mary from ascension of Jesus to assumption of Mary into heaven. The uniqueness of the poem is that Kuriakose Chavara brings his own life experiences from childhood.\n\nAccording to Dr. K.M.Tharakan Atmanuthapam reflects Kuriakose Chavara's philosophy of life which in turn exemplifies a Christian religious life. Dr. Tharakan states, \"...Humility, which is not self-contempt, and repentance are the foundation stones of the philosophy of his life. Thus the first step is faith in God. The second is the belief that one can reach God through Jesus Christ. The third is the conviction that without repenting and accepting Jesus, one cannot reach Christ... what a Christian obtains is the awareness of the noble qualities. These qualities are 'faith', 'hope' and 'love'. Only through these triple qualities, a Christian can attain Christ.\"\nIt is intended to be sung when the corpus is placed in the coffin for public homage. The poem contains 1162 verses. The underlying message is that one should lead a virtuous and God-fearing life in order overcome the painful experience of death. The articles of faith related to the death of a man are enumerated and beautifully illustrated with stories or incidents, the poet heard or read.\n\nIt is the counsel to the Christian Families of Kainakari parish but its relevance to the families resonates till date. This insightful and down-to-earth document is the first of its kind in the known history of the Church, offers practical direction to families in leading a God-fearing as well as socially commendable life.\n\nIt contains 232 verses.\n\n\"Dhyana Sallapangal\" consists of the reflective meditative notes of Kuriakose Chavara. \n\nThey were the first dramatic plays in Malayalam in the pastoral (shepherd) genre or Eclogues of Italy. They were plays written for being performed during the Christmas season. Kuriakose Chavara wrote it between 1856 – 1858. He wrote 10 Eclogues (Shepherd Plays) and introduced them in the novitiate at Koonammavu Seminary.\n\nThe first Indian drama is Neeldarpan, published in 1860 and is written in Bengali by Dinabandhu Mitra on the miseries of the indigo cultivators. The first Malayalam play is considered Abhinjana Shakuntalam, translated into Malayalam by Kerala Verma Valiakovil Thampuran in 1882. Kuriakose Chavara wrote the 10 eclogues or liturgical dramas decades before. He could be considered the father of Malayalam drama.\n\nThese letters were written on different occasions to various persons or groups. There are 67 original copies of these letters. These letters are published in 'Complete Works of Chavara' Vol.IV. The chronicle in Koonammavu records three letters written to them by Kuriakose Elias Chavara. Even though the Chronicle states many letters and notes were written by Chavara, only three are recorded.\n\nEven though Kuriakose Chavara wrote many prayer texts only six of them have been preserved. They are: \ni) Meditation: method of beginning – Meditation: method of beginning is an intercessory prayer to mother Mary seeking help to be with him during the meditation.\nii) Prayer to the Blessed virgin Mary. Thanksgiving prayer to the blessings that received from mother Mary.\niii) Morning Prayer to Most Holy Trinity – Thanksgiving prayer for the favours received.\niv) Evening prayer to Most Holy Trinity – Thanksgiving prayer for the favours received. \nv) Prayer for custody of eyes – Prayers to be recited by priests to remain rooted in their fidelity to Jesus Christ. \nvi) Prayer to be recited by priests – Prayers to be recited by priests to remain rooted in their fidelity to Jesus Christ.\n\nKuriakose Chavara wrote a number of liturgical texts that played an important role in reforming liturgy. They include the Divine office for priests, Divine office for the dead, office of the Blessed virgin Mary, prayers of various blessings, the order of Holy mass – \"Tukasa\", liturgical calendar, forty hours adoration and prayer books for lay man.\n\nIn this category there are 16 writings that has been preserved. Some of these are written on palm leaves and others on paper. It deals with matters pertaining to administrative matters pertaining to the time of Chavara.\n\nPrior Mango (പ്രിയോർ മാങ്ങ) is a variety of mango which Kuriakose Chavara popularised. It is named after him who was endearingly called “Prior” based on his position as the Prior or head of the religious congregation. At Mannanam monastery there was a mango tree which was planted and taken care of by Kuriakose Chavara. He sent the mango seedlings to monasteries and convents and told the members: Please plant the sapling of this sweet mango, which I name it as ‘Dukran’(Orma = memory) in each of our monastery. \"This is to make you realize that myself and all men are weak and faltering and don’t have long life even as these mango trees which give sweet fruits.\" In a letter he wrote : \" This Mango-tree (1870) and its seedlings leave a loving patrimonial memory for us\" It is because of the association of Carmelite Prior Kuriakose Chavara that this variety of mango came to be known all over Kerala as \"Priormavu\" (the mango tree of the Prior). Prior Mango is considered as one of the premium variety of mangoes in Kerala and is often exported to its neighbouring south Indian states.\nHe also planted prior mango tree in koonammav at St: philominas churuch backyard the tree is still remaining here and giving fruit to all season.\n\nKuriakose Elias Chavara died on 3 January 1871, aged 66, at Koonammavu. He was buried in St.Philomena's Forane Church, Koonammavu His body was later moved to St. Joseph's Monastery Church in Mannanam.His memorial is celebrated on 3 January as per the Syro-Malabar liturgical calendar. whereas his memorial is celebrated on 18 February as per the Roman Liturgical Calendar of the Latin Rite.\n\nThe following were the last words of Kuriakose Chavara: “Why are you sad? All God’s people must die some day. My hour has come. By the grace of God, I prepared myself for it since long.” Showing a picture of the Holy Family, he continued, \"My parents taught me to keep the Holy Family always in my mind and to honour them throughout my life. As I had always the protection of the Holy Family I can tell you with confidence that I have never lost the baptismal grace I received in baptism. I dedicate our little Congregation and each of you to the Holy Family. Always rely on Jesus, Mary and Joseph. Let the Holy Family reign in your hearts. Don’t be sad about my dying. Joyfully submit yourselves to the will of God. God is all powerful and His blessings are countless. God will provide you with a new Prior who will be a source of blessing for the Congregation as well as for you. Hold fast to the constitution, the rules of our elders and that of the Church. Love our Lord Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament with all your heart. Draw the waters of eternal life from that fountain as in the words of the Prophet Elijah. All the members of the congregation, especially elders must be charitable to one another. If you do so, God will be glorified by the congregation and which will be flourished day after day. Your charity will bring salvation to souls.\"\n\nScores of miraculous favours were reported by the intercession of Kuriakose Chavara. Alphonsa of the Immaculate Conception, who later became the first saint of India, has testified in 1936 that Kuriakose Elias Chavara had appeared to her twice during her illness and relieved her suffering. Alphonsa had a holy relic of Chavra's hair which was taken by one of his disciples Varkey Muttathupadathu and which she believed allowed her to pray to Kuriakose Chavara and receive miraculous cure. The relic is now preserved in Mannanam.\n\nThe miracle which Rome approved for the beatification of Kuriakose Chavara was the cure of the congenial deformity of the legs (clubfoot) of Joseph Mathew Pennaparambil happened in April 1960. Joseph was born club-footed with congenial deformity of both the legs. On hearing that many miracles have happened through the intercession of Kuriakose Chavara, Joseph and his family started praying. They prayed almost a month. One day when Joseph and his sister were walking back from school, she asked him to pray to Saint Kuriakose Elias Chavara for the cure of his legs and asked him to recite 1 Our Father, 1 Hail Mary and 1 Glory be to the Father. As they walked reciting prayers suddenly Joseph's leg started shivering. Joseph pressed his right leg to the ground and he could now walk properly with right leg. They continued their prayers and on 30 April 1960, while Joseph and his sister was on the way to elder brother's house, the left leg too became normal. Since then he could walk normally. Joseph believes that it was the intercession Kuriakose Chavara which resulted in the miracle. Rome approved the miracle which led to the beatification of Kuriakose Chavara as Blessed in 1984.\n\nThe miracle which was approved for canonization of Kuriakose Chavara to sainthood was the instantaneous, total and stable cure of the congenital squint (alternating esotropia) in both eyes of Maria Jose Kottarathil, a Catholic girl of age 9 from Pala in Kottayam District of Kerala State in India. Even though Maria was suggested to have surgery by five doctors, Maria and her family decided to pray to Kuriakose Chavara. On 12 October 2007, Maria visited the room and tomb of Kuriakose Chavara at Mannanam with her parents. On 16 October 2007, the squint eyes disappeared. The miracle was approved by the Congregation for the Causes of the Saints on 18 March 2014 which lead to the canonization.\n\nThe official canonization process of Kuriakose Chavara started in 1955, Mar Mathew Kavukattu, arch-bishop of Changanacherry, received instructions from Rome to start diocese-level procedure towards the canonisation. On 7 April 1984, Pope John Paul II approved Kuriakose Elias Chavara's practice of heroic virtues and declared him \"Venerable\". Kuriakose Elias Chavara was beatified at Kottayam on 8 February 1986 by Pope John Paul II in the course of a papal visit to India.\n\nOn 3 April 2014, Pope Francis authorised the Congregation for the Causes of Saints to promulgate the decrees concerning the miracle attributed to Kuriakose Kathanar's intercession. This confirmed Pope's approval of Kuriakose Elias Chavara's canonisation. On 23 November 2014, he was canonised at Saint Peter's Square by Pope Francis along with Euphrasia Eluvathingal. Pope Francis stated that \"Father Kuriakose Elias was a religious, both active and contemplative, who generously gave his life for the Syro-Malabar Church, putting into action the maxim “sanctification of oneself and the salvation of others.\"\n\n\nThere are various images of Kuriakose Elias Chavara all over the world. The National Shrine of Saint Jude, Faversham, United Kingdom has a beautiful icon of the Chavara. In 2004 a fire broke out in the Shrine Chapel which destroyed the murals which hung there, and it damaged much of the other artwork. The decision was made to install icons depicting saints inspired by the Carmelite Rule of Saint Albert, and in commemoration of the 8th centenary of the Carmelite Rule in 2007. The icons were written by Sister Petra Clare, a Benedictine hermit living in Scotland, United Kingdom.\n\nThere are many museums associated with life and activities of Kuriakose Elias Chavara. They significant ones are:\n\nSt. Chavara Museum, Archives and Research Centre, Mannanam.\n\nThe Museum at Mannanam consists of the room he stayed, articles used by him, the documents written by him, the replica of the press he founded, the first school he started and above all it is located in the place where he founded the first monastery. \n\nSt. Chavara Kuriakose Elias Museum, koonammavu\n\nThis visitors of this museum can enter the room where Chavara died and can also see various articles used by him. This museum is associated with St. Philomena's Church Koonammavu.\n\nChavara National Museum, Vazhakulam\n\nThe exhibits consists of a miniature model of Chavara's birth house, articles used by him and also various antique articles. \n\nChavara Museum and Art Gallery, Alappuzha\n\nThe exhibits in the museum consist of articles used by Chavara such as his cot, the chair used by him in the boat. One of the special exhibit is the box which was used to transfer the remains of Chavara from Koonammavu to Mannanam. It also has old holy Vestments, antique utilities and boxes. A number of books about Chavara are also displayed. Yet another attraction is the miniature model of his birth house.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243084", "title": "Scenic Hot Springs", "text": "Scenic Hot Springs\n\nScenic Hot Springs is a privately owned natural hot spring in Washington state that is closed to the public. Located high on a steep northwestern slope, it is south of U.S. Route 2, about 8 miles west of Stevens Pass and bordering the Alpine Lakes Wilderness. Nearby, the Great Northern Railway had a stop for travelers to experience the springs.\n\nNear the railroad, in the 1890s, a lodge known as Madison Hot Springs, was built to accommodate visitors to these mineral baths who arrived by train from Seattle. The name was later changed to Scenic Hot Springs and it survived as a commercial venture until 1928. Construction by the Great Northern Railway of an 8-mile tunnel under Stevens Pass dumped rubble into the front yard of the lodge and effected its destruction. Largely forgotten until the 1980s, it then became a popular gathering spot for mineral water bathers who constructed several tubs of various temperatures.\n\nIn October 2001 the King County Sheriff shut down the springs and threatened to arrest bathers for trespassing, at the land owner's request. The land owner was apparently not aware of what was taking place on the property. Activities occurring at the springs were a liability risk and the fact that the area is environmentally protected and no building permits had been issued was used as a reason to demolish the decking.\n\nIt is not clear that the springs will ever be available in the form they were before the incident in 2001. Large amounts of vandalism and bad weather has caused its deterioration . On top of it, Federal and State regulations are making it difficult to restore the springs to their original working condition. As of February 2018, access to the springs is conditionally open to those to whom the owner has charged to give permission. Requests to access this private property can be made through the \"Scenic Hot Springs\" blog. This is \"not\" public land, although it is surrounded by public lands. It is private land, and permission from the owner is needed to access the springs. Hikers wishing to visit the Hot Springs without contacting the owner risk having their car towed during their visit or having trespassing charges ensued upon them.\n"}
{"id": "2243090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243090", "title": "Battle of Rastarkalv", "text": "Battle of Rastarkalv\n\nThe Battle of Rastarkalv () took place in 955 on the southern part of the island of Frei in the present-day Kristiansund Municipality in Møre og Romsdal county, Norway.\n\nThis was one of several battles between the forces of King Haakon the Good and those of the sons of Eirik Bloodaxe (\"Eiriksønnene\"). After their father's death, Harald Greycloak and his brothers were allied against King Haakon with King Harald Bluetooth of Denmark. Haakon had put up a warning system with cairns that would be lighted to tell of approaching war fleets. Therefore, the king was alarmed first with messengers at Nordmøre from Stadlandet. By placing ten standards far apart along a low ridge, Haakon gave the impression that his army was bigger than it actually was. Haakon managed to fool Eirik's sons into believing they were outnumbered. The Danes fled but when they came to the beach, they discovered that their ships had been pushed out to sea. Haakon gained the victory and the Danish forces were slaughtered by Haakon's army.\n\nEgil Ullserk, who was Haakon's leading man, died in the battle. Gamle Eirikssen, one of the sons of Eirik Bloodaxe, also died in the conflict. Haakon buried Egil Ullserk in a ship together with the people who had died in the battle. In 1955 (on the 1000 year anniversary), King Haakon VII visited the area and commemorated the battle. There is a stone monument located near Frei Church in Nedre Frei. It consists of an Obelisk Memorial for Egil Ullserk and his men who died at the Battle of Rastarkalv.\n"}
{"id": "2243093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243093", "title": "List of New York University alumni", "text": "List of New York University alumni\n\nNew York University (NYU) is one of the world's premier residential research and teaching institutions. This partial list of notable New York University alumni includes a sampling of the many graduates who are leaders in their respective fields, non-graduate former students, fictional students, and current students of New York University. The list is abridged—only a representative few are listed. NYU ranks 7th among the \"World's top 100 universities for producing millionaires\", as compiled by Times Higher Education World University Rankings.\n\nNYU ranks 5th globally among universities with the highest number of alumni worth $30 million or more, as compiled by ABC News. CNBC ranks NYU 4th globally among universities with the most billionaire graduates. National Academy of Inventors ranks NYU 19th in the world based on the number of patents generated. In 2016, a study based on a computerized analysis of the number of times institutions of higher education are mentioned in Wikipedia and the number of times people search for them on Google, ranked NYU #19 among all universities in the world. NYU also is the second top feeder school for analyst careers in finance and investment banking, after University of Pennsylvania, on Wall Street.\n\nThe following abbreviations and notes are used to represent NYU schools and colleges:\nIn 1973, the New York University School of Engineering and Science merged into Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, which in turn merged into NYU to form New York University Polytechnic School of Engineering in 2014. In 2015, a $100 million gift from Chandrika and Ranjan Tandon for engineering at NYU resulted in the school changing its name to NYU Tandon School of Engineering.\n\n! style=\"width:*;\"| Name\n! style=\"width:7%;\"| Year\n! style=\"width:7%;\"| School\n! style=\"width:11%;\"| Degree\n! style=\"width:45%;\"| Notability\n! style=\"width:5%;\" class=\"unsortable\"| Reference\n"}
{"id": "2243103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243103", "title": "Kluane Lake", "text": "Kluane Lake\n\nKluane Lake is located in the southwest area of the Yukon. It is the largest lake contained entirely within Yukon at approximately , and long.\n\nUntil 2016, Kluane Lake was fed by the A'ay Chu (Slims River), which was composed of meltwater from the Kaskawulsh Glacier, located within Kluane National Park. It drains into the Kluane River, whose waters flow into the Donjek River, White River, Yukon River, and eventually the Bering Sea. The lake has a high density of large-bodied lake trout and whitefish and is known for its fishing.\n\nKluane Lake is located approximately northwest of Haines Junction. The lake has a mean depth of and a maximum depth of \n\nThe Alaska Highway follows most of Kluane Lake's southern border, and the drive offers views of the lake.\n\n The Yukon communities of Burwash Landing and Destruction Bay are located on the southern shore of the lake.\n\nThe Aishihik and Kluane caribou herds migrate in the area surrounding Kluane and Aishihik Lakes. They are a northern mountain caribou, a distinct ecotype of the woodland caribou. In 2009 there were 181 caribou in the Kluane herd (also known as the Burwash herd) and 2044 caribou in the Aishihik herd. The Kluane herd was declining while the Aishihik herd was increasing.\n"}
{"id": "2243105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243105", "title": "Jamie Ross (Law &amp; Order)", "text": "Jamie Ross (Law &amp; Order)\n\nJamie Ross is a fictional character on the TV drama \"Law & Order,\" created by Rene Balcer and portrayed by Carey Lowell from 1996 to 1998. She also appears in the short-lived \"Law & Order\" spin-off \",\" by which time the character has become a judge. She appeared in 52 episodes (49 episodes of \"Law & Order\", one episode of \"\", and two episodes of \"\")\n\nThe character was introduced in 1996 as a former defense attorney who graduated from law school at Columbia University. She enters the Manhattan District Attorney's office as an Assistant District Attorney, replacing Claire Kincaid (Jill Hennessy), who had been killed in a car accident in the previous episode. She initially has a rocky relationship with her superior Jack McCoy (Sam Waterston) because his penchant for bending trial rules goes against her liberal idealism and sense of legal ethics. While the two never see perfectly eye-to-eye, they eventually grow to be close friends.\n\nDuring the 1997-98 season, Ross's personal and professional life is thrown into disarray by a custody battle with her ex-husband, Neil Gorton (Keith Szarabajka), over their daughter Katie (Caralyn Gorel). For the next year, the brutal litigation against her ex-husband (who is also a lawyer, with whom she used to work) leaves her with increasingly less time to devote to her job. She leaves the DA's office in the 1998 episode \"Monster\", to remarry and find a job that gives her more time to be with her family. She is replaced by Abbie Carmichael (Angie Harmon) in the following episode, \"Cherished\".\n\nLowell returned to the character in the 1999 episode \"Justice\", in which Ross and McCoy share a courtroom as adversaries. Once again a defense attorney, she represents a client McCoy is prosecuting for murder. When McCoy discovers she had violated that defendant's confidence in a previous action, Ross recuses herself. She reports herself to the Disciplinary Committee of the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, which eventually exonerates her with help from McCoy's testimony on her behalf.\n\nRoss appears on the \"Homicide: Life of the Street\" episode \"Baby It's You\", where she assists in the prosecution of the primary suspect in the murder of a teen model.\n\nLowell appears as Ross again, as a defense attorney, in the 2001 episode \"School Daze\", when she represents a student who had killed several classmates in a school shooting. At first, Ross has the upper hand, getting a handgun and other evidence dismissed due to a suppression ruling against detectives Lennie Briscoe (Jerry Orbach) and Ed Green (Jesse L. Martin), who use privileged medical information from a school psychiatrist to identify the suspect following an anonymous e-mail threatening to \"come back and finish the job\". However, when new evidence emerges and the judge decides the boy is competent to stand trial, the case is reinstated. After the boy's father (who believes his son would kill again if freed) testifies on the stand that his son had admitted the crime to him, the boy is convicted.\n\nIn 2005, Ross is reintroduced in the spin-off series \"\" as a trial judge. She appears in two episodes: \"41 Shots\", in which she is seen eating at a restaurant with two other judges while having a conversation, and \"Bang & Blame\", in which she presides over the trial of a murderer who decides to represent himself \"pro se\" after killing a woman on video in the middle of a crowded bank lobby.\n\nIn a case of art imitating life, Lowell requested to leave the show in order to spend more time with her daughter, as she felt that the time she spent filming the drama was causing her to \"miss her [daughter's] childhood\".\n"}
{"id": "2243106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243106", "title": "Ryan Howard", "text": "Ryan Howard\n\nRyan James Howard (born November 19, 1979), nicknamed \"The Big Piece\", is an American former professional baseball first baseman. Howard spent his entire Major League Baseball (MLB) career playing for the Philadelphia Phillies, from to . He is known for being the fastest player in baseball history to reach 1,000 RBIs, 100 home runs, and 200 home runs. Howard also holds numerous Phillies franchise records.\n\nHoward made his MLB debut in 2004. He won the National League (NL) Rookie of the Year Award in 2005 and the NL Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award in 2006. Howard was a three-time NL All-Star (2006, 2009, 2010), and won the Silver Slugger Award, Hank Aaron Award, and the NL Championship Series MVP Award in 2009. Known for his power, Howard is a member of the 50 home run club. He was a two-time NL home run champion (2006, 2008), and became the fastest player to reach both the 100 and 200 home run milestones in MLB history, passing the marks in 2007 and 2009, respectively. He is also tied with Sammy Sosa for the most National League 140 RBI seasons at 3 and the most National League 130 RBI seasons at 4. However, Howard is Major League Baseball's (ignominious) all-time record-holder for most lifetime Golden Sombrero awards.\n\nHoward was born in Florissant, Missouri. He attended Lafayette High School in Wildwood, Missouri, and Missouri State University, where he played college baseball for the Bears from 1998 to 2001. Howard finished his collegiate career with 50 home runs, 183 runs batted in (RBIs), and a .335 career batting average in 172 games played. He was the 1999 Missouri Valley Conference Freshman of the Year. Missouri State retired Howard's number on December 18, 2010. He played one summer in the Central Illinois Collegiate League, a league partially funded by Major League Baseball (MLB) for future prospects to develop.\n\nThe Philadelphia Phillies selected Howard in the fifth round of the 2001 draft and assigned him to the Batavia Muckdogs of the NY-Penn League. Howard ascended the Phillies' minor league system, earning consecutive awards in the Florida State League and Eastern League leagues in 2003 and 2004, respectively. Howard also set the single-season home run record for the Reading Phillies, with 37 in 102 games. On July 31, he was promoted to the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons of the Class AAA International League. He became just the fifth minor league player since 1956 to hit at least 46 home runs. He was named by Major League Baseball one of the best first basemen in Philadelphia Phillies History. Howard won the Joe Bauman Home Run Award in the process. While doing this, he impressed scouts enough that general managers of several teams tried to lure the Phillies' Ed Wade into trading him, as Jim Thome was blocking his path to the majors. Howards #29 was retired by the Lakewood Blueclaws in 2010.\n\nOn September 1, Howard made his first Major League plate appearance, striking out against Jaret Wright in a pinch-hit at-bat (for Vicente Padilla) in a 7–2 loss to the Atlanta Braves. On September 6, Howard logged his first Major League hit in a single at-bat during a 3–1 loss to the Braves; on September 8, he recorded his first multi-hit game with a double and a single in a 4–1 win over the Braves. On September 11, Howard hit his first Major League home run off Bartolomé Fortunato, driving in his first RBI and scoring his first run in an 11–9 win over the New York Mets.\n\nHoward had 42 plate appearances in 19 games with the Phillies in 2004. He posted a .282 batting average with two home runs and five RBI; he also hit five doubles, drew two walks, and was hit by a pitch. Between playing for the Double-A Reading Phillies, Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons and the Philadelphia Phillies, Howard hit 48 home runs, which was tied for the highest total in organized baseball in 2004, along with Adrián Beltré of the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nOn May 15, Howard recorded his first three-hit game, going 3-for-4 with a double, two singles, and a run-scored in a 4–3 win over the Cincinnati Reds. On July 3, Howard recorded his first three-RBI game, against the Braves. On August 23, he notched his first four-hit game, going 4-for-5 with a double, a home run, two singles, three RBI and three runs scored in a 10–2 win over the San Francisco Giants. On July 1, Howard became the Phillies' everyday first baseman when Thome was sidelined for the season with an elbow injury.\n\nHoward was named National League (NL) Rookie of the Month in September. He batted .278 with 10 home runs and 22 runs batted in. In honor of winning the award, he received a specially-designed trophy.\n\nHoward led all major league rookies with 22 home runs and posted a .288 average and 63 RBI in just 312 at-bats and 88 games. He hit 11 home runs and 27 RBI in September and October. Howard finished his rookie season with 17 doubles, two triples, 52 runs scored, and 100 strikeouts and 63 runs batted in as the Phillies battled the Houston Astros for the NL wild card until getting eliminated on the last day of the season. Howard was rewarded for his effort by being named NL Rookie of the Year, the fourth Phillie to win the award. He was also voted the \"Baseball Prospectus\" Internet Baseball Awards NL Rookie of the Year and received the NLBM Larry Doby Legacy Award (NL Rookie of the Year).\n\nAfter the 2005 season, the Phillies faced a dilemma involving Thome and Howard. Both were very talented and proven power hitters; Thome was the biggest free agent player the Phillies signed prior to the 2003 season, but Howard was the reigning Rookie of the Year and a promising young player. Before the 2006 season, the Phillies traded Thome for outfielder Aaron Rowand and minor league pitching prospects Gio González and Daniel Haigwood in order to make room for Howard.\n\nHoward began the 2006 season as the Phillies' starting first baseman. Howard hit his first home run of the season on April 3, off the Cardinals' Chris Carpenter. On April 23, Howard became the first player to hit a home run into Ashburn Alley at Citizens Bank Park. The home run traveled and was hit off Sergio Mitre of the Florida Marlins. It was the first of two Howard hit in the game, the first multi-home run game of his career. From May 20 to 29, Howard had at least one RBI in nine consecutive games. During that stretch, Howard hit six home runs and drove in 17 runs. He also became the first player to hit a home run into the third deck of the park in right field when he connected off Mike Mussina on June 20, a long-ball that was again his first of two home runs. To honor the home run, the Phillies painted a white H on the seat where the ball was caught. Howard collected seven RBI on the two home runs and a triple in the 9–7 loss, becoming the first Phillies batter to drive in seven runs since pitcher Robert Person on June 2, 2002.\n\nHoward was named to his first All-Star game at PNC Park in Pittsburgh as a reserve first baseman, by the player ballot. He participated in the Century 21 Home Run Derby prior to the game, and won the contest with a total of 23 home runs, defeating the New York Mets' third baseman David Wright in the final round. Howard was the second consecutive Phillie to win the Derby, with Bobby Abreu hitting a record 41 home runs in 2005. Howard went 0 for 1 with a groundout in the All Star Game. On July 30, against the Marlins, Howard tied a Major League record by walking five times, including an intentional walk in the eighth inning.\n\nFrom August 25 to 29, Howard hit home runs in four consecutive games; on the 29th, Howard hit his 48th home run of the season to tie Mike Schmidt for the Phillies single-season record. On August 31, Howard hit a home run into the upper deck of RFK Stadium to surpass Schmidt as the Phillies' single-season home run record holder.\n\nOn September 3, Howard went 4-for-4 with three home runs and a double in an 8–7 win over the Atlanta Braves, to become the first Philadelphia Phillies batter and the 24th player in Major League history to hit 50 home runs in a season. Howard became the first player to reach 50 home runs in a season since Andruw Jones, who hit 51 home runs the previous year. Reaching 52 home runs in the game, Howard also broke Ralph Kiner's 1947 record for home runs in a sophomore season, becoming just the second batter to hit 50 home runs in a second season. Howard's performance from August 28 to September 3 earned him NL Player of the Week. During that span, Howard batted .571 with six home runs and 12 runs batted in. On September 5, Howard was named the NL Player of the Month for August. His 41 runs batted in were the most any player had in one month since Frank Howard had 41 in July 1962. With 14 home runs, he also set new franchise records for both statistics in the month of August. On September 22, Howard became the 8th player in history to hit 58 home runs in a season, belting a three-run round-tripper off Marlins pitcher Ricky Nolasco. On September 22, Howard became the first hitter to drive in 140 runs since David Ortiz in 2005. On September 27, in a game against the Nationals, Howard walked for the 100th time in the ninth inning. He was also be walked intentionally in the eleventh and thirteenth inning. Howard became the first Phillies' batter to walk 100 or more times since Thome in 2004.\n\nHoward finished the 2006 season with a .313 batting average, 58 home runs, and 149 runs batted in. He also set the Phillies' franchise record with 37 intentional walks. Howard and Ortiz were the only hitters to hit 50 or more home runs that season. Howard's 58 home runs was the most by a player in his sophomore season. In the process, Howard became the first Phillies' batter to win the home run title since Jim Thome did it in 2003.\n\nOn October 2, Howard was named the NL Player of the Month for September. Howard, who also won the award in August, became the first player since Albert Pujols in May and June 2003, to win the award back-to-back.\n\nOn October 10, Howard was named \"The Sporting News\" 2006 Player of the Year. On October 25, Howard was awarded the 2006 NL Hank Aaron Award.\n\nOn November 8, Howard was named by his fellow major league players as the Player of the Year and the National League Outstanding Position Player in the 2006 Players Choice Awards balloting. He succeeded Atlanta Braves outfielder Andruw Jones, the 2005 winner of both awards. On the same day, following a 5–3 win over Nippon Professional Baseball that capped a five-game international sweep by the MLB in the Major League Baseball Japan All-Star Series, Howard was named the Series MVP; he hit .558 with eight runs, three doubles, four homers and eight RBI. On November 10, Howard was awarded the National League Silver Slugger Award at first base.\n\nOn November 20, Howard won the National League MVP award, and became one of four players in baseball history to win the Rookie of the Year and MVP awards in consecutive seasons, joining Cal Ripken, Jr and later joined by Dustin Pedroia and Kris Bryant.\n\nHoward received the Babe Ruth Home Run Award for leading MLB in home runs. He also received the Pride of Philadelphia Award from the Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nHoward received the NLBM Oscar Charleston Legacy Award (NL MVP) and the NLBM Josh Gibson Legacy Award (NL home-run leader).\n\nThe Philadelphia Baseball Writers' Association of America awarded him the third annual Mike Schmidt Most Valuable Player honor.\n\nOn March 2, 2007, the Phillies renewed Howard's contract in a one-year deal for $900,000, the highest salary ever offered to a player not eligible for salary arbitration.\n\nOn May 9, Howard hit his fourth career grand slam, against Arizona Diamondbacks pitcher Brandon Medders, when he came into the game as a pinch hitter for Wes Helms. On May 13, Howard was placed on the disabled list with a left quadriceps strain after missing five straight games. Howard fielded grounders for about 45 minutes before the Phillies game with the Toronto Blue Jays on May 20. Howard returned to the lineup on May 25, after a rehabilitation assignment with the class A Lakewood team as a designated hitter. He hit a home run in his first at-bat there. On May 27, he hit two home runs in a win that helped the Phillies sweep the Braves.\nOn June 27, Howard hit a home run, and became the fastest player in Major League Baseball history to hit 100 home runs. The accomplishment was achieved in only 325 games, 60 games fewer than the 385 games that Ralph Kiner needed to hit his first 100 home runs from 1946 to 1948.\n\nThough Howard did not compete in the 2007 MLB All-Star Game, he was chosen to compete in the 2007 Major League Baseball Home Run Derby for the second straight year in order to defend his title. However, Howard only hit three home runs in the first round and did not advance.\n\nAfter coming back from the DL, Howard had a \"power surge\", as he quickly climbed to second on the home run leaders list in the National League. On July 25, Howard hit a walk-off home run in the 14th inning to give the Phillies a victory over the Washington Nationals.\n\nHoward had his first career stolen base on August 21, 2007, vs. the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nOn September 17, Howard hit two home runs, which gave him his 39th and 40th home run of the season.\n\nOn September 27, Howard established a new major league record by striking out for his 196th and 197th time, breaking the old record of 195 (he tied it on September 23), set by Adam Dunn in 2004. He ended the season with 199 strikeouts, striking out an NL-highest 37.6% of the time.\n\nHoward's final 2007 season totals were a .268 average, with 47 home runs and 136 runs batted in, helping the Phillies win the National League East title on the final day of the season to earn their first postseason berth since the 1993 World Series. The Phillies were swept by the Colorado Rockies (who had won a one-game playoff against the San Diego Padres for the NL Wild Card) in the 2007 National League Division Series; Howard homered off Jeremy Affeldt in Game Two, but struck out seven times in his other 11 at-bats.\n\nOn February 21, 2008, Howard won an arbitration case against the Phillies, and was awarded $10 million, the most ever for a victorious player and tied for the most ever awarded. The Phillies had offered $7 million to Howard in salary.\n\nHoward began the 2008 season in a slump, finishing the month of April with a batting average of just .172 and going 2-for-25 to close out the month. He fared better in May, averaging .238 with ten home runs and 30 RBI for the month, and finishing out May just north of the Mendoza Line with an overall batting average of .205. Howard hit his 15th home run of the season in a 7–3 loss to the Florida Marlins on May 30, and teammate Chase Utley hit his 15th homer on May 25. The two became the first pair of Phillies to hit 15 home runs each before June.\n\nOn June 13, Howard hit two home runs and had five RBI, in a 20–2 win over the St. Louis Cardinals. This included the second of a first-inning set of back-to-back-to-back Philadelphia home runs. It was the seventh time that the Phillies had hit three consecutive home runs, the first since May 18, 2004, and the fourth occurrence by any team in the 2008 Major League Baseball season. On June 16, Howard again hit two home runs and drove in four in an 8–2 win over the Boston Red Sox for his 15th career multi-homer game; the four-day span between multi-homer games was the shortest of his career. In stark contrast, Howard went 0-for-4 the next night with four strike outs in a 3–0 loss for his tenth career golden sombrero. Howard drove in his 100th run of the 2008 season on August 11, against the Los Angeles Dodgers, marking his third consecutive season with at least 100 RBI.\n\nHoward finished the 2008 season with 146 RBI and a .251 batting average. His contributions again helped lead the Phillies to the division title and the post-season. Against Milwaukee in the first round he batted a mere .182 and only drove in one run. Things picked up as he delivered with a .300 batting average against the Dodgers in the next round, although he only delivered two RBI and still remained in his home run drought in the post-season. However, as the Phillies advanced to the World Series he finally started delivering significantly with six RBI, .286 batting average, and three home runs (which tied Donn Clendenon's 1969 World Series record for most home runs in a five-game Series) – two of which came in game 4 (in which he also drove in five runs) as the Phillies took a commanding 3–1 series lead. The Phillies eventually won the series in five games to bring the Phillies their first World Series championship since 1980, and Philadelphia their first major sports championship since 1983; he finished second in the voting for the 2008 NL MVP award, behind Albert Pujols of the St. Louis Cardinals. Howard won his second Babe Ruth Home Run Award and his second Josh Gibson Legacy Award, leading MLB with 48 home runs.\n\nOn February 8, the Phillies and Howard agreed on a 3-year, $54 million contract that bought out his remaining three years of salary arbitration eligibility. In spring training, Howard led all players in home runs, with 10.\n\nOn May 4, Howard hit his second grand slam of the year, the seventh in his career, against the St. Louis Cardinals at Busch Stadium. On May 30, he hit his third grand slam of the season off of Washington Nationals pitcher Shairon Martis. The grand slam landed in the third deck in the first row above the Powerade sign in right field at Citizens Bank Park, and was estimated at . The grand slam put Howard ahead of Mike Schmidt, who had 7 grand slams in his career, putting him first all-time in Phillies franchise history.\n\nHoward was named to the 2009 National League All-Star team and also competed in the Home Run Derby.\n\nOn June 20, Howard was checked into the hospital early that morning with a 104 degree fever, but pinch-hit later that day, hitting a home run. A month later, against the Florida Marlins on July 16, Howard hit his 200th career home run, making him the fastest player ever to that mark. It took Howard 658 games to reach 200 long-balls, beating out the previous titleholder, Ralph Kiner (706 games).\n\nIn August, Howard hit 11 home runs with 33 runs batted in, after just six the month before. On August 24, in a game against the New York Mets, Howard went 2 for 5 with 2 home runs and 5 runs batted in. Howard also recorded his 100th runs batted in of the season. This marked the fourth consecutive season that Howard had reached the 100 runs batted in mark. His batting average in the month was .299, raising his overall average to .275. He was named the NL Player of the Month for these achievements. Howard was named NL Player of the Week on August 31. Howard hit 5 home runs, 12 runs batted in, 28 total bases, and a 1,000 slugging percentage during that stretch. On September 18, in a game against the Braves, Howard hit his 39th and 40th home run of the season. This marked the fourth time in his career that he had hit 40 or more home runs in a season. On October 3, Howard hit his 45th home run of the season and became only the third player in Major League Baseball history (joining Babe Ruth from 1926–1931,] and Sammy Sosa from 1998–2001) to amass at least 135 RBI and 45 home runs in four consecutive seasons.\n\nHoward ended the season tied with Milwaukee Brewers first baseman Prince Fielder for the major league lead in RBI with 141.\n\nIn the 2009 National League Division Series (NLDS) against the Colorado Rockies, Howard hit a game-tying double with two outs in the top of the ninth off of closer Huston Street. Howard scored the winning run on a Jayson Werth single. After tying Lou Gehrig's record for the most consecutive postseason games with an RBI, Howard won the NLCS MVP award on October 21. However, Howard struggled against the New York Yankees during the 2009 World Series, surpassing Willie Wilson's record by striking out 13 times in the series.\n\nOn April 26, 2010, Howard signed a 5-year, $125 million extension with a club option to the contract he inked before the 2009 season. He was also the first designated hitter in a NL ballpark during a regular-season game when the Phillies played as the road team against the Toronto Blue Jays in Citizens Bank Park on June 25. Major League Baseball moved the interleague series to Philadelphia due to the G-20 Summit taking place near the Rogers Centre in Toronto.\n\nOn August 1, Howard sprained his ankle while returning to second base on a baserunning play, and was placed on the 15-day disabled list.\n\nOn August 24, Howard was ejected in the 14th inning by 3rd base umpire Scott Barry for arguing a check swing strikeout. With no position players left the Phillies had to use a pitcher to replace Howard.\n\nOn September 8, Howard hit his 250th home run in only 855 games, which surpassed Ralph Kiner as the quickest player in history to reach that milestone.\n\nOn September 18, Howard hit his 30th homer of the season, setting a franchise record with five consecutive 30-homer, 100-RBI seasons. He had been tied with Chuck Klein, who had four consecutive 30-homer, 100-RBI seasons from 1929 to 1932. On defense, he led all major league first basemen in errors for the third year in a row, with 14.\n\nHoward was listed with teammates Chase Utley, Jamie Moyer, and Roy Halladay as one of the few active players that is likely to be considered for the Hall of Fame.\n\nThrough 2011, Howard was fourth among all active major leaguers in career slugging percentage (.560; behind Albert Pujols, Alex Rodriguez and Ryan Braun), and ninth in career intentional walks. During the 2011 season, Howard had a batting average of .253, 33 home runs and 116 RBI. It was his sixth consecutive 30 home run and 100 RBI season, a Phillies franchise record.\n\nIn Game 5 of the 2011 NLDS vs the St. Louis Cardinals, Howard was the last batter to ground out before the Phillies lost the series. Howard tore his Achilles tendon when running to first base on the final play of the game, a ground out to the second baseman, Nick Punto. His injury required surgery and as a result, he missed the start of the 2012 season.\n\nHoward began the 2012 season on the 15-Day DL. He said in a podcast in early June that his Achilles tendon injury is \"progressing at a positive pace\".\n\nOn July 6, 2012, Howard was activated for his first game of the 2012 season, in which he went 2-for-4 with a double in a 5-0 Phillies loss. Howard hit his 300th career home run on September 22; his season ended one week later on September 29 after suffering a small fracture in his big right toe. He finished the 2012 season with a .219 batting average, 14 home runs, and 56 RBI in 71 games.\n\nOn July 8, 2013, Howard went on the disabled list, missing 6–8 weeks with a torn left meniscus. He underwent arthroscopic surgery to repair the tear and did not play for the remainder of the season. He was hitting .266, with 11 home runs and 43 RBI, at the time of his injury.\n\nHoward entered the 2014 season feeling rejuvenated, and looking to utilize the whole field, rather than exclusively pull the ball, as he had done in recent years. After reaching base in his first three at bats on opening day, Howard batted in the fifth position in the Phillies' second game during which they faced a left-handed pitcher; it ended a streak of 665 starts for Howard in which he batted in the fourth position.\n\nOn May 31, Howard hit a three-run home run for the 1,000th RBI of his career in an eventual loss to the New York Mets. Howard became the fastest player in MLB history to 1,000 RBI, accomplishing the feat in only 1,230 games. In 153 games of the 2014 year, Howard struck out an MLB-leading 190 times while batting .223 with 23 home runs and 95 RBI.\n\nIn 2015, Howard batted merely .229, and his 23 HR, 77 RBI and 138 strikeouts led the last-placed Phillies, even though he missed the last three weeks of the season due to a left knee injury. He had the lowest batting average against left-handers among all MLB hitters (60 or more plate appearances), at .130.\n\nHoward began the 2016 season with a protracted slump; by late May, with his batting average at .161 after 39 games and with the arrival of a young promising first baseman in Tommy Joseph, baseball pundits asserted that the Phillies should consider simply releasing Howard and let the 36-year-old retire. On June 1, manager Pete Mackanin announced his plans to keep Howard on the bench so as to give Joseph, a rookie, more playing time at first base. Howard hit his 375th home run on August 16, 2016, versus the Dodgers. In 112 games of 2016, Howard finished with a .196 batting average, 25 home runs, and 59 RBI. On November 2, the Phillies declined the option for Howard that had a $23 million deal for the upcoming season, making him a free agent for the first time of his career.\n\nOn April 6, 2017, Howard signed with the Atlanta Braves in a minor-league contract. Howard started with Braves extended spring training in Florida before he was assigned to the Gwinnett Braves of the International League. If he was added to the 40-man roster, he would have received a $120,000 minor-league salary or a $750,000 major-league salary, plus potential bonuses based on plate appearances. Braves general manager John Coppolella explained that Howard's signing was \"just a no-risk proposition for a player with good makeup who was excellent in the second half last season, he's in good shape and has been training and waiting for an opportunity.\" However, he hit just .184 with one home run and 11 strikeouts in 42 plate appearances for Gwinnett, and was released on May 8.\n\nOn August 12, 2017, Howard agreed to a minor league contract with the Colorado Rockies and was assigned to the Triple-A Albuquerque Isotopes. He elected free agency on November 6, 2017. On September 4, 2018, Howard announced his retirement by publishing an article on The Players' Tribune.\n\nIn February 2019, Howard joined ESPN as an analyst for \"Baseball Tonight\".\n\nHoward has a fraternal twin brother named Corey, as well as an older brother and a sister. He says he is the smallest of the Howard sons. His favorite baseball team growing up was the St. Louis Cardinals. Howard has a son named Darian Alexander, who was born January 26, 2001.\nHoward graduated from Lafayette High School (Wildwood, St. Louis County, Mo.) in 1998, where he played trombone. While attending Missouri State University he became a member of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity and his line name was \"Blue Hurt\". \nHoward is a representative for a number of products including Under Armour and the Subway restaurant chain. He also appeared on the cover of \"\".\n\nHoward appeared alongside teammate Chase Utley as himself on the 2010 episode of \"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia\" \"The Gang Gets Stranded in the Woods\". He also appeared as himself during the 7th season of \"Entourage\" in the episode \"Lose Yourself\" and appeared in the final season of \"The Office\"; set in Scranton and created during his time in Triple-A there. Howard is the acknowledged namesake of one of the show's characters, who in one episode claimed to be \"Ryan Howard, the baseball player\" in an attempt to gain entry into a New York nightclub.\n\nHoward married former Philadelphia Eagles cheerleader Krystle Campbell in Maui on December 1, 2012.\n\nA longstanding lawsuit between Howard and his family over finances was settled in November 2014.\n\nIn May 2017, Howard announced his new role as Partner at SeventySix Capital, a Philadelphia-based venture capital firm led by Wayne Kimmel and Jon Powell.\n\nThe sale of Howard's palatial beachfront mansion in Belleair Shore, Florida, for $16.5 million was announced on January 30, 2019.\n\nOn April 6, 2019, Howard announced he and his wife are expecting a girl.\n\nHoward has written six children's books with co-authors Erwin Madrid and his wife, Krystle Howard, published by Scholastic.\n\nOn January 5, 2016, it was announced that Howard had filed a lawsuit suing Al Jazeera for defamation following the publication's release of the documentary \"\"\"\", which linked Howard and Washington Nationals infielder Ryan Zimmerman, among others, to a clinic that allegedly distributed steroids and HGH. Zimmerman also filed suit against Al Jazeera for defamation.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2243115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243115", "title": "Steve Jones (footballer, born 1976)", "text": "Steve Jones (footballer, born 1976)\n\nStephen Graham Jones (born 25 October 1976) is a Northern Irish footballer who plays for Alsager Town. He has been capped 29 times by Northern Ireland and played for 20 clubs in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales.\n\nJones was born in Derry, Northern Ireland and moved to Manchester with his family at age 13. In his late teens, he played for Chadderton in the North West Counties Division One before signing for Blackpool in July 1995. After spending time playing for Blackpool's youth and reserve teams, he signed for Bury on a free transfer in July 1996. Unable to settle at Bury and frustrated by the lack of first-team opportunities, Jones decided to move to the Republic of Ireland and sign for League of Ireland side Sligo Rovers in July 1997, stating that Rovers manager Nicky Reid's offer of a full-time contract was what ultimately made up his mind.\n\nOn 30 August 1997, he made his debut for \"The Bit o' Red\" in the league match against Bohemians, scoring just before half-time in the 2–2 draw at The Showgrounds. He spent almost two seasons with Sligo and won the League of Ireland Cup after playing in the final against Shelbourne in February 1998. Overall, he played 46 games and scored 6 goals for Sligo before moving to Bray Wanderers in January 1999. Jones made his debut for Bray on 22 January, playing in the 0–0 league draw with Finn Harps at Carlisle Grounds. Later that year, Jones moved back to England and had a brief spell with Northern Premier League side Chorley, playing in the last four games of the season for \"The Magpies\".\n\nAfter Chorley were relegated at the end of the 1998–99 season, Jones signed for fellow Northern Premier League side Leigh RMI in August 1999. This came after he impressed RMI manager Steve Waywell in the final home game of the previous season against Chorley. He had a successful first season with \"The Railwaymen\", scoring 18 goals in 40 games that helped RMI gain promotion to the Football Conference.\n\nOn 19 August 2000, Jones started in Leigh's first game in the Conference, playing the full 90 minutes in a 2–1 defeat by fellow newly promoted side Dagenham & Redbridge. He won a penalty after clumsy challenge from Ashley Vickers, which led to Tony Black scoring RMI's goal. He played in the 3–0 FA Cup first round defeat by Millwall at The Den on 19 November. On 3 March 2001, Jones scored the first hat-trick of his career in the 6–2 league win against Nuneaton Borough. He finished the season with 21 goals in all competitions, these went a long way to firing RMI to a fifth-place finish in the Conference, the club's highest ever league finish. At the Conference Annual General Meeting on 2 June, Jones was named in the Football Conference Team of the Year, as voted for by the league's managers.\n\nJones attracted interest from a number of clubs in the close season, Morecambe being the first to make a bid for the Northern Irishman in late May. \"The Shrimps\" had bids of £30,000 and £45,000 rejected by RMI. Tranmere Rovers were the next club to take an interest in Jones and manager Dave Watson took him on trial at the beginning of July. However, it was Crewe Alexandra who won the race for Jones' signature after manager Dario Gradi persuaded him to sign on 3 July. He signed for Crewe on a three-year contract in a deal worth £75,000 to Leigh, and £75,000 more to come after 60 appearances.\n\nJones made his debut for Crewe in the league game against Manchester City on 25 August 2001. He replaced Rodney Jack in the 82nd minute of the 5–2 defeat at Maine Road. On 27 October, he made his first start for the club in the 1–0 defeat by Sheffield United at Brammall Lane. Despite being a regular goalscorer in the reserves, Jones found first-team opportunities scarce in his first season at Crewe, so it was decided he would join Third Division side Rochdale on a month's loan in February 2002. He returned from his loan in April and featured in two of Crewe's remaining games in the First Division, coming on as a substitute in the away defeats to Gillingham and Wimbledon.\n\nJones made his debut for Rochdale on 5 February 2002, playing the full 90 minutes in the 5–4 win against York City at Spotland Stadium. He scored his first goal for \"The Dale\" on 23 February, scoring the opening goal in the 2–1 defeat at Scunthorpe United. On 7 March, Rochdale manager John Hollins confirmed that Jones would stay at the club for at least another month, but the deal would involve a 24-hour recall option for Crewe. He made his final appearance for the club on 26 March in the 3–1 defeat by Plymouth Argyle, he came off the bench in 75th minute replacing Kevin Townson.\n\nFollowing Crewe's relegation to the Second Division, Jones started to feature in the first-team more prominently at the start of the 2002–03 season. He made his first appearance of the season on 13 August, replacing Dave Brammer in the 60th minute of the 3–0 defeat by Notts County at Gresty Road. Jones scored his first goals for Crewe in the league match against Queens Park Rangers, he netted both goals in the 2–0 win on 5 October. He followed that up by scoring the third goal in the 4–1 win at Stockport County a week later. He scored a brace against Colchester United in January 2003 and another against Northampton Town in February, these went towards the 11 goals in all competitions he scored that helped \"The Railwaymen\" to a second-place finish in the Second Division, gaining them promotion back to the First Division.\n\nPrior to the 2003–04 season, Jones signed a new three-year contract with the club that would take him through to the end of the 2005–06 season. He started in Crewe's first game back in the First Division on 9 August, playing the full 90 minutes in the 3–1 defeat against Wimbledon at Selhurst Park. Three days later, he scored his first goal of the season in the 2–0 League Cup first round win against Wrexham. A brace against West Ham United on 17 March 2004 took Jones' tally for the season to 16, this coupled with the 20 goals scored by strike partner Dean Ashton helped Crewe to an 18th-place finish in the league. His efforts throughout the season earned him the \"Supporters Player of the Year\" award.\n\nJones scored on his first start of the 2004–05 season on 24 August, scoring two first half goals in the 4–1 League Cup first round win against Blackpool. Four days later, he helped Crewe to their first league win of the season, scoring two goals in the 4–2 win against Derby County at Pride Park. On 26 October, he started against Manchester United in the League Cup third round, playing 68 minutes of the 3–0 defeat at Gretsy Road. On 8 May 2005, Jones scored the winning goal in the 2–1 league win against Coventry City, the goal gave \"The Alex\" their first win in 19 games and saved the club from relegation on the final day of the season.\n\nAt the beginning of the 2005–06 season, Jones indicated to Crewe manager Dario Gradi that he wanted to leave at the end of the season when his contract expired. In October, Preston North End manager Billy Davies declared his interest in bringing Jones to Deepdale, however Crewe were not interested in the player part-exchange offer that was being tabled. Queens Park Rangers took an interest in signing Jones in January 2006, however they were unable to meet the club's valuation of £300,000 for him. Despite the uncertainty about his future, Jones was still a regular in the team throughout the season and managed to score 5 goals overall, including a goal in his final appearance against Millwall on 30 April. Crewe were relegated at the end of the season, and despite a very good contract being offered, Jones confirmed his decision to leave. He wanted to stay in the Championship and thought he could make more money elsewhere. Overall Jones made 173 appearances for Crewe and scored 45 goals.\n\nBurnley announced on 3 May 2006 that Jones would join the club on a Bosman signing, with the move being completed on 1 July. He signed a three-year deal with the Championship side. Jones made a scoring start to his Burnley career, netting both goals in the 2–0 win against Queens Park Rangers on the opening day of the season. On 23 September, he opened the scoring in the 3–2 defeat against Southampton at Turf Moor. After a goal drought of over 6 months, he scored in the 4–0 win against Plymouth Argyle on 3 April 2007, and he followed that up with a goal in the 2–0 win against Cardiff City six days later. Jones scored 5 goals in 43 appearances in the 2006–07 season, helping Burnley to a 15th-place finish in the Championship.\n\nJones' first start of the 2007–08 season was in the League Cup first round game against Grimbsy Town at Blundell Park, he played the full 120 minutes as the game finished 1–1 and Burnley won 4–2 on penalties. On 15 September, he scored his first goal of the season in the 2–2 league draw against Blackpool. After Owen Coyle replaced Steve Cotterill as Burnley manager in November, Jones was used mainly as a substitute, making his solitary league start of the season in the 1–0 win against Plymouth Argyle on 12 January 2008. The following week in the 2–1 win at Coventry City, Jones suffered a medial knee ligament tear that would keep him out of action for six weeks, scuppering a pending loan move to former club Crewe Alexandra. The appearance against Coventry turned out to be his last for \"The Clarets\". On 27 March, it was announced that Jones would join League One side Crewe on loan until the end of the season.\n\nJones made his re-debut for Crewe on 29 March 2008, playing 85 minutes in the 2–1 defeat by Luton Town at Kenilworth Road. Over the next month, he made two substitute appearances against Cheltenham Town and Bournemouth respectively, before he signed off his second spell at \"The Railwaymen\" with a goal in the 4–1 defeat by Oldham Athletic on 3 May.\n\nDespite featuring in pre-season, Jones had become surplus to requirements going into the last year of his contract at Burnley. Having not featured in the first-team at all during the opening weeks of the 2008–09 season, he joined Huddersfield Town on an initial one-month loan deal starting on 17 October. He returned to Turf Moor on 26 November and joined Bradford City on loan the next day, the initial deal running until 3 January 2009 then being extended by an extra month, and finally being extended until the end of the season by \"The Bantams\". On 1 June, Jones was released by Burnley alongside Gábor Király and Alan Mahon.\n\nJones made his debut for League One side Huddersfield on 18 October 2008, playing the full 90 minutes in the 1–1 draw against Bristol Rovers at the Galpharm Stadium. He followed this up by playing the full 90 minutes in the 5–3 defeat at Hartlepool United three days later, and after two subsequent substitute appearances against Yeovil Town and former club Crewe Alexandra, he returned to Burnley on 26 November.\n\nJones made his debut for Bradford in the FA Cup second round tie against Leyton Orient on 29 November 2008, he played the full 90 minutes in the 2–1 defeat at Valley Parade He made his league debut a week later in the 1–1 draw against Dagenham & Redbridge. He scored his first goal for the club on 31 January 2009, netting the second goal in the 2–0 win over Grimsby Town. Two weeks later, he scored the only goal as \"The Bantams\" beat Wycombe Wanderers 1–0, keeping the club's promotion hopes alive. On 25 April, Jones made his final appearance for the club, scoring the third goal in the 3–0 win over Rotherham United. Overall, he made 27 appearances for Bradford and scored 3 goals.\n\nJones signed for Walsall on 10 July 2009, penning a two-year deal with the League One club. He made his debut on 8 August in the 1–0 league win against Brighton & Hove Albion, he started the game before being substituted in the 65th minute for Richard Taundry. A week later on his home debut, he scored his first goal for the club in the 2–2 draw with Southend United when he headed in a Darryl Westlake free-kick to open the scoring in the 11th minute. On 17 October, Jones scored a brace against Exeter City, bagging two first half goals in the 3–0 win at the Bescot Stadium. He scored the opening goal in the 1–1 draw against Swindon Town on 17 April 2010, this took his tally to 10 goals for the season that ultimately helped \"The Saddlers\" to a 10th place league finish.\n\nOn 7 August, Jones started the opening league game of the 2010–11 season, playing the full 90 minutes in the 2–1 defeat against Milton Keynes Dons. Two weeks later in a match against Plymouth Argyle, Jones suffered an ankle injury that would keep him out for 7 weeks. He made his return in the 1–1 draw with Dagenham & Redbridge on 16 October, replacing Julian Gray in the 69th minute at Victoria Road. Despite regaining his fitness, Jones struggled to regain his place in the first team and he was allowed to join Scottish Premier League side Motherwell on loan until the end of the season in January 2011. On 11 May, Walsall announced on their website that Jones would not be offered a new contract at the club.\n\nJones linked up with Stuart McCall again at Motherwell, \"The Steelmen\" manager was in charge at Bradford City during Jones' loan-spell at Valley Parade. He made his debut in the 2–0 league win over Hibernian on 22 January, he started the game and played 63 minutes before being replaced by Jonathan Page. On 30 January, he came off the bench in the 2–1 League Cup semi-final defeat against Rangers at Hampden Park. Jones scored his first goal for the club on 5 February, netting the opening goal in the 2–0 Scottish Cup fifth-round win over Stranraer. He scored the opening goal in the 1–1 draw with Kilmarnock on 11 May. Jones made his final appearance for Motherwell in the Scottish Cup Final on 21 May, he replaced Jamie Murphy in the 80th minute of the 3–0 defeat against Celtic. He was offered a contract at Fir Park following his release from Walsall, but he rejected the deal in favour of being with his family at his home in Crewe.\n\nBristol Rovers offered Jones a two-year deal in the summer, but he rejected the chance to join the League Two club because he felt it was too far to travel and he wanted to stay local to his family in Crewe. He was on trial with Conference National side Newport County in July 2011, however he was unable to agree a deal with the Welsh side and he signed for Conference North side Droylsden on 12 August. Jones scored on his debut for \"The Bloods\", netting the opening goal in the 2–2 draw against Eastwood Town on 13 August.\n\nAfter a short spell with Droylsden, Jones signed for Conference National side AFC Telford United on 18 November 2011. He made his debut the following day in the 0–0 draw against Mansfield Town, he came on for Craig Farrell after 61 minutes and almost scored with his first touch, but his effort was well saved by Mansfield goalkeeper Alan Marriott. On 26 November, he came off the bench in the 1–0 win against Barrow, replacing Sean Newton after 68 minutes and scoring his first goal for the club. He headed in a Richard Davies cross on 76 minutes to give \"The Bucks\" their first league win in 9 outings. He made his first start for the club in the 1–1 draw against Luton Town three days later. Jones scored in the 2–2 draw with Stockport County on 24 January 2012. In the 0–0 draw with Alfreton Town on 3 March, Jones suffered a knee ligament injury that would keep him out of action for up to six weeks. He made his return from injury on 17 April, coming on as a 68th-minute substitute in the 1–0 win against Tamworth. The win secured Telford's place in the Conference National for the following season. On 4 May, it was announced on Telford's website that Jones had agreed terms to a contract extension with the club.\n\nPrior to the 2012–13 season, Jones was allocated the number 10 squad number. On 11 August, he played in the opening game of the season, playing the whole 90 minutes in the 0–0 draw with Barrow. He scored his first goal of the season in the 3–0 league win against Southport on 1 September. On 9 October, Jones scored a brace in the 4–1 league win against Dartford. He followed that up by scoring both goals in Telford's 2–2 draw against Ebbsfleet United on 6 November. Jones was sent off on 10 November, he was dismissed for a late tackle on Greg Taylor in the 0–0 draw with Tamworth and was suspended for three games. On 15 December, Jones was sent off again in only his second game back from his suspension and was subsequently banned for a further four games. He was dismissed after being booked twice within a minute in the 3–1 FA Trophy second round defeat against King's Lynn Town, firstly for a dive in the penalty area and then for an off-the-ball barge on Jordan Yong. Jones suffered a serious eye injury in the league match against Mansfield Town on 2 March 2013, he temporarily lost the sight in his left eye after being struck in the face with a heavy clearance during the first half of the 1–0 defeat at Field Mill. It was later confirmed that Jones had suffered three haemorrhages in the eye, one in the iris and two in the retina, as well as severe bruising. His vision later returned after a course of eye drops and he returned to action the following week in the 2–0 league defeat by Macclesfield. Jones finished the season with 11 goals as Telford finished 24th in the league and were relegated to the Conference North. On 11 May, Telford announced on their website that they would not be offering Jones terms for the following season.\n\nOn 22 May 2013, Jones signed for Welsh Premier League side Airbus UK Broughton. He said the lure of European football was a major factor in agreeing a deal with \"The Wingmakers\". On 4 July, Jones made his debut for Airbus, coming on as a 55th-minute substitute in the Europa League first qualifying round first leg against Latvian side FK Ventspils. The match, played at the Racecourse Ground in Wrexham, ended 1–1. He made his first start for the club in the second leg, having a first half goal disallowed as Airbus drew 0–0 at the Ventspils Olimpiskais Stadions, the result meaning the Welsh club were eliminated on away goals. He scored his first goal for the club on 26 August, netting the winning goal in the 2–1 league win at Bala Town. On 7 September, Jones scored two goals as Airbus thrashed Newtown 6–1 to register their fourth straight victory of the season. A week later, he was sent off for two bookable offences in the 2–2 draw at Rhyl, the first for impeding goalkeeper Alex Ramsey, and the second just a few minutes later for something he said to the referee. On 25 February 2014, Jones scored the third goal in Airbus' 4–2 league win at Bangor City. Overall, he made 27 appearances for the club, the last in the 1–1 draw with Newtown on 26 April, and scored 5 goals, helping \"The Wingmakers\" to their most successful league campaign ever.\n\nOn 19 May 2014, Jones signed for Northern Premier League Premier Division side Nantwich Town. He made his debut on 16 August, playing 80 minutes in the 1–0 league win at Buxton. Steve, also scored the goal of the season in the Nantwich Town team and also won top goalscorer.\n\nJones signed for North West Counties Football League Premier Division side Whitchurch Alport in the summer of 2019.\n\nJones left Whitchurch in February 2020 to sign for North West Counties Football League Division One South side Alsager Town. He joined the club to be closer to his home in south Cheshire.\n\nJones was called up to the England C national side in March 2001 after showing good form for Leigh RMI in the Conference. England manager John Owens selected Jones after Rushden & Diamonds winger Paul Underwood had to withdraw from the squad through injury. On 22 March, Jones started the 3–0 win against the Netherlands, however he had to come off after just 18-minutes after failing to fully recover from a bout of food poisoning. He earned a second cap in May 2001 when he scored in the 3–0 win against a Highland League Select in Inverness.\n\nJones has won a total of 29 caps for Northern Ireland. He was first called up for the friendly match against Finland in February 2003, he replaced the injured Kevin Horlock in the squad before being an unused substitute in the 1–0 defeat on 14 February. In May 2003, he got his first taste of international football when he was called up for the B international match against Scotland Future. He started the game against Scotland and managed to get on the scoresheet in the 2–1 defeat on 20 May.\n\nAfter impressing in the B international match against Scotland, Jones was called up to the senior squad on 23 May for the friendly against Italy and the Euro 2004 qualifying match against Spain. He made his debut in the 2–0 defeat against Italy on 3 June, he replaced Paul McVeigh on the 55th minute and almost scored in the 76th minute, but his firm header was well saved by Francesco Toldo. On 11 June, Jones made his first start for his country against Spain at Windsor Park, he played 73 minutes on the way to helping Northern Ireland to a 0–0 draw.\n\nJones was a regular in the squad over the next three years, often being used as a substitute. He scored his first goal for his country in a 2–0 friendly win against Saint Kitts and Nevis on 2 June 2004. He played in most of Northern Ireland's unsuccessful 2006 World Cup qualifying campaign and the early stages of their Euro 2008 qualifying campaign before falling out of favour within the selection process. His last cap was a substitute appearance in the 2–1 away defeat against Iceland during Euro 2008 qualifying.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJones is a fan of Scottish club Rangers, having supported them since childhood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243119", "title": "Bill Grant", "text": "Bill Grant\n\nBill Grant may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243157", "title": "Street Trash", "text": "Street Trash\n\nStreet Trash is a 1987 American black comedy body horror film directed by J. Michael Muro (credited as Jim Muro). It won the Silver Raven at the Brussels International Festival of Fantasy Film. The film has acquired a status as a cult classic independent horror-comedy and is one of a number of films known as \"melt movies\".\n\nThe owner of a liquor store in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, New York City finds a case of cheap wine (\"Tenafly Viper\") in his basement. It is more than 60 years old and has gone bad, but he decides to sell it to the local hobos anyway. Unfortunately, anyone who drinks the Viper melts away in a hideous fashion. At the same time, two homeless brothers find different ways to cope with homelessness while they make their residence in a local junkyard while one employee, a female cashier and clerk, frequently tends to both of them. Meanwhile, an overzealous cop (Bill Chepil) is trying to get to the bottom of all the deaths, all the while trying to end the tyranny of a deranged Vietnam veteran named Bronson (Vic Noto), who has made his self-proclaimed \"kingdom\" at the junkyard with a group of homeless vets under his command as his personal henchmen.\n\nThe film is littered with darkly comedic deaths and injuries. It also contains the notorious \"severed privates\" scene where a group of homeless people play catch with the severed genital of one of their number, as he futilely attempts to recover it.\n\nRoy Frumkes wrote the screenplay. In an NBR profile he later said: \"I wrote it to democratically offend every group on the planet, and as a result the youth market embraced it as a renegade work, and it played midnight shows.\" The film was based on a ten-minute student film directed by J. Michael Muro and starring Mike Lackey. Bryan Singer worked on the film as a grip.\n\nDeleted scenes include a junkyard dance sequence and a sub-plot involving the relationship between Fred (Mike Lackey) and Bronson; these sequences are included in the documentary Meltdown Memoirs.\n\nThe film was given a limited release theatrically in the United States by Lightning Pictures in June 1987. They also released the film on VHS the same year.\n\nIn 2005, Synapse Films marketed an all-new, digitally remastered version of the film. Included with the DVD were sticker-type \"labels\" of the Viper wine featured in the film. In 2006, a second release by Synapse Films was announced, featuring the documentary Meltdown Memoirs by writer Roy Frumkes. The feature includes interviews with most of the surviving cast and crew with the exception of Jane Arakawa. It also contains the original 16mm short version of Street Trash.\n\nIn 2010, Arrow Video released a 2 DVD set in the UK featuring the documentary Meltdown Memoirs along with a previously unavailable featurette with Jane Arakawa and the booklet \"42nd Street Trash: The Making of the Melt\" written by Calum Waddell.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243175", "title": "Saybrook Colony", "text": "Saybrook Colony\n\nThe Saybrook Colony was an English colony established in late 1635 at the mouth of the Connecticut River in present-day Old Saybrook, Connecticut by John Winthrop, the Younger, son of John Winthrop, the Governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Winthrop the Younger was designated Governor by the original settlers, including Colonel George Fenwick and Captain Lion Gardiner. They claimed possession of the land via a deed of conveyance from Robert Rich, 2nd Earl of Warwick. The colony was named in honor of Lords Saye and Brooke, prominent Parliamentarians and holders of the colony's land grants.\n\nEarly settlers of the colony were ardent supporters of Oliver Cromwell and of democracy. In the 1630s in what became Connecticut, it was rumored that Cromwell's emigration was imminent from England to Saybrook, along with the departure from Old England of other prominent Puritan sponsors of the colony, including John Pym, John Hampden, Arthur Haselrig, and Lords Saye and Brooke. Even as late as the 1770s, residents of Old Saybrook still talked about which town lots would be given to prominent Parliamentarians.\n\nSettlement preparations included sending a ship with an unusual cargo of ironwork for a portcullis and drawbridges, and even an experienced military engineer. Saybrook's fort was to be the strongest in New England. However, prominent Puritans soon \"found the countrie [England] full of reports of their going\" and were worried that they would not be allowed to sell their estates and take ship. By 1638, the plans for Saybrook were abandoned. Cromwell's financial difficulties had been cleared up by an inheritance and he moved from Huntingdon to nearby Ely. Thus, the sponsors remained in England and played their respective political and military roles in the English Civil War and its aftermath. As a consequence, the colony struggled and, by 1644, Fenwick agreed to merge the colony with the more vibrant Connecticut Colony a few miles up river.\n\nIn 1647, Major John Mason assumed command of Saybrook Fort, which controlled the main trade and supply route to the upper river valley. The fort mysteriously burned to the ground, but another improved fort was quickly built nearby. He spent the next twelve years there and served as Commissioner of the United Colonies, its chief military officer, Magistrate, and peacekeeper. He was continually called upon to fairly negotiate the purchase of Indian lands, write a treaty, or arbitrate some Indian quarrel, many of which were instigated by his friend Uncas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243176", "title": "Trash (Alice Cooper album)", "text": "Trash (Alice Cooper album)\n\nTrash is the eleventh studio album released by Alice Cooper in 1989. The album features the single \"Poison\", Cooper's first top ten hit since his single \"You And Me\" in 1977 and marked a great success in Cooper's musical career, reaching the Top 20 of various album charts and selling more than two million copies. \"Trash\" featured John McCurry (who has previously worked with Julian Lennon) on guitar, Hugh McDonald of Bon Jovi on bass as well as Bobby Chouinard and Alan St. Jon, both from Billy Squier's solo band on drums and keyboards, respectively.\n\nAfter Alice's return to the music industry with the successful \"The Nightmare Returns\" tour, Cooper had sought assistance from Desmond Child to create a comeback album. \"Trash\" became one of Cooper's biggest albums, accompanied by music videos for \"Poison\", \"Bed of Nails\", \"House of Fire\", and \"Only My Heart Talkin'\". A successful year-long worldwide concert tour in support of the album was documented in the home video release \"Alice Cooper Trashes The World\".\n\nThe album features many guest performances including Jon Bon Jovi, Stiv Bators, Steven Tyler, as well as singer/guitarist Kane Roberts, who left Cooper's band in 1988. Songwriting contributions were also made by Joan Jett, Diane Warren, Jon Bon Jovi, Richie Sambora, and John McCurry.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following additional songs were written and recorded for the album but remain unreleased: \"Low Class Reunion\", \"The Ballad of Alice Cooper\", \"Bad Angel\", \"Good Girl Gone Bad\" as well as \"Aggrolat\". Cooper himself did not want to release these tracks because he thought at the time that these tunes \"weren't that good to start with\". Later, Cooper also noted that the songs that remained unreleased have been written in a Rock'n'Roll vein, but can be defined different to the individual listener.\n\n\"Trash\" is the most represented album outside the 1971 to 1975 era in Alice Cooper’s concert setlists; however this is wholly due to lead single “Poison”, which has been performed consistently on all tours since the album’s release and has become the sixth-most-performed song in his catalogue and the most-performed from after \"Welcome to My Nightmare\". The only other songs from \"Trash\" that have ever been performed since the close of the album’s tour are “House of Fire”, which was a regular on the 2012 to 2015 \"Raise the Dead Tour\", “Trash” which was a regular part of setlists on the \"Descent into Dragontown Tour\", and “Bed of Nails” in 1996, 2004, and 2019. “Why Trust You” and “Hell Is Living Without You” have never been played live.\n"}
{"id": "2243177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243177", "title": "Zone d'études et d'aménagement du territoire", "text": "Zone d'études et d'aménagement du territoire\n\nIn 1967 the ' (French National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies, INSEE), together with the French Commissariat général and DATAR () declared the nominal division of France into eight large regions. These were named (Research and National Development Zones) or ZEAT.\n\nWithin the European Union the ZEAT corresponds to the first level in the Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS 1).\n"}
{"id": "2243181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243181", "title": "Henry Baillie", "text": "Henry Baillie\n\nColonel Henry James Baillie PC (1803 – 16 December 1885), was a British Conservative politician. He served under Lord Derby as Under-Secretary of State for India from 1858 to 1859.\n\nBaillie was the son of Colonel Hugh Duncan Baillie, son of Evan Baillie, by his first wife Elizabeth, daughter of Reverend Henry Reynett. Peter Baillie and James Evan Baillie were his uncles. He was educated at Eton College.\n\nBaillie was a friend of Benjamin Disraeli, and in 1835 was actually called upon by Disraeli to serve as his second (after d'Orsay declined), when it appeared that Disraeli and Morgan O'Connell, the son of Daniel O'Connell, were going to fight a duel, which apparently did not actually occur. In 1840 Baillie was elected Member of Parliament for Inverness-shire, and retained that seat until 1868. In the early 1840s he was associated with the notorious \"Young England\" movement, of which Disraeli was the head. Another member of that group, George Smythe, was Baillie's brother-in-law. He apparently broke with Sir Robert Peel over the Corn Laws and accepted minor office in Lord Derby's 1852 government as Joint Secretary to the Board of Control. He again held office under Derby as Under-Secretary of State for India from 1858 to 1859. In 1866 he was sworn of the Privy Council.\n\nBaillie married firstly the Honourable Philippa Eliza Sydney Smythe, daughter of Percy Smythe, 6th Viscount Strangford, in 1840. They had several children. After Philippa's death in June 1854 he married secondly Clarissa Rush, daughter of George Rush, in 1857. Baillie died at the age of 82.\n"}
{"id": "2243185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243185", "title": "Robert Webster Cary", "text": "Robert Webster Cary\n\nRear Admiral Robert Webster Cary, Jr. (August 18, 1890 – July 15, 1967) is one of the most decorated officers in the history of the United States Navy and recipient of the Medal of Honor.\n\nRobert Cary was born in Kansas City, Missouri. He entered the University of Missouri in the fall of 1908 but left after the first semester of the following year and entered the United States Naval Academy where he graduated in 1914.\n\nScarcely a year after graduating the Naval Academy he received the Medal of Honor for action in a boiler explosion on board . He was standing by the first of five boilers that blew up and saved the lives of three men by dragging them out of the boiler room. He also took charge of the situation in the adjacent boiler room, putting out the fires and thus preventing the explosion of these boilers.\n\nDuring World War I, Cary served on the destroyers based at Queenstown, Ireland. During World War I Cary was awarded the Navy Cross. During a hurricane, a depth charge on the fan-tail of broke loose, menacing the safety of the ship. Together, with three enlisted men, he went to the fan-tail, and they managed to secure this depth charge, including its safety pin, at a great risk of being washed overboard themselves.\n\nDuring the years between World War I and World War II, Cary served in many capacities and many stations. He served as the Director of Base Maintenance and in the Office of Chief of Naval Operations where he initiated the establishment of bases at home and abroad at the commencement of World War II. Cary also served with great distinction in World War II when he took part in various campaigns in the European Theater of Operations. On September 11, 1943 Cary was involved in another dramatic naval action when the ship he was commanding, the USS Savannah, was struck by a German radio-controlled Fritz X glide-bomb. By the time Cary retired he had achieved the rank of Rear Admiral.\n\nCary, Robert\n\"Rank and organization:\" Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, U.S.S. San Diego\n\"Place and date:\" Aboard U.S.S. San Diego, 21 January 1915\n\"Entered service at:\" Bunceton, Missouri\n\"Born:\" Kansas City, Missouri\n\"Citation:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243196", "title": "Fish Out of Water (Chris Squire album)", "text": "Fish Out of Water (Chris Squire album)\n\nFish Out of Water is the first studio album from the English bassist, singer and songwriter Chris Squire, released in November 1975 on Atlantic Records. The album was recorded during a period of inactivity by his progressive rock band Yes following the band's agreement that each member produce a solo album. Squire hired additional musicians to play on his, including Bill Bruford, Patrick Moraz, Mel Collins, his childhood friend Andrew Pryce Jackman, and an orchestra.\n\n\"Fish Out of Water\" was a moderate commercial success upon its release, reaching number 25 in the UK and number 69 in the U.S. Despite the album being well received by music critics, Squire would not release another solo album until \"Chris Squire's Swiss Choir\" (2007).\n\nIn August 1975, the progressive rock band Yes ended their tour in support of \"Relayer\" (1974) and began a nine-month period of inactivity after they agreed to take time off for each member to produce a solo album. When the time was right for Squire to start work on his, he collaborated with Andrew Pryce Jackman, a childhood friend and former keyboardist and songwriter in their 1960s rock band The Syn, who assisted with the album's concept and arrangement of the music. Over the course of sketching out the album Jackman also contributed some ideas to its composition. Because of this, Squire offered to give him some co-writing credits, but Jackman declined.\n\n\"Fish Out of Water\" was recorded in the spring and summer of 1975 in two studios: New Pipers, Chris Squire's home studio, Surrey, and Morgan Studios in London. The title refers to his nickname \"Fish\", and being \"...Out of Water\" due to being away from the Yes context.\n\nThe introduction to \"Hold Out Your Hand\" features an organ passage played on the church organ at St Paul's Cathedral, London by the cathedral organist Barry Rose. The organ continues throughout the song creating an original sound and revealing Squire and Jackman's experience together, as church choristers, in their boyhood. The title of \"Lucky Seven\" refers to the song being in 7/8 time signature. Musically, a melodic passage from Yes' song \"Close to the Edge\" re-appears in the finale of \"Safe (Canon Song)\". The closing passage on \"Safe (Canon Song)\" was played on the 4-string bass section of a double-neck guitar using only the pickups of the 6-string section.\n\n\"Fish Out of Water\" was released in November 1975. \"Lucky Seven\" was edited into a single by producer Tom Dowd which only saw a US release. \"Hold Out Your Hand\" was one of the few songs performed by Yes during their 1976 North American tour from the member's solo albums. With Squire on lead vocals, one critic at the concert wrote for \"Circus\" magazine: \"Some ten thousand people responded to the Squire tune with a standing ovation\". To further promote the album a promotional film of \"Hold Out Your Hand\" and \"You by My Side\" was filmed in a studio that featured a mime performance with Bill Bruford on drums, Yes keyboardist Patrick Moraz on keyboards, Jackman on piano, and an orchestra. The orchestra was formed of members of the London Symphony Orchestra who were on their way to work on another project, but Squire could only afford a short amount of their time, roughly half an hour for a mime performance, which cost £3,000.\n\n\"Silently Falling\" is sampled on \"Falling Down\" by New Zealand DJ and producer P-Money on his album \"Everything\" (2010).\n\nIn a 2004 interview, Squire said that he wished to produce a 5.1 surround sound mix of the album using the master tapes, but declared the recordings had disappeared from Atlantic's archives. On 28 February 2006, it was reissued in the US by Wounded Bird Records. This was followed in August 2007 by a two-disc Deluxe Expanded Edition released on Squire's own label, Stone Ghost Records, distributed by Castle/Sanctuary Records. The set included a remastered stereo mix and featured, as bonus material, a single edit of \"Lucky Seven\", the promotional film for \"Hold Out Your Hand\" and \"You by My Side\", track-by-track commentary, and a 40-minute interview with Squire conducted in November 2006.\n\nFollowing the album's release, Squire did not record a follow-up album although said he was frequently asked about such a project. He had hoped to reunite with Jackman and work on one together, but such plans ended following Jackman's death in 2003. The bassist still expressed a wish to produce one. In 2012, he reasoned much of the album's vibe, appeal and the strength of its music was down to his collaboration with Jackman. Though Squire wished to make another album following Jackman's death and had started to prepare material, he found himself using his songs for other projects, including those with Yes and Squackett, his collaboration with guitarist Steve Hackett. \n\nAll tracks written, arranged and produced by Chris Squire.\n\n\"Return of the Fox\" is the B-side for Chris Squire & Alan White's single \"Run with the Fox\" (1981). Both tracks are written by Chris Squire, Alan White & Peter Sinfield.\n\nCredits are adapted from the album's UK and US release liner notes.\n\nMusicians\nProduction\n\n"}
{"id": "2243201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243201", "title": "SEK Studio", "text": "SEK Studio\n\nScientific Educational Korea or SEK Studio () is a North Korean animation studio, based in Othan-dong, Central District, Pyongyang.\n\nThe studio started operations in September 1957, as April 26 Children's Film Studio. Around 1985, it began to outsource animation for European television. It was registered as the SEK Studio in 1997 in order to take part at an animation festival in France. SEK Studio participated in \"Shijiazhuang International Animation Exhibition\" on September 30, 2014. SEK Studio is expected to introduce a new science fiction genre animation. Since 2010s, SEK studio has contracted with many animation studios in China and outsourced in Chinese TV series, web animations, game graphics and commercials. SEK is currently pursuing large-scale projects with Chinese animation companies. It relates to web animated series that will be produced in China.\n\n\nAs of 2003, SEK Studio employed over 1,500 people and subcontracted work for over 70 companies from around the globe, including Europe, South Korea, China, Canada and the United States. After the introduction of advanced equipment, the number of employees was reduced to about 500. There are 11 animation production teams in SEK Studio, 9 production teams are responsible for overseas animations subcontracting, and the 2 production teams produce domestic animations. According to Animation Career Review, SEK is the 85th most influential animation studio of all-time. SEK Studio's staff is mostly from Pyongyang Art Academy, and SEK Studio has established an animation training institute to teach young students.\n\nIn 2014, SEK Studio cooperated with Chinese companies to establish an office in Beijing. SEK Studio also invested $70,000 in Chinese companies.\n\nSEK has provided animation for the following works:\n\nSEK Studio has produced over 300 Animations.\n\nSEK Studio has subcontracted over 250 Foreign Animations. They mainly work on subcontracting Russian, Italian, French, Spanish and Chinese animation. American animation is outsourced in an indirect way.\n\nSEK has done work on several animated series with Mondo TV, including \"Pocahontas: Princess of the American Indians\" and \"Simba the King Lion\", (due to this two, it has been repeatedly misinformed that SEK has worked for The Walt Disney Company). SEK also has produced features such as the French science fiction epic \"Gandahar\" (\"The Light Years\") and \"Empress Chung\".\n\nAccording to DVD commentary and IMDB, 2007’s The Simpsons Movie was the most prominent US project that SEK helped with. Other projects include Futurama: Bender’s Big Score and even an episode of . Therefore, it’s highly possible that millions in America and beyond have unknowingly experienced the handiwork of North Korean animators.\n\nAccording to the Korean Film Council, SEK Studio outsourced episode 72 of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2003 TV series).\n\nThe list below is a part of the works outsourced by SEK studio.\n\nCanadian animator and cartoonist Guy Delisle documented his experiences whilst working at the SEK Studio in his graphic novel, \"\". because SEK studio subcontracted the Corto Maltese animation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243203", "title": "Mildred Harris", "text": "Mildred Harris\n\nMildred Harris (November 29, 1901 – July 20, 1944) was an American film actress during the early part of the 20th century. Harris began her career in the film industry as a child actress when she was 11 years old. She was also the first wife of Charlie Chaplin.\n\nMildred Harris was born in Cheyenne, Wyoming, to Harry Harris, a telegraph operator, and Anna Parsons Foote. Harris made her first screen appearance at the age of 11 in the 1912 Francis Ford and Thomas H. Ince-directed Western short \"The Post Telegrapher\". She followed the film with various juvenile roles, often appearing opposite child actor Paul Willis. In 1914, she was hired by The Oz Film Manufacturing Company to portray Fluff in \"The Magic Cloak of Oz\" and Button-Bright in \"His Majesty, the Scarecrow of Oz\". In 1916, at the age of 15, she appeared as a harem girl in Griffith's epic \"Intolerance\".\n\nIn the 1920s, Harris transitioned from child actress to leading lady roles opposite leading men such as Conrad Nagel, Charley Chase, Milton Sills, Lionel Barrymore, Rod La Rocque and the Moore brothers, Owen and Tom. She appeared in Frank Capra's 1928 silent drama \"The Power of the Press\" with Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. and Jobyna Ralston and the same year, starred in Universal Pictures first sound film \"Melody of Love\" opposite Walter Pidgeon.\n\nShe found the transition to the \"talkies\" difficult and her career slowed dramatically. She performed in vaudeville and burlesque and, at one point, toured with comedian Phil Silvers. She was critically praised for her performance in the 1930 film adaptation of the Broadway musical \"No, No Nanette\". In the 1936 Three Stooges comedy \"Movie Maniacs\", she portrayed a temperamental and demanding film starlet who, while receiving a pedicure, is startled by stooge Curly Howard striking a match on the sole of her foot.\n\nHarris continued to work in film in the early 1940s, largely through the kindness of her former director, Cecil B. DeMille, who cast her in bit parts in 1942's \"Reap the Wild Wind\" (starring Paulette Goddard, who, like Harris, was once married to Charlie Chaplin), and 1944's \"The Story of Dr. Wassell\". Her last film appearance was in the posthumously-released 1945 film \"Having A Wonderful Crime\".\n\nThe 16-year-old Harris met actor Charlie Chaplin in mid-1918, dated, and came to believe she was pregnant by him, but the pregnancy was found to be a false alarm. They married privately on October 23, 1918, in Los Angeles. She subsequently did become pregnant. The couple quarreled about her contract with Louis B. Mayer and her career. Chaplin felt she was not his intellectual equal. Their child Norman Spencer died in July 1919, at only three days of age, and the couple separated in the autumn of 1919.\n\nChaplin moved to the Los Angeles Athletic Club. Harris tried to keep up appearances, believing a happy marriage was possible but, in 1920, she filed for divorce based on mental cruelty. Chaplin accused her of infidelity, and though he would not name her lover publicly, actress Alla Nazimova was suspected. The divorce was granted in November 1920, with Harris receiving $100,000 (US$ in dollars) in settlement and some community property.\n\nIn 1924, Harris married Everett Terrence McGovern. The union lasted until November 26, 1929, when Harris filed for divorce in Los Angeles, on grounds of desertion. The couple had one son, Everett Terrence McGovern, Jr., in 1925. In 1934, she married the former football player William P. Fleckenstein in Asheville, North Carolina.\n\nThe couple remained married until Harris's death on July 20, 1944, of pneumonia following a major abdominal operation. She had been ill for three weeks. She is interred in the Abbey of the Psalms Mausoleum at the Hollywood Forever Cemetery in Los Angeles.\n\nHarris has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6307 Hollywood Boulevard in Los Angeles. In 1992, she was portrayed by Milla Jovovich in the biographical film \"Chaplin\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2243208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243208", "title": "Ricky Rodriguez", "text": "Ricky Rodriguez\n\nRicky Rodriguez (25 January 1975 – 9 January 2005), \"Davidito\" (legal names \"Richard Peter Rodriguez\", \"Richard Peter Smith\" and \"David Moses Zerby\"), was a former member of the Children of God (COG), now known as The Family International (TFI), who committed a murder-suicide in 2005.\n\nRodriguez was born in Tenerife, one of the Canary Islands. He was the biological son of Karen Zerby and a local hotel employee there whom she \"Flirty Fished\". He was considered to be the adopted son of David Berg, Zerby's partner and leader of the COG, although no official adoption ever took place. Rodriguez later developed a deep-seated resentment towards Berg and Zerby, due to the sexual abuse he had suffered as a child.\n\nWhen Rodriguez grew to adulthood, he married Elixcia Munumel, whom he had met during a visit to a Family home near Budapest in 1995, and together they separated from TFI in 2001.\n\nIn September 2004, after separating from his wife, Rodriguez moved to Tucson, Arizona, and worked as an electrician. According to accounts by his friends and relatives, he moved there because he heard his mother had visited and he wanted to find her, her location being secret to him, because he had spoken out about his childhood.\n\nIn January 2005, he arranged a meeting with a former associate of his mother's who was involved in his childhood sexual molestation, Angela Smith (formerly Susan Joy Kauten), and stabbed her to death in his apartment. He then drove to Blythe, California, where he shot himself in the head. He had earlier filmed a video, where he explained what he planned to do. He mailed this to a friend, where it was received a few days after the murder-suicide, and then released to the public. According to an article in the \"New York Times\", in the video he said he saw himself as a vigilante, avenging children like him and his sisters, who had been subject to rapes and beatings. \"There's this need that I have\", he said. \"It's not a want. It's a need for revenge; it's a need for justice, because I can't go on like this.\"\n\nA&E's \"Cults and Extreme Belief\", episode 3 (2018) is about Children of God, its victims and survivors, and focuses in part on Rodriguez.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243218", "title": "Misprision of felony", "text": "Misprision of felony\n\nMisprision of felony is a form of misprision, and an offence under the common law of England that is no longer active in many common law countries. Where it was or is active, it is classified as a misdemeanor. It consists of failing to report knowledge of a felony to the appropriate authorities. Exceptions were made for close family members of the felon and where the disclosure would tend to incriminate him of that offence or another.\n\nWith the development of the modern law, this crime has been discarded in many jurisdictions, and is generally only applied against persons placed in a special position of authority or responsibility. In this case, the offence of misfeasance in public office or malfeasance in public office may be considered instead. For example, corrections officers who stand idly by while drug trafficking occurs within the prison may be prosecuted for this crime.\n\nIt has been abolished in:\n\nIn some cases, misprision has been replaced by a more tightly-defined statutory offence. For example, in England and Wales, the 1967 Act states that a person who has information which might lead to the prosecution of an arrestable offence—\"and who agrees to accept consideration\" in exchange for not disclosing it—is liable to imprisonment.\n\n\"Misprision of felony\" is still an offense under United States federal law after being codified in 1909 under :\nWhoever, having knowledge of the actual commission of a felony cognizable by a court of the United States, conceals and does not as soon as possible make known the same to some judge or other person in civil or military authority under the United States, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both. This offense, however, requires active concealment of a known felony rather than merely failing to report it.\n\nIf one knows that one is a target of a federal investigation, it is illegal under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to erase one's browser history intentionally. Khairullozhan Matanov was prosecuted for erasing computer records about his friends, Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev; he pleaded guilty to a lesser included offense in 2015.\n\nThe federal misprision of felony statute is usually used only in prosecutions against defendants who have a special duty to report a crime, such as a government official.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243231", "title": "Soltaniyeh", "text": "Soltaniyeh\n\nSoltaniyeh (, also Romanized as Solţānīyeh, Solţāneyyeh, Sultaniye, and Sultānīyeh; also known as Sa‘īdīyeh; ) is the capital city of Soltaniyeh District of Abhar County, Zanjan Province, northwestern Iran.\n\nAt the 2006 census, its population was 5,684, in 1,649 families.\n\nSoltaniyeh, located some to the north-west of Tehran, was built as the capital of Mongol Ilkhanid rulers of Iran in the 14th century. Its name which refers to the Islamic ruler title sultan translates loosely as \"the Regal\". Soltaniyeh was visited by Ruy González de Clavijo, who reported that the city was a hub of silk exportation.\n\nIn 2005, UNESCO listed Soltaniyeh as one of the World Heritage Sites. The road from Zanjan to Soltaniyeh extends until it reaches to the Katale khor cave.\n\nWilliam Dalrymple notes that Öljaitü intended Soltaniyeh to be \"the largest and most magnificent city in the world\" but that it \"died with him\" and is now \"a deserted, crumbling spread of ruins.\"\n\nEstablished on 1 April 1318 as Latin Metropolitan Archdiocese of Soltania (Latin and Curiate Italian) or Soltaniyeh.\n\nIt 1329 the Latin Diocese of Samarcanda became its suffragan for the Chagatai Khanate, at least until Tamerlane (founder of the Uzbek Timurids) swept its see Samarkand.\n\nSuppressed as residential see around 1450.\n\n\nTransformed at its suppression as residential see in 1450 into a Latin Titular archbishopric, which was itself suppressed in 1926.\n\nIt has had the following incumbents, of both the fitting archiepiscopal (intermediary) and the (lower) episcopal ranks :\n\n\nhttp://sultaniyya.org/\n"}
{"id": "2243247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243247", "title": "Bomber (song)", "text": "Bomber (song)\n\n\"Bomber\" is a song by the English heavy metal band Motörhead, recorded and released in 1979 (see 1979 in music). It is the title track to their album \"Bomber\" and was released as a single peaking at 34 on the UK singles chart. \n\nThe single was released in the UK by Bronze Records as a 7\" vinyl single with the first 20,000 copies pressed in blue vinyl and thereafter in black. The band promoted its release with an appearance on the BBC TV show Top of the Pops on 3 December. \n\nThe track was inspired after Lemmy had read Len Deighton's novel \"Bomber\". It became the inspiration for a forty-foot aluminium tube lighting rig used for their shows, a replica of a Heinkel He 111 bomber.\n\nOn 13 April 2019, Motörhead will re-release the original single of Bomber for the first time since 1979, along with the single edit of \"Overkill\" on picture disc as a celebration of the albums 40th anniversaries on Record Store Day. \n\nThe song became a staple of the band's live set, with live versions being released on the albums \"No Sleep 'til Hammersmith\", \"Everything Louder than Everyone Else\", \"Live At Brixton Academy\", \"\", \"\" and \"Clean Your Clock\"; and on the video releases \"The Birthday Party\", \"25 & Alive Boneshaker\" and \"The Best of Motörhead\".\n\nThe B-side of the single was the non-album track \"Over the Top\", which has subsequently been included as a bonus track on the re-mastered \"Bomber\" album. \n\nThe song was also performed as a joint collaboration between Motörhead and The Damned for inclusion on the proposed \"Ballroom Blitz\" single, but the recording session ended in drunkenness and the results were deemed unsuitable for release. The recording was, however, finally issued in 2003 on the \"Stone Deaf Forever!\" boxset. The Damned included the track on their compilation CD \"Tales From The Damned\" (released 1993, Cleopatra Records - CLEO71392), performed as \"MotörDamned\" with the following personnel: Rat Scabies, Lemmy, Fast Eddie, Captain Sensible, Philthy Animal Taylor, Dave Vanian, Algy Ward.\n\nLive versions of this song have been released as the B-side to the 1981 single \"Motorhead\", on the 2005 video \"Stage Fright\" and on the 2007 album \"Better Motörhead than Dead: Live at Hammersmith\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243250", "title": "Burning Tree Club", "text": "Burning Tree Club\n\nBurning Tree Club is a private, all-male golf club in Bethesda, Maryland. The course at Burning Tree has been played by numerous presidents, foreign dignitaries, high-ranking executive officials, members of Congress, and military leaders. The course was designed by architect Alister MacKenzie.\n\nThe Burning Tree Club was founded in 1922, supposedly in response to a male foursome from the Chevy Chase Club being stuck behind a slow-playing group of female golfers. The name of Burning Tree Club was named for the colorful leaves of a particularly large oak tree in the autumn on its grounds.\n\nThe club is located in Bethesda, Maryland, near Congressional Country Club, home of the 2011 U.S. Open golf tournament.\n\nThe initiation fee is $75,000, while membership fees are $500/month. Membership is exclusive with a cap around 600. The member list is private, and includes honoraria and retired golfers and can be achieved by invitation only.\n\nPresidents including Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and George Herbert Walker Bush have been extended honorary membership.\n\nUntil the appointment of Sandra Day O'Connor to the Supreme Court of the United States, the club had always extended honorary memberships to the Court's Justices; those who accepted include Associate Justice Antonin Scalia and former Chief Justice Warren Burger.\nOther notable members include:\n\nThere are no women's locker rooms or bathrooms at Burning Tree. No women are permitted inside the club at all, not even for service reasons or parties, with rare exceptions. A recent allowance was made for the spring cocktail party, and women are allowed into the pro shop in December to holiday shop for their husbands. They can do this only by appointment, during very restrictive hours, and only on Saturdays.\n\nThe exclusion of women has extended to Supreme Court Justices, as Sandra Day O'Connor was not invited to join. Even working female U.S. Secret Service agents have been turned away. Women U.S. Army EOD (explosive ordnance disposal) personnel have been turned away.\n\nIn the Seinfeld episode \"The Bottle Deposit\", Elaine bids on a set of golf clubs supposedly used by President John F. Kennedy at Burning Tree Club on the morning of the Bay of Pigs Invasion.\n"}
{"id": "2243253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243253", "title": "Caribbeanist", "text": "Caribbeanist\n\nA Caribbeanist is a scholar who specializes in the study of the Caribbean region of the Americas -- its literature, culture, politics, society, ecology and so forth. In some academic disciplines Caribbean studies are seen as a branch of the larger field of Latin American studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243260", "title": "The Inside (TV series)", "text": "The Inside (TV series)\n\nThe Inside is an American crime drama television series created by Tim Minear and Howard Gordon and produced by Imagine Television. \"The Inside\" follows the work of the FBI's Los Angeles Violent Crimes Unit (VCU), a division dedicated to investigating particularly dangerous crimes. \"The Inside\" initially aired on the Fox Network from June 8 to July 13, 2005. Although thirteen episodes were produced, Fox aired only seven episodes before canceling the series. All thirteen episodes were subsequently aired on ITV4 in the UK in 2006.\n\nRookie FBI Agent Rebecca Locke (Rachel Nichols) joins the Los Angeles Violent Crimes Unit (VCU) after the death of a previous member. While she proves to be a brilliant investigator, she has a secret known only to herself and the VCU's mysterious director Virgil \"Web\" Webster (Peter Coyote): that as a 10-year-old girl, Rebecca was kidnapped from her home and held captive for 18 months. Astonishingly enough, no one found and rescued her; she escaped the trauma all by herself, setting a fire and escaping in the resulting chaos. Webster manipulates Rebecca's experience on each case, using the insight she gained through it to establish the mindset of the victim—and the criminal.\n\nAnother sidebar to the plot is the moral struggle between Webster, who seems willing to use Rebecca's gift to catch the \"unsub\" at all costs, and Rebecca's partner Paul Ryan (Jay Harrington), who views himself as the voice of conscience in the battle for Rebecca's soul. Additionally, Webster's past is very much unknown; viewers are left wondering exactly how much he has in common with the perpetrators he pursues.\n\n\nOriginally produced by Kathryn Bigelow, the original premise centered around a 23-year-old woman, Rebecca Locke (Rachel Nichols), posing as a 16-year-old high school student in order to investigate a drug ring. Peter Facinelli was also attached to star. In September 2004, it was announced that Tim Minear would redevelop the series as original creators/executive producers Todd Kessler and Glenn Kessler exited the series. It was also revealed that Brian Grazer, Ron Howard and David Nevins would executive produce the series. In December 2004, Facinelli opted out of the series after Minear revamped the premise to feature Rebecca Locke as young FBI agent working for the L.A. bureau's Violent Crimes Unit. Later in December 2004, Jay Harrington was cast, taking over the role from Facinelli; and Adam Baldwin joined the cast, who worked with Minear on \"Firefly\". In May 2005, Fox announced the series would premiere June 8, 2005, airing Wednesdays at 9:00 pm. Fox aired seven episodes (although out of production order) before canceling the series due to low ratings.\n\nSeven episodes originally aired on Fox between June 8 and July 13, 2005. The other six episodes that were unaired by Fox first aired in the UK on ITV4 in 2006.\n\nFox aired the episodes out of order. The episode listing below is the correct viewing order, not the airing order. Creator Tim Minear posted the correct episode order on his website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243278", "title": "Jean-Baptiste Krumpholz", "text": "Jean-Baptiste Krumpholz\n\nJean-Baptiste Krumpholz (; Czech: \"Jan Křtitel Krumpholtz\") (8 May 1742 – 19 February 1790) was a Czech composer and harpist.\n\nKrumpholz was born in Budenice, near Zlonice. He was the brother of Wenzel Krumpholz, violinist and mandolin player. He learned music from his father while growing up in Paris; in 1773 he played a successful harp concerto in the Burgtheater in Vienna. After serving three years in Count Esterházy's court orchestra (1773–1776), during which he is said to have taken counterpoint lessons with Joseph Haydn, he embarked on a successful concert tour of Europe. In Paris and Metz, he worked along with manufacturers Jean Henri Naderman, his son François Joseph Naderman, and Sébastien Érard towards improving the construction of the harp. He composed concertos and sonatas for harp and chamber music.\n\nKrumpholz drowned himself in the Seine after his wife, a former pupil, Anne-Marie Krumpholtz (1755–1824), also a virtuoso harpist, eloped to London, although the story that this was with pianist Jan Ladislav Dussek is apocryphal.\n\nKrumpholz composed 52 sonatas, 6 concertos and many preludes and variations for the harp. He wrote also harp duets, quartets and 4 sonatas for harp, 2 violins, 2 French horns and cello.\n\nSelected works \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243283", "title": "Lists of people by net worth", "text": "Lists of people by net worth\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243285", "title": "Constrictor (album)", "text": "Constrictor (album)\n\nConstrictor is the ninth solo studio album by rock musician Alice Cooper released on September 22, 1986. After a hiatus from the music industry after the release of \"DaDa\", Cooper remained in seclusion for three years. He starred in \"Monster Dog\", a horror film for which he wrote two songs. He also guest starred on the Twisted Sister track \"Be Chrool to Your Scuel\". \"Constrictor\" was Alice Cooper's first album to feature Kane Roberts on guitar, Kip Winger on bass, who would later gain great fame with his own band, Winger and the only one to feature David Rosenberg on drums.\n\nThe album returned Cooper to the charts at number 59 after his previous two releases \"Zipper Catches Skin\" and \"DaDa\" had failed to crack the Top 200. For all intents and purposes, \"Constrictor\" was the first \"normal\" album Cooper had released in nearly eight years, since his records following \"From the Inside\" were seen as largely experimental.\n\nThe horror series \"Friday the 13th\" teamed up with Cooper during this time to produce the theme song for its latest film. The song “He's Back (The Man Behind the Mask)” was written for \"\" and went on to become a #1 hit in Sweden. Also featured in the film were \"Constrictor\"’s “Teenage Frankenstein” and “Hard Rock Summer,” which did not end up on the album.\n\nThe track “The Great American Success Story” was apparently intended as the theme song to the Rodney Dangerfield film \"Back to School\", but was not actually used.\n\nThe demo of “He’s Back (The Man Behind the Mask)” was totally different from the final album version. A reworked version of the “He's Back” demo landed on the album as “Trick Bag” instead. The version of “He’s Back” that was featured in \"Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives\" was remixed from the album version.\n\n\"Constrictor\" also led to one of the most successful tours of the late 1980s, “The Nightmare Returns” tour. Three songs from the album, “Teenage Frankenstein”, “Give It Up” and “The World Needs Guts” were regularly performed on this tour. However, as with all Cooper live songs since \"Lace and Whiskey\", these songs failed to remain in the setlist during subsequent tours. “Teenage Frankenstein” was also played on the tour supporting the follow-up \"Raise Your Fist and Yell\" album and occasionally during the 2001 “Descent into Dragontown” tour and during the 2019 \"Ol' Black Eyes Is Back\" tour, whilst “He’s Back (The Man Behind the Mask)” was played occasionally in the late 1980s and the early 2000s before becoming a frequent part of the setlist on the “Raise the Dead” tour. The song was resurrected alongside Teenage Frankenstein during the “Ol’ Black Eyes Is Back” tour, the song wasn’t played during the American leg and a portion of the European leg.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243287", "title": "Molly McGuire", "text": "Molly McGuire\n\nMolly McGuire is a multi-talented visual artist currently based in New Orleans, LA. Her canvases center around the theme of “Circus Banners of the Mind.” In 2014, McGuire painted the complete line of circus banners for the 20th Century Fox television series: American Horror Story Freak Show. Working under the moniker “Magwire,” Molly’s art is created from re-appropriated canvas drop cloths and custom tinted house paint salvaged from movie sets. The banners tend to reflect contemporary folklore and mythology presented as a carnival advertisement, or circus banner. \n\nHer work has been shown internationally and she is a yearly fixture in the art pavilions of the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival. In 2012 she received a first-place award from the New Orleans Press Club for “Best Editorial Illustration,” which appeared on the cover of Offbeat Magazine’s 50th Anniversary of the Preservation Jazz Hall Band.\n\nBefore becoming a full time visual artist, McGuire was a singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist.\nOriginally from Canada, McGuire relocated to New Orleans, where she met guitarist Dave Catching. The two played together in the Gnarltones, a punk band. McGuire then moved on to her own band, Rhudabega.\n\nAfter Rhudabega broke up, McGuire relocated to Los Angeles in 2001. There, she, Catching, drummer Brant Bjork and her brother, Brenndan McGuire recorded \"Demon Crossing\" in 2003 as Yellow #5; with Gene Trautman also contributing.\nNext, McGuire formed The Spores, with guitarist Greg Biribauer and drummer Kenny Pierce. They released \"Imagine the Future\" and, using McGuire's background as a visual artist, toured with an elaborate stage show. Though they toured as the opening act for the Eagles of Death Metal, they canceled due to infighting.\nMcGuire has also performed and/or recorded with Mark Lanegan, Martina Topley-Bird, Mondo Generator, Nick Oliveri, Queens of the Stone Age, and Frank Black.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243296", "title": "A Christmas to Remember (album)", "text": "A Christmas to Remember (album)\n\nA Christmas to Remember is a 1999 Christmas album by Amy Grant with the Patrick Williams Orchestra, which became certified gold. It is her third Christmas album with a blend of some traditional songs but mostly originals.\n\nIn 2007, \"A Christmas to Remember\" was reissued and digitally remastered by Grant's new record label, EMI/Sparrow Records, along with 13 other Amy Grant albums. The remastered edition is labeled with a \"Digitally Remastered\" logo in the 'gutter' on the CD front. Because of Grant's deal with her previous label, Word Records, the remastered editions of \"A Christmas to Remember\" and \"Behind the Eyes\" was not sold in Christian Music retailers such as Family Christian Stores or Lifeway Christian Resources until 2009. Until 2009, Word Records continued to distribute those titles to Christian retailers in the original, non-remastered editions while EMI distributed the remastered editions to most major retailers. The twelve remaining remastered editions were distributed by EMI to all US retailers, both Christian and secular.\n\nAn early release of the CD was sold exclusively at Target Stores and featured a cover of The Carpenters song \"Merry Christmas Darling\" as a hidden track. This track was eventually re-released on Amy Grants' 2005 compilation Christmas album \"My Best Christmas\".\n\nAlbum – \"Billboard\" (U.S.)\n"}
{"id": "2243298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243298", "title": "Francis Edward Smedley", "text": "Francis Edward Smedley\n\nFrancis Edward Smedley (4 October 1818 – 1 May 1864) was an English novelist. His name appears in print usually as Frank E. Smedley.\n\nHe was born with deformed feet, a disability that impaired his mobility and prevented him from attending regular school. Instead he was privately educated by his uncle. His cousin, the poet Menella Bute Smedley, later kept house for him and acted as his secretary. Smedley died in London in 1864.\n\nSmedley contributed his first book, \"Scenes from the Life of a Private Pupil\", anonymously to \"Sharpe's London Magazine\" in 1846-1848. His first essay proved so successful that it was expanded into \"Frank Fairlegh\", and published in book-form in 1850. His next book \"Lewis Arundel\" or \"The Railroad of Life\" was originally contributed to the same magazine, which he for some time edited, and was published in book-form in 1852. Of his other writings the best-known is \"Harry Coverdale's Courtship\" (1855). These stories are racily told. Either Hablot Knight Browne (\"Phiz\") or George Cruikshank supplied illustrations for most of his books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243303", "title": "The Strawberry Alarm Clock (radio programme)", "text": "The Strawberry Alarm Clock (radio programme)\n\nThe Strawberry Alarm Clock is a morning radio programme on FM104, an Independent Local Radio station in Dublin. It broadcasts weekday mornings from 6-10am, with \"Best Of The Strawberry Alarm Clock\" Saturdays from 9am-12pm. The show podcasts weekly through www.fm104.ie\n\nThe show began in 1995, and was originally presented by Timmy Ryan, Justin McKenna, Conor Mahoney and Joan Lea. Colm Hayes took over from Timmy Ryan in 1996, and the show quickly became a success. In 2000, Justin McKenna left the radio business while Joan Lea moved to drivetime programme \"The Jam\". Jim Nugent joined Colm and they became known as the duo \"Colm & Jim-Jim\". During this time they were joined by various female presenters including Niamh Crowley, Edel Daly, Taragh Loughry Grant and Sandra Mason, however Colm and Jim left FM104 on 12 January 2007 and moved to RTÉ 2fm where they presented 2FM's morning show \"The Colm & Jim-Jim Breakfast Show\". Andy Matthews took over the show on an interim basis on 15 January 2007, however he was replaced by the new team of Jim McCabe and Niamh Crowley from 13 February 2007. \n\nOn 13 September 2010, Jim-Jim Nugent returned to FM104 to replace Jim McCabe & Niamh Crowley who were let go due to poor ratings. FM104 launched a major outdoor and television campaign titled \"Jim-Jim's Back\". Jim-Jim is now joined by Mark Noble, the former presenter of drive time show \"The Jam\".\n\nOver the years, the show has created numerous parody songs which have become instant hits, most notably \"Sexy Joe\" (Sexy Back), \"Pyjamaaaa\" (Pjanoo) and \"I Hate Henry\" (Take On Me). There have also been numerous sports songs to celebrate rugby, football and GAA games. \n\nPrevious television adverts for the show features a young man running naked through the streets of Dublin, as if he was in a dream, confirmed by the catchphrase at the end \"You haven't woken up until you`ve woken up to The Strawberry Alarm Clock, on FM104!!\"\n\nKids In The Car\n\nEach morning at 8.40, Jim-Jim & Mark chat to a kid in a car on their way to school. They then must try guess what the kid is thinking about in 20 seconds. If they fail, the kid shouts the catchphrase \"Ha Ha, In Your Face Suckers\"\n\nPop Life\n\nThis is a music quiz on Friday mornings. A listener comes on air to compete against either Jim-Jim or Mark. The quiz involves identifying clips of music played in reverse. \n\nUncovered Unplugged\n\nUncovered Unplugged is the live music segment. This usually happens after 9am when a band or artist come into studio, performing one original track and one cover version. As part of FM104's \"Help A Dublin Child\" appeal, a charity CD was released in November 2007 featuring the best Uncovered Unplugged tracks of the year. This CD reached number two in the Irish compilation charts.\n\nGavin\n\nGavin Highlife chats to Jim-Jim & Mark weekly. A posh, rugby loving, south Dublin man, Gavin is not shy in telling listeners his real feelings on issues such as Scooter Scum, Dublin 1, and Boggers. \n\nTalk To Joe\n\nWhen there is a problem in the country, there is only one man we can turn to - Joe Duffy. Joe's show also features regular callers such as Phylis, Carmel, Kay and Joan.\n\nNod Yer Noggin\n\nThe first song after the 8am news is called Noddin Yer Noggin. It's a kicking song to start the day - listeners text in to Jim-Jim & Mark to tell them where they are and if they're noddin!\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243304", "title": "Lance Burton Theatre", "text": "Lance Burton Theatre\n\nThe Lance Burton Theatre is located in the Monte Carlo Resort and Casino. Its 1,274 seats are arranged in three main sections: the main floor, the mezzanine, and the balcony. The theatre was specially built for Lance Burton's magic show and until 2010 hosted \"Lance Burton: Master Magician\".\n\nOn October 22, 2001, the theater was the host site for the release of the USPS Harry Houdini stamp.\n\nIn addition to Lance Burton's magic show five days a week, the theater hosts a weekly \"Vintage Vegas Show\" with Chris Phillips and Marley Taylor, and Frank Caliendo for 4 shows a week.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243308", "title": "Alada", "text": "Alada\n\nAlada Empresa de Transportes Aéreos was an airline based in Luanda, Angola. Established in 1995, it operated chartered passenger and cargo flights out of Quatro de Fevereiro Airport, Luanda. Their AOC was revoked in 2010.\n\nAs of June 2011, the Alada fleet included the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "2243311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243311", "title": "Uschi Disl", "text": "Uschi Disl\n\nUrsula \"Uschi\" Disl (born 15 November 1970 in Bad Tölz, West Germany) is a German former biathlete.\n\nDuring her competitive career Disl was a 19-year veteran of biathlon and was a five time olympian, with two Olympic gold medals from the 4 × 7.5 km relays in 1998 and 2002. She also has four silver medals (two in 7.5 km sprint (1998 and 2002), one in 4 × 7.5 km relay (1994), and one in 3 × 7.5 km relay (1992)), and three bronze medals (two in 15 km individual, 1994 and 1998, and one in 12.5 km mass start, 2006). She also has two World Championship individual titles, both won in Hochfilzen, Austria, in March 2005, in the 7.5 km sprint and the 10 km pursuit.\n\nDubbed \"Turbo-Disl\" by the German media, she lay second in the Biathlon World Cup table at the beginning of the Olympics behind fellow country-woman Kati Wilhelm, and finished fifth in the overall standings for the 2004/05 season. She has finished second overall three times in the Biathlon World Cup (1995/96, 1996/97 and 1997/98) and has won forty World Cup races (28 single and 12 relay/team victories). This includes three wins at the Holmenkollen ski festival biathlon competition with one in 1995 (sprint) and two in 1996 (sprint, pursuit).\n\n2006 was Disl's last Olympics and her final season.\n\nOn 18 December 2005, Disl was named \"German sportswoman of the year\", becoming the first biathlete awarded, and beating speed skater Anni Friesinger and discus thrower Franka Dietzsch.\n\nSince 2012, she resides with her Swedish boyfriend Tomas Söderberg in Sweden, and, like most German Nordic skiers, is in the military as a border patrol guard. They have two children.\n\n\"9 medals (2 gold, 4 silver, 3 bronze)\"\n\n\"19 medals (8 gold, 8 silver, 3 bronze)\"\n\n\"30 victories (9 In, 12 Sp, 7 Pu, 2 MS)\" \n\nAll results are sourced from the International Ski Federation (FIS).\n\n"}
{"id": "2243316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243316", "title": "Angus MacAskill", "text": "Angus MacAskill\n\nAngus Mòr MacAskill (1825 – 8 August 1863) was a Scottish-born Canadian giant. The 1981 Guinness Book of World Records says he is the tallest non-pathological giant in recorded history (7 ft 9 in, or 2.36 m) and had the largest chest measurements of any non-obese man (80 inches, or 200 cm).\n\nMacAskill was born on the Isle of Berneray in the Sound of Harris, Scotland. His father was Norman MacAskill, who was tall, and his mother was Christina Campbell. He had twelve siblings, several of whom died young, and he was an ordinary-sized baby. After several years in Stornoway, Outer Hebrides, the family settled in the fishing community of Englishtown, Cape Breton Island, around 1831.\n\nYoung MacAskill was said to be of normal stature, but in entering his adolescence he began to grow rapidly and by his 20th year had attained , eventually reaching within another year or two. His early adult weight was . His shoulders were wide, and the palm of his hand wide and long; his wrists were in circumference; his ankles measured in circumference; by 1863 he was wearing boots long. His feet were probably around 16 inches long and 8 inches wide. He had deep-set blue eyes, a musical, if somewhat hollow voice and a mild and pleasant manner. Despite his size he was well proportioned.\n\nHe was known in his home community of St. Ann's as \"Gille Mòr\" (translated to \"Big Boy\"). He was also known to many as the \"Cape Breton Giant\" or simply \"Giant MacAskill.\"\n\nWhen MacAskill was approximately 14 years old he travelled on a fishing schooner from St. Ann's to North Sydney and the crew took him along to a dance. An altercation with a dancer led to MacAskill striking his tormentor's jaw with his fist. The man landed in the middle of the floor and was unconscious for so long the other dancers thought he was dead. When the captain returned to his schooner he found MacAskill on his knees praying that he had not killed the man.\n\nMacAskill was well known for feats of strength such as lifting a ship's anchor weighing to chest height, and an ability to carry barrels weighing over apiece under each arm or reputedly able to lift a hundredweight (50 kg) with two fingers and hold it at arm's length for ten minutes.\n\nIn 1849 he entered show business and went to work for P.T. Barnum's circus, appearing next to General Tom Thumb. In 1853 he toured the West Indies and Cuba. Queen Victoria heard stories about MacAskill's great strength and invited him to appear before her to give a demonstration at Windsor Castle, after which she proclaimed him to be \"the tallest, stoutest and strongest man to ever enter the palace\", and presented him with two gold rings in appreciation.\n\nThe fishermen of St. Ann's envied MacAskill's strength. While they laboriously bailed their boats, MacAskill set his weight under his two-ton boat, tipped it on its beam ends and reportedly emptied the bilge water. He also reportedly single-handedly set a mast into a schooner.\n\nThere are various accounts of an incident with an anchor that may have taken place in New York or New Orleans. French sailors apparently taunted MacAskill to lift an anchor lying on the wharf, which was estimated to weigh . MacAskill easily did so and walked down the wharf with it, but one of the anchor's flukes caught in one of his shoulders, crippling him. However, this was not the cause of his death, as he lived for many years thereafter.\n\nAfter a show business career demonstrating his size and strength in Europe and North America, he returned to his home community of Englishtown and purchased a gristmill, a general store and several other properties.\n\nIn the summer of 1863 MacAskill undertook a trip to the colonial capital at Halifax, where he had been planning to sell produce and purchase stock for his store that he would need for the winter season from the city's wholesalers. During the trip, he suddenly became seriously ill and was returned to St. Ann's, where his family moved him back to his parents' home. His original childhood bed was hastily lengthened and put up in their living room to provide for his care. The doctor's diagnosis was brain fever. After a week's illness, MacAskill died peacefully in his sleep on August 8, 1863, the Presbyterian minister the Rev. Abraham McIntosh and many neighbours being in attendance in the house.\n\nThe Halifax \"Acadian Recorder\" of August 15, 1863, reported that \"the well-known giant... was by far the tallest man in Nova Scotia, perhaps in British America\" and that \"his mild and gentle manner endeared him to all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance\". The whole county mourned and he was buried in the Englishtown Cemetery alongside his parents, who were of normal proportions; the size of MacAskill's burial mound dwarfs those of his mother and father.\n\nMacAskill's presence lived on in Englishtown for many years where his timber-frame house sat on the edge of Kelly's Mountain, overlooking St. Ann's Harbour. The structure, with its massive door frames still stood, albeit in ruins, as late as the 1950s and the foundation was visible into the 1980s.\n\nAround 1900 the Government of Nova Scotia replaced the family's original grave marker with a new one after the original had fallen into disrepair. Some of MacAskill's original personal effects from his house, including a bed frame, clothes and chair were removed for preservation and displayed for many years during the mid-20th century at the nearby Gaelic College of Celtic Arts and Crafts. These artifacts were moved back to Englishtown after the \"Giant MacAskill Museum\" was established in the late 1980s on a road-front portion of MacAskill's former property by the \"Giant MacAskill Heirs Association\". In addition to the collection from the Gaelic College, the museum in Englishtown also houses a more expanded collection of artifacts that had been maintained by family members.\n\nThe \"Giant MacAskill Museum\" was also established in 1989 at Dunvegan on the Isle of Skye and is operated there by a community group, this museum having several replicated artifacts from the Englishtown museum. It is managed by Peter MacAskill, father of the street trials cycle rider Danny MacAskill.\n\nIn 1977, the new vessel on the Englishtown Ferry, a cable ferry running across the entrance to St. Ann's Harbour between Englishtown and Jersey Cove, was christened as the \"Angus MacAskill\". Despite the relatively short crossing, it became the busiest ferry service in Nova Scotia, carrying hundreds of thousands of vacationers and residents every year until its replacement in 2008 by the newly built vessel \"Torquil MacLean\".\nHis story is still told by his family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243320", "title": "Vlado Chernozemski", "text": "Vlado Chernozemski\n\nVlado Chernozemski (Bulgarian/Macedonian: Владо Черноземски), born Velichko Dimitrov Kerin, ; 19 October 1897 – 9 October 1934), was a Bulgarian revolutionary. Also known as \"Vlado the Chauffeur\", Chernozemski is considered a hero in Bulgaria today, and in his time, in Croat circles and in the Macedonian Bulgarian diaspora. His contribution to the independence of Macedonia has also won him a similar status in some ethnic Macedonian circles today, that proclaimed him an alleged \"\"ethnic Macedonian\"\", while in others he is regarded as a \"Bulgarian fascist\".\n\nChernozemski began his revolutionary activities in 1922, when he joined the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO). Soon after, he became an assassin for the IMRO. He killed two notable Bulgarian politicians, communist Dimo Hadzhidimov, and IMRO member Naum Tomalevski. Both times he was sentenced to death, but he escaped from his first imprisonment and was released from the second. After his release in 1932, he became an instructor for the Ustaše. He trained a group of three Ustaše to assassinate Alexander of Yugoslavia, but eventually killed Alexander himself on 9 October 1934 in Marseille. He was then beaten by French police and spectators, and died the same day. French Foreign Minister Louis Barthou was also killed by a stray bullet fired by French police during the scuffle following the attack.\n\nFor murdering King Alexander I, Chernozemski was posthumously declared the most dangerous terrorist in Europe.\n\nVelichko Dimitrov Kerin was born in the village of Kamenitsa, now part of the town Velingrad. His father, Dimitar Kerin, and his mother, Risa Baltadzieva, were both local peasants. He received primary education in his native village. His mother died when he was 14 years old and the young Kerin was induced to help his father feed the family along with his younger brother and two sisters. Chernozemski joined the military in Plovdiv. During World War I, he served in the engineer corps. After the war he worked as a driver and watchmaker. As a youngster, he was prone to drinking alcohol, but later reformed and became a vegetarian. He married in 1919. In 1923, his daughter Latinka was born. In 1925, he divorced and remarried. He lived in Sofia until 1932. According to a conspiracy theory promoted by himself, he was born in a village called Patrick near Štip, that was burned down by the Serbian army during the Second Balkan War, and was never restored. His mother and father were therefore living in Bulgaria as refugees. He used different aliases and pseudonyms such as Vlado Georgiev Chernozemski, Peter Kelemen, Vlado the Chauffeur, Rudolph Suk, Vladimir Dimitrov Vladimirov etc. Even his second wife didn't know his real name, or anything about his past. There are no records of him in Bulgaria beyond 1932, but he was re-identified in 1934, after his death in France.\n\nA legend describing Chernozemski as Vlado the Driver () appeared in Macedonia, since he worked for a company in Dupnitsa as a driver for a short time. In the early 1920s, he moved to Bansko, when the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) was founded by Todor Alexandrov. Chernozemski joined the IMRO in 1922 in the unit \"Voivode\" Ivan Barlyo. From 1923 to 1924, he was a member of Trayan Lakavishki's cheta. Chernozemski also entered the region of Vardar Macedonia with IMRO bands and participated in more than 15 skirmishes with Yugoslav police. He soon became one of the best marksmen in the organization, known for his courage, and discipline.\n\nIn 1925 Ivan Mihailov became the new leader of the IMRO. In this period the organization took actions against the former left-wing activists, assassinating several of them. Mihailov assigned Chernozemski to assassinate MP Dimo Hadzhidimov, a member of the Communist Party of Bulgaria and former IMRO member. Chernozemski was arrested and sentenced to death by hanging for Hadzhidimov's assassination, but his execution was never carried out. In 1925, Chernozemski escaped from a police escort.\n\nIn 1927, Chernozemski proposed to the IMRO Central Committee to enter the main conference building of the League of Nations in Paris and detonate grenades attached to his person, in order to attract the attention of the world and generate publicity over the question of the Bulgarians in Macedonia, but his proposal was rejected. In 1929, the leadership of the IMRO called on Ante Pavelić and the Ustaše for cooperation.\n\nIn 1930, Chernozemski, following an order by Mihailov, assassinated another member of the IMRO, Naum Tomalevski, and his bodyguard. Tomalevski had been a prominent member of the IMRO. For the second time, Chernozemski was sentenced to death, but he was pardoned in 1932.\n\nAfter his release from the prison, Chernozemski disappeared. He moved to Italy, where he became an instructor for the Ustaše in a camp in Borgotaro. He was then transferred to the Ustaše camp in Janka-Puszta, near Nagykanizsa in Hungary. The main purpose of this camp was planning for the assassination of King Alexander I. Chernozemski was the instructor of the group of three Ustašas: Mijo Kralj, Zvonimir Pospišil, and Milan Rajic, who were preparing to assassinate the king. On September 29, the four terrorists arrived in Paris, and on October 6 they split into two groups. Chernozemski and Kralj moved to Marseille, where the king was expected to arrive on October 9, and Pospišil, and Milan Rajic, moved to Versailles where they planned a second attack in case of failure of the first one. On 9 October 1934, Chernozemski carried out the murder, after concluding that the other members of the group were unprepared psychologically.\n\nAs King Alexander's motorcade drove at a few miles per hour down a Marseille street in front of an adoring crowd, Chernozemski was able to emerge from the crowd, approach the king's car and leap onto its running board while concealing his Mauser C96 automatic pistol in a bouquet of flowers and chanting \"\"Vive le roi\"\" (\"long live the king\"). He shot Alexander repeatedly, hitting him twice, once in the abdomen and the other in the heart; King Alexander died within minutes. The chauffeur—who tried to push Chernozemski off the car—and Alexander's companion in the car, French Foreign Minister Louis Barthou, were also shot. Chernozemski killed the chauffeur, apparently unintentionally. A police officer fired at Chernozemski but missed and fatally wounded Barthou. The chauffeur died almost immediately, with his foot pressed on the brake of the car, providing the opportunity for a photographer outside the car to photograph most of the grisly affair. Barthou might have survived, but did not, apparently because of inadequate medical attention.\n\nAfter shooting a policeman who tried to seize him and inadvertently killing two bystanders, Chernozemski then futilely attempted to flee the scene but was struck by a slash from an escorting cavalryman's sabre, stunning him. He then received a non-mortal bullet wound in the head from a nearby police officer, and was fatally beaten by the enraged crowd while the police stood back and watched. Chernozemski was then brought in for interrogation. Since the assassin was in critical condition, he was unable to say anything and succumbed to his injuries later that evening, 10 days before his 37th birthday. The French police were unable to identify him; they could only register his tattoo, a skull with crossbones and a sign reading \"V.M.R.O.\" (Bulgarian initials standing for Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization). He was buried in an unmarked grave in the Marseille cemeteries with only two detectives and the gravediggers present at the funeral. A Yugoslav journalist who saw the tattoo told the press it was the symbol of the IMRO. In the night of October 10, the French police arrested in Paris the Ustaša terrorists Zvonimir Pospišil and Milan Raijc. Five days later Mijo Kralj was arrested, who admitted everything. As a result, an exhumation was organized and fingerprints were sent from Paris to Sofia and Belgrade. On 17 October it was officially announced from Bulgarian police that the killer was Vlado Chernozemski.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243332", "title": "At the Carnival", "text": "At the Carnival\n\nAt The Carnival is a 1989 computer puzzle game by Cliff Johnson.\n\nIt was intended to be the first of a series of games called \"Puzzle Gallery\"; however, publisher Miles Computing went out of business before any further games could be made.\n\n\"At The Carnival\" is a collection of games similar to some in The Fool's Errand, but with enhanced user interfaces. The endgame puzzle is simpler compared to Fool's Errand and 3 in Three, consisting merely of a crossword puzzle filled by key words found in other solved puzzles.\n\nThe game has no overarching story as such; each puzzle shows a small section of \"Hazard Park\", an amusement park with woeful disdain for its customers. Completing the puzzles in a particular section displays the fate of the unfortunate guests at a given ride, attraction, or location for that particular section.\n\nOne puzzle in the game has Cliff Johnson describing the discovery of Elmer McCurdy.\n\nThe original version of the game was for Apple Macintosh; a port to MS-DOS was made, but it is not as visually appealing due to the lower resolution available to IBM PC-class machines at the time (320×200 VGA vs. 512×342 minimum on Macintoshes). In later years the author made the game freely downloadable Freeware on his website. Cliff Johnson strongly recommends playing the Macintosh version instead of the MS-DOS version, using an emulator such as Executor or Basilisk II if necessary.\n\nSome of the major puzzle types in the games include:\n\n\"Compute!\" stated that players would find \"At the Carnival\" \"hard to stop playing\", with \"the best mazes you'll ever see on the Mac\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2243335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243335", "title": "Dome of Soltaniyeh", "text": "Dome of Soltaniyeh\n\nThe Dome of Soltaniyeh in Soltaniyeh city, Zanjan Province, Iran, traditionally so called, is a complex of ruins centering on the Mausoleum of the Mongol ruler Il-khan Öljeitü, also known as Muhammad Khodabandeh. \n\nThe main building, erected between 1302 and 1312 AD, may have the oldest double-shell dome in Iran, a view of the construction made by Dieulafoy, but this has been disputed by André Godard. In Godard's view, it is a normal, if spectacularly large dome, with a thin skin on top for the faience, and is not a double dome. However, its importance in the Muslim world is undoubted and it may be compared to that of Brunelleschi's cupola for Christian architecture. It is one of the largest brick domes in the world, just at the theoretical engineering limit for a brick dome and the third largest dome in the world after the domes of Florence Cathedral and Hagia Sophia. The Dome of Soltaniyeh paved the way for more daring Iranian-style cupola constructions in the Muslim world, such as the Mausoleum of Khoja Ahmed Yasavi and the Taj Mahal. Much of its exterior decoration has been lost, but the interior retains superb mosaics, faience, and murals.\nPeople have described the architecture of the building as “anticipating the Taj Mahal.”\n\nThe estimated 200 ton dome stands 49 meters (161 ft) tall from its base, and is currently undergoing extensive renovation.\n\nThe Mongol invasion of the Islamic world began with the conquest of eastern Iran in 1221, and ultimately ended the period of Abbasid rule (750-1258). The Mongols conquered most of West Asia, and a branch of the dynasty known as the Ilkhanids (1256-1353) “centered its power in northwest Iran.” While this conquest initially came as a devastation, the Ilkhanid period also saw major developments in the decorative arts. By the architectural masterpiece that is the Dome of Soltaniyeh, also known as the Tomb of Oljeitu, the Ilkhanids proved to be capable as builders.\n\nThe Mongol presence in Iran led to a shift away from traditional cities to ones with an emphasis on pasture. An example of this new type of Mongol city was the city of Sultaniyya in northwestern Iran. Arghun, the Ilkhanid ruler of Iran at the time, established the Sultaniyya as his summer capital. His son, Muhammad Oljeitu Khudabanda, furthered the city’s development and transformed it into the capital of the empire. After Oljeitu’s death, the city began a steady decline, and from a once flourishing city it now only has two buildings which show signs of its former wealth and importance, an octagonal tomb and an adjacent khanaqah. A khanaqah is a building designed specifically for Sufi gatherings as a spiritual retreat. The strong quality of the preserved tomb attests to the richness of its patronage.\n\nThe large domed tomb chamber of Oljeitu was meant to rival the colossal tomb built by the Seljuq sultan Sanjar at Merv. The tomb of Oljeitu has an octagonal plan, like the Tomb of Ahmed Sanjar (1157), and the idea of the octagonal plan may have came from the Dome of the Rock at Jerusalem, being used as “a symbolical representation of the building having a religious significance.” The tomb complexes were sponsored by the Ilkhanid court and were the “largest and finest of their time.”\n\nThe Tomb of Oljeitu was one of the largest religious endowments of the 14th century, and was utilized for multiple functions, such as Quran reading, praying, teaching, housing, and medical purposes. The main building is approximately 125 feet across and is crowned by a dome with an average diameter of 80 feet. The tomb is highly visible, due to its unique incorporation of eight minarets enclosing the dome above the gallery. More specifically, Oljeitu’s complex consists of four iwans connected by arcades with muqarnas surrounding the perimeter of a courtyard; this was considered the classic Iranian style. The tomb itself stands behind the southern iwan. Furthermore, the iwans were all plastered and painted, and the courtyard was paved with white marble.\n\nAs for the interior of the tomb, it is decorated in tile and plaster. The insides of the iwans’ walls possess white inscriptions that stand out against the blue background. The underside of the iwans are stuccoed with bands of ornamentation, that were later painted. A significant inscription--spotted with ogival forms sculpted over cloth--circles the entire dome. The galleries have low, wooden or marble railings. The windows are fitted with bronze screens, along with bronze knobs and balls set with gold and silver. Some elements from these window grilles were inscribed with their patron’s name or with detailed scenes, such a depictions of a horseman or of falconry.\n\nFollowing Islamic convention, Oljeitu’s tomb was placed in a garden, known in the Quran as a \"rawda\". This word was also added to the railing of the Prophet Muhammad’s tomb in Medina. Because of this, \"rawda\" became the label for funerary structures in Iran. Thus, Oljeitu’s tomb was referred to as a \"rawda\". Additionally, Oljeitu ensured that water could be successfully stored and utilized in the complex, through the use of qanats and wells. A qanat is a downward sloping channel intended to transport water. Due to this, the flora and fauna surrounding the tomb were able to survive for a long time; specifically, “the gardens around the tomb complex were still being maintained in the seventeenth century.”\n\nAccording to a later drawing of the tomb by Flandin and Coste, one can see possible evidence of a cap wall projecting from the northeast corner. The presence of a cap wall guarantees that there were arcades attached to the tomb. Additionally, once the site was excavated, potential proof of a limestone court encompassing the east, north, and west of the tomb was found. Lastly, another illustration done by Matraqi reveals that the face of the complex was split into two stories and was “flanked by minarets and surmounted by five domes.”  \n\nBecause Oljeitu’s tomb was one of the most significant works of its time, it became an inspiration for many other complexes, both within and outside of Ilkhanid culture. Distinct features of the complex were later found on many other monuments, such as placing paired minarets above a portal. This trend began in the Seljuq period, then became a normal inclusion in Ilkhanid buildings.\n\nThe Tomb of Oljeitu, like other Ilkhanid tombs, was integrated into a great complex--which no longer remains. These complexes were the “precursors of the type of large, planned funerary complexes, known as kulliye, that (were) built by the Ottomans at Bursa and elsewhere beginning in the second half of the fourteenth century.”\n\nAnother trend derived from Oljeitu’s tomb is the style of five domes placed above the portal. The Blue Mosque built by Saliha Khanum in Tabriz was inspired by this design; its portal and projecting sanctuary were very similar to Oljeitu’s complex. This famous tomb of Oljeitu remained an inspiration for several imperial Mongolian tombs, even the Taj Mahal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243343", "title": "Frederick Dielman", "text": "Frederick Dielman\n\nFrederick Dielman (25 December 1847 – 25 August 1935) was a German-American portrait and figure painter.\n\nDielman was born in Hanover, Germany, and was taken to the United States in early childhood. He graduated from Calvert College in New Windsor, Maryland, in 1864, and from 1866 to 1872 served as a topographer and draughtsman for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Fortress Monroe and Baltimore, and in the survey of canal routes over the Alleghanies in Virginia. He then studied under Wilhelm von Diez at the Royal Academy at Munich where he received a medal in the life class.\n\nHe opened a studio in New York City, where he worked at first as an illustrator of books and magazines, and became a distinguished draughtsman and painter of genre pictures. He was one of the original members of the Society of American Artists, was made a National Academician in 1883, and was also a member of the American Water Color Society, the New York Etching Club, and the Salmagundi Club. He was president of the Arts Federation of New York.\n\nIn 1899, Dielman was elected president of the National Academy of Design. In 1903, he became professor of drawing at the College of the City of New York and about the same time was made director of the art schools at Cooper Union.\n\nHe made major contributions to deluxe editions of works by Longfellow, Hawthorne, George Eliot, and other writers, and to the various publications of the Tile Club, of which he was a member. His mural decorations and mosaic panels for the Library of Congress in Washington are notable. Among his pictures shown at National Academy exhibitions were \"The Patrician Lad\" (1877), \"Young Gamblers\" (1885), and a \"Head\" (1886). One of the best known of his illustrations is \"A Girl I Know\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2243349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243349", "title": "Cranberry glass", "text": "Cranberry glass\n\nCranberry glass or Gold Ruby glass is a red glass made by adding gold salts or colloidal gold to molten glass. Tin, in the form of stannous chloride, is sometimes added in tiny amounts as a reducing agent. The glass is used primarily in expensive decorations.\n\nCranberry glass is made in craft production rather than in large quantities, due to the high cost of the gold. The gold chloride is made by dissolving gold in a solution of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid (aqua regia). The glass is typically hand blown or molded. The finished, hardened glass is a type of colloid, a solid phase (gold) dispersed inside another solid phase (glass).\n\nThe origins of cranberry glass making are unknown, but many historians believe a form of this glass was first made in the late Roman Empire. This is evidenced by the British Museum's collection Lycurgus Cup, a 4th-century Roman glass cage cup made of a dichroic glass, which shows a different colour depending on whether light is passing through it or reflecting from it; red (gold salts) when lit from behind and green (silver salts) when lit from in front.\n\nThe craft was then lost and rediscovered in the 17th century Bohemian period by either Johann Kunckel in Potsdam or by the Florentine glassmaker Antonio Neri in Italy. Neither of them knew the mechanism which yielded the colour, however. Chemist and winner of the 1925 Nobel Prize in Chemistry Richard Adolf Zsigmondy was able to understand and explain that small colloids of gold were responsible for the red colour.\n\nThe most famous period of cranberry glass production was in 19th century Britain during the Victorian Era.\n\nLegend holds that cranberry glass was first discovered when a noble tossed a gold coin into a mixture of molten glass. This legend is almost certainly not true, as the gold must be dissolved in aqua regia before being added to the molten glass.\n\nCranberry glass creations were most popular as a table display, often holding candy or flowers.\n\nCranberry glass was also frequently used for wine glasses, decanters, and finger bowls. Cranberry glass was also well known for its use in \"Mary Gregory\" glass. This glass had a white enamel fired onto the glass in a design, usually with a romantic theme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243361", "title": "Ginery Twichell", "text": "Ginery Twichell\n\nGinery Twichell (August 26, 1811 – July 23, 1883) was president of the Boston and Worcester Railroad in the 1860s, the Republican Representative for Massachusetts for three consecutive terms and the sixth president of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway.\n\nHe was born in Athol, Massachusetts. Some references list his actual birth date as August 22, 1811 (Waters, p. 43), while others list it as August 26, 1811 (Congress Bioguide; and Massachusetts Vital Records). In 1827 Twichell left school to seek employment in a local mill. Subsequent jobs saw him working with livestock and later in retail. His strengths in transportation began to show in 1830 when he took control of a stage line between Barre and Worcester.\n\nAs a manager and business owner, Twichell gained a reputation for kindness and generosity, even toward his business competition. He saw his stage line grow to include many more lines throughout New England. When the Boston and Worcester Railroad (B&W) opened on July 1, 1835, Twichell's stage lines were both competition and complement to the railroad's service. This quasi-partnership lasted until June 1, 1848, when Twichell became the assistant superintendent of the railroad. Twichell rose through the B&W's ranks, becoming president in 1857.\n\nIn 1867 Twichell was elected to Congress where he served as a Republican Representative for Massachusetts. He was twice reelected, in 1869 and again in 1871, to stretch his tenure to three consecutive terms.\n\nDuring his third term as a Representative, Twichell became president of the growing Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway in 1870. During his term with the Santa Fe, the railroad built the rest of the mainline across Kansas from Topeka, connecting to Dodge City, Kansas, on September 5, 1872, and then the Colorado state line by the end of 1873. Twichell served the Santa Fe Railroad for three years, leaving in 1873 to return to Massachusetts where he led the Boston, Barre and Gardner Railroad and the Hoosac Tunnel and Wilmington Railroad.\n\nTwichell died on July 23, 1883, in Brookline, Massachusetts, of typhoid fever.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243363", "title": "Tolga, Queensland", "text": "Tolga, Queensland\n\nTolga is a town and locality on the Atherton Tableland in the Tablelands Region in Far North Queensland, Australia. It is the centre of the region's peanut industry. In the , Tolga had a population of 2,718 people.\n\nTolga is located on the Atherton Tableland. The Kennedy Highway traverses the locality from the north-west to the south of the locality, passing through the town which is in the southern part of the locality. To the north-west of the town is a large residential development which is marketed under the names of Tandara, Rangeview and Panorama Views.\n\nThe Barron River forms the north-east boundary of the locality. The south-western boundary of the locality is the drainage divide that separates the drainage basin of the Barron River from that of the Mitchell River.\n\nThe northern and eastern parts of Tolga are relatively flat land used for growing crops, the western parts however are more mountainous (creating the drainage divide) and are mostly undeveloped, but is to be the location of the Mount Emerald Wind Farm currently under construction on the Great Dividing Range.\n\nThe Tolga Scrub on the southern side of town is one of the last remaining areas of Mabi rainforest on the Atherton Tableland. It is the most drought resistant type of rainforest in Australia. The Tolga Scrub is long and 100 metres wide.\n\nThe name Tolga is thought to be derived from the Aboriginal word for \"red volcanic soil\". The town was originally called Martin Town, and grew out of a Cobb and Co staging post at Rocky Creek. The town's name was changed to Tolga in 1903 when the railway was extended from Mareeba.\n\nDuring World War II in 1943 the Australian Army established their largest storage and repair centre to the west of the town centred on Griffin Road and Tate Road to support the War in the Pacific. It was known as the 13 Australian Advanced Ordnance Depot and was operated by the Royal Australian Army Ordnance Corps under the command of lieutenant colonel LW Gale with a staff of about 1000 including 200 from the Australian Women's Army Service. The complex had about 150 buildings, including 18 large igloo storage shed. The complex stored, repaired and maintained Army vehicles and vehicle parts, weapons and ammunition, and clothing.\n\nMost buildings on the site were removed in 1946 after the war had ended with one building being relocated to the Atherton Hospital for the use of the Queensland Country Women's Association. On Friday 29 November 1946, three Army personnel were working to remove cordite from the shells in the ammunition dump when the cordite ignited in a blinding flash. The three men were severely burned in the explosion but managed to crawl over a mile to their headquarters. Although they were rushed to the Atheron hospital, the three men died and were buried at the Atherton War Cemetery.\n\nAt the 2006 census, Tolga had a population of 843. By the 2011 census, Tolga's population had increased to 2,426 people. In the , Tolga had a population of 2,718 people.\n\nTolga State School opened on 10 October 1895 and is co-educational, catering for Prep - Year 6 with an enrolment of 366 students. The school celebrated its centenary in 1995.\n\nTolga Markets are held at the Tolga Racecourse from 7am to 12pm on the first Sunday of each month. Local produce, hand crafted items, clothing, tools and food are commonly found for sale. It is considered the second most popular market held on the Atherton Tableland, only slightly smaller than the Yungaburra Markets.\n\nThe Tolga branch of the Queensland Country Women's Association meets at the QCWA Hall at 60 Main Street.\n\nTolga has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2243367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243367", "title": "Vallathol Narayana Menon", "text": "Vallathol Narayana Menon\n\nVallathol Narayana Menon (16 October 1878 – 13 March 1958) was a poet in the Malayalam language, which is spoken in the south Indian state of Kerala. He was one of the triumvirate poets of modern Malayalam, along with Kumaran Asan and Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer. The honorific Mahakavi (English: \"great poet\") was applied to him in 1913 after the publication of his \"Mahakavya\" \"Chitrayogam\". He was a nationalist poet and wrote a series of poems on various aspects of the Indian freedom movement. He also wrote against caste restriction, tyrannies and orthodoxies. He founded the Kerala Kalamandalam and is credited with revitalising the traditional Keralite dance form known as Kathakali.\n\nVallathol was born in Chenara, Tirur, in Malappuram District, Kerala, as the son of Kadungotte Mallisseri Damodaran Elayathu and Kuttipparu Amma. He did not receive any formal education but was trained in Sanskrit language, first under the Sanskrit scholar Variyam Parambil Kunjan Nair and then under his own uncle Ramunni Menon, who introduced him into the world of Sanskrit poetry. Ramunni Menon also taught him \"Ashtanga Hridayam\", a medical treatise, and young Narayana Menon soon began helping his uncle in medical practice and teaching. He also trained for a year under Parakkulam Subrahmanya Sastri and Kaikkulangara Rama Variar in Philosophy and Logic. He married Vanneri Chittazhiveettil Madhavi Amma in November 1901 and shifted to Thrissur, the cultural capital of Kerala. He worked as manager in the Kalpadrumam Press in Thrissur from 1905 to 1910. During this period, his hearing began to deteriorate. From 1915, he started working in \"Keralodayam\" newspaper and later joined \"Amrit Ritesh\", a journal published from Thrissur.\n\nHe started writing poems from the age of twelve. \"Kiratha Satakam\" and \"Vyasavataram\" were his earliest published works. He won \"Bhashaposhini\" magazine's poetry award in 1894. His poems began appearing in \"Bhashaposhini\", \"Kerala Sanchari\" and \"Vijnana Chintamani\" magazines. His first major literary ventures was a rendition of Valmiki's \"Ramayana\" into Malayalam, the work of which started in 1905 and took two years to complete. Unlike some of his contemporaries, Vallathol did not have any acquaintance with English language. He earned the title \"Mahakavi\" after the publication of the \"Mahakavya\" \"Chitrayogam\" in 1913. \"Chitrayogam\" conformed to all the principles of a traditional \"Mahakavya\" and was divided into 18 \"Sargas\". The story of Chandrasena and Taravali, taken from \"Kathasaritsagara\", was the theme of this poetry work. Vallathol portrayed the protest of Parvati against Siva in the work \"Gangapati\" (1913) and of Usha defying her father for the sake of her love in \"Bandhanasthanaya Anirudhan\" (1914). In 1917, the first of his eleven-volume work \"Sahitya Manjari\" (\"A Bouquet of Literature\") was published. These volumes, published from 1917 to 1970, contain his collected short romantic poems dealing with a variety of themes. Many of these poems earlier appeared in P. V. Krishna Variar's \"Kavanakaumudi\" magazine. His \"khanda kavya\" on Mary Magdalene titled \"Magdalana Mariam\" paved the way for a new tradition in of Christian symbolism in Malayalam. The poet's own struggle with deafness from his early twenties features in the work \"Badhiravilapam\". Other celebrated short poems of Vallathol include \"Sishyanum Makanum\", \"Virasinkala\", \"Achanum Makalum\", \"Divaswapnam\" and \"Ente Gurukulam\".\n\nIn addition to subjects from nature and the lives of ordinary people, Vallathol's opposition to the indignities of the caste system and the injustices suffered by the poor form the themes of many of his poems. He is also regarded as the greatest nationalist poet of the language. He was one of the triumvirate poets of modern Malayalam, along with Kumaran Asan and Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer. Literary critic K. M. George has noted that, together with Kumaran Asan, Vallathol was \"responsible for bringing about a revolutionary change in Malayalam poetry in the [nineteen]-twenties. Asan concentrated on social themes and Vallathol championed the national movement; yet both made very significant contributions to the \"khandkavya\", ie: the short poem of the lyrical type.\"\n\nHe was awarded Padma Bhushan title, India's third highest civilian award, in 1954.\n\nVallathol is credited with revitalising the traditional Keralite dance form known as Kathakali. He played a prominent role in setting up the Kerala Kalamandalam at Cheruthuruthy, near the banks of Bharathapuzha River. The revival of the art of Kathakali in modern Kerala was mainly due to the efforts of Vallathol and the Kerala Kalamandalam. He stimulated the world's interest in this art during his tours abroad between 1950 and 1953.\n\nVallathol is regarded as the greatest nationalist poet of the language. He actively participated in the Nationalist movement. He attended the all India Conferences of the Indian Congress in 1922 and 1927 and rejected a royal honour bestowed upon him by the Prince of Wales during his India visit in 1922. Vallathol remained a great admirer of Mahatma Gandhi and wrote the poem \"Ente Gurunathan\" (\"My Great Teacher\") in his praise. At the same time, he felt attracted by the Communist ideology and wrote poems praising the achievements of the Soviet Union. He wrote several patriotic poems hailing India's nationalist movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243372", "title": "James Eyre (judge)", "text": "James Eyre (judge)\n\nSir James Eyre PC, (17341 July 1799) was an English judge, the son of the Rev. Thomas Eyre, of Wells, Somerset.\n\nHe was educated at Winchester College and at St John's College, Oxford, which he left without taking a degree. He was called to the bar at Gray's Inn in 1755, through the influence of Thomas Parker, chief baron of the exchequer. He commenced practice in the lord mayors and sheriffs courts, paying £63 (\"2011: £\") for one of the four counsel to the City of London Corporation.\n\nHe was appointed Recorder of London in 1763 and knighted in 1770.\n\nHe was counsel for the plaintiff in the case of \"Wilkes v. Wood\", and made a brilliant speech in condemnation of the execution of general search warrants. His refusal to voice the remonstrances of the corporation against the exclusion of Wilkes from Parliament earned him the recognition of the ministry, and he was appointed a Baron of the Exchequer in 1772 and Chief Baron of the Exchequer in 1787. From June 1792 to January 1793 he was Chief Commissioner of the Great Seal. In 1793 he was made Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and presided over the trials of Horne Tooke, Robert Thomas Crossfield and others.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in May 1791.\n\nHe died in 1799 and was buried at Ruscombe in Berkshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243377", "title": "RTorrent", "text": "RTorrent\n\nrTorrent is a text-based ncurses BitTorrent client written in C++, based on the libTorrent (not to be confused with libtorrent) libraries for Unix, whose author's goal is \"a focus on high performance and good code\".\n\nThe library differentiates itself from other implementations by transferring data directly between file pages mapped to memory by the mmap() function and the network stack. On high-bandwidth connections, it claims to be able to seed at three times the speed of the official client.\n\nrTorrent packages are available for various Linux distributions and Unix-like systems, and it will compile and run on nearly every POSIX-compliant operating system, such as FreeBSD and OS X.\n\nrTorrent uses ncurses and is suitable for use with screen or Tmux; it uses commands such as Carriage return to load a torrent, after which ^S can be used to start a torrent (where ^ is shorthand for Ctrl key), backspace can be used to automatically start a torrent once it is loaded, making a subsequent issue of ^S unnecessary, ^K for stop, and ^D for pause, or if already paused or stopped, ^D again to delete the torrent. It supports saving of sessions and allows the user to add and remove torrents. It also supports partial downloading of multi-file torrents. In the release of rTorrent-0.7.0 support for BitTorrent protocol encryption was also implemented. PEX, DHT and initial seeding were recently implemented in rTorrent.\n\nrTorrent can be controlled via XML-RPC over SCGI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243381", "title": "Swan Valley", "text": "Swan Valley\n\nSwan Valley may refer to:\n\nIn Australia:\n\nIn Canada:\n\nIn the United States:\n"}
{"id": "2243383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243383", "title": "Cascode", "text": "Cascode\n\nThe cascode is a two-stage amplifier that consists of a common-emitter stage feeding into a common-base stage.\n\nCompared to a single amplifier stage, this combination may have one or more of the following characteristics: higher input–output isolation, higher input impedance, high output impedance, higher bandwidth.\n\nIn modern circuits, the cascode is often constructed from two transistors (BJTs or FETs), with one operating as a common emitter or common source and the other as a common base or common gate.\nThe cascode improves input–output isolation (reduces reverse transmission), as there is no direct coupling from the output to input. This eliminates the Miller effect and thus contributes to a much higher bandwidth.\n\nThe use of a cascode (sometimes verbified to \"cascoding\") is a common technique for improving analog circuit performance, applicable to both vacuum tubes and transistors. The name \"cascode\" was coined in an article written by Frederick Vinton Hunt and Roger Wayne Hickman in 1939, in a discussion on the application of voltage stabilizers. They proposed a cascode of two triodes (the first one with a common cathode setup, the second one with a common grid) as a replacement for a pentode, and so the name may be assumed to be an abbreviation of \"casc(aded triode amplifier having characteristics similar to, but less noisy than, a single pent)ode\".\n\nFigure 1 shows an example of a cascode amplifier with a common-source amplifier as the input stage driven by a signal source, \"V\". This input stage drives a common-gate amplifier as the output stage, with output signal \"V\".\n\nAs the lower FET is conducting, by providing a gate voltage, the upper FET conducts due to the potential difference now appearing between its gate and source.\n\nThe major advantage of this circuit arrangement stems from the placement of the upper field-effect transistor (FET) as the load of the input (lower) FET's output terminal (drain). Because at operating frequencies the upper FET's gate is effectively grounded, the upper FET's source voltage (and therefore the input transistor's drain) is held at nearly constant voltage during operation. In other words, the upper FET exhibits a low input resistance to the lower FET, making the voltage gain of the lower FET very small, which dramatically reduces the Miller effect feedback capacitance from the lower FET's drain to gate. This loss of voltage gain is recovered by the upper FET. Thus, the upper transistor permits the lower FET to operate with minimal negative (Miller) feedback, improving its bandwidth.\n\nThe upper FET gate is electrically grounded, so charge and discharge of the stray capacitance, \"C\", between drain and gate is simply through \"R\" and the output load (say \"R\"), and the frequency response is affected only for frequencies above the associated RC time constant \"τ\" = \"C\" \"R\"//\"R\", namely \"f\" = 1/(2\"πτ\"), a rather high frequency because \"C\" is small. That is, the upper FET gate does not suffer from Miller amplification of \"C\".\n\nIf the upper FET stage were operated alone using its source as input node (that is, common-gate (CG) configuration), it would have a good voltage gain and wide bandwidth. However, its low input impedance would limit its usefulness to very low-impedance voltage drivers. Adding the lower FET results in a high input impedance, allowing the cascode stage to be driven by a high-impedance source.\n\nIf one were to replace the upper FET with a typical inductive/resistive load and take the output from the input transistor's drain (that is, a common-source (CS) configuration), the CS configuration would offer the same input impedance as the cascode, but the cascode configuration would offer a potentially greater gain and much greater bandwidth.\n\nThe cascode arrangement is also very stable. Its output is effectively isolated from the input both electrically and physically. The lower transistor has nearly constant voltage at both drain and source, and thus there is essentially \"nothing\" to feed back into its gate. The upper transistor has nearly constant voltage at its gate and source. Thus, the only nodes with significant voltage on them are the input and output, and these are separated by the central connection of nearly constant voltage and by the physical distance of two transistors. Thus in practice there is little feedback from the output to the input. Metal shielding is both effective and easy to provide between the two transistors for even greater isolation when required. This would be difficult in one-transistor amplifier circuits, which at high frequencies would require neutralization.\n\nAs shown, the cascode circuit using two \"stacked\" FETs imposes some restrictions on the two FETs — namely, the upper FET must be biased so its source voltage is high enough (the lower FET drain voltage may swing too low, causing it to saturate). Ensurance of this condition for FETs requires careful selection for the pair or special biasing of the upper FET gate, increasing cost.\n\nThe cascode circuit can also be built using bipolar transistors, or MOSFETs, or even one FET (or MOSFET) and one BJT. In the latter case, the BJT must be the upper transistor, otherwise the (lower) BJT will always saturate, unless extraordinary steps are taken to bias it. This circuit arrangement was very common in VHF television tuners when they employed vacuum tubes.\n\nThe cascode arrangement offers high gain, high bandwidth, high slew rate, high stability, and high input impedance. The parts count is very low for a two-transistor circuit\n\nThe cascode circuit requires two transistors and requires a relatively high supply voltage. For the two-FET cascode, both transistors must be biased with ample \"V\" in operation, imposing a lower limit on the supply voltage. \n\nA dual-gate MOSFET often functions as a \"one-transistor\" cascode. Common in the front ends of sensitive VHF receivers, a dual-gate MOSFET is operated as a common-source amplifier with the primary gate (usually designated \"gate 1\" by MOSFET manufacturers) connected to the input and the second gate grounded (bypassed). Internally, there is one channel covered by the two adjacent gates; therefore, the resulting circuit is electrically a cascode composed of two FETs, the common lower-drain-to-upper-source connection merely being that portion of the single channel that lies physically adjacent to the border between the two gates.\n\nA cascode circuit is very useful as a multiplying mixer circuit in superheterodyne receivers. At the lower gate the RF signal is fed to the mixer, and at the upper gate the local oscillator signal is fed to the mixer. Both signals are multiplied by the mixer, and the difference frequency, the intermediate frequency, is taken from the upper drain of the cascode mixer.\n\nThis was further developed by cascoding whole differential-amplifier stages to form the balanced mixer, and then the \"Gilbert cell\" double-balanced mixer.\n\nWith the rise of integrated circuits, transistors have become cheap in terms of silicon die area. In MOSFET technology especially, cascoding can be used in current mirrors to increase the output impedance of the output current source.\n\nA modified version of the cascode can also be used as a modulator, particularly for amplitude modulation. The upper device supplies the audio signal, and the lower is the RF amplifier device.\nA cascode may also be combined with a voltage ladder to form a high-voltage transistor. The input transistor may be of any low-\"U\" type, while the others, acting as stacked linear series voltage regulators, should be able to withstand a considerable fraction of the supply voltage. Note that for a large output-voltage swing, their base voltages should not be bypassed to ground by capacitors, and the uppermost ladder resistor should be able to withstand the full supply voltage.\nThis shows that a linear series voltage regulator is actually a current buffer with its \"input\" and \"output\" designations swapped.\n\nThe cascode configuration can be represented as a simple voltage amplifier (or more accurately, as a \"g\"-parameter two-port network) by using its input impedance, output impedance, and voltage gain. These parameters are related to the corresponding \"g\"-parameters below. Other useful properties not considered here are circuit bandwidth and dynamic range.\n\nThe idealized small-signal equivalent circuit can be constructed for the circuit in figure 2 by replacing the current sources with open circuits and the capacitors with short circuits, assuming they are large enough to act as short circuits at the frequencies of interest. The BJTs can be represented in the small-signal circuit by the hybrid-pi model.\n\nSimilarly, the small-signal parameters can be derived for the MOSFET version, also replacing the MOSFET by its hybrid-pi model equivalent. This derivation can be simplified by noting that the MOSFET gate current is zero, so the small-signal model for the BJT becomes that of the MOSFET in the limit of zero base current:\nwhere \"V\" is the .\n\nThe combination of factors \"gr\" occurs often in the above formulas, inviting further examination. For the bipolar transistor this product is (see hybrid-pi model):\n\nIn a typical discrete bipolar device the Early voltage \"V\" ≈ 100 V and the thermal voltage near room temperature is \"V\" ≈ 25 mV, making \"gr\" ≈ 4000, a rather large number. From the article on hybrid-pi model, we find for the MOSFET in the active mode:\n\nAt the 65-nanometer technology node, \"I\" ≈ 1.2 mA/μ of width, supply voltage is \"V\" = 1.1 V; \"V\" ≈ 165 mV, and \"V = V-V ≈ 5%V\" ≈ 55 mV. Taking a typical length as twice the minimum, \"L\" = 2 \"L\" = 0.130 μm and a typical value of λ ≈ 1/(4 V/μm \"L\"), we find 1/λ ≈ 2 V, and \"gr\" ≈ 110, still a large value. The point is that because \"gr\" is large almost regardless of the technology, the tabulated gain and the output resistance for both the MOSFET and the bipolar cascode are very large. That fact has implications in the discussion that follows.\n\nThe g-parameters found in the above formulas can be used to construct a small-signal voltage amplifier with the same gain, input and output resistance as the original cascode (an equivalent circuit). This circuit applies only at frequencies low enough that the transistor parasitic capacitances do not matter. The figure shows the original cascode (Fig. 1) and the equivalent voltage amplifier or g-equivalent two-port (Fig. 4). The equivalent circuit allows easier calculations of the behavior of the circuit for different drivers and loads. In the figure a Thévenin equivalent voltage source with Thévenin resistance \"R\" drives the amplifier, and at the output a simple load resistor \"R\" is attached. Using the equivalent circuit, the input voltage to the amplifier is (see Voltage divider):\nwhich shows the importance of using a driver with resistance \"R « R\" to avoid attenuation of the signal entering the amplifier. From the above amplifier characteristics, we see that \"R\" is infinite for the MOSFET cascode, so no attenuation of input signal occurs in that case. The BJT cascode is more restrictive because \"R = r\".\n\nIn a similar fashion, the output signal from the equivalent circuit is\n\nIn low-frequency circuits, a high voltage gain is typically desired, hence the importance of using a load with resistance \"R » R\" to avoid attenuation of the signal reaching the load. The formulas for \"R\" can be used either to design an amplifier with a sufficiently small output resistance compared to the load or, if that cannot be done, to decide upon a modified circuit, for example, to add a voltage follower that matches the load better.\n\nThe earlier estimate showed that the cascode output resistance is very large. The implication is that many load resistances will not satisfy the condition \"R » R\" (an important exception is driving a MOSFET as the load, which has infinite low frequency input impedance). However, the failure to satisfy the condition \"R » R\" is not catastrophic because the cascode gain also is very large. If the designer is willing, the large gain can be sacrificed to allow a low load resistance; for \"R\" « \"R\" the gain simplifies as follows:\nThis gain is the same as that for the input transistor acting alone. Thus, even sacrificing gain, the cascode produces the same gain as the single-transistor transconductance amplifier, but with wider bandwidth.\n\nBecause the amplifiers are wide bandwidth, the same approach can determine the bandwidth of the circuit when a load capacitor is attached (with or without a load resistor). The assumption needed is that the load capacitance is large enough that it controls the frequency dependence, and bandwidth is not controlled by the neglected parasitic capacitances of the transistors themselves.\n\nAt high frequencies, the parasitic capacitances of the transistors (gate-to-drain, gate-to-source, drain-to body, and bipolar equivalents) must be included in the hybrid pi models to obtain an accurate frequency response. The design goals also differ from the emphasis on overall high gain as described above for low-frequency design. In high frequency circuits, impedance matching at the input and output of the amplifier is typically desired in order to eliminate signal reflections and maximize power gain. In the cascode, the isolation between the input and output ports is still characterized by a small reverse transmission term g, making it easier to design matching networks because the amplifier is approximately unilateral.\n"}
{"id": "2243388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243388", "title": "Riverwind", "text": "Riverwind\n\nRiverwind (also known as \"Riverwind of the Que Shu tribe\" or \"Riverwind of the Que Shu\") is a fictional character appearing in the Dragonlance series of \"Dungeons & Dragons\" role-playing game supplements and novels, created by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman and published by TSR (and later by Wizards of the Coast).\n\nRiverwind made his first public appearance in the first novel of the original Chronicles Trilogy, \"Dragons of Autumn Twilight\", in 1984. However, the character's proper creation was during a tabletop role-playing game session where Tracy and Laura Hickman, Margaret Weis and Terry Phillips, between others, developed the basic storyline of Dragonlance.\n\nThroughout the series, Riverwind became a well known character and, in 14 years, authors made him the protagonist in two novels, \"Riverwind the Plainsman\" (1990) and \"Spirit of the Wind\" (1998).\n\nPatrick Lucien Price, author of the \"Bertrem's essay on numerology\" short story, published in \"Leaves from the Inn of the Last Home\" (1987), describes Riverwind as a character that \"demands change, seeks variety and new opportunities to develop himself\", also a \"natural leader of men\" and \"generous, impressionable, a humanitarian\".\n\nFew facts are given about the early life of the character itself, a shepherd living just outside the village of Que Shu, a barbarian settlement in Ansalon, in the fictional world of Krynn. Laura Hickman and Kate Novak detail, in the short story \"Heart of Goldmoon\" published in the \"Love and War\" (1987) recompilation, Riverwind's faith in the ancient gods and especially in Mishakal, goddess of healing, although the common belief in the tribe was that the high priestess's ancestors become gods.\nMargaret Weis and Tracy Hickman give a reason in the short story \"True Knight\", published in \"The Cataclysm\" (1992) recompilation, as Riverwind's family is not a native from the Que Shu tribe, but instead his ancestors, Michael, a cleric of Mishakal, and Nikol, daughter of a knight, travelled to the plains shortly after the Cataclysm, the event in which the gods threw a fiery mountain to punish Krynn arrogance, and kept practicing their religion.\n\nIn \"Heart of Goldmoon\", Hickman and Novak also inform the reader about the journey to the \"Hall of the Sleeping Spirits\", in which Riverwind acts as a bodyguard to Goldmoon, protecting her life when Hollow-sky, the other bodyguard traveling with them, tries to force her to marry him. With Riverwind and Goldmoon declaring their mutual love, the story ends with Riverwind affirming his intention to request a \"Courting quest\", which would give him the right to marry Goldmoon.\n\nPaul B. Thompson and Tonya C. Cook give details of such quest in the novel \"Riverwind the Plainsman\" (1990), which takes place during the five-year period prior to the reunion of the Companions at Solace. According to Thompson, unlike some of the characters, \"Riverwind wasn't fully developed in the earlier books. We essentially had a character and had to make up a lot of background for him\". The character, needing to find proof that the ancient gods existed, travels to Xak Tsaroth and retrieves the Blue Crystal Staff, a holy relic blessed by Mishakal herself, guarded by Khisanth, a black dragon.\nAlthough the novel ends with the delivery of the staff, in \"Dragons of Autumn Twilight\" (1984) the authors explain, through Goldmoon, that the tribe tried to stone him when he could not explain how the staff could prove the existence of the old gods.\nHowever, before they started stoning, Goldmoon embraced him, and both vanished from the tribe.\n\nCharacter art for Riverwind was first created by Larry Elmore. According to Elmore, Margaret Weis appreciated Keith Parkinson's attempt to incorporate Weis's vision of Goldmoon as \"Native American with a Celtic touch\".\n\nAs in the \"Heart of Goldmoon\" short story, Riverwind is given the role of Goldmoon's protector in \"Dragons of Autumn Twilight\" (1984). Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman kept his involvement at a minimum, only describing him as a character with a serious demeanor. The \"War of the Lance\" sourcebook (2004) indicates that he is a man of few words, proud and wary of strangers, who \"does not make friends easily and people have to go a long way to earn his regard.\" \nIt is only after Sturm Brightblade—Squire of the Knights of Solamnia and one of the members of a group of friends who met them in Solace—feels his honor has been insulted that Riverwind's behavior is modified, becoming somewhat friendlier. He is particularly distrustful of those not of human race or magic users, and so Raistlin earned his constant mistrust while he was surprised the first time Tanis was introduced as the leader of the Companions.\n\nUnderstandably, it is in battle sequences where the authors give him more protagonism, effectively drawing on his past as a trained warrior. It is in one of those sequences, against the black dragon Khisanth in Xak Tsaroth, where Riverwind is mortally wounded by the dragons' acid breath. However, Goldmoon, after meeting the soul of her mother and the goddess Mishakal, goddess of healing, is able to restore him to health.\n\nIt is at the end of the first book, when Riverwind marries Goldmoon just outside Pax Tharkas after defeating Lord Verminaard, that Riverwind receives more attention from the authors.\n\nWeis and Hickman continue diminishing the protagonism of Riverwind in \"Dragons of Winter Night\" (1985). In the second half of \"Dragons of Spring Dawning\" (1985), the authors reveal that Goldmoon is pregnant, and the couple decides to stay in Kalaman, ending their participation in the Chronicles Trilogy.\n\nIn \"Dragons of the Dwarven Depths\", Tanis leaves Riverwind in charge of the safety of the refugees from Pax Tharkas while the rest of the companions search for an entrance to the underground dwarven kingdom of Thorbardin. Riverwind oversees the refugees as they evacuate to Thorbardin ahead of an attack by the remnants of the Red Dragonarmy.\n\nAs the Legends trilogy, written by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman in 1986, focuses on the twins Caramon and Raistlin Majere, Riverwind's appearance is small. In \"Time of the Twins\" (1986) Riverwind visits Caramon and Tika Majere at the Inn of the Last Home to refuse to escort Lady Crysania to the Tower of High Sorcery of Wayreth\nand to inform them that his son, Wanderer, is already three years old, and the birth of his twin daughters, Moonsong and Brightdawn.\n\nBy wearing the \"Mantle of the Chieftain\", the authors point that he has been named Chieftain of the Que Shu and a number of other tribes like the Que Teh and Que Kiri, which must mean that he was successful in bringing peace.\n\nThere are no books about the attacks of Chaos's armies to the Abanasinian tribes. Chris Pierson's novel, \"Spirit of the Wind\" (1998), informs that the \"Knights of Takhisis\", knights under the service of Takhisis, goddess of evil, invaded the area bringing brutes, barbarians from northern isles, forcing some tribes to join the Que Shu village to repel the attack, while others separated and left for the mountains. He also hints that at least \"shadow wights\", creatures that possess souls, vanishing them from the world of Krynn, including others' memories of them, attacked the tribe, as Moonsong and Brightdawn explain that their brother, Wanderer, has a three-year-old son, but nobody, not even Wanderer himself, remembers his mother.\n\nIn \"Spirit of the Wind\" (1998), Chris Pierson covers the last weeks of Riverwind's life. Afflicted by a terminal illness that had been the cause of his father's death, and without Mishakal, who left Krynn after the Chaos War, to give clerical powers to Goldmoon to heal him, he travels to the Inn of the Last Home to inform Caramon and Tika about it.\n\nThe novel continues explaining that a couple of kender arrive requesting Caramon's help to stop Malystryx, the red dragon overlord, from destroying their home town, Kendermore. Riverwind decides to help them, and is involved in the defense of the city. With the imminent invasion of the dragon and the ogre armies supporting her, Riverwind and Brightdawn travel to \"Blood Watch\", where \"Malystryx's Peak\" was situated and her only egg was laid. Brightdawn dies on her way to the lair while fighting the nest's guardian, Yovanna,\nbut Riverwind is able to crack the egg open and slay the embryo within it, forcing Malystryx to go back to the lair and slay him. With Riverwind's sacrifice, the kender were able to flee safely to Hylo, as Malystryx was too depressed to chase them.\n\nLauren Davis of io9 commented on how the heroes of the \"Dragonlance Chronicles\" feel like a dysfunctional family, describing the Plainsfolk Riverwind and Goldmoon as \"so-called \"barbarians\" in a strange land\", and noted that Riverwind \"is proud and protective of his wife above all\".\n\nRiverwind appears as one of the player characters in \"\".\n\nRiverwind was included in Ral Partha's \"Dragonlance Heroes\" boxed figures set of lead miniatures. A reviewer for \"Dragon\" magazine felt that Ral Partha did a good job of matching their figures to the characters' descriptions in the books, and described his figure: \"Riverwind is dressed simply with buckskin and a furred shirt showing a lot of detail, stretching from his shoulders to below his waist. From waist to boots, he is clad in a tight-fitting material that shows hints of the muscles underneath. A simple belt holds a breech cloth, a sheathed sword, and a buckskin-fringed pouch. On his back is a buckskin-fringed quiver full of arrows, with individual shafts and feathers showing. His head and hair are unclad except for a headband. A look of grim determination is on his face as he holds a bow in his right hand. His arm muscles are clearly shown, as are the bow guards.\"\n\nActor Phil LaMarr voices Riverwind and Gilthanas in the animated \"\" movie, directed by Will Meugniot, written by George Strayton and produced by \"Toonz Animation\", \"Commotion Pictures\", \"Epic Level Entertainment\", \"Kickstart Entertainment\" and \"Paramount Pictures\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243390", "title": "Konye-Urgench", "text": "Konye-Urgench\n\nKonye-Urgench (; , \"Kunya Urgench\" – from Persian: Kuhna Gurgānj کهنه گرگانج) – Old Gurgānj also known as Kunya-Urgench, Old Urgench or Urganj, is a municipality of about 30,000 inhabitants in north Turkmenistan, just south from its border with Uzbekistan. It is the site of the ancient town of Ürgenç (Urgench), which contains the ruins of the capital of Khwarazm, a part of the Achaemenid Empire. Its inhabitants deserted the town in the 1700s in order to develop a new settlement, and Kunya-Urgench has remained undisturbed ever since. In 2005, the ruins of Old Urgench were inscribed on the UNESCO List of World Heritage Sites. (\"See\" List of World Heritage Sites in Turkmenistan)\n\nLocated on the south side of the Amu-Darya River, Old Ürgenç was situated on one of the most important medieval paths: the Silk Road, the crossroad of western and eastern civilisations. It is one of the most important archaeological sites in Turkmenistan, lying within a vast zone of protected landscape and containing a large number of well-preserved monuments, dating from the 11th to the 16th centuries. They comprise mosques, the gates of a caravanserai, fortresses, mausoleums and a minaret, and the influence of their architectural style and craftsmanship reached Iran, Afghanistan and the later architecture of the Mogul Empire of 16th-century India.\n\nThe exact dates when Kunya-Urgench was founded remain uncertain, but archaeological finds at the Kyrkmolla Hill (one of the main fortresses at the site) reveal that the town already had a strong structure in the 5th and 4th centuries BC. Some of the earliest records show that Khwarezm was conquered by the Arabs in 712, and Kunya-Urgench was given the Arabic name \"Gurgandj\". The city rose to prominence between the 10th and 14th centuries as the Khwarezmian capital, and as an important trading centre, competing in fame and population with many other Central Asian cities, such as Bukhara. It had become highly prosperous due to its strategic location on the main trade routes from the south to the north, and the west to the east, vastly contributing to the development of science and culture in Central Asia.\n\nAccording to an 1893 writer Djordjania or Jorjania was the \"second capital\" of the country. It was on the Wadak canal which seems to be the east end of the Kunya-Darya which seems to be the river bed that now leads to the Sarykamysh Lake. Just east of the town was a dam that irrigated the area and blocked the flow of the Oxus into the Caspian Sea. In 1220 both town and dam were destroyed by the Mongols and the surrounding area became a marsh. Konya-Urgench was soon built on or near the site of Jorjania.\n\nIn 1221, Genghis Khan destroyed the city in the Mongol invasion of Central Asia, in what is considered to be one of the bloodiest massacres in human history. Despite the devastating effects of the invasion, the city was revived and it regained its previous status. It was described by the 14th-century Berber traveller Ibn Battuta as \"the largest, greatest, most beautiful and most important city of the Turks. It has fine bazaars and broad streets, a great number of buildings and abundance of commodities\".\n\nIn 1373, Timur attacked Khwarezm, and its ruler Yusef Sufi of the Sufi Dynasty surrendered to Timur. In 1379, Yusef Sufi rebelled against Timur, who sacked Urgench, and Yusef Sufi was killed. In 1388, the Sufi dynasty of Urgench again revolted against Timur; this time Timur razed Urgench to the ground and massacred its population, destroyed the city's irrigation system, and had barley planted over the ground where the city had once stood, leaving only one mosque standing. This, coupled with the sudden change of the Amu-Darya River's course, constituted the beginning of Kunya-Urgench's decline until the 16th century, when it was replaced as a regional capital by Khiva and was ultimately abandoned.\n\nThe area was later inhabited by the Turkmen people from the early 19th century, but they mostly developed outside the old town, utilising the latter as a graveyard. However, this use has now stopped, and efforts have been made to remove the decaying grave stones that can be encountered at the site.\n\nThe new town of Urgench was developed to the southeast, in present-day Uzbekistan. Some of the first archeological research on the old city site was conducted by Alexander Yakubovsky in 1929.\n\nThe urban layout of Kunya Urgench has been lost and only certain monuments remain standing to this day. These are authentic and rich examples of fine architecture and building traditions existing for centuries. The level of conservation varies amongst the buildings, and the most substantial restoration work has been carried out in the past thirty years, during the soviet era, using traditional methods and materials.\n\nThe Kutlug Timur minaret is perhaps the most striking structure here. It dates to the 11th and 12th centuries, and measures 60 meters in height, making it the highest monument in the park. Its diameter is 12 meters at its base, and 2 at the top.\n\nOn the basis of its decorative brickwork, including Kufic inscriptions, the minaret is thought to be an earlier construction, only restored by Kutlug-Timur around 1330.\n\nNamed after Turabek-Khanum, the wife of Kutlug-Timur (ruled between 1321 and 1336), this structure is located at the northern part of ancient Gurgench. It is remarkable for its elegant design and stunning tile decoration, and it is a highly sophisticated work of architecture, both in its conceptualisation of spaces and in its engineering. Both are fully utilised in a conscious way to achieve a visual, aesthetic and spiritual effect.\n\nThe original building was composed of two chambers: a large domed hall and a smaller one behind it. The large chamber is twelve-sided on the exterior and hexagonal on the interior, being preceded by an entrance portal and a vestibule.\n\nOne of the most impressive architectural features of the mausoleum is the circular dome covering the main hall, whose surface is covered in colourful mosaic which forms intricate ornamental patterns consisting of flowers and stars, creating a visual metaphor for the heavens. No comparable contemporary parallels can be found at Urgench, as some of the architectural features, such as the decorations mentioned above, do not appear in other monuments built during the lifetime of Turabek-Khanum, around 1330. Thus, it is difficult to date the building so early. These features do, however, appear in Central Asia later, during the reign of Timur, a warlord of Turco-Mongol descent. New technologies, such as mosaic faience, show up in Timur's earliest buildings, such as the Aq Saray palace in Shahrisabz, in Uzbekistan, which was begun in 1379 but was still unfinished in 1404.\n\nThis structure is the presumed Tomb of Sultan Ala al-din Tekesh, the founder of the Khwarezm Empire and its ruler between 1172-1200. It has been identified as a mausoleum due to the tradition that each ancient Central Asian building is dedicated to a historical or mythical personage.\n\nThe building is made of bricks and consists of a square hall with walls which are 11,45 meters high, a massive round drum and a conical roof with an inner dome hidden under it. The dome is connected to the square walls it rests upon by an octagonal belt. The structure between the dome and the octagon is decorated with 16 shallow niches. Their form is not lancet-like as those commonly found in the Islamic architecture of Central Asia, but rather semicircular. This is a motif that can be found in the marble 8th-century mihrab at the Baghdad Museum, and has seldom been used in Central Asia: another comparable case that can be found in Turkmenistan is that of the mihrab of Muhammad Ibn Zayd's 11th-century mosque, from Merv. However, the two are located too far away to be considered prototypes.\n\nThe external conical roof is built of horizontal layers using the technique of a false vault. From the inside, it is strengthened with 12 buttresses standing upon the internal dome. Although this might seem like a risky construction technique, the roof is not in bad condition: only the top is destroyed, and the blue majolica decoration slightly damaged.\n\nOne of the special features of the building's architecture is its façade. It presents a high portal niche with the main archway, which has now lost its original form. The lancet arch of the portal is filled by a complicated system of stalactite -like forms, which is a decorative motif made of terracotta and fixed on wooden sticks within the brickwork.\n\nResearch concerning this structure has given rise to speculations that the Mausoleum of Tekesh might have stood at the centre of some large construction that consisted of a multitude of buildings. Thus, certain scholars would argue that the building served a different purpose from that of a mausoleum, such as, for example, a House of Government or a Palace of the Great Khwarzm-shahs.\n\nKyrkmolla is a mound which used to constitute a fortress. It is located in the north-eastern outskirts of Gurgench. It is particularly significant as the earliest ceramics discovered at the site, dating back to the 5th century BC, were located here. It is protected by a thick mud-brick wall which dates back to the 10th to 14th centuries, and has been partially rebuilt after archaeological excavations.\n\nThis complex is situated in the centre of the new town of Kunya-Urgench, within a Muslim cemetery. The Najm-ad-Din al-Kubra Mausoleum was erected in the first half of the 14th century, and derives its name from the philosopher, painter, physician, chess master and general Ahmed Ibn Omar Najm-Ad-Din al-Kubra, the founder of the Kubrawiya Sufi order. This is one of the structures which was rebuilt during the Khorezm era of prosperity, and also after the Mongol invasion.\n\nThe Mausoleum of Sultan Ali, who ruled in the 16th century, is located across. It is a hexagonal monument, with a dome measuring 9.5 meters in diameter.\n\nThe Mausoleum of Piryar Vali, a contemporary of Najm-Ad-Din al-Kubra, is located to the west of the latter's mausoleum, and was built in the 13th and 14th centuries. It is 6.5 meters high and measures 7.5 meters in length.\n\nIl Arslan is a magnificent piece of architecture, also known among the people as the Mausoleum of Kho-Rezmshah II Arslan, who ruled from 1156 to 1172. The mausoleum, dating to the 12th century, is the oldest standing monument in Gurgench.\n\nThe building has a cuboidal structure of baked brick similar to the earliest existing Islamic mausoleum in Central Asia, the early 10th-century mausoleum of the Samanids in Bukhara, but instead of a hemispherical dome it has a faceted conical roof. The structure is decorated with a motif carved in relief into brick panels, a frieze containing an aphorism written in beautiful script, and with carved vegetal motifs displaying variations of an arabesque pattern. The decorative scheme of the dome presents a tiling technique executed in turquoise glazed brick tiles, forming a geometric pattern.\n\nAccording to some of the latest scientific discoveries, one of the structure's functions, at a certain point, was that of storing water.\n\nThis monument is dedicated to Ibn Khajib, one of Najm-ad-Din al-Kubra's talented disciples. It is located in the western part of ancient Urgench and it consists of a complex of monuments, all constructed in different periods of time, from the 14th to the 19th centuries.\n\nAk-Kala is a fortress located southwest of the ruins of medieval Urgench. Its walls, whose height ranges from 6 to 8 meters, and which measure approximately 2 meters at the top, stretch on more than a kilometre. They were built with sun dried mud-bricks and their corners are decorated with semi-circular towers, whilst the inner side of the fortress wall is sustained by buttresses.\n\nThis is a quadrangular fortress, erected by Khan Muhammed Emin, measuring 400 by 500 meters, and was built in the mid-19th century in the south-western outskirts of Kunya-Urgench. It is surrounded by a high defensive wall which has been severely eroded by the passing of time.\n\nThe museum is located in the brick structure the Dash Mosque, a former madrasa constructed in the early 20th century. It was built as a mosque and it served as a Koranic school before it was turned into a site museum in the 1990s. Its structure is mainly square, with a multitude of rooms opening into a large courtyard, and which now house various exhibits.\n\nThe museum displays focus on the history of the site, on traditional arts and crafts of the region, on the building tradition of Urgench, etc. The largest room is dedicated to the history and treasures of the old city, including a comprehensive miniature model of Gurgench and a variety of artefacts such as ceramic bowls, glazed tiles, children's toys, or Arabic texts. Another important room centres around the Dash Mosque and the history of its construction and use. Around the courtyard, behind the main building, the remaining smaller rooms, formerly the bedrooms of the students at the madrasa, have been converted into 19 displays explaining the traditional handicrafts of the region such as carpet making, pottery, Yurt construction, etc.\n\nKunya Urgench has been, for a long period of time, a prolific school of construction masters. The knowledge and skills of this school have spread, throughout the centuries, amongst the Muslim world, and can be recognised in the structures and decorations of many buildings from the Timur period, both within Turkmenistan, and in regions such as Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, Transcaucasia, Turkey, Iran, Pakistan and India. For example, a multitude of buildings in Samarkand were erected by builders and architects employed from Kunya Urgench in the 14th century.\n\nThe ingenuity and skill of the local craftsmen and architects can be seen in the exceptional construction details, such as structure, form or ornamentation, which have been perfected throughout time. Furthermore, traditional building techniques have survived to this day: for example, the kilns at Kunya Urgench are still used throughout the region for the production of bricks utilised in the reconstruction of historic buildings.\n\nKunya Urgench has a cold desert climate (\"BWk\" in the Köppen climate classification), with long and hot summers. Winters are relatively short, but quite cold. Precipitation is scarce throughout the year, with an average of 109 mm (4.36 in).\n\n"}
{"id": "2243393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243393", "title": "Connect.com.au", "text": "Connect.com.au\n\nConnect.com.au was one of the first commercial Internet service providers (ISP) to operate in Australia. The company was founded in 1991 by Hugh Irvine, Benjamin Golding and Joanne Davis, in conjunction with a small group of highly technical staff including Chris Chaundy.\n\nFrom the outset Connect aimed for supplying high end Internet services to the corporate and wholesale market, marking a stark contrast to the many small ISPs which grew out of the PSTN Bulletin Board systems or the APANA nodes.\nIn addition to the comprehensive commercial services, Connect also supplied some additional services to both the Australian and International communities.\n\nFree DNS services were provided to various smaller nation-states on the sub-continent and throughout the Pacific Rim, in many cases being the primary authoritative server for these countries until they could provide their own infrastructure. Some of these countries include, but are not limited to, Fiji, Kiribati, Nepal and Micronesia. In May, 1994, Connect.com.au became the first Internet Service Provider with a formal arrangement to use the university AARNet network as its internet backbone.\n\nWithin Australia Connect became the registry for the .net.au namespace to reduce some of the burden of these domain registrations from Robert Elz. This coincided roughly with the establishment of the .com.au registry, Melbourne IT. Connect provided .net.au domains free of charge until a policy change allowed the introduction of registration fees in 1997. Domains registered prior to this change remained free until the .au namespace was deregulated in 2002.\n\nDuring 1997 and 1998 connect.com.au lobbied the ACCC for equal standing with Telstra in relation to the inequity in the exchange of traffic between itself and Telstra, Optus, and Ozemail joined this connect.com.au initiated action. In 1998 The ACCC issued the first competition notice Against Telstra.\nThe parties settled financially prior to the ACCC taking further action against Telstra.\n\nLater, in 1998 connect.com.au faced industry criticism, due to the newly established traffic peering arrangement with other major ISPs. The \"Big Four\" ISPs at the time, Telstra, Optus, OzEmail and connect.com.au, formed a controversial arrangement where they agreed not to charge each other for data interconnection costs, while charging smaller ISPs a fee for the same service. The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) declined to take action in the case.\n\nIn 1995 Connect was sold to three major investors: National Australia Bank, Sirius Technologies and AAPT. AAPT executive John Stuckey was appointed Chief Executive Officer in December 1996.\n\nIn 1999 AAPT acquired the remaining two thirds of Connect, making it a wholly owned subsidiary. Their aim was to consolidate existing business Internet services with those provided by Connect and take advantage of the technically proficient technical team when launching their Smartchat brand. In 2000 AAPT was bought by Telecom New Zealand.\n\nFollowing the sale of Connect in 1995, Hugh Irvine started an ICT and software development consultancy called Open Systems Consultants. This company specialises in the development and support of software for ISPs and Telecommunications providers, such as user administration and authentication software.\n\nChris Chaundy remained with Connect until the early 2000s, following which he joined Comindico.\nIn 1999 both Irvine and Chaundy were inducted into the Australian Internet Awards' Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243410", "title": "Carlos Reinoso", "text": "Carlos Reinoso\n\nCarlos Enzo Reinoso Valdenegro (born 7 March 1945) is a Chilean former footballer and manager who recently managed Mexican club UAT.\n\nHe began his career in the 1960s playing for Audax Italiano in his native Chile. In 1970 Reinoso was scouted by Mexican club América, with whom he played for nine years. He is considered one of the greatest foreign players in Mexican football history, and among the greatest players in Club América history.\n\nCarlos Reinoso began his playing career playing for boyhood club Audax Italiano, joining them at age 15. He played in over 150 games with Audax before he was sold to Club América of Mexico.\n\nHis debut with América came in 1970 in a league match against Atlante. Reinoso played in over 200 matches with the Mexican club, winning the league in the 1970–71 and 1975–76 seasons, as well as the Copa México in 1973–74, a Campeón de Campeones cup in 1975–76, a CONCACAF Cup in 1977, and a Copa Interamericana in 1978. To date, he is the foreigner with the most games played for Club América, playing in 364 games across all competitions, and with 95 goals he is the club's seventh-highest scorer of all-time.\n\nIn 1979, Reinoso played a season with Deportivo Neza, before retiring and embarking on a coaching career.\n\nA Chilean international, Reinoso played in 34 matches and scored 7 goals with the national team from 1966 till 1977, and played at the 1974 FIFA World Cup, as well as the 1975 Copa America.\n\nIn 1981, Reinoso was named head coach of Club América, with whom he won two league titles, most notably winning the 1983–84 final against rivals Guadalajara. He would go on to manage a number of different clubs in Mexico including former club Neza, Tigres UANL, Tampico Madero, Atlas, Veracruz, León, Atlante, Quéretaro, Tecos UAG, and San Luis, with varying degrees of success.\n\nHe managed América twice more, in 1998 and 2011, and last managed Veracruz from 2015 till 2017, winning the Clausura 2016 Copa MX after defeating Necaxa in the final.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2243415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243415", "title": "Breakfasters", "text": "Breakfasters\n\nBreakfasters is a long-running Australian breakfast radio show broadcast on 3RRR in Melbourne. First broadcast in 1984, the current presenting line-up of Sarah Smith, Geraldine Hickey and Daniel Burt commenced on 13 May 2019.\n\nAt launch, the program was presented by volunteers Chris Hatzis and Stratos Pavlis. In a departure from the station's usual freeform radio style, the program was more tightly presented and aimed at a broader audience than 3RRR's specialised music programming. Today, it is the station's flagship weekday program. \n\nAn excerpt from a May 1986 interview between \"Breakfasters\" hosts Chris Hatzis and Stratos Pavlis and \"Countdown\" presenter Molly Meldrum is featured in the song \"Volare\" by TISM.\n"}
{"id": "2243417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243417", "title": "Bill Virdon", "text": "Bill Virdon\n\nWilliam Charles Virdon (born June 9, 1931) is an American former professional baseball outfielder, manager, and coach in Major League Baseball (MLB). Virdon played in MLB for the St. Louis Cardinals and Pittsburgh Pirates from 1955 through 1965 and in 1968. He served as a coach for the Pirates and Houston Astros, and managed the Pirates, Astros, New York Yankees, and Montreal Expos.\n\nAfter playing in Minor League Baseball for the Yankees organization, Virdon was traded to the Cardinals, and he made his MLB debut in 1955. That year, Virdon won the National League Rookie of the Year Award. He slumped at the beginning of the 1956 season, and was traded to the Pirates, where he spent the remainder of his playing career. A premier defensive outfielder during his playing days as a center fielder for the Cardinals and Pirates, Virdon led a strong defensive team to the 1960 World Series championship. In 1962, Virdon won a Rawlings Gold Glove Award. Following the 1965 season, he retired due to his desire to become a manager.\n\nVirdon managed in Minor League Baseball until returning to the Pirates as a coach in 1968. He served as manager of the Pirates in 1972 and 1973, before becoming the manager of the Yankees in 1974. During the 1975 season, the Yankees fired Virdon, and he was hired by the Astros. After being fired by the Astros after the 1982 season, Virdon managed the Expos in 1983 and 1984. Virdon won \"The Sporting News\" Manager of the Year Award in 1974, his only full season working for the Yankees, and in 1980, while managing the Astros. He returned to the Pirates as a coach following his managerial career, and remains with the Pirates as a guest instructor during spring training.\n\nWilliam Charles Virdon was born in Hazel Park, Michigan, on June 9, 1931. His parents, Bertha and Charles Virdon, were originally from Missouri, but moved to Hazel Park during the Great Depression, where they were able to find jobs in automotive factories. When he was 12 years old, his family moved to West Plains, Missouri.\n\nVirdon attended West Plains High School. He competed in American football, basketball, and track and field for the school. As West Plains did not compete in baseball, Virdon traveled to Clay Center, Kansas, to play for their American Amateur Baseball Congress team as a center fielder and shortstop. He enrolled at Drury University in Springfield, Missouri.\n\nVirdon attended an open tryout held by the New York Yankees in Branson, Missouri, and scout Tom Greenwade signed Virdon to the Yankees for a $1,800 signing bonus ($ in current dollar terms). Virdon made his professional debut in 1950 with the Independence Yankees in the Class D Kansas–Oklahoma–Missouri League, and was promoted to the Kansas City Blues in the Class AAA American Association for the final 14 games of the season. Virdon played for the Norfolk Tars in the Class B Piedmont League in 1951, and for the Binghamton Triplets in the Class A Eastern League in 1952. The Yankees assigned him to Kansas City in 1953, but he struggled, batting .233. While he played in Kansas City, Virdon was diagnosed with astigmatism. When Kansas City manager Harry Craft noticed Virdon reading while wearing glasses, Craft told him to wear them while he played.\n\nThe Yankees demoted Virdon to the Birmingham Barons in the Class AA Southern Association. In 42 games for Birmingham, Virdon had a .317 batting average. According to Hal Smith, his roommate with Birmingham, Virdon changed his approach to hitting, prioritizing line drives to all parts of the field, rather than trying to hit for power.\n\nVirdon remained stuck behind Mickey Mantle on the Yankees' depth chart for center field, while Gene Woodling and Hank Bauer played the corner outfield positions. The Yankees traded Virdon to the St. Louis Cardinals before the 1954 season with Mel Wright and Emil Tellinger for veteran outfielder and All-Star Enos Slaughter. Virdon struggled during spring training, and Cardinals manager Eddie Stanky worked with Virdon to improve his hitting. The Cardinals assigned Virdon to the Rochester Red Wings of the Class AAA International League for the season. He led the league with a .333 batting average and hit 22 home runs, finishing second in voting for the International League Most Valuable Player Award to Elston Howard.\n\nVirdon joined the Cardinals in 1955, as the Cardinals moved Stan Musial to first base to allow Virdon to play the outfield. As a rookie, Virdon had a .281 average with 17 home runs and 69 runs batted in (RBIs). He was named the winner of the National League (NL) Rookie of the Year Award, voted on by the Baseball Writers' Association of America, beating Jack Meyer of the Philadelphia Phillies.\nAfter the 1955 season, the Cardinals hired Frank Lane, nicknamed \"The Trader\", as their general manager. Virdon slumped to begin the 1956 season, and the Cardinals traded him to the Pittsburgh Pirates in May 1956 for Bobby Del Greco and Dick Littlefield. Lane claimed that Virdon's late season slump in 1955 was because he tired down the stretch, and that is why he chose to trade him. Lane later referred to the trade as \"the worst trade [he] ever made\".\n\nWhen he arrived at Pittsburgh, he developed an eye condition, for which he received treatment, missing one week of the season. Virdon's vision improved, and he challenged Hank Aaron for the NL batting title. Virdon batted .334 for the Pirates during remainder of the season, which increased his season batting average to .319, second-best in the NL to Aaron, who batted .328. Pirates' announcer Bob Prince gave Virdon the nickname \"Quail\" due to the frequency of his soft-hit infield hits.\n\nThe Pirates hired Danny Murtaugh as their manager during the 1957 season; Virdon credited Murtaugh with pushing him to perform at his best. Virdon consistently batted in the .260s for the next several seasons. He led all NL center fielders in assists in 1959 with 16, and in double plays turned with five. In 1960, Virdon, along with right fielder Roberto Clemente, shortstop Dick Groat, second baseman Bill Mazeroski, and third baseman Don Hoak, formed a strong defensive unit for the Pirates, and they reached the 1960 World Series, where they faced the New York Yankees. Virdon batted .241 during the seven game series. In the deciding Game 7, he hit a ground ball that struck Yankees shortstop Tony Kubek in the throat after taking an unpredictable bounce, enabling Virdon to reach base safely. This started a rally for the Pirates that culminated in Bill Mazeroski's home run that won the series for Pittsburgh.\n\nVirdon led the NL in triples with 10 during the 1962 season. That year, he won the Rawlings Gold Glove Award. He struggled in the 1964 season, batting only .243. Though his batting average improved to .279 in the 1965 season, Virdon retired after the season due to his desire to become a manager. Virdon retired with 1,596 MLB hits, a career batting average of .267 with 91 home runs during his 1,583-game NL career.\n\nVirdon began operating a baseball academy in 1956. After the 1962 season, Virdon coached in the Arizona Instructional League. He coached in the Florida Instructional League following the 1964 season. Following his retirement as a player after the 1965 season, Virdon spent the next two seasons as a manager in the minor leagues for the New York Mets' organization. In 1966, he managed the Williamsport Mets of the Eastern League, and in 1967, he managed the Jacksonville Suns of the International League. He led Williamsport to a 68–72 win-loss record, and Jacksonville to a 66–73 record.\n\nVirdon joined the Pirates' major league coaching staff under manager Larry Shepard in 1968. He also appeared in six games as a player because a number of Pirates players had entered military service. Shepard left the Pirates after the 1969 season, and Virdon interviewed to become the Pirates' next manager. However, the Pirates re-hired Murtaugh, and Virdon remained on Murtaugh's coaching staff. Virdon coached the Pirates as they won the 1971 World Series. Due to health problems, Murtaugh retired after the 1971 season, and Virdon was named as his successor.\n\nAs a manager, Virdon led the Pirates to the 1972 NL East division title, but the Pirates lost the 1972 National League Championship Series (NLCS) to the Cincinnati Reds when Pittsburgh pitcher Bob Moose unleashed a wild pitch in the final inning of Game 5, allowing the winning run to score. The 1973 Pirates had to play without Clemente, who died during the previous offseason. Further struggles included pitcher Steve Blass' inability to throw strikes and injuries to Dock Ellis. Virdon clashed with Ellis and Richie Hebner. The Pirates were in third place with a 67–69 record when the team fired Virdon and replaced him with Murtaugh.\n\nThe Yankees announced the hiring of Dick Williams as their manager for the 1974 season, but American League president Joe Cronin nullified the transaction because Williams was still under contract with the Oakland Athletics. The Athletics demanded prospects Otto Vélez and Scott McGregor as compensation for Williams, but the Yankees decided the price was too steep. Without a manager, the Yankees hired Virdon, signing him to a one-year contract. Virdon led the Yankees to a competitive finish, one game behind the Baltimore Orioles in the American League East division. He won \"The Sporting News\" Manager of the Year Award. The Yankees signed him to a two-year contract after the 1974 season, with a raise from $50,000 to $65,000 per year. However, Virdon clashed with Bobby Murcer. He received a death threat due to his preference of playing Elliott Maddox over Murcer in center field. The Yankees struggled in 1975. When Billy Martin was fired as manager of the Texas Rangers during the 1975 season, the Yankees fired Virdon on August 2 and hired Martin.\nThe Houston Astros hired Virdon as their manager on August 20, 1975, succeeding Preston Gómez. Tal Smith, who had served as executive vice president for the Yankees, had become the Astros' general manager on August 7. Virdon led the Astros to third-place finishes in 1976 and 1977, but the Astros slipped to fifth place in 1978. The 1979 Astros fell one game short of winning the NL West division championship. The Astros tied the Los Angeles Dodgers for the division championship in 1980, and defeated them in the 1980 NL West tie-breaker game. The Astros played the Philadelphia Phillies in the 1980 NLCS, losing the series in five games. He again won the Manager of the Year Award in 1980. Due to the 1981 Major League Baseball strike, the 1981 season was split into halves with each half's winner appearing in the 1981 NL Division Series. The Dodgers won the first half, while the Astros won the second. In the Division Series, the Dodgers defeated the Astros in five games. During the 1982 season, the Astros fell to fifth place. Virdon was fired during the season and replaced by Bob Lillis.\n\nThe Montreal Expos hired Virdon as their manager before the 1983 season, replacing Jim Fanning, and signed a two-year contract. During the 1984 season, Virdon expressed to Expos general manager John McHale that he did not want to return to the Expos in 1985. With a 64–67 record in August 1984, the Expos fired Virdon, replacing him with Fanning. Gary Lucas, a pitcher for the Expos, felt that they had lost many one-run games because Virdon was too conservative in his managing, not employing the hit and run play and relying on the starting pitcher for long in the game.\n\nVirdon returned to the Pirates as the hitting coach under Jim Leyland in 1986, Leyland's first season as a manager. He took the position only when he was convinced that he would not succeed Leyland should the Pirates fire him. Following a contract dispute, the Pirates replaced Virdon with Milt May before the 1987 season. Virdon remained with the Pirates as a minor league hitting instructor for the Pirates from 1987 through 1989. He worked as a spring training instructor for the Cardinals in 1990 and 1991, and then rejoined Leyland's coaching staff in Pittsburgh in 1992.\n\nWith Major League Baseball expanding by two teams for the 1993 season, Virdon interviewed for the managerial positions of both expansion teams, the Florida Marlins and the Colorado Rockies, in 1992. The Marlins instead hired Rene Lachemann, and the Rockies hired Don Baylor. In 1994, Virdon interviewed with the Orioles for their vacant managerial position. Virdon left the Pirates after the 1995 season. He became the bench coach for the Astros under first-time manager Larry Dierker in 1997. The Pirates brought Virdon back as their bench coach for the 2001 season under first-time manager Lloyd McClendon. He retired from coaching after the 2002 season.\n\nVirdon's career managerial record, over all or parts of 13 seasons, was 995–921 (.519). He also managed in the minor leagues for the Cardinals and the Astros. In June 2012, the Pirates attempted to add Virdon and Mazeroski to their coaching staff, but were rebuffed by MLB for violating the rules on uniformed coaching staffs after one game. Virdon continues to serve as a special outfield instructor for the Pirates during spring training.\n\nVirdon and his wife, Shirley, married in November 1951, and live in Springfield, Missouri. They have three daughters. Together, Bill and Shirley Virdon endowed two scholarships at Southeast Missouri State University, Shirley's alma mater, with one specifically devoted for a baseball player.\n\nA portion of the U.S. Route 63 business route in West Plains is named \"Bill Virdon Boulevard\". Virdon was inducted into the Missouri Sports Hall of Fame in 1983, and named a Missouri Sports Legend by the Missouri Sports Hall of Fame in 2012. The Independence, Missouri, Baseball Hall of Fame inducted Virdon in 2013. Following Whitey Herzog's election to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2012, Herzog indicated that he would champion Virdon's cause to the Veterans Committee in future elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243420", "title": "Raise Your Fist and Yell", "text": "Raise Your Fist and Yell\n\nRaise Your Fist and Yell is the tenth solo album by rock musician Alice Cooper released on September 5, 1987. It features the track “Prince of Darkness”, which is featured very briefly in the John Carpenter film of the same name, in which Cooper has a cameo as a murderous vagrant. The song can be heard on the Walkman of one of his victims. A music video was made for the song \"Freedom\", which also became the album's sole single. \"Raise Your Fist and Yell\" is the only Alice Cooper album to feature Ken K. Mary on drums and the second and last to feature Kip Winger on bass. \n\nThe album continues the slasher film trend created by Cooper’s previous album \"Constrictor\". The track “Lock Me Up” features a guest appearance from Robert Englund, who portrayed Freddy Krueger in the \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" series.\n\nThe album cover for \"Raise Your Fist and Yell\" was painted by artist Jim Warren.\n\nThe infamous tour for the album, dubbed “Live in the Flesh,” was notorious in Europe in 1988 for its graphic violence and theatricality. The show included many of Cooper’s old favourites, such as the gallows (for the first time since 1972), but offered new theatrics such as impaling a person with a bike (this was also seen in John Carpenter's Prince of Darkness, used by Cooper in a cameo role as a vagrant killing one of the characters). Most of the tour's more violent acts were heavily inspired by the horror movies of the time, by including graphic onstage deaths and large amounts of stage blood. Cooper has been said to be a big fan of these movies.\n\nThe show was seen to be so violent that the German government forced Cooper to remove some of the more graphic parts of the show. A (blind) Member of Parliament in the UK, David Blunkett, appealed to have the show banned altogether from the country, but his attempt was unsuccessful.\n\nFive songs from \"Raise Your Fist and Yell\" were played by Cooper during the album’s supporting tour: \"Freedom\", \"Prince of Darkness\", \"Chop Chop Chop\", \"Gail\" and \"Roses on White Lace\". Until “Roses on White Lace” was revived as a regular part of setlists for the 2019 “Ol’ Black Eyes Is Back” tour, nothing from \"Raise Your Fist and Yell\" was ever performed by Cooper subsequent to the close of the “Live in the Flesh” tour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243424", "title": "Single crystal", "text": "Single crystal\n\nA single-crystal, or monocrystalline, solid is a material in which the crystal lattice of the entire sample is continuous and unbroken to the edges of the sample, with no grain boundaries. The absence of the defects associated with grain boundaries can give monocrystals unique properties, particularly mechanical, optical and electrical, which can also be anisotropic, depending on the type of crystallographic structure. These properties, in addition to making them precious in some gems, are industrially used in technological applications, especially in optics and electronics.\n\nBecause entropic effects favour the presence of some imperfections in the microstructure of solids, such as impurities, inhomogeneous strain and crystallographic defects such as dislocations, perfect single crystals of meaningful size are exceedingly rare in nature, and are also difficult to produce in the laboratory, though they can be made under controlled conditions. On the other hand, imperfect single crystals can reach enormous sizes in nature: several mineral species such as beryl, gypsum and feldspars are known to have produced crystals several metres across.\n\nThe opposite of a single crystal is an amorphous structure where the atomic position is limited to short range order only. In between the two extremes exist \"polycrystalline\", which is made up of a number of smaller crystals known as \"crystallites\", and \"paracrystalline\" phases.\n\nSingle crystal silicon is used in the fabrication of semiconductors. On the quantum scale that microprocessors operate on, the presence of grain boundaries would have a significant impact on the functionality of field effect transistors by altering local electrical properties. Therefore, microprocessor fabricators have invested heavily in facilities to produce large single crystals of silicon.\n\n\nAnother application of single crystal solids is in materials science in the production of high strength materials with low thermal creep, such as turbine blades. Here, the absence of grain boundaries actually gives a decrease in yield strength, but more importantly decreases the amount of creep which is critical for high temperature, close tolerance part applications.\n\nSingle crystals provide a means to understand, and perhaps realize, the ultimate performance of metallic conductors.\n\nOf all the metallic elements, silver and copper have the best conductivity at room temperature, so set the bar for performance. The size of the market, and vagaries in supply and cost, have provided strong incentives to seek alternatives or find ways to use less of them by improving performance.\n\nThe conductivity of commercial conductors is often expressed relative to the International Annealed Copper Standard, according to which the purest copper wire available in 1914 measured around 100%. The purest modern copper wire is a better conductor, measuring over 103% on this scale. The gains are from two sources. First, modern copper is more pure. However, this avenue for improvement seems at an end. Making the copper purer still makes no significant improvement. Second, annealing and other processes have been improved. Annealing reduces the dislocations and other crystal defects which are sources of resistance. But the resulting wires are still polycrystalline. The grain boundaries and remaining crystal defects are responsible for some residual resistance. This can be quantified and better understood by examining single crystals.\n\nAs anticipated, single-crystal copper did prove to have better conductivity than polycrystalline copper. \n\nBut there were surprises in store (see table). The single-crystal copper not only became a better conductor than high purity polycrystalline silver, but with prescribed heat and pressure treatment could surpass even single-crystal silver. And although impurities are usually bad for conductivity, a silver single crystal with a small amount of copper substitutions was a better conductor than them all.\nAs of 2009, no single-crystal copper is manufactured on a large scale industrially, but methods of producing very large individual crystal sizes for copper conductors are exploited for high performance electrical applications. These can be considered meta-single crystals with only a few crystals per metre of length.\n\nSingle crystals are essential in research especially condensed-matter physics, materials science, surface science etc. The detailed study of the crystal structure of a material by techniques such as Bragg diffraction and helium atom scattering is much easier with monocrystals. Only in single crystals it is possible to study directional dependence of various properties. Furthermore, techniques such as scanning tunneling microscopy are only possible on surfaces of single crystals. In superconductivity there have been cases of materials where superconductivity is only seen in single crystalline specimen. They may be grown for this purpose, even when the material is otherwise only needed in polycrystalline form.\n\nIn the case of silicon and metal single crystal fabrication the techniques used involve highly controlled and therefore relatively slow crystallization.\n\nSpecific techniques to produce large single crystals (aka boules) include the Czochralski process and the Bridgman technique. Other less exotic methods of crystallization may be used, depending on the physical properties of the substance, including hydrothermal synthesis, sublimation, or simply solvent-based crystallization.\n\nA different technology to create single crystalline materials is called epitaxy. As of 2009, this process is used to deposit very thin (micrometre to nanometer scale) layers of the same or different materials on the surface of an existing single crystal. Applications of this technique lie in the areas of semiconductor production, with potential uses in other nanotechnological fields and catalysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243426", "title": "Blue Magic (band)", "text": "Blue Magic (band)\n\nBlue Magic is an American R&B and Soul group, and one of the more popular Philadelphia soul groups of the 1970s. Founded in 1972, the group's original members included lead singer Ted Mills with Vernon Sawyer, Wendell Sawyer, Keith Beaton, and Richard Pratt. Their most notable songs included smooth soul ballads such as \"Sideshow\", \"Spell\", \"What’s Come Over Me\", \"Three Ring Circus\" and \"Stop to Start.\"\n\nBlue Magic was formed in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1972 when former member of The Delfonics, Randy Cain, brought in singer-songwriter Ted Mills to do some writing with the Philly-based WMOT production company to create a new band. A short time later the group Shades of Love, featuring Keith Beaton, Richard Pratt, Vernon Sawyer and his brother Wendell, came in to audition. (According to Marc Taylor in his book 'A Touch of Classic Soul of the Early 1970s',[1] \"although the group performed admirably, they lacked a standout lead singer\".) The execs decided to replace the Toppicks, the act Mills recorded with. They inserted Shades of Love (which they owned contractually) with Ted Mills and retitled the group Blue Magic. They were signed with Atco Records through WMOT in the same year.\n\nThe group was one of the earliest acts produced by Norman Harris, a Philadelphia recording veteran. The group's harmonies were supported by the MFSB studio house band. Their first early song release in 1973 was \"Spell\" which went onto the \"Billboard\" R&B charts at number 30 (it was written and co-produced by Mills). They were known for making dreamy ballads and their choreographed stage moves.\n\nTheir second release was the uptempo \"Look Me Up\"; which reached number 36, stayed on the R&B chart for 11 weeks, and was popular on the early disco scene. Their next single was the ballad \"Stop to Start\". This hit was even more successful, reaching #14 on the Billboard R&B chart and #74 on the pop chart. The next single release became their first Billboard US Top 10 R&B and Pop hit, \"Sideshow\", It sold over one million copies, and was awarded a gold disc by the RIAA on August 16, 1974. It climbed to #8 on the Billboard Hot 100 and topped the R&B chart. The Blue Magic album also went Gold, and is considered a classic, as well as one of the best Philly soul albums of all-time. In addition to the four hit singles, it also included another Richard Dickson inspired creation, the hit ballad \"What's Come Over Me\", a 7-minute rendition of the Main Ingredient million seller \"Just Don't Want To Be Lonely\", the solid album closer \"Tear It Down\", and the uptempo \"Welcome to the Club\" (which would become a classic of the Chicago House Music scene in the late 1980s). The first single from their 1975 follow-up album The Magic of the Blue, entitled \"Three Ring Circus\", also sold well, reaching #36 in the pop chart and #5 R&B. MFSB guitarist Bobby Eli and Richard Dickson co wrote both \"Sideshow\" and \"Three Ring Circus\".\n\nBecause their biggest hits were slower songs, the group became known mostly for their ballads.\n\nThe album \"Thirteen Blue Magic Lane\" in 1975 maintained the group's popularity and spawned their version of the popular dance number \"We're On The Right Track\", as well as the ballad \"Chasing Rainbows\". The song \"What's Come Over Me\" from their debut album was re-worked as a duet with Margie Joseph dubbed in alongside Mills' original lead vocals. The new approach saw the song climb to #11 on the R&B chart again in 1975.In total the group had two R&B chart singles in 1975 and four in 1976.\n\nThe group had their first world tour that year which lasted for 42 weeks. The tour included 48 states in the United States, five countries in Europe and a 10-day stay in the Philippines. They concluded their tour with a two-week engagement in the Virgin Islands.\n\nBlue Magic were known also for their choreography. As a visually oriented group, they had several major television appearances, including \"Soul Train,\" \"The Mike Douglas Show,\" \"The Jerry Blavat Show,\" \"Dancin' On Air,\" and \"A.M. Philadelphia.\"\n\nIn April 1975, they were chosen as the best new group of the year which earned two Ebony Awards. The first was presented in New York City by Aretha Franklin, the second in Florida by the female recording artist Vanity.\n\nThey have shared the stage with other performers such as The Jacksons, Lionel Richie, The Commodores, Marvin Gaye, Gladys Knight and the Pips, Natalie Cole, The Temptations, The Four Tops, The Spinners, Earth, Wind & Fire, New Edition, The Stylistics, Mick Jagger and others.\n\nThe group also contributed background vocals for Alyson Williams and the Rolling Stones (on the song \"If You Really Want To Be My Friend\" from the album \"It's Only Rock 'n' Roll\").\n\nBy 1977, the group's popularity had faded with the rise of disco and changing music styles, and despite the group continuing to record consistently they failed to chart. Subsequent label moves to Capitol Records for a reunion with Norman Harris (who had left two years earlier) and then the smaller label Mirage resulted in some smaller R&B charting, but no major success.\n\nBackground singer Richard Pratt left in the early 1980s. After sibling singers Vernon and Wendell Sawyer left, the remaining two members Mills and Beaton hired two other singers and traveled to Los Angeles, California, to record with Skip Scarborough and some members of the popular group Earth Wind & Fire on the album \"Message from the Magic\".\n\nIn 1988, the original group got back together and had some renewed popularity in late 1989 with the album \"From Out of the Blue\". Also in 1989, they appeared on the song \"To Be Your Man\", the third single from Big Daddy Kane's second album, \"It's a Big Daddy Thing\".\n\nIn 1990, \"The Amsterdam News\" carried the story of Mills' near-fatal car accident. After surgery in 1996, Mills returned to the music scene as a solo act, recording an album for Casablanca Records that year entitled \"This Magic Is Real\", featuring the remake of \"Tear It Down.\" The other members of the group brought in new lead Rod Wayne (real name Roderick Bronaugh), who remained with the group until 2004. Bronaugh now teaches at Tennessee State University.\n\nMills appeared in the touring play, \"Girl, He Ain't Worth It\" with The Manhattans, Meli'sa Morgan and Tito Jackson, and appeared in the play \"Looking For Love In All the Wrong Places\". In 2007, Mills recorded the album \"3 Tenors of Soul\" with Russell Thompkins, Jr., original lead singer of The Stylistics, and William Hart of The Delfonics released on Shanachie Records and produced by Bobby Eli.\n\nMills appeared and gave two concerts for the audiences at the 2014 Soul Train Cruise in February 2014 on the Holland America Eurodam.\n\nFormer lead vocalist Rod Wayne died in 2016. \nFormer lead Ted Mills continues to pursue a solo career. The name was formally trademarked by Wendell Sawyer and Keith Beaton some years earlier. Richard Pratt and Vernon Sawyer each have their own versions of the group.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243429", "title": "Let Kunovice", "text": "Let Kunovice\n\nAircraft Industries, a.s., operating as LET, n.p., is a Czech (formerly Czechoslovak) civil aircraft manufacturer. Its most successful design has been the L-410 Turbolet, of which more than 1200 units have been built. Its head office is in Kunovice, Uherské Hradiště District. LET is since 2008 owned by Russian company UGMK. The company operates the sixth largest Czech airport and a private secondary school.\n\nBuilding of an aircraft factory in Kunovice started in 1936, as a part of the Škoda Works industrial concern. Before and during World War II the unfinished plant served only as a repair works. After the end of the war the factory was nationalized and in 1950-53 a new plant was built. In 1957-1967 it was named SPP (\"Strojírny první pětiletky\" - \"Works of the First Five-year Plan\"), and in 1967 it returned to the name LET. The works produced under licence were the Soviet trainers Yakovlev Yak-11 (under a designation C-11) and the Aero Ae 45 and Aero Ae 145 utility aircraft.\n\nIn 1957 the company began to develop the L-200 Morava light utility aircraft and four years later the Z-37 Cmelak agricultural aircraft, which were both a commercial success. For a period of time LET also produced a jet training aircraft the L-29.\n\nOver the years LET developed and produced gliders–Zlín Z 22, Z 124 Galánka, LF 109 Pioneer, Z 425 Šohaj. However the most popular gliders produced by LET are the Blaníks–L-13 \" Blaník\", L-23 \"Super Blaník\" and L-33 \"Solo\".\n\nDuring the 1960s LET’s engineers developed a 19 seat commuter turboprop – the L-410 Turbolet, of which more than 1200 were produced. This popular aircraft went through a number of improvements and modernisations and the latest types, the L 410 UVP-E20 and L 420 are EASA and FAA certified respectively.\nThe largest Czech transport aircraft, the Let L-610, was produced in 1988 in prototype form and displayed at the Paris Airshow. Production was cancelled due to lack of funding. There were eight prototypes made in the factory.\n\nThe all-metal Blaník sailplane was produced in the largest quantities of any sailplane, with over 3000 manufactured since the first rolled off the production line in 1958. In 2005 it was still in production as the L23 \"Super Blaník\" variant.\n\n51% of the company's shares was purchased by UGMK in 2008; UAC has shown interest in acquiring the control of the company, as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243430", "title": "George Estabrooks", "text": "George Estabrooks\n\nGeorge Hoben Estabrooks (December 16, 1895 – December 30, 1973) was a Canadian-American psychologist and an authority on hypnosis during World War Two. He was a Harvard University graduate, a Rhodes Scholar, and chairman of the Department of Psychology at Colgate University. He used hypnosis to help spies have split personalities to not actually know they were spies in case of capture. He stated it was easy to create and easy to cure using hypnosis.\n\nHe joined the First Canadian Division in his teens and at the age of 19 became the youngest commissioned Officer. Later in life, he became a 32nd degree Knight Templar Mason and wrote various articles and books including these four publications: The Future of the Human Mind, Hypnotism, Spiritism, and Man - The Mechanical Misfit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243440", "title": "Lake Yojoa", "text": "Lake Yojoa\n\nLake Yojoa is the largest lake in Honduras with a surface area of 79 square kilometers (30.50 mi²) and an average depth of 15 meters (50 ft). At an altitude of 700 meters (2,300 ft), it lies in a depression formed by volcanoes. The Lake Yojoa volcanic field consists of Pleistocene to Holocene scoria cones, craters, and lava flows.\n\nThe west side of the lake is bordered by steep mountains and Santa Bárbara National Park while the east side is adjacent to Cerro Azul Meambar National Park. The lake is situated on the highway that connects the two largest Honduran cities, Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula. For many people traveling between the cities, the lake serves as a rest area where they can appreciate the view and enjoy the fresh fried fish and other foods that are offered by the restaurants located on its banks.\n\nLake Yojoa is a popular fishing destination and the surrounding area has a rich biodiversity—almost 400 species of birds and 800 plant species have been identified in the region. However, it also is threatened by deforestation, cattle ranching, and development. The settlers of the communities around the lake are dedicated to the cultivation of fruits, vegetables and basic grains. Nevertheless, many of these inhabitants earn their living from the sale of fish originating from the lake.\n\nPeople dedicate surrounding areas to the growing of coffee plants. Coffee grown near Lake Yojoa, in Santa Barbara, is particularly well-known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243441", "title": "1947–48 in Scottish football", "text": "1947–48 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1947–48 season was the 75th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 51st season of the Scottish Football League.\n\nChampions: Hibernian \nRelegated: Airdrie, Queen's Park\n\nChampions: East Fife, Albion Rovers \nRelegated: Leith Athletic\n\nChampions: East Stirlingshire\n\n\nKey:\n\n"}
{"id": "2243444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243444", "title": "Dana Barron", "text": "Dana Barron\n\nDana Barron (born April 22, 1966) is an American actress who is best known for her role as the original Audrey Griswold in the 1983 film \"National Lampoon's Vacation\" which she reprised in 2003's \"\" for NBC television.\n\nBarron was born in New York City, New York. Her mother, Joyce McCord, is a stage actress. Her father, Robert Weeks Barron, was a director of commercials and a Congregationalist church pastor; Robert founded The Weist-Barron School of Television, the first commercial and soap opera acting for television school in the world. Barron has a sister named Allison. She is a fifth generation entertainer. Her grandfather was an opera singer, and her mother moved from Alabama to become an actress.\n\nBarron's sister, Allison, had been doing TV commercials at a young age, and Barron told her father that she wished to do the same. She began acting at age 10, doing TV commercials as well. By age 11, she was appearing with Christine Baranski in \"Hide and Seek\" on Broadway. By age 13, her first film was the horror film \"He Knows You're Alone\", with Tom Hanks, which was also Hanks' first film. \n\nIn 1983, Barron starred in the Chevy Chase comedy \"National Lampoon's Vacation\", originating the role of Audrey Griswold. The film became a classic, and Barron would reprise the role 20 years later in the NBC TV movie spinoff, \"\".\n\nDana also appeared in an episode of The Equalizer.\n\nBarron received a Daytime Emmy Award in 1989 for her appearance in the CBS after-school special \"No Means No\". Barron appeared on the soap opera \"One Life to Live\" from 1984 to 1985 as Michelle Boudin. She starred in the 1998 \"The Magnificent Seven\" as Casey. \n\nShe had a recurring role as Nikki Witt on the Fox series \"Beverly Hills, 90210\", during which she was able to make her character's clothes and modify her lines. The role won her the Youth in Film Award for as best recurring actress. \n\nIn 1992, she starred with JoBeth Williams and Chris Burke in the NBC movie \"\". Barron has made guest appearances on TV shows including \"The Equalizer\", \"In the Heat of the Night\", \"Murder, She Wrote\", and \"Babylon 5\" as a telepath named Lauren Ashley in the Season 5 episode \"The Corps Is Mother, the Corps Is Father\".\n\nBarron was in a long term relationship with filmmaker Michael Vickerman. They have a son, Taylor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243467", "title": "Marzuki (band)", "text": "Marzuki (band)\n\nMarzuki was an indie folk rock band from Holland, Michigan, with a significant fan base in western Michigan in the mid to late 1990s. They were especially popular among Hope College, Calvin College, and Grand Valley State University students. Marzuki's members included Shannon Stephens on vocals and guitar, Jamie Kempkers on cello, Matthew Haseltine (brother of Jars of Clay's Dan Haseltine) on guitar and bass, and Sufjan Stevens on guitar, percussion, and the more exotic instruments (especially the recorder). Their lyrics often explored spiritual or romantic themes.\n\nMarzuki was named after Sufjan Stevens' brother, Marzuki Stevens, a professional long-distance and marathon runner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243474", "title": "Bank cormorant", "text": "Bank cormorant\n\nThe bank cormorant (\"Phalacrocorax neglectus\"), also known as Wahlberg's cormorant, is a medium-sized cormorant that is endemic to Namibia and the western seaboard of South Africa, living in and around coastal waters; it is rarely recorded more than 15 km offshore.\n\nThe bank cormorant is a heavy-bodied bird, roughly 75 cm in length. It is generally black in appearance with a bronze sheen, though the wings are a dark brown rather than a true black. Adults have a small crest on their heads, and normally have a white rump. Pale eye in an all black face is considered to be diagnostic for adults, with immature birds having a dark eye.\n\nA prime food for these birds is the cape rock lobster \"Jasus lalandii\", and their feeding distribution closely matches the kelp beds where these lobsters live, though the birds will also take a variety of other crustacean and fish prey, notably bearded goby \"Sufflogobius bibarbatus\".\n\nThe birds may breed at any time of the year, laying two or three chalky-white eggs in a nest constructed from seaweed and guano.\n\nNumbers of these birds have been declining sharply in recent decades, partly because of commercial fishing for bearded goby, partly because of increasing human disturbance, and partly because numbers of kelp gulls have been increasing because of human provisioning, and the gulls are active predators on the cormorant eggs and chicks. The world population is probably now around 4,000 birds. The most important population centres are in Mercury Island and Ichaboe Island in Namibia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243492", "title": "Michael Stoute", "text": "Michael Stoute\n\nSir Michael Ronald Stoute (born 22 October 1945, in Barbados) is a Barbadian British thoroughbred horse trainer in flat racing. Stoute, whose father was the Chief of Police for Barbados, left the island in 1964 at the age of 19 to become an assistant to trainer Pat Rohan and began training horses on his own in 1972. His first win as a trainer came on 28 April 1972 when Sandal, a horse owned by Stoute’s father, won at Newmarket Racecourse in England. Since then, he has gone on to win races all over the globe, including victories in the Dubai World Cup, the Breeders Cup, the Japan Cup and the Hong Kong Vase.\n\nHe was made a Knight Bachelor in 1998 for services to tourism in Barbados. He was the only trainer in the 20th century to win an English Classic in five successive seasons and has been Champion Trainer ten times (1981, 1986, 1989, 1994, 1997, 2000, 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2009). He was the trainer for Kribensis, who is the only horse to have won the Triple Crown of Hurdling, doing so in the 1989/90 racing season. Stoute also trained Shergar, arguably his most famous horse, who won the 1981 Epsom Derby and was later stolen, presumably by the IRA.\n\nIn 2009, three horses trained by StouteConduit, Tartan Bearer and Askpulled off a rare feat when the trio made a clean sweep of the placings at the King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes. In all, the horses took home $1,787,000 of the $2,008,945 prizemoney in Britain's richest horserace. Those wins helped him regain his Champion Trainer title in 2009, winning a total of £3,372,287 in prize money.\n\nIn 2013 he trained the Queen's horse Estimate to Gold Cup victory at Royal Ascot.\n\nStoute currently trains horses at Freemason Lodge Stables and at Beech Hurst Stables, both on the Bury Road in Newmarket.\n\n Great Britain\n Canada\n France\n Germany\n Hong Kong\n Ireland\n Italy\n Japan\n United Arab Emirates\n United States\n"}
{"id": "2243503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243503", "title": "El Progreso", "text": "El Progreso\n\nThe municipality of El Progreso () is located in the Honduran department of Yoro.\n\nRamón Villeda Morales International Airport of San Pedro Sula is located west of the city. To the east of the city is the mountain range of Mico Quemado (Burned Monkey).\n\nEl Progreso is located at a crossroads. Due to its strategic location, many travellers or tourists pass through el Progreso in one way or another. For that reason, el Progreso is considered a city of extreme importance in Honduras. Many travellers going to San Pedro Sula, Tela, La Ceiba, La Lima, Tegucigalpa etc. make a connection here, or use it as a rest area.\n\nThe territorial extension of the city is . Of this territory, is defined as urban and as rural. The city is also divided into three geographic zones that comprise more than 100 barrios, which are home to more than 90,000 people. The climate of the city is humid.\n\nDue to its fertile lands, El Progreso is a city of agricultural tradition. The areas surrounding the city include various plantations producing products such as palm oil, bananas, and vegetables. Besides agriculture, the inhabitants of El Progreso also devote themselves to cattle ranching and to the production and trade of textiles.\n\nGiven El Progreso's location as a crossroads several fast food franchises have been established in the city to satisfy the demands of travellers. These companies include Pizza Hut, Popeye's, Burger King, KFC, Wendy's, Baskin Robins, Dunkin' Donuts, and others.\n\nAdditionally, a new, modern mall from the Honduran \"Plaza\" chain of shopping centres has been constructed on the outskirts of the city. The mall, named Megaplaza, officially opened in the winter of 2007, and features a large food court with a vast array of Honduran and American fast food companies, several cell phone stores, an arcade, and department stores including Carrion, the largest in Central America. Megaplaza is also home to a new stadium seating-style cinema screening films from the US and Latin America.\n\nThe mountain chain of Mico Quemado is one of the main attractions of the city. It is located to the east of el Progreso, facing the great Valley of Sula (Valle de Sula).\n\nMore than of this mountain chain are protected by the Honduran Central Government. This is due to its ecological wealth, which is inhabited by a great quantity of plants and exotic animals. The area is also important for the inhabitants of the city because it is the source for the city's water system.\n\nEl Progreso is sometimes called \"\"the bicycle City\"\" because many of their people use the bicycle as a faster and more economical mode of transportation. This is perhaps a reflection on the relative poverty among the working class, as many of the city streets remain unpaved, and economic development has remained uneven.\n\nThe Ulúa River is one of the biggest and most important rivers of Honduras. This river has its birth in the department of Intibucá under the name of Rio Grande de Otoro.\n\nThe river runs through the departments of Santa Bárbara, Cortés, Yoro and Atlántida. It is fed by Higuito River, Mejocote River, Jicatuyo River, Pelo River, Comayagua River and Sulaco River.\n\nIn addition; many other creeks help to its development. The total length of Ulua River is . Due to its might, the Ulúa River is also a dangerous river. During cyclones or torrential rains it has a tendency to grow excessively, therefore causing damages to the cities where it runs. Hurricane Mitch crept ashore on 29 October 1998 and lingered until 3 November, leaving as much as 3 feet of rain in its wake as it lingered and meandered northward. This resulted in epic flooding and total devastation of the Ulúa basin. Recovery is still incomplete after a decade later.\n"}
{"id": "2243504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243504", "title": "Nueva Ocotepeque", "text": "Nueva Ocotepeque\n\nNueva Ocotepeque is the capital of the Ocotepeque Department of Honduras. It is in the north-south valley of the Lempa River, north of the El Salvador border, and east of the Guatemala border.\n\nNueva Ocotopeque was settled in 1935 after the site of the former town of Ocotepeque was destroyed by flooding of the river. It was briefly occupied by El Salvador during the Football War.\n\nIt is served by Nueva Ocotepeque Airport.\n\nMy Little Red House Bilingual School, K-8.\n"}
{"id": "2243506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243506", "title": "Puerto Castilla, Honduras", "text": "Puerto Castilla, Honduras\n\nPuerto Castilla is a village in the Colón Department of Honduras located approximately north of Trujillo. This port city on the Caribbean Sea (Atlantic Ocean) was the one-time site of the United Fruit Company's Castilla Division which specialized in the growth, cultivation and shipments of the Gros Michel banana. This division was closed in the late 1930s as a result of 'Panama disease', a blight on the roots of the banana.\n\nThe port city, and its population were moved east on the peninsula in the 1940s when a small naval base was established there for a PBY Catalina seaplane base. During World War II the seaplane base supported military operations including surveillance and security in conjunction with Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It was believed that German naval forces planned an attack on the Panama Canal causing bases like Puerto Castilla and many others along the coast toward Panama to be on high alert. Puerto Castilla is now a native fishing village of about six hundred residents. West of the village the site of a Honduran naval base, as well as the site of a container port for Dole fresh fruit products. Vast African Oil Palm plantations now dot the area. Puerto Castilla lies on the south side of a peninsula sheltering Trujillo Bay. It is a deep-water port which has future possibility for development of a major port for the republic.\n\nAn original hospital building (recently renovated by the Honduran Navy for an educational center) and an old barracks are the last remaining evidence of the abandoned United Fruit presence.\n\nA fence with guarded entrance now restricts casual traffic into the Port area, controlled by the Honduran Port Authority—ENP-Empresa Nacional Portuaria.\n\nLeigh Richardson, a leading figure in the early Belizean independence movement, was born in Puerto Castilla in 1924.\n"}
{"id": "2243507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243507", "title": "Tocoa", "text": "Tocoa\n\nTocoa may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2243521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243521", "title": "John Pelham (officer)", "text": "John Pelham (officer)\n\nJohn Pelham (September 7, 1838 – March 17, 1863) was an artillery officer who served with the Confederate cavalry under J.E.B. Stuart during the American Civil War. Dubbed \"The Gallant Pelham\" for his military prowess and personal courage, Pelham revolutionized the usage of light artillery as a mobile arm of the cavalry.\n\nPelham was the third of seven children, with five brothers and a sister Betty, born to Dr. Atkinson and Martha Pelham (née McGehee ) at his grandparents' home along Cane Creek near Alexandria, Alabama. He grew up on the family's plantation, and learned to raise horses at a young age. On one occasion, he rode a neighbor's milk cow until it ran dry, prompting a lecture to only ride bulls in the future, if he were feeling adventurous.\n\nIn 1856, local Congressman Sampson Willis Harris secured an appointment for Pelham to the United States Military Academy at West Point (N.Y.), at the request of A. J. Walker.\n\nAlready in 1860, rumblings of Southern secession were affecting Pelham, his concerns that he would not be able to graduate expressed in letters he wrote home.\n\nIn 1861, with graduation approaching and war breaking out, Pelham wrote to the new leader of the Confederacy, Jefferson Davis, inquiring as to whether he should leave West Point. Ultimately, Pelham resigned from West Point, just a few weeks before his planned graduation, in order to accept a commission in the militia of his home state of Alabama. He soon went to Virginia, where he joined the army of Joseph E. Johnston as a lieutenant in the artillery. Pelham's well-drilled and disciplined battery caught the eye of J.E.B. Stuart, who provided horses for the men and transformed the battery into \"horse artillery\", more mobile than conventional artillery.\n\nPelham was involved in every major military engagement of Stuart's cavalry from the First Battle of Bull Run to Kelly's Ford, more than 60 encounters. He particularly distinguished himself as the Chief of Stuart's Artillery in the Battle of Antietam (Sharpsburg) and Battle of Fredericksburg. At Sharpsburg, Pelham's guns, positioned on a rise known as Nicodemus Hill, repeatedly harassed the flanks of oncoming Union lines, causing numerous casualties and breaking up battle formations. Lt. Gen. Stonewall Jackson said of him in his report on the battle, \"It is really extraordinary to find such nerve and genius in a mere boy. With a Pelham on each flank I believe I could whip the world.\"\n\nAt Fredericksburg, Pelham's guns, positioned well in advance of the main Confederate lines, held up the entire flank of the Union Army of the Potomac for several hours, enabling the Confederates to repel a series of strong attacks. General Robert E. Lee commended Pelham in his official report for \"unflinching courage\" while under direct fire from multiple Union batteries. Pelham was, at the time, commanding only two guns that were in service, but with those batteries for a time enfiladed the entire advancing Federal lines of battle.\n\nAt the Battle of Kelly's Ford on March 17, 1863, Pelham participated in a cavalry charge, his artillery not being engaged. Standing up in his stirrups, he urged his men to \"Press forward, press forward to glory and victory!\" Not long afterward, he was struck in the head by a fragment of an exploding Federal artillery shell. He was carried six miles (10 km) from the battlefield to Culpeper Courthouse, and died the following morning without having regained consciousness. Stuart said of his death, in a general order to the rest of his division:\n\nMaj. John Esten Cooke, a fellow officer and tentmate of Pelham's, wrote: \"He is the bravest human being I ever saw in my life.\"\n\nThe Confederate Senate approved Lee's recommendation that Pelham receive a posthumous promotion to lieutenant colonel. Pelham's body was returned home and buried at City Cemetery in Jacksonville, Alabama where a statue erected downtown in 1905 commemorates the fallen officer.\n\nIn 1863, Stuart named his third child Virginia Pelham, in honor of the cannoneer he had admired.\n\nIn 1894, poet James R. Randall wrote the poem \"John Pelham\".\n\nIn 1901, a portrait of Pelham was hung with other Confederate officers in Alexandria, Virginia, and General Joseph Wheeler gave the speech on the ascension of his portrait, referring to him as the \"Gallant Pelham\".\n\nIn 1907, one of his spurs was among the artifacts melted down to create the Pokahuntas Bell for the Jamestown Exposition.\n\nThe John Pelham Historical Association seeks to maintain his memory and preserve his archive of papers and memorabilia. In 1955, he was named to the Alabama Hall of Fame. The cities of Pelham, Alabama and Pelham, North Carolina, are named in his honor. The city of Pelham, Georgia may have been named after him; however, there is no proof to that effect. In 2004, the state of Georgia designated the section of State Highway 300 that passes through Pelham as the \"John Pelham Memorial Parkway\".\n\nThe United States Field Artillery has honored Pelham with artillery camps named for him, such as the former Camp Pelham which housed artillery battalions of first the 1st Cavalry Division and then later the 2nd Infantry Division in Korea.\n\nThe County of Culpeper, Virginia, built Lake Pelham in the 1970s in honor of the Boy Artillerist.\n\nDuring and after the Civil War Pelham's 1858 photograph, taken in the Mathew Brady studio, was well known in the South. While many copies were made, the original was long thought lost. It was held by Pelham's sister, Betty, and kept by her descendants at home in a fireproof safe. In 2010 Pelham's great-great grand-nephew consigned the piece for auction. It sold for $41,825.\n\nIn March 2013, the city of Jacksonville celebrated Pelham with a weekend of living history campsites and a sesquicentennial recreation of Pelham's funeral procession to City Cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243527", "title": "Yang Kui", "text": "Yang Kui\n\nYang Kui (; 18 October 1905 – 12 March 1985) was a prominent writer in Japanese Taiwan. Raised in Japanese-language schools, he went to the Japanese mainland, where he experienced both persecution and acceptance, especially by Japanese communists. Under these influences he became a proletarian novelist. After World War II, he was imprisoned by the Kuomintang government from 1949 to 1961. After being released from prison, he had to learn the Chinese language from his granddaughter , as Japanese had been the common language of Taiwan until the time of his imprisonment.\n\nHis most famous work is \"The Newspaper Man\", first written in Japanese as and re-written in Chinese by Yang after his imprisonment, as 送報夫. Written in Japanese, it is the story of a young Taiwanese student struggling to make money as a newspaper delivery boy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243530", "title": "Tiaret", "text": "Tiaret\n\nTiaret (; Berber: Tahert or Tihert, i.e. \"Lioness\") is a major city in central Algeria that gives its name to the wider farming region of Tiaret Province. Both the town and region lie south-west of the capital of Algiers in the western region of the Hautes Plaines, in the Tell Atlas, and about from the Mediterranean coast. It is served by Abdelhafid Boussouf Bou Chekif Airport.\n\nThe name means \"Lioness\" in the Berber language, a reference to the Barbary lions that lived in this region. Maghrebian place names like Oran (\"Uhran\") which means \"lion\", and Souk Ahras which means \"Market of Lions\" have the same etymological source.\n\nThe town had a population of 178,915 in 2008. The town covered around 20.086.62 km²\n\nA 1992 study by the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis reported significant areas contaminated by industrial pollution, and growing squatter settlements on the periphery.\n\nThe region is predominantly one of agriculture. There is a large airfield with a tower and terminal at Abdelhafid Boussouf.\n\nThe province suffered massacres (the largest being the Sid El-Antri massacre in 1997), killings, and bombings during the Algerian Civil War, though less so than areas closer to Algiers. The Africa Institute reported in a May, 2004 monograph that Tiaret's more \"arid and mountainous landscape has facilitated terrorist activities\". The MIPT Terrorism Knowledge Base reports that Tiaret \"is a frequent site of attacks by the Salafist Group for Call and Combat (GSPC)\" (now known as Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb). The GSPC is \"believed to have close ties to Osama bin Laden\" (\"Paris AFX News Agency\", Jul 13, 2005) and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi (\"Asharq Alaswat\" Jul 3 2005), and is reported to be active in Italy (\"Deutsche Welle\", Jul 15 2005).\n\nThe province has been inhabited since antiquity, and there are numerous megalithic monuments. It served as a Roman station and fort, Tingartia. Near Tiaret are the jedars, which are ancient mausoleums. The edifices demonstrate that the area was inhabited during the Late Antiquity by a Berber tribe(s) that could build in stone.\n\nTiaret grew up as a site under the domination of small Berber tribal kingdoms; the first of these being the Rustamid dynasty between 761 and 909 when Tiaret served as the capital of the area. However, this capital may have been 10 km (6 or 7 miles) west of the present-day Tiaret. It was first founded by Abd al-Rahman Rustamid, an Ibadi theologian from Greater Iran. Tiaret was said to be relatively free-thinking and democratic, being a centre for scholarship that permitted a wide range of sects and movements, notably the Mu'tazila. There were many Jews living in the area until at least the 10th century, including the scholar and doctor Judah ibn Kuraish who became the doctor to the Emir of Fes.\n\nTiaret occupies a strategic mountain pass at , and was thus a key to dominating the central Maghreb. Later, from the start of the 8th century, it was the key northern terminus of the West African branch of the slave trade. As such, it offered a lucrative income from taxes on the trade, and was a desirable prize.\n\nFrom the year 911 Tiaret was fought over by a number of tribes, being first captured by Massala ibn Habbus of the Miknasas in the year 911, in alliance with the Fatimid Caliphate. Finally, in 933, it was in the hands of the Fatimids. After 933 Tiaret ceased to be the capital of a separate state. Most of the population was banished to Ouargla and then escaped to the inhospitable M'zab. From 933 Tiaret attracted many Khawarij Muslim settlers from Iraq.\n\nFrom 933 it was administered as part of the Kingdom of Tlemcen, and in the 16th century fell to the Ottoman Empire. In 1843 it fell to the French after they defeated Emir Abdelkader El Djezairi.\n\nThe modern town of Tiaret is built around a French redoubt of 1845. The new town attracted many settlers from France and the area flourished. A narrow gauge railway arrived in 1889, connecting the town to Mostaganem - today, this rail line is defunct.\n\nThirty kilometres (18 miles) S.S.W. of Tiaret are the sepulchral monuments known as the Jedars. The name is given to a number of sepulchral monuments placed on hill-tops. A rectangular or square podium is in each case surmounted by a pyramid. The tombs date from the 5th to the 7th century, and lie in two distinct groups between Tiaret and Frenda.\n\nAt Mechra-Sfa (\"ford of the flat stones\"), a peninsula in the valley of the river Mina not far from Tiaret, are said to be 'vast numbers' of megalithic monuments.\n\nIn Tiaret, there is a Mediterranean climate. In winter there is more rainfall than in summer. The Köppen-Geiger climate classification is Csa. The average annual temperature in Tiaret is . About of precipitation falls annually.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243538", "title": "Vodny Stadion (Moscow Metro)", "text": "Vodny Stadion (Moscow Metro)\n\nVodny Stadion (, \"Water Stadium\") is a Moscow Metro station on the Zamoskvoretskaya Line. It was built in 1964 according to the standard pillar-trispan design. The pillars are clad in bluish marble and the walls are tiled in white with two stripes of blue at the base. The two entrances to the station are located near the intersection of Kronshtadtsky Boulevard and the Golovinskoye highway. The architects for this station were N. Demchinsky, Yu. Kolesnikova, and M. Markovsky.\n\nThe stadium is currently mostly abandoned.\n\nThe station is named for the Dinamo Water Stadium at the nearby Khimki Reservoir (Moskva River).\n"}
{"id": "2243542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243542", "title": "The Last Temptation (Ja Rule album)", "text": "The Last Temptation (Ja Rule album)\n\nThe Last Temptation is the fourth studio album by American rapper Ja Rule. It was released by Murder Inc. and Def Jam on November 19, 2002.\n\nThis album contained singles such as \"Thug Lovin'\" (featuring Bobby Brown), \"Mesmerize\" (featuring Ashanti) and \"The Pledge (Remix)\" (by Ashanti featuring Nas, Ja Rule and 2Pac). \"Murder Reigns\" was also released as a single titled \"Reign\" in select territories outside of North America, such as Europe and Australasia. The song \"Pop Niggas\" gained some attention after it was reported to be talking in part about 50 Cent. Pharrell was featured in the song, but not credited. Other guests featured on the album include: Bobby Brown, Ashanti, Nas, Alexi, Charli Baltimore, 2Pac, Caddillac Tah, Celeste Scalone, Eastwood, Crooked I, Young Life & Chink Santana.\n\nThe album was successful, moving 237,000 units in its first week, but less than his previous \"Pain Is Love\". On December 13, 2002 the album was certified Platinum. \"Mesmerize\" is ranked at #45 on \"Blender\"'s list of the \"50 Worst Songs Ever\", but was the most successful single from the album, reaching number 2 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 12 on the UK Singles Chart. The album also received criticism from fans, saying that the album sounded too commercial, and that Ja Rule was selling out: in addition, many artists that Ja Rule was feuding with, such as Daz Dillinger, Eminem, 50 Cent, Dr. Dre, G-Unit, Obie Trice, D12, Busta Rhymes, and DMX said that Ja Rule was trying to be just like Tupac Shakur, which fueled the rivalries even more. Though neither its debut nor lifetime sales ever matched those of \"Pain Is Love\", \"The Last Temptation\" is Ja Rule's third highest-selling album to date. As of February 1, 2006, the album has sold 2.4 million copies in the United States and 4.3 million worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243546", "title": "Path cover", "text": "Path cover\n\nGiven a directed graph \"G\" = (\"V\", \"E\"), a path cover is a set of directed paths such that every vertex \"v\" ∈ \"V\" belongs to at least one path. Note that a path cover may include paths of length 0 (a single vertex).\n\nA \"path cover\" may also refer to a vertex-disjoint path cover, i.e., a set of paths such that every vertex \"v\" ∈ \"V\" belongs to \"exactly\" one path.\n\nA theorem by Gallai and Milgram shows that the number of paths in a smallest path cover cannot be larger than the number of vertices in the largest independent set. In particular, for any graph \"G\", there is a path cover \"P\" and an independent set \"I\" such that \"I\" contains exactly one vertex from each path in \"P\". Dilworth's theorem follows as a corollary of this result.\n\nGiven a directed graph \"G\", the minimum path cover problem consists of finding a path cover for \"G\" having the least number of paths.\n\nA minimum path cover consists of one path if and only if there is a Hamiltonian path in \"G\". The Hamiltonian path problem is NP-complete, and hence the minimum path cover problem is NP-hard. However, if the graph is acyclic, the problem is in complexity class P and can therefore be solved in polynomial time by transforming it in a matching problem.\n\nThe applications of minimum path covers include software testing. For example, if the graph \"G\" represents all possible execution sequences of a computer program, then a path cover is a set of test runs that covers each program statement at least once.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243558", "title": "You've Got to Hide Your Love Away", "text": "You've Got to Hide Your Love Away\n\n\"You've Got to Hide Your Love Away\" is a song by English rock band the Beatles. It was written and sung by John Lennon (credited to Lennon–McCartney) and released on the album \"Help!\" in August 1965.\n\nLennon said of the song, \"That's me in my Dylan period again. I am like a chameleon, influenced by whatever is going on. If Elvis can do it, I can do it. If the Everly Brothers can do it, me and Paul can. Same with Dylan.\" The song is an early example of John self-reflecting in his writing, which had begun with songs such as \"I'm a Loser\" in the summer of 1964. Lennon wrote the song at home wanting another song for the film \"Help!\". The song \"is just basically John doing Dylan\", Paul McCartney confirmed. The song is similar to a folkish strophic form and uses a Dylanesque acoustic guitar figure in compound duple time, chiefly acoustic accompaniment, no backing voices and light percussion from brushed snare, tambourine and maraca. A flute, however, replaces the harmonica that Dylan typically used.\n\nThe song lyrics are ambiguous. They may tell of an unrequited love and hidden feelings. John could also have been referring to the fact that as a Beatle he was expected to keep the fact he was married a secret. He could also have been writing about his inability to express his true 'loving' self in public and his feelings of isolation and paranoia related to fame. Some, such as singer Tom Robinson, have suggested that it was written for their manager Brian Epstein, who had to hide his homosexuality from the public. Lennon himself however never publicly discussed the inspiration for the lyrics. When the song was first written, Lennon used \"two-foot tall\" to rhyme with the \"wall\" in the first verse, but mistakenly said \"two-foot small\" when he sang the line to McCartney, and decided to keep it this way. Pete Shotton, Lennon's former bandmate from The Quarrymen, was present when the song was being composed, and he suggested adding \"Hey\" to the start of the line in refrain.\n\nThe basic rhythm track was recorded first, followed by George Harrison's guitar and some extra percussion. John Scott recorded a tenor flute in the spaces in Lennon's vocal track and an additional alto flute part, an octave higher than the first, on the last available track of the four-track machine.\n\nIn the film \"Help!,\" at the opening of the song, the head of the cult, Clang (Leo McKern), appears from underneath a manhole cover in the middle of Ailsa Avenue, London, where parts of the film were shot. He stays there for the whole song, which the Beatles play in Lennon's quarters of the Beatles' shared flat. The flute part of the song is performed by George's in-house gardener (who also trims his grass carpet with chattery teeth). They are watched by Ahme (Eleanor Bron), and at the end of the song, Harrison passes out after Ahme produces a giant needle for Starr, who is wearing the ring the cult is seeking.\n\nIn a montage the first two takes (both broken down) are followed by a completed alternative version (Take 5), included on \"Anthology 2\". Lennon counts off the song then stops to readjust his guitar pickup (\"I'm just going to raise this so that it's nearer to the bass strings than the top string\"). This is followed by the sound of a glass shattering on the floor, prompting John to teasingly sing: \"Paul's broken a glass, broken a glass. Paul's broken a glass. A glass, a glass he's broke today\". (In the background, Ringo plays the snare drum with wire brush drumsticks, keeping time with John's cadence). John also addresses Paul as \"Macca,\" a nickname in England for someone who has \"Mc\" in their last name: \"Oh, you ready, Macca?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243560", "title": "Chiang Kuei", "text": "Chiang Kuei\n\nWang Lin-du (10 October 1908 – 17 December 1980), better known by his pen name Chiang Kuei, was a Chinese novelist active in Taiwan.\n\nChiang Kuei was born in mainland China. As a young man, he was influenced by the May Fourth Movement (1919) and joined the Kuomintang at age 18 in Guangzhou. He married at age 29, and attended college in Beijing. In 1937 he joined the Chinese army as an officer, and served for eight years in the war against Japan in the Northern campaign (Hebei, Henan, Anhui). His mother and adopted mother were both killed by the Communists in 1945. He moved to Taiwan with the Kuomintang in 1948.\n\nChiang Kuei wrote novels from the early 1950s to the late 1970s. His first and second novels are his best known works: \"The Whirlwind\" (written 1952, published 1959) and \"Rival Suns\" (1961). Both are anti-communist; the first portrays Chinese communism in a rural setting, and the second within a city (Wuhan).\n\nHis third major novel was \"The Green Sea and the Blue Sky: A Nocturne\" (1964). It received little comment. A number of novels followed. Chiang Kuei lived in great poverty, and these books were mainly written for the money.\n"}
{"id": "2243561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243561", "title": "List of islands of Massachusetts", "text": "List of islands of Massachusetts\n\nThe islands of Massachusetts range from barren, almost completely submerged rocks in Massachusetts Bay (e.g. Abbott Rock, first on the list below) to the large, famous and heavily visited Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket.\n\nThe recent history of Massachusetts' islands includes creation by flooding, connection to the mainland and subsumption into new land. Several islands existed as hills in western Worcester County and eastern Hampshire County until the 1930s, when the Swift River was dammed amid controversy to create the Quabbin Reservoir to meet demand for water in the Boston metropolitan area. Castle Island, Deer Island and Nut Island, all in Boston Harbor, have been attached to the mainland and remain islands in name only. Castle and Nut Islands now form the ends of peninsulas due to land reclamation, while Deer Island was attached to Winthrop Peninsula by the New England Hurricane of 1938. Governors Island and Apple Island now constitute the land underneath the runways and tarmacs of Logan International Airport and are included in this list despite their disappearance. Many of the Boston Harbor islands that are located under Logan's flight paths are part of the Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area.\n\nAlthough most of the islands are in or near the Atlantic Ocean, several islands in western Massachusetts are found in the Connecticut River and a few others are surrounded by natural or man made lakes, ponds and wetlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243562", "title": "Lists of Americans", "text": "Lists of Americans\n\nLists of Americans are lists of people from the United States. They are grouped by various criteria, including ethnicity, religion, state, city, occupation and educational affiliation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243563", "title": "James M. Mathews", "text": "James M. Mathews\n\nRev. James M. Mathews was the first Chancellor of New York University (NYU).\n\nIn December 1829, a group formed as the \"New York Athenaeum\" led by Albert Gallatin and Rev. James Mathews, and including representatives of the clergy, the commercial occupations, law, and medicine, met at the home of Reverend Matthews. Backers of a new college also included several disaffected Columbia University trustees and faculty. This gathering resulted in the call for a public meeting for the design and establishment of New York University. At the public meeting, held at the New York Historical Society in January 1830, Jonathan M. Wainwright of Grace Episcopal Church, echoing the thinking of the group, proposed a curriculum based on \"useful instruction\".\n\nRev. James M. Mathews was first Chancellor of New York University largely due to the confidence that Albert Gallatin had in him. New York University opened for instruction in Clinton Hall, opposite City Hall Park from Columbia College in a building secured through the assistance of Matthews. The building would only be NYU's home for a few years as Mathews looked uptown for a more suitable and permanent academic environment, more specifically bucolic Greenwich Village. \n\nRev. Mathews was also instrumental in the financial development, faculty and student growth and facility improvement of the university. He published a series of defenses of the Constitution and civil government as consistent with the Bible. In 1859 he delivered a baccalaureate address at the Virginia Military Institute.\n"}
{"id": "2243572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243572", "title": "Gmina Grunwald", "text": "Gmina Grunwald\n\nGmina Grunwald is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Ostróda County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland.\n\nGmina Grunwald is divided into 19 sołectwos. The villages with the largest population are Gierzwałd, which dates back to the 14th century, and Zybułtowo. Gierzwałd is the administrative seat of the gmina. Unusually the gmina is not named after the seat, but takes its name from the smaller village of Grunwald, because of the historical importance of the Battle of Grunwald of 1410.\n\nThe gmina covers an area of (agricultural land 72%, forest 18%), and as of 2006 its total population is 5,648.\n\nGmina Grunwald includes the villages and settlements of Dąbrowo, Domkowo, Dylewko, Dylewo, Frygnowo, Gierzwałd, Glądy, Góry Lubiańskie, Grabiczki, Grunwald, Jędrychowo, Kalwa, Kiersztanówko, Kiersztanowo, Kitnowo, Łącko, Lipowa Góra, Łodwigowo, Lubian, Lubianek, Marcinkowo, Mielno, Omin, Pacółtówko, Pacółtowo, Rychnowo, Rychnowska Wola, Rzepki, Stębark, Szczepankowo, Tymawa, Ulnowo, Wróble, Zapieka and Zybułtowo.\n\nGmina Grunwald is bordered by the gminas of Dąbrówno, Kozłowo, Olsztynek and Ostróda.\n\n\nIt contains several lakes, the largest of which are Jezioro Tymawskie, Jezioro Lubień, Jezioro Mielno, Jezioro Wielki Omin and Jezioro Mały Omin.\n\nNatural monuments and nature reserves:\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2243574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243574", "title": "Thermal Hall effect", "text": "Thermal Hall effect\n\nThe thermal Hall effect is the thermal analog of the Hall effect. Here, a thermal gradient is produced across a solid instead of an electric field. When a magnetic field is applied, an orthogonal temperature gradient develops.\n\nFor conductors, a significant portion of the thermal current is carried by the electrons. In particular, the Righi–Leduc effect describes the heat flow resulting from a perpendicular temperature gradient and vice versa, and the Maggi–Righi–Leduc effect describes changes in thermal conductivity when placing a conductor in a magnetic field.\n\nA thermal Hall effect has also been measured in a paramagnetic \"insulator\" and called the \"phonon Hall effect\". In this case, there are no charged currents in the solid, so the magnetic field cannot exert a Lorentz force. An analogous thermal Hall effect for neutral particles exists in polyatomic gases (known as the Senftleben–Beenakker effect).\n\nMeasurements of the thermal Hall conductivity are used to distinguish between the electronic and lattice contributions to thermal conductivity. These measurements are especially useful when studying superconductors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243578", "title": "Princess Cecilie of Greece and Denmark", "text": "Princess Cecilie of Greece and Denmark\n\nPrincess Cecilie of Greece and Denmark () (22 June 1911 – 16 November 1937) was the wife of Hereditary Grand Duke Georg Donatus of Hesse and third-eldest sister to Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.\n\nCecilie was the third child and daughter of Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark and Princess Alice of Battenberg. She was born on 22 June 1911 at the summer estate of the Greek Royal Family at Tatoi, fifteen kilometres north of Athens. Although her given name was Cecilie, she was known to her family as Cécile.\n\nCecilie was baptised at Tatoi on 2 July 1911. Her godparents were King George V of the United Kingdom, Grand Duke Ernst Louis of Hesse, Prince Nicholas of Greece and Duchess Vera of Württemberg.\n\nThrough her father, Cecilie was a grandchild of King George I of Greece and his wife Grand Duchess Olga Konstantinovna of Russia (a granddaughter of Tsar Nicholas I of Russia); through her mother, she was a great-great granddaughter of Queen Victoria.\nCecilie had three sisters: Margarita (wife of Prince Gottfried of Hohenlohe-Langenburg), Theodora (wife of Berthold, Margrave of Baden) and Sophie (wife firstly of Prince Christoph of Hesse and secondly of Prince Georg Wilhelm of Hanover). Her brother Philip, later Duke of Edinburgh, is the husband of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nIn 1922 Cecilie and her sisters were bridesmaids at the wedding of their maternal uncle Lord Louis Mountbatten (later Earl Mountbatten of Burma) to Edwina Ashley.\n\nOn 2 February 1931 at Darmstadt, Cecilie married Georg Donatus, Hereditary Grand Duke of Hesse and by Rhine, her maternal first cousin once removed. They had four children:\n\nOn 1 May 1937 Cecilie and her husband both joined the Nazi Party.\n\nIn October 1937, Cecilie's uncle Grand Duke Ernst Ludwig of Hesse died. A few weeks after the funeral, her brother-in-law Prince Ludwig was due to be married to Margaret Campbell Geddes in London.\n\nOn 16 November 1937, Georg Donatus, Cecilie, their two young sons and Georg's mother Grand Duchess Eleonore left Darmstadt for London, where they planned to attend the wedding. The aircraft in which they were travelling crashed in flames after hitting a factory chimney near Ostend, Belgium, killing all on board. At the time, Cecilie was eight months pregnant with her fourth child, and the remains of the baby were found in the wreckage. A Belgian enquiry concluded she had given birth mid-flight and the landing attempt was made in bad weather because of this.\n\nCecilie was buried with her husband and three of her children in Darmstadt at the Rosenhöhe, the traditional burial place of the Hesse family. Cecilie's daughter Johanna was adopted by Prince Ludwig and Princess Margaret. However, Johanna died two years later from meningitis and is buried with her parents and siblings. Cecilie was the first of Prince Andrew and Princess Alice's children to die.\n\nThe crash figures in the plot of \"A Matter of Honour\" by Jeffrey Archer, in which Grand Duke Georg has in his possession the jewels of his aunt, the last Tsaritsa of Russia, which the KGB are looking for. There is no evidence in reality that this was the case.\n\nShe is depicted in the Netflix series \"The Crown\" as Prince Philip's favourite sister. She appears in flashbacks in the second episode and the ninth episode of the second season portrayed by German actress Leonie Benesch.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2243580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243580", "title": "Forest Hills–71st Avenue station", "text": "Forest Hills–71st Avenue station\n\nForest Hills–71st Avenue (previously known as 71st–Continental Avenues) is an express station on the IND Queens Boulevard Line of the New York City Subway, located on Queens Boulevard at 71st (Continental) Avenue in Forest Hills, Queens. It is served by the and trains at all times, the <F> train during rush hours in the peak direction, the train at all times except late nights, the train on weekdays except late nights. It serves as the terminus for the latter two services.\n\nThe Queens Boulevard Line was one of the first lines built by the city-owned Independent Subway System (IND), and stretches between the IND Eighth Avenue Line in Manhattan and 179th Street and Hillside Avenue in Jamaica, Queens. The Queens Boulevard Line was in part financed by a Public Works Administration (PWA) loan and grant of $25 million. One of the proposed stations would have been located at 71st Avenue. During the late 1920s, in anticipation of the arrival of the subway, land was bought by developers and was built up. Zoning laws were changed to allow fifteen-story apartment buildings to be built, and made the neighborhood of Forest Hills a more desirable place to live, especially as it was an express stop. Queens Borough President George Harvey predicted that the introduction of the subway to Forest Hills would turn Queens Boulevard into the \"Park Avenue of Queens.\"\n\nOn December 31, 1936, the IND Queens Boulevard Line was extended by eight stops, and , from its previous terminus at Roosevelt Avenue to Union Turnpike, and the 71st Avenue station opened as part of this extension.\n\nThe station was proposed as a transfer station between the never-built Queens Super-Express Bypass as part of the 1968 Program for Action, which would have significantly expanded railway and subway service in the five boroughs. Under a 1984 plan, the new express station would have been one of three stops on the 63rd Street Line extension east of 21st Street–Queensbridge, the other two stops being at Northern Boulevard and Woodside. The bypass station would have had a mezzanine, two platform levels (an upper platform for Jamaica- and Southeast Queens-bound trains; a lower platform for Manhattan-bound trains), a new elevator entrance, and an expanded mezzanine, with escalators and stairs connecting the new platform levels to the existing platforms. The new station would have been built on the south side of Queens Boulevard, south of the existing station.\n\nIn 2014, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority built a new signal tower for the Manhattan-bound platform. The agency also upgraded the station to compliance with the 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act; the upgrade included passenger elevators to serve the street level, mezzanine and platforms. This project was completed by March 2014 after a three-month delay. However, a ribbon-cutting for the new elevators was not held until May 15, 2014.\n\nThe station has four tracks and two island platforms. It is the northern terminal for the local M and R trains, which stop on the outer tracks. To the east, the line widens to six tracks, with two tracks starting between the local and express tracks in each direction, then ramping down to a lower level, where they widen to four tracks and run under the 75th Avenue station to Jamaica Yard. F trains stop on the express track at all times, but switch to the local track to the east and continue on to Jamaica–179th Street. E trains stop on the express tracks at all times except late nights, when they make local stops along the Queens Boulevard Line. To the east, they continue on the express tracks (except evenings and weekends when they switch to the local track like the F) to Jamaica Center–Parsons/Archer, with limited rush-hour express service to 179th Street. This station has four punch boxes two at the eastern end and western end.\n\nBoth outer track walls have a lime green tile band with a black border and small \"71st AVE\" signs below them, in white lettering on black tiles. The station's columns are painted in lime green with signs reading \"71 - Forest Hills\", while older signs on the black columns between the express tracks read \"CONTINENTAL AVENUE - Forest Hills\" in black lettering on a white border.\n\nA signal tower and dispatchers' office is at the extreme western end of the southbound platform.\n\nThere are two fare control areas on the full width mezzanine above the platforms and tracks. The western section of the mezzanine is bounded on the west by the exit to the western side of 70th Road and the northern side of Queens Boulevard. There used to be a part-time booth at this location. On the east end, the fare control area is sided by a passageway out of fare control connecting the exits between 70th Road and 71st Avenue. There used to be a part-time booth at the northern section of the passageway. An elevator is located at the southern exit between 70th Road and 71st Avenue and makes the station ADA-accessible. The second fare control area is in between the aforementioned fare free passageway and the passageways connecting to the exits at 71st Avenue. At the eastern end of the mezzanine there is a staircase leading to Queens Boulevard between 71st Avenue and 71st Road on the northern side, and a staircase leading to the intersection of 71st Avenue and Queens Boulevard on the south side. There are seven staircases to each platform.\n\nOn the current MTA map and published timetables, the station name is \"Forest Hills–71st Avenue.\" In the past, \"Continental Avenue\" (the alternative name of 71st Avenue used in nearby Forest Hills Gardens) has been included in the name and is used on the rollsigns of older rolling stock such as the R32. , the platform signage reads 71–Continental Av–Forest Hills.\n\nNearby points of interest include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2243585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243585", "title": "Crozer Theological Seminary", "text": "Crozer Theological Seminary\n\nThe Crozer Theological Seminary was a multi-denominational religious institution located in Upland, Pennsylvania. The school succeeded a Normal School established at the site in 1858 by the wealthy textile manufacturer John Price Crozer. The Old Main building was used as a hospital during the American Civil War. The seminary served as an American Baptist Church school, training seminarians for the entry into the Baptist ministry from 1869 to 1970.\n\nMartin Luther King, Jr. was a student at Crozer Theological Seminary from 1948 to 1951 and graduated with a Bachelor of Divinity degree.\n\nIn 1970, the seminary merged with the Rochester Theological Seminary in Rochester, New York and the Old Main building was used as office space by Crozer Hospital (now part of the Crozer-Chester Medical Center.) The Old Main building is a three-story, \"F\"-shaped, stucco coated stone building with three pavilions connected by a corridor with flanking rooms. Each of the pavilions is topped by a gable roof and cupola, the largest cupola being on the central pavilion. The seminary's grounds are now the Crozer Arboretum.\n\nThe Old Main building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\nThe Seminary began as the Normal School of Upland, established and built by wealthy textile manufacturer John Price Crozer. After the outbreak of the American Civil War, the school was closed.\n\nCrozer allowed the Union army to use the building as a hospital during the Civil War. The hospital contained a thousand beds and accommodated 300 nurses, attendants and guards. The patients were almost exclusively Union soldiers except for after the battle of Gettysburg, in July 1863, when the number of wounded and sick Confederate army soldiers left on the battlefield required their acceptance at the hospital. During the war, more than 6,000 patients were treated. Many of the dead from the hospital were some of the first burials at nearby Chester Rural Cemetery.\n\nAfter the war, the building was repossessed by Crozer and subsequently sold to Colonel Theodore Hyatt for usage as the Pennsylvania Military Academy until 1868.\n\nAfter Crozer's death in 1866, his family converted the school to the Crozer Theological Seminary in his honor. His son recruited faculty for the new mission.\n\nIn 1970 the school moved to Rochester, New York, in a merger that formed the Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity School. The old seminary building was used as the former Crozer Hospital (now the Crozer-Chester Medical Center). The building is currently used as administrative offices for the Crozer-Chester Medical Center.\n\nThe multi-acre campus contains the Crozer Arboretum and the following buildings:\n\nPearl Hall is a serpentine stone library on the campus which opened on June 4, 1871. The building was sponsored by William Bucknell, the benefactor of Bucknell University, in memory of his late wife Margaret Crozer, the daughter of John Price Crozer. In addition to the $30,000 cost of the building, Bucknell also gave $25,000 for the cost of books and $10,000 for an endowment fund.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243594", "title": "1948–49 in Scottish football", "text": "1948–49 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1948–49 season was the 76th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 52nd season of the Scottish Football League. Rangers became the first team to win the Scottish domestic treble. Scottish League Division \"C\" was split into two regional sections. It would be 26 years before a set-up with three national divisions would be in place again.\nChampions: Rangers \nRelegated: Greenock Morton, Albion Rovers\n\nChampions: Raith Rovers, Stirling Albion\nRelegated: East Stirlingshire\n\nSource: RSSSF\n\n\nScotland were winners of the 1949 British Home Championship.\n\nKey:\n\n"}
{"id": "2243595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243595", "title": "Sati", "text": "Sati\n\nSati or SATI may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243596", "title": "The Beach Boys in Concert", "text": "The Beach Boys in Concert\n\nThe Beach Boys in Concert is the third live album released by the U.S. pop group The Beach Boys. It was released in late 1973. In the U.S. the live album was their first live album since \"Beach Boys Concert\" released nine years earlier. Their second, \"Live in London\", was released in the UK in 1970, but was not released in the U.S. until 1976. \nThe Beach Boys in Concert gave the band their best chart peak since 1967's \"Wild Honey\" by reaching number 25, and earning them their first gold record since 1966's \"Best of The Beach Boys\". The album is now available on a single-disc CD. \n\nThe cover art includes a rendition of Cyrus Dallin's 1908 statue \"Appeal to the Great Spirit\".\n\nCompiled from two separate U.S. concert tours in late 1972 and mid-1973, \"The Beach Boys In Concert\" was initially submitted to Reprise Records as a single live disc and was rejected, before expanding into a double album. Highlights include updated interpretations of \"Caroline, No\", \"You Still Believe in Me\", \"Heroes and Villains\", \"Don't Worry Baby\", and \"Surfer Girl\". Of the newer material, \"Marcella\", \"Sail On, Sailor\", \"Funky Pretty\", and \"The Trader\" are joined, among others, with \"Holland\" out-take \"We Got Love\", which makes its debut here on a Beach Boys album. \"The Beach Boys in Concert\" (Brother/Reprise 2RS 6484) hit No. 25 in the US during a chart stay of 24 weeks.\n\nThis is the only live album and the final album on which Blondie Chaplin and Ricky Fataar appeared as official members, as both departed the band's line-up in late 1973 and late 1974 respectively.\n\nPartial credits from Craig Slowinski.\n\n\n\nThe original version of \"The Beach Boys in Concert\" was a single disc set. The track lineup was as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243598", "title": "Isaac Ferris", "text": "Isaac Ferris\n\nIn 1820 Rev. Isaac Ferris (1798–1873) was appointed by the Board of Domestic Missions to labor in the Classis of Montgomery.\nLater, he was active at Market Street Dutch Reform Church in New York City. He served as the 3rd President of New York University from 1853 to 1870. During his tenure he brought financial stability to the university.\n"}
{"id": "2243611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243611", "title": "Letov Kbely", "text": "Letov Kbely\n\nLETOV is an aircraft company located in Prague - Letňany, Czech Republic. It is the oldest aircraft company in the region.\n\nLetov was founded in 1918 by the Czechoslovakian Ministry of Defense to repair World War I trophy planes. The first indigenous aircraft, the Letov Š-1, was designed and built in 1920, and some 50 aircraft types were built by 1939. During World War II the factory served as repair shop for the German Luftwaffe. Production lines were also set up during World War II for combat versions of the Ju 290 aircraft, commencing with the Ju 290 A-2, which carried a search radar for its patrol role. Since the 1950s, the plant has manufactured parts for the MiG-15, MiG-19 and MiG-21.\n\nOver 4,000 wings and empennages for L-29 Delfín, a jet trainer aircraft that became the standard jet trainer for the air forces Warsaw Pact nations in the 1960s, were built by Letov. The company has also built wings and empennages for 2500 L-39 Albatros trainer aircraft since the 1970s.\n\nFollowing the fall of socialism in Czechoslovakia in 1989, Letov failed to assert itself on the international market and in 2000 it was bought by French Groupe Latécoère. The company now manufactures parts for large passenger aircraft.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243617", "title": "Hot Coffee mod", "text": "Hot Coffee mod\n\nHot Coffee is a normally inaccessible minigame in the 2004 video game \"\", developed by Rockstar North. Public awareness of the existence of the minigame arrived with the release of the \"Hot Coffee\" mod, created for the Microsoft Windows port of \"GTA: San Andreas\" in 2005. This mod enables access to the minigame.\n\nThe minigame portrays animated sexual intercourse between the main character, Carl \"CJ\" Johnson, and his chosen in-game girlfriend. The name of the mod is derived from the girlfriend's offer for the main character to come into her home for \"coffee,\" a euphemism for sex.\n\nAlthough the \"Hot Coffee\" minigame was completely disabled and its existence was only highlighted after the mod's release for the PC version on June 9, 2005, the assets for the minigame were also discovered in both the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions of the game, and people found ways to enable the minigame via console video game hacking tools. By the middle of July 2005, the minigame's discovery attracted considerable controversy from lawmakers and some members of the public, prompting the game to be re-assessed with an \"Adults Only (AO)\" rating by the U.S. Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB), and refused classification in Australia, resulting in its removal from sale.\n\nAn updated version of \"San Andreas\" was later released with the minigame removed completely, allowing the game to regain its original rating. A patch for the original version of the game, Cold Coffee, was designed to counter edit the script and disable the minigame and crash the game if one attempts to access it.\n\nThroughout the game, Carl \"CJ\" Johnson, the game's protagonist, may date up to six girlfriends, carrying out various \"date missions\" in order to improve his relationship with a particular woman. Once CJ has become particularly close to a girlfriend, or if he has collected all oysters in the game, his girlfriend may end a successful date by inviting him into her house for \"coffee,\" from which CJ may choose to accept or decline. Improving relationships with girlfriends through successful dates and other related activities will eventually reward CJ with new items, such as vehicles and special wardrobes, along with pre-existing gameplay benefits (e.g. dating a nurse grants CJ with free visits to the hospital without losing his weapons after dying).\n\nIn the unmodified version of \"\", players see an exterior view of the girlfriend's house while hearing the muffled voices of CJ and his girlfriend engaging in sexual intercourse. However, the Hot Coffee mod replaces this with a minigame which allows the player to actually enter the girlfriend's bedroom and control Carl's actions during sex, with the same controls as dancing.\n\nRockstar Games, the publisher of the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series, initially denied allegations that the minigame was \"hidden\" in the video game, stating that the \"Hot Coffee\" modification (which they claim violated the game's End User License Agreement) is the result of \"hackers\" making \"significant technical modifications to and reverse engineering\" the game's code. However, this claim was undermined when a user known as \"gothi\" from the website PS2 Save Tools released the \"GTA:SA Censor Remover\" tool for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions in June 2005, which allowed the minigame to be accessed on consoles. These new methods of accessing the mod demonstrated that the controversial content was, indeed, built into the console versions as well.\n\nThe PC mod itself is only an edited copy of the main game script file (\"main.scm\") with a single bit changed. The mod was also made possible on the console versions by changing the bit inside a user's saved game file or by using a third-party modding device. Take-Two has stated that the mod constitutes a violation of the End User License Agreement, even though modification of the main.scm file is common within the mod community.\n\nHowever, the oral sex animations are clearly visible in the background during one scene of the mission \"Cleaning the Hood,\" even in the re-released game. This explains why the minigame was not simply removed when the decision was made to cut it from the game; its assets were already in use elsewhere.\n\nThe revelation of the minigame sparked a fair amount of controversy around \"Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas\", with some politicians firing harsh words at both the game's developer and the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB), the organization which establishes content ratings for video games in North America. It also rekindled the debate over the influence of video games in general with new protests against several other games such as \"Killer7\", \"The Sims 2\", and \"Bully\".\n\nJack Thompson was one of the first to criticize the game for its hidden content, believing violent media to be among the main causes of violent crime in America. Thompson lashed out against Rockstar Games on several occasions for previous games they have developed.\n\nU.S. Senator Hillary Clinton suggested that new regulations be put on video games sales. The ESRB conducted an investigation that ultimately changed the game's rating from Mature to Adults Only 18+. Also, Congress passed a resolution to have the Federal Trade Commission investigate whether Rockstar intentionally undermined the ESRB by having the content in the game.\n\nIn New York, a class action lawsuit was filed by Florence Cohen, an 85-year-old grandmother who purchased the game for her 14-year-old grandson (according to the old rating of \"M,\" the game is typically considered inappropriate for this age). Cohen's lawsuit claimed that Rockstar Games and Take-Two Interactive, the publisher of the game, are guilty of deception, false advertising, fraud and abuse. The accusation of deception is based on the change from M-rated to AO, meaning according to the lawsuit that the original rating was a deceptive practice.\n\nA protest group known as the Peaceoholics, led by activist Ronald Moten, organized a protest on August 4, 2005 at Rockstar's headquarters. The group demonstrated against \"San Andreas\" as well as the game \"Bully\", the latter due to fears that the content could inspire children to become bullies themselves. Ironically, Moten and Peaceoholics would later be accused of misusing grant funds several years later.\n\nOn July 8, 2005, the ESRB announced that it was aware of and opening an investigation into the circumstances surrounding 'Hot Coffee.' The investigation examined \"whether the mod unlocks preexisting code...or is actually a purely third-party creation.\"\n\nOn July 20, 2005, the ESRB announced that it was changing the rating of \"GTA:SA\" from \"Mature\" (M) to \"Adults Only\" (AO), making this the first and only \"Grand Theft Auto\" game to receive an AO Rating. Rockstar stated that it would discontinue manufacturing the current version of the game, and produce a new version that would not include the content that is unlocked by the Hot Coffee mod. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Rockstar released this \"clean\" version with the \"Hot Coffee\" scenes removed (\"Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas\" 1.01), allowing the rating of the game to be reverted to its original \"Mature\" rating.\n\nOn July 29, 2005, as a result of the newly discovered scenes, the Australian Office of Film and Literature Classification (OFLC) revoked the game's \"MA15+\" classification (the highest rating then available for computer games in Australia) and changed the game's rating to \"Refused Classification\" (RC), which officially banned the original version from being sold in the country. The patched version was given an \"MA15+\" classification on September 12, 2005.\n\nOn August 10, 2005, Rockstar Games officially released a patch for \"San Andreas\". The patch fixed many performance issues and bugs. However, the patch also disabled the controversial \"Hot Coffee\" scenes, even if the \"Hot Coffee\" mod was re-installed.\n\nThere was little reaction in Europe. The game was already rated \"18+\" by PEGI prior to the release of the mod. Furthermore, PEGI ratings are enforced by law in many European nations, making it a criminal offense to sell 18+ games to minors. In the United Kingdom, the BBFC similarly gave the game an \"18\" rating (as of 2012, the BBFC no longer classifies video games, and PEGI was adopted instead).\n\nThe day after the rating change, several North American chain stores, and IEMA retailers, which accounted for every major retailer in the United States and approximately 85% of the game's market in the country, removed the PC and console versions of the game from their store shelves, re-stickered the box with the new rating, or returned it to Take-Two Interactive. These included major chains such as GameStop, Sears, Hudson's Bay Company, Zellers, Hollywood Video, Blockbuster, Wal-Mart, Target, Best Buy, and Electronics Boutique. Rockstar gave some retailers ESRB \"Adults Only\" rating stickers to put on their copies of \"GTA:SA\", should they decide to keep selling the original product.\n\neBay removed copies of \"GTA:SA\" that had been reported by the eBay community. eBay claimed that \"GTA:SA\" violated the terms of the eBay seller policy and could not be sold unless it was located in the \"Everything Else > Mature Audiences\" section. This section requires a credit card to validate the age of the eBay user. \n\nOn August 24, 2005, Rockstar announced a mandatory recall for all games still owned by the general public. Consumers who had already purchased the game were allowed to keep it in certain areas, but with the patch installed, although players cannot be forced to return (or destroy) existing copies.\n\nVersion 2.0 of \"GTA:SA\", which omitted the sexual minigame content, was designed by Rockstar to crash if the game data files were modified. This made it necessary for players to use a previous version if they wished to install multiplayer game modifications such as \"San Andreas Multiplayer\" or \"Multi Theft Auto\" and other game modifications that include new scripts or vehicles. Certain pirated or illegally distributed versions of the original game may also be made available on the Internet or from illegal retail outlets. Downgraders are also available to unpatch and revert the game version and support the Hot Coffee minigame again.\n\nThis limitation later was overcome by two members of the unofficial \"Grand Theft Auto\" modding community, who discovered a method of creating modifications which would work with version 2.0. Users of version 2.0 might still need to use previous versions or use a downgrade in order to install a mod not created with the new method.\n\nIn December 2005, Senators Hillary Clinton, Joe Lieberman and Evan Bayh introduced the Family Entertainment Protection Act, which called for a federal mandate enforcement of the ESRB ratings system in order to protect children from inappropriate content.\n\nOn January 27, 2006, the city of Los Angeles filed a lawsuit against Take-Two Interactive, the game's publisher, accusing the company of failing to disclose the game's sexual content.\n\nOn June 8, 2006, Rockstar, Take-Two and the FTC settled. They are required to \"clearly and prominently disclose on product packaging and in any promotion or advertisement for electronic games, content relevant to the rating, unless that content had been disclosed sufficiently in prior submissions to the rating authority.\" Should the companies violate the settlement they are liable for $11,000 in civil penalties.\n\nIn 2006 attorneys brought several class actions alleging Take-Two committed consumer fraud. In December 2007, a settlement of the litigation was reached. In 2008, Ted Frank filed an objection to the settlement on the grounds that the settlement sought $1 million for attorneys' fees, but the total payout to class members was less than $27,000. A court hearing was already scheduled on June 25, 2008. Frank previously told GamePolitics that the lawsuits were meritless and extortionate.\n\nAs part of the settlement, Take-Two will pay a $873,000 cy-près award to the National Parent-Teacher Association and the ESRB.\n\nAs of June 25, 2008, fewer than 2,700 claimants responded to the settlement, for which the plaintiff's attorneys expressed disappointment. Frank expressed that this was further proof that the case had no merit.\n\nAs of September 1, 2009, Take Two agreed to settle a securities class action suit related to the controversy over the game and over backdating allegations for just over $20 million.\n\nThe Hot Coffee mod controversy occurred around the same time that Take-Two's leadership was undergoing investigation by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on charges of inside trading. The company had lost in 2006 as a combined result of these issues. A group of Take-Two shareholders worked together to arrange a buyout of a majority holding of the company, ousting the former leadership and naming Strauss Zelnick as the new CEO, who remains CEO of the company as of 2020.\n\nA user had recreated a similar Hot Coffee modification for Rockstar's \"Red Dead Redemption 2\" in February 2020; unlike the \"San Andreas\" version, the mod is based on reusing models and animation assets but does not reflect content wholly available in the game as distributed. The mod involves the game's protagonist, Arthur Morgan, engaging in sex with a prostitute though no nudity is shown. Take-Two had sent a cease and desist letter to the modder, claiming the mod violated the game's terms of use, but the modder argued that the mod \"doesn't enable anything that was previously hidden by the devs, and only uses animations/audio that are still used in the game\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2243623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243623", "title": "Lady Madonna", "text": "Lady Madonna\n\n\"Lady Madonna\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles, written by Paul McCartney and credited to Lennon–McCartney. In March 1968, it was released as a mono single, backed with \"The Inner Light\". The song was recorded on 3 and 6 February 1968 before the Beatles left for India, and its rhythm and blues-inspired style signalled a more conventional approach to writing and recording for the group following the psychedelic experimentation of the previous two years.\n\nThis single was the last release by the band on Parlophone in the United Kingdom, where it reached number 1 for the two weeks beginning 27 March, and Capitol Records in the United States, where it debuted at number 23 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for the week ending 23 March and reached number 4 from the week ending 20 April through the week ending 4 May. All subsequent releases, starting with \"Hey Jude\" in August 1968, were released on their own label, Apple Records, under EMI distribution, until the late 1970s, when Capitol and Parlophone re-released old material. The song's first album appearance in stereo was on the 1970 collection \"Hey Jude\".\n\nIn the description of musicologist Walter Everett, \"Lady Madonna\" is a \"raucous rock and roll\" song. As such, it heralded the Beatles' return to a more standard form of songwriting after their recent psychedelic productions, a back-to-basics approach that many other artists pursued throughout 1968. According to one of Paul McCartney's neighbours at his farm in Scotland, McCartney previewed the song on a piano during a visit he and Jane Asher made from London in early December 1967. Author Jonathan Gould views the timing as propitious, since the British music press in early 1968 \"[began] to tout the idea of a 'rock-and-roll revival' as a corrective to the excesses of psychedelia\".\nMcCartney based his piano part for the song on Humphrey Lyttelton's trad jazz rendition of \"Bad Penny Blues\", which was released on the Parlophone record label in 1956, soon after George Martin, the Beatles' producer, had taken over as head of the label.<ref name=\"Womack/CultureSonar\"></ref> McCartney recalled: \"'Lady Madonna' was me sitting down at the piano trying to write a bluesy boogie-woogie thing ... It reminded me of Fats Domino for some reason, so I started singing a Fats Domino impression. It took my other voice to a very odd place.\" Domino's 1956 hit \"Blue Monday\" conveys the plight of a working man through each day of the week, while \"Lady Madonna\" does the same from a female perspective.<ref name=\"Havers/uDiscover\"></ref>\n\nJohn Lennon helped write the lyrics, which give an account of an overworked, exhausted (possibly single) mother, facing a new problem each day of the week. McCartney explained the song by saying: \"'Lady Madonna' started off as the Virgin Mary, then it was a working-class woman, of which obviously there's millions in Liverpool. There are a lot of Catholics in Liverpool because of the Irish connection.\" The lyrics include each day of the week except Saturday, which McCartney only noticed many years later: \"I was writing the words out to learn it for an American TV show and I realised I missed out Saturday ... So I figured it must have been a real night out.\" McCartney said his inspiration for the song came after seeing a photograph in \"National Geographic\" magazine of a woman breastfeeding, titled \"Mountain Madonna\".\n\nSpeaking later about \"Lady Madonna\", Lennon said, \"Good piano lick, but the song never really went anywhere\", adding: \"Maybe I helped him on some of the lyrics, but I'm not proud of them either way.\" Author Howard Sounes identifies both a relevance to McCartney's Catholic upbringing, and an autobiographical quality that belies the song's upbeat melody and delivery. He writes: \"the lyric is also tender and personal, evoking the image of Mary McCartney as midwife, tending mothers and their babies in Liverpool as she had during Paul's childhood. The phrase 'Lady Madonna' also has a clear Christian meaning, of course, conflating Paul's memory of his mother with the Virgin Mary in what is a boogie-woogie hymn.\"\n\n\"Lady Madonna\" was chosen as the A-side of the Beatles' first single of 1968. The release was intended to cover their absence while they attended a Transcendental Meditation course in India under the guidance of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The song was selected over Lennon's \"Across the Universe\", which Lennon also withdrew from contention as the B-side, since he was dissatisfied with the musical arrangement. As a result, George Harrison gained his first Beatles B-side as a songwriter, with \"The Inner Light\", the backing track of which he had recorded with several Indian classical musicians in Bombay, in January.\nThe sessions for \"Lady Madonna\" took place on 3 and 6 February at EMI Studios (subsequently Abbey Road Studios) in London. Although the song was a return to the Beatles' musical roots, this aesthetic was not carried over to the band taping the basic track as an ensemble. McCartney first recorded his piano part, using EMI's \"Mrs Mills\" Steinway Vertegrand upright, accompanied by Ringo Starr playing a snare drum with brushes. Starr recalled that when recording the track the Beatles consulted Martin on how to re-create the sound that Lyttelton had achieved on \"Bad Penny Blues\". Harrison and Lennon added the song's distorted guitar riffs, playing identical lines through the same amplifier; McCartney overdubbed bass guitar and Starr added more drums, played on a full drum kit. McCartney sang his lead vocal in a style that author Ian MacDonald terms Presleyesque, while Lennon, McCartney and Harrison contributed backing vocals, part of which consisted of the singers imitating brass instruments over the song's instrumental break. Music journalist John Harris highlights the significance of McCartney's \"salute\" to Elvis Presley, who would make his comeback later in 1968 with a return to his formative, rock 'n' roll style. Harris also identifies the influence of the Mills Brothers, whose act included the four singers mimicking brass instruments, in the Beatles' \"scat harmonies\" on \"Lady Madonna\". Early mixes of the song indicate that Mellotron and tambourine were cut from the completed track, along with extraneous vocals and dialogue that reveal the band in high spirits during the sessions.\n\nThe overdubbing session for the four-piece horn section was held on 6 February. The tenor saxophone solo on the track was played by British jazz musician and club owner Ronnie Scott. Harry Klein, who played baritone saxophone on the track, recalled that the session was organised at the last minute, while Bill Povey, the second tenor saxophonist, said that no music had been written out for the musicians to follow and McCartney offered them only vague instructions. In his book \"Revolution in the Head\", MacDonald writes that Scott's \"audibly exasperated\" solo was prompted by McCartney's \"unprofessional\" failure to provide the players with a proper horn arrangement.\n\nTwo promotional films were made for \"Lady Madonna\", which were syndicated to television broadcasting companies. The material was shot on 11 February 1968 at EMI Studios and was distributed by NEMS Enterprises to US and UK TV stations. The films were directed by Tony Bramwell.\n\nAlthough the intention had been to show the Beatles miming to the single, the band decided they wanted to use the time to record a new song. The footage therefore consisted of the Beatles recording Lennon's \"Hey Bulldog\", which became the last of the four new songs they supplied United Artists for use in the \"Yellow Submarine\" animated film. Little attempt was made to marry up the footage of the Beatles' playing and singing with the audio of \"Lady Madonna\"; in the second of the two clips, Harrison is shown eating a plate of beans, while both clips show Starr listening to a playback and the Beatles playing alternative instruments from those heard on the song. The promos also included footage of McCartney at Chappell Studios in November 1967, from a session he produced for Cilla Black's single \"Step Inside Love\".\n\nA new edit of this footage, together with footage from the band's July 1968 rehearsals of \"Hey Jude\", was assembled for \"Lady Madonna\"'s segment in \"The Beatles Anthology\" in 1995. In 1999, the material was re-edited by Apple to create a new clip for \"Hey Bulldog\", to help promote the reissue of the \"Yellow Submarine\" film.\n\nIn Britain, Parlophone issued \"Lady Madonna\" backed by \"The Inner Light\" on 15 March 1968, with the catalogue number R 5675. The single was released three days later in the United States, as Capitol 2138. One of the promo clips was aired by the BBC on the 14 March edition of \"Top of the Pops\" and then on Alan Freeman's \"All Systems Freeman\" the following day, and in the US on ABC-TV's \"The Hollywood Palace\" on 30 March. In Everett's description, the single was \"at the forefront of a spring–summer 1968 rock-and-roll revival in the United Kingdom\", which included UK-exclusive reissues of singles by Gene Vincent, Carl Perkins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Buddy Holly and Little Richard.\n\nAmong contemporary reviews of the single, \"Billboard\" magazine described \"Lady Madonna\" as a \"powerful blues rocker\" while \"Cash Box\"s reviewer wrote: \"Take one step back, the Beatles ease their progressive pace with this knocking rhythm side that features Ringo Starr in a rare vocal showing with hard-rock and kazoo orking and lyrics that view working class hardship with a pinch of salt.\" Chris Welch of \"Melody Maker\" expressed doubts about the song, saying: \"Best bit is the piano intro, then you can have fun wondering why Paul['s singing] sounds like Ringo … then go out and buy another record.\" Welch concluded: \"I can't really see this being a hit, not when there's competition from the likes of Four Jacks and a Jill and Kay Starr.\" \"Time\" magazine recognised the Beatles as the leaders of an \"upsurge\" of renewed interest in 1950s rock 'n' roll and said that the band had re-engaged with the \"simple hard-driving style they left behind in Liverpool\". Author Bernard Gendron, paraphrasing a contention of the \"Time\" writers – who he says were ahead of the US rock press in recognising this trend – writes that by preceding the Rolling Stones' \"similarly retrospective 'Jumpin' Jack Flash'\", \"Lady Madonna\" was possibly \"the first single by an elite rock band to signal the 'return to roots'\".\n\n\"Lady Madonna\" topped the \"Record Retailer\" chart (subsequently adopted as the UK Singles Chart) for two weeks, although on the national chart compiled by \"Melody Maker\" it peaked at number 2. It was the first single by the Beatles not to make number 1 on \"Melody Maker\"s chart since the band's 1962 debut, \"Love Me Do\". In America, \"Lady Madonna\" peaked at number 4 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, making it the first Beatles single not to top that chart since \"Eleanor Rigby\" in 1966, and number 2 on the \"Cash Box\" Top 100. Ian MacDonald considers this relative lack of success to be significant, and he described the song as \"a moderately entertaining let-down after the psychedelic heights of early 1967\". In Jonathan Gould's opinion, the song is a \"witty, powerful, yet willfully inconsequential track\" with \"all the makings of a classic Beatle B-side\", whereas ideally the lead side of the single should have been a Lennon composition. Rob Sheffield of \"Rolling Stone\" considers that, at this stage in their career, \"the Beatles didn't need to push – they could have hit #1 with a tape of themselves blowing their noses\", which, he suggests, \"would have been catchier\" than \"Lady Madonna\" and the band's previous single, \"Hello, Goodbye\". Music critic Tim Riley has similarly dismissed the song as a \"trifle\" and \"something they could do with their left hand\".\n\nWriting in 1988, Beatles historian Mark Lewisohn described \"Lady Madonna\" as a \"terrific\" single that was \"curiously overlooked today by those analysing the group's output\". In his song review for AllMusic, Richie Unterberger attributes its standing as one of the band's less-celebrated singles partly to its failure to match the chart success usually associated with the Beatles, but he considers it an \"excellent song\". He adds that the lyrics, in their implication of the protagonist as a prostitute, are \"more intriguing than anything Fats Domino was likely to come up with\", while the Beatles' imitation of brass instruments was done \"effectively and wittily\".<ref name=\"Unterberger/AM\"></ref> Writing for \"Mojo\" in 2003, John Harris bemoaned that the song was overlooked as a key recording in the Beatles' development and \"one of the foundation stones\" for the late 1960s \"roots-rock revival\". He identified it as the precedent for the Rolling Stones' return to form on \"Beggars Banquet\", for Eric Clapton to exchange Cream's \"virtuoso head-rock\" for a musical path that resulted in the formation of Derek and the Dominos, and for Chuck Berry and Little Richard to assume \"the rarified pedestals where the British Invasion groups had originally placed them\". In 2010, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Lady Madonna\" at number 86 on its list of \"The 100 Greatest Beatles Songs\".\n\nThe Beatles' version of \"Lady Madonna\" has appeared on the following compilation albums, released by Apple Records: \"Hey Jude\" (1970), \"1967–1970\" (1973), \"20 Greatest Hits\" (1982), \"Past Masters, Volume Two\" (1988), \"Anthology 2\" (1996; takes 3 and 4 of the song), \"1\" (2000) and \"Love\" (2006). The mix used in the 1968 single had obscured much of Ronnie Scott's saxophone; the versions subsequently issued on \"Anthology 2\" and \"Love\" feature a more prominent use of his solo, at the end of the song. In the BBC documentary \"Timewatch\", McCartney explained that Scott had not been impressed that his playing had been hidden behind the \"imitation brass vocals\" performed by McCartney, Lennon and Harrison, so McCartney had decided to fix it with the most recent mix.\n\nA remixed version of \"Lady Madonna\" was featured in the Cirque du Soleil show \"Love\". In this form, the saxophone solo is played almost un-accompanied at the very beginning of the song. The drum intro to \"Why Don't We Do It in the Road?\" can be heard at the beginning and vocal percussion from \"Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da\" can be heard during the song. After the first two verses, it changes to the riff from \"Hey Bulldog\" in A minor, with a remixed version of Billy Preston's Hammond organ solo from \"I Want You (She's So Heavy)\" and parts of Eric Clapton's guitar solo from \"While My Guitar Gently Weeps\". It then returns to the original form of the song, and at the very end the final Ronnie Scott saxophone solo (not heard on the final master) is played.\n\nHaving been averse to performing compositions from the Beatles era following the band's break-up in 1970, McCartney included \"Lady Madonna\" in the set list for his and Wings' 1975–76 world tour. He continued to feature the song on many of his subsequent tours. Live versions appear on the albums \"Wings over America\", \"Paul Is Live\", \"Back in the U.S.\", \"Back in the World\" and \"Good Evening New York City\". A variation of the song can be heard on his \"Chaos and Creation at Abbey Road\" DVD, where McCartney calls it \"an old lady in new clothes\".\n\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243626", "title": "Bell, Book and Candle", "text": "Bell, Book and Candle\n\nBell, Book and Candle is a 1958 American Technicolor comedy-drama romance film directed by Richard Quine, based on the successful 1950 Broadway play by John Van Druten adapted by Daniel Taradash. It stars Kim Novak as a witch who casts a spell on her neighbor, played by James Stewart. The supporting cast features Jack Lemmon, Ernie Kovacs, Hermione Gingold, and Elsa Lanchester. The film is considered Stewart's final role as a romantic lead.\n\nIn the late 1950s, during the Christmas holiday season, Greenwich Village witch Gillian Holroyd, a free spirit with a penchant for going barefoot, is bored, a little depressed and dissatisfied with her routine life. Gillian seems to be curious about her new neighbor, a publisher named Shep Henderson, who lives above her rare African art store and ground floor apartment. When Shep arrives home and unlocks his door, he discovers Gillian's aunt, Queenie, in his living room rummaging through his desk. Queenie lives in the building and is also curious about the recently moved-in neighbor and studies his belongings to know more about him. She explains her intrusion by telling Shep that she came in to shut a window he left open because it was snowing outside. Perplexed how she got inside and annoyed to find Queenie in his apartment, he becomes terse with her and tells her he needs to make personal phone calls, strongly hinting for her to leave. Annoyed with his rudeness, Queenie puts a hex on the telephone and leaves the apartment. When Shep lifts the handset to make a call, he hears garbled voices on the other end. It becomes clear that Queenie possesses magical powers. Consequently, Shep shows up at Gillian's store and asks her if he could use her phone to report the troubled line.\n\nThat night at The Zodiac Club, Gillian, Queenie, and Gillian's warlock bongo-playing brother Nicky meet Shep and his fiancé Merle Kittridge who both drop in. Gillian recognizes Merle as an old college enemy of hers and torments her with encircling trumpet players. She learns that Shep is planning to marry her the next day so later that night back at her apartment, when Shep drops in by himself on his way home, Gillian takes revenge by using her Siamese cat and familiar, Pyewacket, to cast a love spell on Shep, who becomes immediately enamoured with Gillian. She will use him more as a pseudo boyfriend and close companion, as witches, according to the film's plot, cannot (or unusually rarely) fall in love.\n\nShep then is compelled the next morning, after staying up all night talking and canoodling Gillian out on the town, to visit Merle at her apartment to break up suddenly with her on the day of the marriage. She is left confused and astonished, with him saying that he doesn't love her anymore.\n\nSidney Redlitch, the author of the best-selling book \"Magic in Mexico,\" arrives in Shep's office (thanks to a little magic) after Gillian discovers Shep's interest in meeting him and publishing his next book. Redlitch is researching a book on witches in New York, and unknown to Gillian he acquires an \"inside\" collaborator in Gillian's brother Nicky when Nicky offers his inside knowledge on witches in exchange for a portion of the proceeds.\n\nGillian eventually realises that with Shep's total obsession for her and proposal of marriage, she must make a choice, as, in the film's plotline, witches who fall in love lose their supernatural powers. She discovers her brother is collaborating on the witches book and is furious, feeling that Shep (the publisher) will find out about her and her family through the book and will realise that his love was only the result of her spell.\n\nGillian uses her magic to make Shep lose all interest in publishing Nicky and Redlitch's book, making his reading of it a drudgery, him thinking the whole story is ridiculous and hopeless as a commercial proposition. Gillian comes to Shep's office and confesses her identity as a witch to Shep, feeling she needs to be honest with him. Still in love with her, he simply doesn't believe her story, but in a chance encounter on the street outside his apartment later with Queenie, she inadvertently confirms the version of events and Shep becomes angry, believing Gillian enchanted him just to spite Merle. Shep confronts Gillian and the two quarrel, with Shep leaving her heartbroken after he has confirmation that his infatuation was indeed a spell. Gillian threatens to cast various spells on Merle, such as making her fall in love with the first man who walks into her apartment plus give her uncontrollable compulsions to travel all over the world. Pyewacket however refuses to be involved in Gillian's attempts to cast a spell on Merle and runs away.\n\nMeanwhile, Shep, through the recommendation of Nicky, turns to another witch, Bianca De Pass, who can break the original spell by making a horrid looking and smelling potion in her ramshackle house and making him drink it whilst he is verbally taunted by her giant parrot. He does so in the hopes he can get back to his previous existence. He then visits Merle to explain that Gillian is a witch and his behaviour has been the result of her spell. Merle does not believe him and is not interested in any further friendship with him. He thinks Gillian may have cast a curse on Merle and warns her, unaware that Pyewacket ran away and no curse was cast.\n\nMonths later, with Gillian moping and realising that she had indeed fallen in love with Shep for real, she is too proud to confront him. Pyewacket turns up at Shep's office, climbing through his open window to find him too in an irritable mood, also unhappy about his life in general. Capturing Pyewacket in his wastepaper basket, he returns him to Gillian's store and discovers she has lost her magic powers because she can now cry (witches apparently cannot cry unless they are in love and have lost their powers).\nWe learn that Pyewacket is now Queenie's cat and it's implied she must have sent Pyewacket to Shep's office to help resolve the love-struck pair's situation. When Shep realizes Gillian's love is true, he too realizes he loves her for real and the two reconcile.\n\nDavid O. Selznick purchased the rights to Van Druten's play in 1953, planning to cast his wife, Jennifer Jones, in the part of Gil. At the urging of Daniel Taradash and Julian Blaustein, Columbia purchased the property from Selznick in 1956.\n\nTaradash, who had adapted \"From Here to Eternity\" (1953) for Columbia with great success, augmented the story slightly by incorporating characters who are only names in the play (notably Mrs. De Pass, and Shep's fiancée Merle) and expanding the action to locations beyond Gil's apartment.\n\nFor the lead roles, Taradash and Blaustein hoped to get Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer, who had starred in the play, but Columbia chief Harry Cohn decided on Kim Novak for the female lead. Novak was on loan to Paramount making \"Vertigo\" and the scheduling conflict put Harrison out of consideration as well. Taradash and Blaustein also suggested Cary Grant and Grace Kelly as the leads and Alexander Mackendrick to direct; Kelly got married, however, and there were creative differences between the studio and both Grant and Mackendrick. Since the arrangement with Paramount for Novak's appearance in \"Vertigo\" included reciprocity, Cohn advanced James Stewart for the role of Shep. \"Bell, Book and Candle\" is generally recognized as Stewart's final romantic leading role.\n\nEarly in 1957, producers also launched a somewhat promotional search for Siamese cats to play Pyewacket. According to one release, as many as 12 cats were needed to perform the number of stunts in the film.\n\nProduction began on February 3, 1958, and was completed on April 7.\n\nThe movie was scored by George Duning, another Columbia veteran who earned praise for his work on \"From Here to Eternity\". The main theme melds bongos and violins, evoking elements of the plot; heard during the opening credits, a few staves of \"Jingle Bells\" are incorporated to set the Christmas tone of the initial action. Each witch, including Pyewacket the cat, is identified by a musical signature. Duning used creative means such as recording sounds and replaying them at high speed to achieve an eerie background effect for the score.\n\nThe soundtrack was released in January 1959 by Colpix (CT-506). Most of the recording took place in Munich with Duning conducting the Graunke Symphony Orchestra. The segments featuring the Brothers Candoli, who appear in the film playing at the Zodiac Club, were recorded in Hollywood at Columbia; on these tracks, John Williams can be heard on piano.\n\nPhilippe Clay makes a cameo appearance in the film performing \"Le Noyé Assassiné\" at the Zodiac Club, but this performance is not included on the soundtrack album. However, Harkit Records in England (harkitrecords.com) have reissued the soundtrack album as HRKCD 8099 which does include the Phillippe Clay track.\n\nThe film was released on DVD on March 28, 2000. The DVD includes vintage advertising, talent files and the original theatrical trailer. It also includes audio and subtitle tracks for English and Spanish, bonus trailers, the open matte full-frame theatrical cut and a matted widescreen-only extended cut with four minutes of footage not seen in theaters. The theatrical cut of the film (102 minutes) is included on the DVD along with the extended version, which is 106 minutes long.\n\n\"Bell, Book and Candle\" was considered a \"blockbuster\" by Columbia and prior to its release it was promoted accordingly. Novak appeared with Pyewacket on the November 25 cover of \"Life\", along with a write-up that highlighted a tie-in with \"Life\" photographer Eliot Elisofon who was the color consultant on the film. There were favorable write-ups in other major magazines and a production number on \"The Steve Allen Show\" featured the theme music.\n\nOn November 11, 1958, the movie made its world premiere in Los Angeles at the Warner Beverly Theatre. It played an exclusive engagement there until its New York premiere on December 25.\n\n\"Bell, Book and Candle\" received Academy Award nominations in two categories: Best Art Direction (Cary Odell and Louis Diage); and Best Costume Design (Jean Louis). It also received a Golden Globes nomination for Best Motion Picture – Comedy.\n\n\"Bewitched\" creator Sol Saks admitted that he drew on \"Bell\" as well as the earlier witch-themed \"I Married a Witch\" (1942). Screenwriter Paul Wayne said: \"He was pretty honest about the fact it wasn't a particularly original idea.\"\n\nIn 1976, \"Bell, Book and Candle\" was pitched as a television sitcom fantasy series. A 30-minute pilot episode, starring Yvette Mimieux and Michael Murphy, aired on NBC on September 8, 1976. The supporting cast included: Doris Roberts (Aunt Enid), John Pleshette (Nicky Holroyd), Bridget Hanley (Lois), Susan Sullivan (Rosemary), Edward Andrews (Bishop Fairbarn), and Dori Whitaker (Melissa). The pilot was directed by Hy Averback and written by Richard DeRoy. Bruce Lansbury was the executive producer. The show was not picked up.\n\nIn 2006, The Walt Disney Company planned a remake of the film, with Alicia Keys scheduled to play Gillian Holroyd. The deal was organized by Disney studio executives Dick Cook and Nina Jacobson. Keys was going to produce it with her manager Jeff Robinson as the first project for their company Big Pita, Little Pita; Keys would have also been the musical supervisor and organized the soundtrack. Robinson had chosen Keys for the remake after watching the original film; she agreed to the project to avoid \"from falling into predictable roles\". She explained: “I never wanted to play myself, not in the first role or even the second. I want to do the unexpected.” Keys said that the remake would be more \"contemporary\" and \"really delve into the characters more\". According to Kurt Loder of Rotten Tomatoes, the remake was never made and Keys dropped out of the role.\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "2243643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243643", "title": "Howard Crosby (minister)", "text": "Howard Crosby (minister)\n\nHoward Crosby (27 February 1826 – 29 March 1891) was an American Presbyterian preacher, scholar and professor, great-grandson of Judge Joseph Crosby of Massachusetts and of Gen. William Floyd of New York, a signer of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, and the father of Ernest Howard Crosby, and a relative of Fanny Crosby. Crosby was also a descendant of Rip Van Dam and Matthias Nicoll.\n\nCrosby was born in New York City in 1826. He graduated in 1844 from New York University where he was one of the founding fathers of the Gamma Chapter of the Delta Phi fraternity, and became professor of Greek at NYU in 1851. In 1859, he was appointed professor of Greek at Rutgers College, New Brunswick, New Jersey, where two years later he was ordained pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of New Brunswick. From 1863 until his death he was pastor of Fourth Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York.\n\nFrom 1870 to 1881 Crosby was chancellor of New York University, then known as the University of the City of New York.\n\nHe was one of the American revisers of the English version of the New Testament. Crosby took a prominent part in politics. He urged to excise reform and opposed total abstinence. He was one of the founders and the first president of the New York Society for the Prevention of Crime, and pleaded for better management of Indian affairs and international copyright. Among his publications are \"The Lands of the Moslem\" (1851), Bible Companion (1870), Jesus: His Life and Works (1871), True Temperance Reform (1879), True Humanity of Christ (1880), and commentaries on the book of Joshua (1875), Nehemiah (1877) and the New Testament (1885).\n\nHe was also president of the American Philological Association and in 1871 gave a presidential address, excerpted in the Proceedings of the American Philological Association.\n\n\"Linguistics or philology may be considered either as a science or as a philosophy. Under the first aspect we may gain some idea of its extent by thinking of the vast number of languages which are to be investigated, not only those now spoken, but also many of which we have but the fossils. It touches here psychology and history, and enables us to know the unseen. A linguistic criticism is the source of all true commentary. By philology we can reconstruct prehistoric man, and read the history of times before the Olympiads and Nabonassar. Languages are never lost. By this science, the original unity of the human race is already nearly proved….Again philology as a philosophy speculates on the value of language to man, and its relations to his mind. These speculations are not to be confounded with the facts of the science….Every profound thinker has found himself fettered by language. Hence disputes and misunderstandings have arisen. Also in poetry, in devotion, in music, language is shown to be imperfect; it can never be made sufficient for the whole realm of thought. Man in his development, must have a nobler and fuller language than he has to-day. This may be in a new creation with spiritual bodies.\"\n\nThe President, in conclusion, referred to the field of American languages as especially open to the researches of the Association, suggesting its division into sections and the organization of local branches (Crosby 1871: 8, quotation marks in the original).\n\nFrom 1872 to 1880 Crosby was a member of the New Testament Company of the American Revision Committee.\n\nCrosby married Margaret Evertson Givan, a daughter of John Givan and Mary Ann Evertson, she a granddaughter of Jacob Evertson of Amenia, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243648", "title": "Jakob (band)", "text": "Jakob (band)\n\nJakob is a New Zealand post-rock band, based in the Hawkes Bay city of Napier. The band consists of guitarist Jeff Boyle, bassist Maurice Beckett, and drummer Jason Johnston. They have been compared to such bands as Mogwai, Sonic Youth, and High Dependency Unit, though they largely eschew any vocals or samples in their songs.\n\nThe band formed in July 1998, and began by opening for New Zealand bands Salmonella Dub and Pitch Black at the local pub O'Flaherty's. They toured extensively throughout 1999, releasing that same year a self-titled EP recorded with David Holmes at Napier's Venn Production Studios. The year 2000 brought a gig at The Event New Years party in Napier, and the 7\" single \"Erfo\", a limited release on the Crawlspace Records label.\n\nJakob returned to Venn Studios in March 2001 to record their debut album with engineer David Holmes (also known from the band \"Kerretta\"). \"Subsets of Sets\" was released April 2002 through New Zealand's Midium Records to good reviews and a nomination at the bNet independent music awards. Jakob continued touring with artists such as HDU and fellow Midium artists Avotor and Meterman, as well as playing at the 2002 Big Day Out.\n\nA period of inactivity followed, lasting between six and eight months. The band didn't play together during that time, and for two months didn't even see each other. They regrouped in January 2003 with ideas for new songs, and spent a week at The Church studio with David Holmes. This session was ultimately scrapped, but after more rehearsal final versions of the songs were recorded over two days in March. \"\", their second full-length album, was released in August 2003 and garnered Jakob another bNet nomination.\n\nInternational touring followed in 2004, to Chicago (where they played at studio radio station WXRT), Denmark, and the United Kingdom. They were well received at every venue, and released a 7\" single, \"Semaphore\", in Europe. Also that year, they released the one-track mini-album \"Dominion\", and played a 25-minute set at Radio New Zealand's Helen Young Studios (consisting of the songs Laburnum, Semaphore, Nice Day for an Earthquake, and Jimmy Hoffa).\n\n2005 saw more international touring by Jakob, with the band playing at South by Southwest in March, and Australia in September (in support of the release of \"\" there) and again in late October (with Australian band Cog). It also saw the release of their \"Diffusion\" 7\" and \"Coalescence\", a 12\" compilation from Midium Records, featuring a track by Jakob.\n\nJakob played concerts all through New Zealand in August 2006 as part of the A Low Hum tour, and released their third album \"Solace\" in September 2006.\n\nIn April 2008 Jakob toured Europe with Isis and The Austerity Program, and Australia with Cog. They also completed a US tour in the second half of 2008, once again with ISIS.\n\nDuring 2008 and 2009 members Jeff Boyle and Maurice Beckett worked on other projects. Maurice with his solo project Desbot, and Jeff with a project entitled Mean with H. Walker from Avotor and Kerretta. The debut Mean LP entitled \"Knowing\" was released in December 2012.\n\nIn March 2010, Jakob announced a four date April tour of NZ, heading in May and June to the US West Coast to support ISIS' tour once again.\n\nIn January 2011, they supported Tool on their Australian tour.\n\nOn 29 April 2013, it was announced via the band's Facebook page that they were to join Tool again as support act for their Vector Arena shows.\n\nIn October 2013, Jakob featured on the soundtrack for the surf documentary Waverider by Gareth Davies and RedYeti Films, directed by Karl Lear, winner of Best Picture (2013) in New Zealand and Best Picture (2014) in Hawaii. \n\nIn January 2015, they played at St Jerome's Laneway Festival in Auckland. They also went on to support Royal Blood at the Wellington Laneway sideshow.\n\n\n\n\n\nJakob have been nominated for a number of New Zealand awards:\n\nbNet Awards (Independent)\n\nJakob played live at the 2001 bNet Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243660", "title": "D.C. Cab", "text": "D.C. Cab\n\nD.C. Cab (also known as Street Fleet) is a 1983 American comedy film, starring Max Gail, Adam Baldwin, Mr. T, Charlie Barnett, Gary Busey, Marsha Warfield, and Whitman Mayo. The film was written and directed by Joel Schumacher with the story by Topper Carew & Schumacher.\n\nNaive but good natured young man Albert Hockenberry (Baldwin) arrives in Washington, D.C., with plans to work for his late father's army buddy Harold (Gail), owner of the run-down District of Columbia Cab company. Aware of the sorry state of his business and from the growing competition from the popular Emerald Cab Company, Harold wants to clean it up but doesn't have the financial means to do so. Complicating matters is the motley group of cab drivers that he has working for him. They all see driving as a dead-end job while they wait for better lives, until Albert inspires them to work as a team.\n\nA valuable violin is found in one of the cabs, earning Harold and his wife a $10,000 reward as owners of the cab. Harold wants to share the money with the drivers and let them invest in the cab company as partners. However, his greedy wife Myrna picks up the reward money and tosses Harold and Albert's belongings out of the house. The cabbies are not happy about losing their share of the reward, so Albert decides to donate $6,063 of his own money to the cab company and convinces the drivers to stay and make something of the company and themselves. The cabbies completely overhaul the entire business, and the revitalized company soon supplants Emerald Cab as the most popular in the city.\n\nLater on, the cabbies work together to rescue Albert and a diplomat's two children after they're kidnapped. The movie ends with a parade in D.C. Cab's honor.\n\n\"D.C. Cab\" grossed $16,134,627 in theatres.\n\n\"D.C. Cab\" received mixed reviews from film critics:\n\nCritic Roger Ebert gave the film two out of four stars saying, D.C. Cab' is not an entirely bad movie, [but] feels like a movie with a split personality.\" The kidnapping plot was praised for being \"fresh,\" while the stolen violin plot was described as \"paralyzingly boring.\" Overall, he described it as \"mindless, likable confusion.\" Critic Edward Sargent of \"The Washington Post\" writes in his review: \"Despite its shortcomings, \"D.C. Cab\" is an hour and 40 minutes' worth of finger-popping music and gags. But viewers should remember that this low-budget film features large doses of vulgarity meant to illicit several cheap laughs.\"\n\nCritic Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" wrote in her review: \"\"D.C. CAB\" is a musical mob scene, a raucous, crowded movie that's fun as long as it stays wildly busy, and a lot less interesting when it wastes time on plot or conversation. There's a lot of talent in the large cast, and Joel Schumacher, the director, generally keeps things bustling. Mr. Schumacher was once a costume designer, which helps explain why everything here is so wildly colorful, as the characters joke around in outfits that are traffic-stopping. The movie has just the sort of bouncy, frantic, dopey humor to please the young fans of Mr. T., who is one of its stars. However, the film makers have thrown in enough R-rated material to make \"D.C. Cab\" slightly out of reach for very young audiences.\"\n\nIan Buckwalter of the \"Washington City Paper\" wrote in his review: \"I'm not going to argue that \"D.C. Cab\" is a great movie, or even a good one. It wasn't a hit when it was released in December 1983, and it would probably be a stretch to even call it a cult favorite, since whatever cult exists around it is probably limited to Mr. T completists and a cadre of local film obsessives. [...] Still, by any rational measure, \"D.C. Cab\" is pretty terrible. The plot is standard '80s underdogs-strike-back fare, with the titular cab company, a gang of misfits and outcasts trying to avoid being shut down by a corrupt, power-hungry hack inspector who's in the pocket of the smug, satin jacket-wearing drivers of the Emerald Cab Company. It's basically \"Revenge of the Nerds\" with taxis. The script is ostensibly a comedy, but most of its humor is unintentional.\"\n\nIrene Cara performed the main title theme to the film. Gary Busey performed \"Why Baby Why\". The soundtrack was released in 1983.\n\n\"D.C. Cab\" was released in theatres on December 16, 1983. The film was released on DVD on March 1, 2005, by Universal Studios Home Entertainment. \"D.C. Cab\" was released on the digital distribution app store Google Play.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243680", "title": "The Last Temptation (Alice Cooper album)", "text": "The Last Temptation (Alice Cooper album)\n\nThe Last Temptation is the thirteenth solo studio album by rock singer Alice Cooper, released in July 1994 via Epic Records. It centers on a boy named Steven (also the name of the protagonist in Cooper's earlier work, \"Welcome to My Nightmare\"), and a mysterious showman. The showman, with apparent supernatural abilities, attempted with the use of twisted versions of morality plays to persuade Steven to join his traveling show, \"The Theater of the Real - The Grand-est Guignol!\", where he would \"never grow up\".\n\nThe full story was given in a three-part comic book written by Neil Gaiman, the first part of which accompanied the recording. In the comic, the showman (referred to only ever as such) was depicted as Cooper himself. Pages from the comic are seen in the \"Lost in America\" music video, while it is being read by Steven.\n\nIt was originally published by Marvel Comics and later reprinted by Dark Horse Comics, collected as trade paperback\n\nMusic videos were made for \"Lost in America\" and \"It's Me\". Both music videos are available for download from Sony/BMG.\n\nBarry Weber of allmusic.com wrote, \"By the time \"The Last Temptation\" was released in 1994, the hair band fad that had fueled Cooper's return was dead, and Cooper was obviously aware of its downfall – the album sounds almost nothing like its two predecessors (1989's \"Trash\" and 1991's \"Hey Stoopid\"). Far surpassing anything Cooper recorded in almost 20 years, \"The Last Temptation\" is unquestionably some of his best work.\"\n\nAlthough Epic did not finance a tour and Cooper consequently did not tour \"The Last Temptation\", four of the album’s songs – “It’s Me”, “Lost in America”, “Cleansed by Fire” and “Sideshow” – were incorporated into Cooper’s setlist from the time of his first appearance on the \"Monsters of Rock\" circuit in September 1995. Although “It’s Me” was dropped after four performances, the other three songs remained a regular part of setlists until the end of the \"Life and Crimes of Alice Cooper\" tour in 1999, and were joined by “Nothing’s Free” on the “School’s Out for Summer ‘97” tour. However, with the exception of “Lost in America”, which has remained a frequent part of setlists excluding the first three quarters of the 2012 to 2015 “Raise the Dead” tour, nothing from \"The Last Temptation\" has been performed live from 2000 onwards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243695", "title": "Propanamide", "text": "Propanamide\n\nPropanamide has the chemical formula CHCHC=O(NH). It is the amide of propanoic acid.\n\nThis organic compound is a mono-substituted amide. Organic compounds of the amide group can react in many different organic processes to form other useful compounds for synthesis.\n"}
{"id": "2243698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243698", "title": "Zlin Aircraft", "text": "Zlin Aircraft\n\nZlin Aircraft a.s. (former well known name Moravan Otrokovice) is a Czech aircraft company located at Otrokovice Airfield on the outskirts of Otrokovice, famous for the line of Z-26 TRENER and other small aircraft like crop-dusting Z-37 and aerobatics special Z-50.\n\nFounded in 1934 as Zlínská letecká společnost, a. s. (Zlin Aviation company), by Zlín-based company Bata, it started to produce glider and single engine aircraft trainers. Later production expanded to segments of sport and agriculture aircraft. Trainer Z-XII became the most popular type of the era.\n\nDuring the German occupation of Czechoslovakia, the factory was known as Zlínské letecké závody, a.s. (Zlin Aviation Works JSC). It produced German trainer types Klemm Kl 35, after the war known as C-1 in Czechoslovakia, and a low-wing Bücker Bü 181 which was later produced as Z-181 (military designation C-6).\n\nAfter WW II, the company was nationalised and used its official name Zlínské letecké závody, a.s. v národní správě (Zlín Aviation Works JSC under National Administration) and later on, it was incorporated to the Automobilové závody, národní podnik (Automotive Works, National Enterprise) as its Otrokovice Plant using its new trade name Zlínavion. In mid-Sept 1948, the factory became a part of newly established Let, národní podnik (seated in Prague) as its Plant No.7 in Otrokovice (nominally merged with Zlin and renamed to Gottwaldov on 1 January 1949).\n\nIn 1953 a new name Moravan, was adopted and marked the beginning of the most famous period for the company.\nSeries of Z-26 Trener were produced in the 1960s and 70s in large numbers for domestic civil and military use as well as export to both eastern and western customers. The type was one of the most popular for modern aerobatics competitions and it contributed to definition of high performance aerobatics specials. Other Zlin aircraft from the time are crop-dusting Z-37 Čmelák, Reliable all-metal trainers, two seat Z-42/142 and four seat Z-43 and a new aerobatics special Z-50 which was a next generation aerobatics type replacing the Z-26 series in competitions.\n\nThe state enterprise was transformed to a joint-stock company after the fall of the Communist regime. It continued in production of the Z-42 and Z-43 series but the sales were rapidly falling and the sales network became disorganized as the company organization did not adapt to the market changes from centrally organized eastern markets to the free competition. Also the aircraft design was outdated (mainly engines) and the company could not find customers for its specific advantages (reliability and simple maintenance). The company suffered financial problems in 2002, it was renamed Moravan-Aeroplanes a.s. and it continued production of upgraded variants of Z-242L and Z-143L with improved wing design and Lycoming engines. It also prepared the Z-143Lsi variant with fuel injection engine. However, the financial situation became even worse and the company declared bankruptcy in 2005. In December 2006, the company was taken over by CzechAircraft, s. r. o. owned by Irish QucomHaps Holding Ltd. represented by Billy Harkin and renamed Moravan Aviation s.r.o.\n\nThe production line has not changed and the backbone of the company activities were Z-143L and Z-242L, followed by the finally certified variant of Z-143LSi. The business was also extended with sub-deliveries to other aircraft factories in the Czech Republic like Aero Vodochody and LET Aircraft Industries. But the revival was short-lived and the famed company was closed due to long-term poor financial results and management in March 2010 .\n\nZLIN AIRCRAFT a.s. was founded in July 2009 with a goal to take over the production of the ZLIN aircraft. It bought all the rights to manufacture the current line of the Z-143L, Z-242L and Z-143Lsi as well as buildings, materials and personnel from the Moravan Aviation. The company possesses all necessary certificates issued either by EASA or by local State authorities and/or ministries. Another notable activity is maintenance and overhauls of the ZLIN aircraft which are still very popular.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243703", "title": "Public folklore", "text": "Public folklore\n\nPublic folklore is the term for the work done by folklorists in public settings in the United States and Canada outside of universities and colleges, such as arts councils, museums, folklife festivals, radio stations, etc. The term is actually short for \"\"public sector folklore\"\" and was first used by members of the American Folklore Society in the early 1970s. Archie Green is generally credited as the founder of the public folklore movement, although his work builds on that of Ben Botkin and Alan Lomax, going back as far as the 1930s. (They called their work \"applied folklore,\" a related but distinct paradigm.)\n\nThe birth of public folklore can be traced back to the creation of the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress in 1970, by an act of Congress, sponsored by Sen. Ralph Yarborough (D-TX) and written by Green and then-Senate aide Jim Hightower. Other national programs were later established at the Smithsonian Institution and the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), where prominent folklorists such as Ralph Rinzler, Alan Jabbour, and Bess Lomax Hawes worked. Funding programs were also established in the 1970s and 1980s in over 40 state arts councils, and these facilitated the eventual creation or funding of major non-profit centers for folklife documentation and presentation, such as City Lore and the Center for Traditional Music and Dance in New York, Texas Folklife Resources, Northwest Folklife, the Western Folklife Center, and the Philadelphia Folklore Project.\n\nPublic folklorists are engaged with the documentation, preservation, and presentation of traditional forms of folk arts, craft, folk music, and other genres of traditional folklife. In later years, public folklorists have also become involved in economic and community development projects.\n\nEach year, some 15 outstanding American folk artists and performers are awarded National Heritage Fellowships from the NEA for their lifetime achievement. Some more widely known awardees over the years have included John Lee Hooker, B.B. King, Clifton Chenier, Earl Scruggs, Michael Flatley, Shirley Caesar, Albertina Walker, Janette Carter, Koko Taylor, Brownie McGhee, Sonny Terry, Jean Ritchie, Sunnyland Slim, Lydia Mendoza, Boozoo Chavis, Zakir Hussain, Helen Cordero, Margaret Tafoya, Santiago Jiménez, Jr., John Cephas, Bois Sec Ardoin, Mick Moloney, Clarence Fountain & the Blind Boys, Esther Martinez, and the Dixie Hummingbirds.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution features the Smithsonian Folklife Festival every June and July which attracts upwards of two million people to hear live performances and view demonstrations of traditional crafts.\n\nPublic folklorists also work in \"folk arts in the schools\" programs, presenting master traditional artists to primary and secondary schools in demonstrations and residencies. They develop apprenticeship programs to foster the teaching of traditional arts by recognized masters. They also present traditional music on radio programs such as \"American Routes\" on Public Radio International. Occasionally they produce documentary films on aspects of traditional arts; Smithsonian folklorist Marjorie Hunt won an Academy Award for her 1984 short documentary film \"The Stone Carvers\" about the carvers at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243704", "title": "Mister Gone", "text": "Mister Gone\n\nMr. Gone is a fictional character in Sam Kieth and William Messner-Loebs' comic book series \"The Maxx\".\n\nMister Gone is introduced as a serial rapist of young women who has supernatural powers: He is telepathic, can assume other forms, and is effectively immortal. He can also enter and control \"the Outback,\" an alternate dimension that resembles prehistoric Australia. The Isz, the Outback's main predators, serve as his henchmen.\n\nHe discovers the Outback on a government-funded trip to Australia to study ancient aboriginal religions. There, he learns many forms of magic and uses the Outback to manipulate people.\n\nLater issues of the comic book reveal him to be a more complex character. His backstory establishes that he was sexually abused as a child, and victimized women as an adult to lash out at a world he felt had wronged him. He reconnects with his daughter Sarah during his crime spree, which brings up long-dormant feelings and the stirrings of a conscience. Years later, he undergoes a spiritual rebirth, and comes to feel remorse for his crimes. He spends the remainder of the series trying to find redemption.\n\nDuring his rape spree, Mister Gone makes several anonymous phone calls to Julie Winters, a freelance social worker, claiming to have committed his crimes for her. Julie hangs up on him every time, dismissing him as an obscene phone caller.\n\nIn issue #2, Mister Gone kidnaps Julie, ties her up, and begins to tell her about her past and her Outback. Before he can reveal anything, however, Julie overpowers and beheads him. While his corporeal form dies, however, his malignant spirit lives on in the Outback. From there, he communicates with Julie and two of her clients - The Maxx, a homeless man who believes himself to be a superhero, and Sarah James, a depressed teenager who goes to Julie for counseling. He torments them with vague, riddling clues about their pasts, leaving them with more questions than answers. Every time he resumes a physical shape, however, Julie destroys it.\n\nThe Isz eventually retrieve Mister Gone's severed head and bring it into the real world. Masquerading as a piece of magical clay, he manipulates Sarah into bringing his head into Julie's apartment, where he plans to return to life. He and the Isz hold a mortician hostage and force him to sew the head back onto the body, fastening it with a neck brace. He then manipulates a neighborhood boy into delivering to Sarah a mysterious series of audio tapes that reveal his true identity as her father, whom she believed had committed suicide years earlier.\n\nIssue #10 reveals that, as a child, Julie knew Mister Gone as \"Uncle Artie\", a friend of her father's. Only he knew that both Julie and her mother could see the Outback. Years later, Julie was attacked and raped by a hitch-hiker, a trauma that sent her into a deep depression. Weeks later, she accidentally struck a homeless man with her car. Mister Gone, who was watching from the Outback, unintentionally charged a random piece of trash with the energies of the Outback before Julie used the trash to cover up the body. As a result, the victim, a man named Dave, was granted the power to see and enter the dimension - thus becoming the Maxx.\n\nAfter finding Sarah, Mister Gone tries to help her find her spirit animal, a horse. When she learns of his true identity, however, she is horrified, and severs all ties between them.\n\nMister Gone goes underground with help from the Isz, occasionally communicating with Sarah and Julie telepathically. In issue #15, he transports his essence into a now-pregnant Julie's bathroom and reveals her true connection to the Maxx. Soon afterward, the Maxx discovers his true identity, sheds his heroic alter ego, and drifts away.\n\nIn issue #21, set in 2005, Sarah, now an adult, tracks Mister Gone down and contacts him so she can profit from a welfare program for adult children of living fathers. Now calling himself \"Artie\", he is married to a woman named Gaynor and works as a farmer. Sarah demands information from him about the events of 10 years before. He explains that he is trying to atone for his crimes, and asks Sarah for forgiveness. Sarah refuses to believe that he has changed, however, and says she wants nothing to do with him.\n\nThat night, Sarah dreams that the welfare program is a scam concocted by a group of CIA agents who intend to use her to apprehend Mr. Gone. In Sarah's dream, the CIA agents find and kill Mister Gone, and she does nothing to stop it. It is eventually revealed that, while the assassination attempt really happened, Mister Gone foiled it and planted the dream in Sarah's mind to see whether he could manipulate her.\n\nIn issue #26, Sarah listens to the tapes Mister Gone had given her years earlier, and learns about his life prior to the events depicted in the series. Born Artemus Pender, he was sexually abused as a child by his aunt and a male baby-sitter, and grew up to fear and hate women. His first wife was a drug addict who killed their son before dying of an overdose, and his second wife was an alcoholic whom he abused until she left him. His third wife, Tilly, tried to give him love and understanding, and bore him a daughter — Sarah. Eventually, however, his violent impulses returned, and he began having dreams of hurting his new family. When Tilly left him and took Sarah, he committed suicide. He was immediately returned to life, unharmed, thanks to his connection to the Outback. Soon afterward, he began raping young women as \"Mr. Gone\". After encountering his daughter, however, he began to feel remorse for his crimes. He sought redemption by making amends with his victims and becoming a counselor for victims of sexual abuse. He met his fourth wife, Gaynor, who accepted his past and reassured him that he was a good person, and worthy of love. After learning about her father's life, Sarah forgives and reconciles with him.\n\nIn issue #29, Mister Gone reunites Julie with her son and persuades Dave to become the Maxx once again in order to save Julie from Iago, a giant, murderous banana slug. He claims to have discovered a dimensional wormhole that will erase the events of 10 years before and give them all a chance at a fresh start. Sarah ventures into the wormhole, switching places with a giant Isz. Just as Mister Gone is about to enter the wormhole, however, the CIA agents — one of whom had been the boy he had manipulated years earlier — storm in and shoot him dead.\n\nMoments later, he is once again returned to life, and his physical and spiritual forms are sent to separate dimensions. His physical form is projected back into the real world as a college professor who befriends the alternate version of the Maxx, a janitor. His spiritual self, meanwhile, is projected into the Outback, where he lives happily ever after with Sarah.\n\nIn the MTV animated series based upon the first 11 issues of the comic book, Mr. Gone was voiced by Barry Stigler.\n"}
{"id": "2243707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243707", "title": "Butyramide", "text": "Butyramide\n\nButyramide is the amide of butyric acid. It has the molecular formula CHCONH. It is a white solid that freely soluble in water and ethanol, but slightly soluble in diethyl ether. At room temperature, butyramide is a crystalline solid and in contrast to butyric acid, it is devoid of unpleasant, rancid smell.\n\nButyramide can be synthesized by:\n\nSome of its derivatives have shown preliminary strong anticonvulsive activity and inhibitory action on histone deacetylases, crucial enzymes controlling the proliferative or differentiation status of most cells.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243709", "title": "Sir Winston Churchill High School", "text": "Sir Winston Churchill High School\n\nSir Winston Churchill High School is a senior high school in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It derives its name from Sir Winston Churchill, two-term prime minister of the United Kingdom. The high school is built in the Northwest community of Brentwood, and currently accommodates 2,150 students as of September 2016. The school offers the International Baccalaureate (IB) programme, various second languages, and numerous clubs and teams. It is consistently ranked one of the best public high schools in Alberta. \n\nChurchill is known for its many prestigious academic programs. It is the North West designated International Baccalaureate school. The vast majority of its graduates attend post-secondary institutions across the world. Churchill is considered one of Alberta's leading schools for academics, regularly placing highly in the city and the province and in national math competitions, poetry contests, and science competitions, including the Science Olympics.\n\nThe IB Diploma/Certificate programme begins in the middle of a student's grade 10 year with Math and/or Physics/Biology. Other IB courses begin during the grade 11 year and include Art, Chemistry, Computer Science, World History, English, French and Mandarin. This academic program is demanding but encourages students to be well-rounded individuals. During their grade 11 year, IB students taking, at least, one of the IB Group 4 subjects are required to complete a science fair style project, demonstrating their knowledge of the scientific concepts behind a topic of their choosing. During their grade 12 year, IB Diploma students will work on an involved, self-instructed and teacher-guided essay on a topic of their choice, known as the Extended Essay. Students taking History, regardless of Diploma or Certificate involvement also complete an Internal Assessment, similar to the Extended Essay.\n\nThe school's athletic teams competes and participates in the Calgary Zone of the Alberta Schools Athletic Association.\n\nVarious sports are played within school, and school teams of SWC are strong competitors among the Calgary Senior High schools. They have been crowned Overall Champions in Wrestling, Badminton, Basketball, Rugby, Swimming, Diving, Soccer, Field Hockey, Table Tennis, and Volleyball.\nThe School's Swimming, Basketball and Wrestling are the most distinguished among all.\n\nThe Junior Boys Volleyball team in 2000 won City Championship. The same group of athletes on the senior team in 2002 and 2003 also won the city championship. This is the only volleyball team in the city and province to win 3 years of city championships. In 2002 the volleyball team also won provincials under the coaching of Al Taylor.\nIn 2001 the Junior football team won city championships against their rivals who clobbered them in regular season 48-6.\n\nIn 2006, five different teams won awards in various divisional and city championships. Churchill fielded a Senior Boys Rugby team for the first time in many years. The team went undefeated in the regular season and took home the city championship for Div II Rugby with a 30-22 win over Queen Elizabeth High School.\n\nIn the 2007 to 2008 school year, the Bulldogs came out on top snatching many city titles. Among them include Junior Boys Soccer, Senior Boys Basketball, Senior Girls Basketball and Senior Girls Field Hockey.\n\nIn the 2008 to 2009 school year, the Bulldogs again came out on top snatching many city titles. Among them include Junior Boys Volleyball, Senior Boys Basketball, Girls Rugby and Girls Wrestling.\n\nContinuing the legacy of Sir Winston Churchill, Churchillians was crowned in many different sports during the school year of 2010-2011, including Junior Boys Volleyball, Girls Wrestling, Diving, Intermediate Boys Cross Country, Junior Boys Basketball, and Senior Boys Rugby.\n\nIn the 2012-2013 school year, Churchillians once again surpass its limits, and crowned in many sports, including Junior Boys Football, Senior Boys Volleyball, Senior Girls Basketball, both Junior and Senior Field Hockey and both Boys/Girls Wrestling\n\nIn the 2013-2014 school year, Sir Winston Churchill High School Swim Team won the City Championship while setting a new City record of 1082.17 points. The Sir Winston Churchill High School Dive Team also finished in second.\n\nIn 2014-2015 school year, Sir Winston Churchill High School Cross Country Team captured both Junior and Senior Boys Championship.\n\nIn the 2014-2015 school year, Sir Winston Churchill Swim Team once again captured first place in the Inter-School Swimming Competition.\n\nRecently, Sir Winston Churchill Swim Team has captured the Inter-School Swimming Competition Championship for a record of 6 consecutive years.\n\nSWC prides itself on its well-developed Theatre and Musical Theatre programs. Each year a large scale production is presented, giving any interested students a chance to show off their exceptional skills. As a final project in grade 12, students in both Performing Arts programs are given the opportunity to direct or stage-manage their own, student driven, 45-minute productions. Each production is presented in the evenings in the theatre, giving students and staff a chance to view them. Many Drama 30 students have been fortunate enough to have their pieces presented at the Calgary Drama Festival, and for the past several years, more than one student's production has been submitted for viewing, a rarity in the festival.\n\nOne of the main sources of pride for Sir Winston Churchill are the various Sir Winston Churchill bands, conducted by Judy Wishloff and David Graham is the band. Churchill's bands include the Concert Band, the Symphonic Band, the Blue Jazz Band, the Jazz Army Band, the Jazz Combo, the Choir, and the Percussion Ensemble. At the beginning of each year, students wishing to enter the school bands attend band auditions. The student's skills are judged and then placed in either the Concert or Symphonic band. Those of a high skill level are placed in the Symphonic band, while most tenth-grade and some eleventh-grade students are placed in the Concert Band. A small percentage of highly skilled grade ten students may find themselves placed in the Symphonic Band, which plays music at grade 5 through 6 music levels. With both the Concert and Symphonic bands, students must take corresponding courses in the school year. Those students who have schedule conflicts due to IB courses must attend IB-Band classes at lunch (these classes are not according to an IB curriculum, the name is simply because the students are in other IB courses, and do not have room in their timetable to attend the regular class).\n\nThe Blue-Jazz, Jazz-army, and Jazz Combo bands, as well as the Percussion Ensemble, are entirely volunteer-based as well. Students are allowed into Blue Jazz if they have exceptional skill at jazz music and play the appropriate instruments. Otherwise, they may choose to be part of the Jazz Army. Percussion Ensemble consists of percussion instruments, which include drums, xylophones, timpanis, vibraphones, pianos, maracas, and a variety of other percussion instruments. None of these groups have a corresponding in-school class that students have to attend.\n\nBoth the Concert and Symphonic Bands at Sir Winston Churchill are composed of woodwind, brass, low woodwind, low brass, and percussion instruments. The only string instrument in the band is the low string bass. The Jazz Army and Blue-Jazz bands also have an electric bass and sometimes an electric guitar. The jazz bands (usually) consist of brass instruments, whilst the Concert and Symphonic Bands are composed mainly of woodwind-type instruments.\n\nEach year, Sir Winston Churchill bands attend several competitions, including the Alberta inter-city competition, Alberta International Band Festival, and several other inter-province band festivals. All bands also go on an annual band trip, to spend a few days in another city, where they perform and record the annual Sir Winston Churchill CD (recorded by DarkMatter Productions). On the last evening of each trip, students attend a formal dinner with one another, followed by the awarding of section-leader awards, as well as the various medals of achievement earned by students.\n\nThe Symphonic and Concert Bands also perform at the Sir Winston Churchill Graduation ceremony. The Symphonic Band plays a piece that the students have chosen, whilst the concert band plays march-style pieces at the entrance and exit of the graduates.\n\nChurchill's Model United Nations team is one of the strongest in Western Canada. In 2014, the MUN team took home city championships as well as several national awards. In 2015, the MUN team claimed city championships once more, and in 2016, did the same. Also in 2016, the MUN team won first place at SSUNS in Montreal, first place at WAMUN, and first place at WCHSMUN. In the 2017-2018 school year, the MUN team won first place at SSUNS for the 3rd year in the row, won the Westmount Charter Model United Nations Conference for the 2nd year in a row, and came back from the NHSMUN conference with an award of merit. They also won the city championship for the 5th year in a row in February. One of its students also took home a best delegate award at the Harvard Model United Nations conference in January 2018. During the 2018-19 school year the team once again won Best Small Delegation at SSUNS for the fourth year in a row and also won the same award at its first performance at the Canadian High Schools Model UN Conference in Vancouver. The team also won various Best Delegations in Calgary conferences, won numerous awards at its first performance at the MUNUC conference in Chicago, and came 2nd at the city championships. Churchill has its own conference, SWCHSMUN, which is run by students. Registration is open to almost any high school student. In its most recent conference, Churchill hosted schools from across the province, and even brought in a school from Houston, Texas.\n\nChurchill also has two well-equipped weight rooms. Students can join the 'Fitness Club' and can purchase memberships for a small price, (now made free, if a small written fitness test is passed) and can work out in the morning, at lunch, and after school. The weight room offers a variety of equipment and well-trained teachers to help instruct students on proper techniques and help as spotters when needed.\n\nChurchill has been extremely successful in various scientific competitions, such as APEGA Science Olympics, SET Challenge, and Science Fair. As a competitor in the Calgary Youth Science Fair, Sir Winston Churchill High School has been awarded the BP High School Aggregate Award in 2016 and 2017, recognizing Churchill as the high school with the highest average marks between all participants. Many Churchill alumni have been selected to represent Alberta at the Canada-Wide Science Fair — where numerous individuals have received top honors. Notable examples of these alumni include \"Shi Haofeng\"; where he has received extensive national media coverage for his research.\n\nChurchill hosts an annual debate tournament sponsored by the Calgary Churchill Society.\nChurchill's International FRC team was started in 2013, and came to an end after the closure of the 2015 FRC season.\n\n-In 2014, Churchill's Robotics Team (FRC Team 4719) won the 2014 FRC Western Canada Regional Competition and advanced to the 2014 FRC World Championship.\n\n-In the following year, Churchill's robotics team seeded first and won the 2015 Western Canada Regional again, winning a coveted spot to the 2015 FRC World Championship, and the Quality Award.\n\nSir Winston Churchill High School is also the home of some of the best VEX robotics teams in the province.\n\n- In 2015 and 2016, Sir Winston Churchill teams 3388 Foobar and 3388T TurboTech won the VEX robotics Alberta Provincial Championship \"\"Skyrise\"\" and \"\"Nothing But Net\"\" and competed in VEX World robotics Championship.\n\n- In 2017, Churchill's team 3388B Bulldog and 3388T TurboTech competed in the VEX Provincial Championship \"\"Starstruck\"\" and finished 3rd and 7th respectively for qualification and 2nd and 3rd respectively for skills challenge. And they went on to represent Canada to compete in VEX World robotics championship. Team 3388B bulldog later became the highest ranked Albertan team in the VEX World Robotics Championship \"\"Starstruck\"\" in April 2017.\n\n- In 2018, Churchill's team 3388X \"Madeline\" was Tournament Champion in the VEX Alberta Provincial Championship \"\"In The Zone\"\". They qualified for and will be representing Canada in the VEX World Robotics Championship in April in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243715", "title": "Starr's Mill High School", "text": "Starr's Mill High School\n\nStarr's Mill High School is a public high school located in Fayetteville, Georgia. The school is governed by the Fayette County Board of Education.\n\nThe school also serves southern Peachtree City and parts of unincorporated Fayette County.\n\nThe Fayette County Board of Education commissioned Starr's Mill High School alongside Peeples Elementary School and Rising Starr Middle School in response to rapid population growth in southern Peachtree City. Before its permanent building was constructed, students attended the LaFayette Education Center in Fayetteville until the start of the 97-1998 school year. The school is named after a grist mill located a mile southeast of the campus.\n\nStarr's Mill High School opened in 1997-1998 with 40 teachers and 650 students. Its current enrollment is 1,493 students, and it employs 88 teachers.\n\n5% of Starr's Mill minority students participate in the ESOL Program. Most SMHS students reside in Fayetteville and Peachtree City.\n\nStarr's Mill is one of only three high schools in Georgia to be declared a School of Excellence in 2005, and it has been ranked as one of the best school public schools in America by \"Newsweek\" magazine.\n\nThe 2010 SAT average at Starr's Mill was 1632 (out of 2400).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243718", "title": "Jill Krementz", "text": "Jill Krementz\n\nJill Krementz (born February 19, 1940) is a well known American photographer and author. She has published 31 books, mostly of photography and children's books.\n\nKrementz grew up in Morristown, New Jersey, and moved to New York City in her late teens. In 1961 she received a Nikon camera as a twenty-first birthday present, and continued to build a career as a photographer and photojournalist. In the 1960s she worked as a photographer for the New York Herald-Tribune. Her color photography of the \"March on the Pentagon\" was featured on the cover of \"The New York Times Magazine\". In 1965, she spent a year taking photographs in Vietnam during the Vietnam War. Her photojournalist works have appeared in the New York Observer.\n\nKrementz later specialized in photographing writers. A major profile of her - written by Dorothy Gelatt - was published in the Spring 1975 issue of \"35mm Photography\" (Ziff-Davis Publishing Company). According to the article, Krementz decided in 1970 to \"...fill the author picture vacuum...\". Working only with the aid of a secretary she built and ran a large library of photographs of authors. Most of her photographs at that time were in black and white. The article described her as working with a minimum of photographic equipment (two 35mm camera bodies and three lenses) and having her prints made by Erika Leone at the Meridian photographic laboratory. At the time the article was written, \"...the Krementz stock list of authors totalled roughly 542...\". Four years later, her count was over 800.\n\nKrementz's photographs were exhibited at Nikon House Gallery in New York the mid-1970s. In 1980 her book \"The Writer's Image\" (David R. Godine, Boston) was published, featuring black-and-white photographs, with a preface written by Kurt Vonnegut, and an introduction by Trudy Butner Krisher. In 1984 Krementz was awarded the Washington Post/Children’s Book Guild Nonfiction Award for “creatively produced books, works that make a difference.”\n\nIn 2004, a major exhibition of her work was held at the Mark Twain House and Museum in Hartford, Connecticut. \"Writers Unbound\" featured warm, intimate portraits of authors in their homes and at their desks. Krementz is the widow of author Kurt Vonnegut and has one daughter, Lily.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243719", "title": "José Fernando Ramírez", "text": "José Fernando Ramírez\n\nJosé Fernando Ramírez (May 5, 1804 – March 4, 1871) was a distinguished Mexican historian in the 19th century. He was a mentor of Alfredo Chavero, who considered him \"the foremost of our historians.\"\n\nRamírez was born in Parral, Chihuahua but grew up in Durango, where he became a prominent liberal politician. After graduating with a degree in law from San Luis Gonzaga he was elected several times to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. He chaired the Ministry of Foreign affairs under three different administrations and became a minister in the Supreme Court of Justice.\n\nRamírez specialized in prehispanic and sixteenth-century Mexican history and excelled as a biographer. He headed the Imperial Academy of Sciences and Literature during the Second Mexican Empire, directed the National Museum (1852) and built an impressive collection of historical documents. Among his works are one on Toribio de Benavente Motolinia and several translations of Aztec codices such as \"Mapa Quinatzin\" and \"Codex Aubin\". He was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1862. A bibliography of his writings on Mesoamerican ethnhistory appears in the \"Handbook of Middle American Indians\".\n\nHe died in Bonn, Germany on March 4, 1871.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243721", "title": "Kabiri", "text": "Kabiri\n\nKabiri may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243727", "title": "Ralph Erskine (architect)", "text": "Ralph Erskine (architect)\n\nRalph Erskine ARIBA (24 February 1914 – 16 March 2005) was a British architect and planner who lived and worked in Sweden for most of his life.\n\nErskine was born in London in 1914, and spent his childhood in Mill Hill in Barnet. His parents were socialists, adherents of the Fabian Society, which promoted the idea of the evolution of Britain into a socialist state.\n\nHis Scottish grandfather was a Presbyterian free church minister, a descendant of the ministers Ralph Erskine and Ebenezer Erskine, but his parents sent him to the Friends School Saffron Walden (1925–1931), a Quaker school, probably because of their socialist beliefs. There, he became committed to the Quaker ideals, which laid the foundation for his views on society, man's place in it, and on architecture.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Erskine studied architecture for five years at the Regent Street Polytechnic, London under the direction of Thornton White. At the time, White's curriculum required the study of classical architecture before students were free to follow their own ideas. One of his fellow students was Gordon Cullen who would become a well-known architectural illustrator, urban designer and theorist. Cullen advocated the improvement of urban settlements through an understanding and analysis of their picturesque qualities. This approach was profoundly influential on Erskine, who insisted in his work that the context and landscaping of his buildings be carefully integrated.\n\nAfter qualifying as an architect Erskine began work with the design team for Welwyn Garden City under the leadership of Louis de Soissons. He studied town planning and this interest broadened his approach to architecture, in particular about how buildings related physically and socially to their setting. In 1936 he became an associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects.\n\nBefore the outbreak of World War II, Erskine travelled to Sweden. He was attracted there partly by his admiration for the work of the Functionalist Swedish architects Gunnar Asplund, Sven Markelius and Sigurd Lewerentz and partly by the country's adoption of the social welfare model. In Sweden the political will was reflected in the national architecture and these two factors coincided with his own humanist beliefs. He would go on to make an important contribution to the architectural landscape of both his adopted country and to that of England.\n\nIn Sweden, England and Canada, he was responsible for the design of numerous innovative buildings reflecting his particular ideology. They include:\n\nErskine was best known in Great Britain for his Byker Wall housing scheme in Newcastle upon Tyne and, The London Ark, a commercial project in Hammersmith, London. However, it was his achievement in designing the winning scheme in a 1997 competition to develop the Millennium Community at Greenwich (Greenwich Millennium Village), London that brought his work to widespread attention of his compatriot Britons. This recognition came late in a productive, long and important career.\n\nOn his death in 2005, Councillor Peter Arnold, leader of Newcastle City Council said of Erskine that he \"was one of the twentieth century's greatest architects and in Newcastle's Byker estate he gave the city one of Europe's finest post Second World War new housing communities. His approach was so different from everything happening around that time as he put the focus on social regeneration and the interests of local people, rather than just bricks and mortar. He built Byker Wall Estate around the community. Local people were fully involved in the design and rather than clearing properties and moving people elsewhere, the community was able to remain together.”\n\nRalph Erskine founded his own company in Sweden in 1939. In 2000 he invited his long-time collaborator Johannes Tovatt into a partnership, naming the company Erskine Tovatt Arkitekter AB. It was Erskine's will that on his death his name be removed from the company. Therefore, his legacy lives on in the company called Tovatt Architects and Planners in Drottningholm outside Stockholm.\n\nErskine also received an Honorary Doctorate from Heriot-Watt University in 1982 \n\nIn 1984, with his wife he established the Ruth and Ralph Erskine Nordic Foundation, endowed by proceeds from the Wolf Prize in Arts, which he was awarded that year. Beginning in 1988, the foundation has awarded a bi-annual prize of US$10,000 and a medal designed by Ralph Erskine, for any person, group or organisation that \"has contributed to the construction of buildings or community structures of innovative social, ecological and aesthetic character. The contribution must respect functional and economical aspects, and be to the advantage of the less privileged\".\n\nErskine wrote the preface to the English translation of Jan Gehl's influential book \"Life Between Buildings\", published in 1986. In 1987 he was awarded the RIBA Royal Gold Medal.\n\nNational Life Stories conducted an oral history interview (C467/8) with Ralph Erskine in 1997 for its Architects Lives' collection held by the British Library.\n\nHe met his wife Ruth at the Quaker school in Saffron Walden in the early 1930s. They were married in Stockholm in 1939 and had four children. Ruth died in 1988. He is survived by his children: Jane Kristina, Karin Elizabeth, Patrick Jon and Suzanne.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243738", "title": "Jeff Branson", "text": "Jeff Branson\n\nJeffrey Dale Branson (born March 10, 1977) is an American actor. He is known for his role as Ronan Malloy on \"The Young and the Restless\", Jonathan Lavery on \"All My Children\", and Shayne Lewis on \"Guiding Light\".\n\nBranson originated the role of Jonathan Lavery on the ABC soap opera \"All My Children\" on June 15, 2004. Although he was off the air from mid-April until August 2005 while his character was believed dead in an explosion, Branson remained on contract the entire time. Branson's last appearance on \"All My Children\" aired on December 18, 2007.\n\nBranson's work prior to \"All My Children\" included a 2000 guest spot on NBC's \"\". He had a small part that year in the film \"Shaft\" and in 2002 he was in the feature film \"Wolves of Wall Street\".\n\nIn 2003, he played the role of a younger Alan Spaulding on \"Guiding Light\"; coincidentally also played Shayne Lewis on \"Guiding Light\" up until the last episode of the show, 18 September 2009.\n\nIn 2005, Branson received a Daytime Emmy Award nomination in the category of Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for his work on \"All My Children\" as Jonathan Lavery. In 2009, he received his second Daytime Emmy Award nomination for his portrayal of Shayne Lewis on \"Guiding Light\". He won this award, tied with Vincent Irizarry from All My Children.\n\nIn June 2010, Branson began work on \"The Young and the Restless\" in the role of \nRonan Malloy. Ronan is Nina Webster's long-lost son that was stolen as a baby and put up for adoption. He plays an undercover FBI agent on a mission to bust corrupt cops in Genoa City involved in a drug ring. He left the show from February to August 2011. On June 26, 2012, he arrived back in Genoa City because of Victor Newman. In 2012 Branson won the Dankies Award for outstanding supporting actor for his role as Ronan Malloy.\n\nBranson played the character of \"Johnny\" in the 2010 film \"I Spit on Your Grave\", a remake of a 1978 revenge film.\n\nHis television appearances outside of daytime drama include episodes of \"NCIS\", \"\", \"The Mentalist\", \"\", and \"Supernatural\".\n\nHe appears in Supergirl\" season one as Master Jailer.\n\nBranson appears as Neil Armstrong in the Apple TV+ series For All Mankind.\n"}
{"id": "2243757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243757", "title": "Elmer Ellsworth Brown", "text": "Elmer Ellsworth Brown\n\nElmer Ellsworth Brown (1861–1934) was an American educator. Born at Kiantone in Chautauqua County, New York, he studied at New York University (NYU), graduated from Illinois State Normal University in 1881 and at the University of Michigan (A.B., 1889); then he studied in Germany and received a Ph.D. from the University of Halle in 1890.\n\nHe was principal of public schools in Belvidere, Illinois, in 1881-84, assistant state secretary of the YMCA of Illinois (1884–87), and principal of the high school at Jackson, Michigan, in 1890–91. He taught education at the University of Michigan (1891–93) and at the University of California, Berkeley (1893–1906). After directing the reorganization of the Bureau of Education as U.S. Commissioner of Education (1906–11), he became chancellor of New York University, where he founded NYU Press in 1916 \"to publish contributions to higher learning by eminent scholars.\"\n\nHe was made fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and vice president of the education section in 1907. He led the Andiron Club from 1916 to 1922 and was associated with the Eucleian Society. Brown retired from NYU in 1933 and died in 1934 in New York.\n\nHis works include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243761", "title": "Maltitol", "text": "Maltitol\n\nMaltitol is a sugar alcohol (a polyol) used as a sugar substitute. It has 75–90% of the sweetness of sucrose (table sugar) and nearly identical properties, except for browning. It is used to replace table sugar because it is half as energetic, does not promote tooth decay, and has a somewhat lesser effect on blood glucose. In chemical terms, maltitol is known as 4-\"O\"-α-glucopyranosyl--sorbitol. It is used in commercial products under trade names such as Lesys, Maltisweet and SweetPearl.\n\nMaltitol is a disaccharide produced by hydrogenation of maltose obtained from starch. Maltitol syrup, a hydrogenated starch hydrolysate, is created by hydrogenating corn syrup, a mixture of carbohydrates produced from the hydrolysis of starch. This product contains between 50% and 80% maltitol by weight. The remainder is mostly sorbitol, with a small quantity of other sugar-related substances.\n\nMaltitol's high sweetness allows it to be used without being mixed with other sweeteners. It exhibits a negligible cooling effect (positive heat of solution) in comparison with other sugar alcohols, and is very similar to the subtle cooling effect of sucrose.\nIt is used in candy manufacture, particularly sugar-free hard candy, chewing gum, chocolates, baked goods, and ice cream. The pharmaceutical industry uses maltitol as an excipient, where it is used as a low-calorie sweetening agent. Its similarity to sucrose allows it to be used in syrups with the advantage that crystallization (which may cause bottle caps to stick) is less likely. Maltitol may also be used as a plasticizer in gelatin capsules, as an emollient, and as a humectant.\n\nMaltitol provides between 2 and 3 kcal/g. Maltitol is largely unaffected by human digestive enzymes and is fermented by bacteria in the large intestine, with about 15% of the ingested maltitol appearing unchanged in the feces.\n\nMaltitol in its crystallized form measures the same (bulk) as table sugar and browns and caramelizes in a manner very similar to that of sucrose after liquifying by exposure to intense heat. The crystallized form is readily dissolved in warm liquids (120 °F / 48.9 °C and above); the powdered form is preferred if room-temperature or cold liquids are used. Due to its sucrose-like structure, maltitol is easy to produce and made commercially available in crystallized, powdered, and syrup forms.\n\nIt is not metabolized by oral bacteria, so it does not promote tooth decay. It is somewhat more slowly absorbed than sucrose, which makes it somewhat more suitable for people with diabetes than sucrose. Its food energy value is 2.1 kcal/g (8.8 kJ/g); (sucrose is 3.9 kcal/g (16.2 kJ/g)).\n\nLike other sugar alcohols (with the possible exception of erythritol), maltitol has a laxative effect, typically causing diarrhea at a daily consumption above about 90 g. Doses of about 40 g may cause mild borborygmus and flatulence.\n\nIn the European Union and countries such as Australia, Canada, Norway, Mexico and New Zealand, maltitol carries a mandatory warning such as \"Excessive consumption may have a laxative effect.\" In the United States, it is a generally recognized as safe (GRAS) substance, with a recommendation of a warning about its laxative potential when consumed at levels above 100 grams per day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243763", "title": "Evektor-Aerotechnik", "text": "Evektor-Aerotechnik\n\nEvektor-Aerotechnik is a Czech aircraft manufacturer based in Kunovice, Czech Republic. The company produces range of light sport aircraft, training, advanced ultralight aircraft and electric aircraft.\n\nEvektor-Aerotechnik is also developing a 9–14 passenger, twin engine turboprop airplane, the EV-55 Outback.\n\nEvektor-Aerotechnik is based at Kunovice Airport, a region known for its aircraft industry since 1936. Evektor-Aerotechnik dates back to 1970 when Aerotechnik was established as a producer of small general aviation airplanes. Its first aircraft were gyrocopters and motor gliders, later diversifying into the overhaul and maintenance of a range of Czech general aviation aircraft, including the Zlin aircraft family.\n\nThe production of light sport aircraft and advanced ultralight aircraft started in 1996, starting with the P220UL Koala aircraft and followed by the EV-97 Eurostar (introduced in 1997) and SportStar. The SportStar became the first light sport aircraft accepted by the American Federal Aviation Administration in 2004. During 1997–2004 Evektor-Aerotechnik was an airframe parts subcontractor for the single engine turboprop Aero Ae 270 Ibis. In 2004 the company introduced the single engine, four-seater VUT100 Cobra and in 2010 started the twin engine turboprop Evektor EV-55 Outback. which was first flown in 2011.\n\nIn 2013 the company introduced the Evektor EPOS, an electric aircraft that remained under development in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243764", "title": "Medical assistant", "text": "Medical assistant\n\nA medical assistant, also known as a \"clinical assistant\" or healthcare assistant in the USA is an allied health professional who supports the work of physicians and other health professionals, usually in a clinic setting. Medical assistants can become certified through an accredited program. Medical assistants perform routine tasks and procedures in a medical clinic.\n\nA \"medical assistant\" may be certified or registered, or may be a loosely defined group (covering related occupational titles such as \"medical office assistant\", \"clinical assistant\", \"assistant medical officer\", or \"ophthalmic assistant\"). The occupation should not be confused with physician assistants, who are licensed professionals trained to practice medicine and perform surgical procedures in collaboration with a physician.\n\nIn military settings, occupations that provide primary medical care may go under similar titles, while other occupations may have different titles with similar responsibilities, such as medical assistant in the U.K. Royal Navy or hospital corpsman in the U.S. Navy.\n\nMedical assistants perform routine clinical and administrative duties under the direct supervision of a physician or other health care professional. Medical assistants perform many administrative duties, including answering telephones, greeting patients, updating and filing patients' medical records, filling out insurance forms, handling correspondence, scheduling appointments, arranging for hospital admission and laboratory services, and handling billing and book keeping. Duties vary according to laws of the jurisdiction and may include taking medical histories and recording vital signs, explaining treatment procedures to patients, preparing patients for examination, and assisting during diagnostic examinations. Medical assistants collect and prepare laboratory specimens or perform basic laboratory tests on the premises, dispose of contaminated supplies, and sterilize medical instruments. They instruct patients about medications and special diets, prepare and administer medications as directed, authorize drug refills as directed, telephone prescriptions to a pharmacy, draw blood, prepare patients for X-rays, take electrocardiograms, remove sutures, and change dressings. They also facilitate communication between the patient and other health care professionals.\n\nSome jurisdictions allow medical assistants to perform more advanced procedures, such as giving injections or taking X-rays, after passing a test or taking a course.\n\nAccording to the International Standard Classification of Occupations, medical assistants normally require formal training in health services provision for competent performance in their jobs. Formal education usually occurs in post secondary institutions such as vocational schools, technical institutes, community colleges, proprietary colleges, online educational programs or junior colleges. Medical assistant training programs most commonly lead to a certificate or a diploma, which take around one year to complete, or an associate degree, which takes around two years. Study topics include medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, and programs may include a clinical internship, sometimes referred to as \"externship\", wherein the student works as a medical assistant in a medical clinic.\n\nIn Bangladesh, medical assistants are known as Sub Assistant Community Medical Officer (SACMO). Medical assistants (now to be designated as sub-assistant community medical officer) assist the medical officers posted at health facilities at the upazila health complex level and below. Medical assistants are produced by Medical Assistants Training School (MATS). They get registration from Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council as an assistant medical practitioner.\n\nIn Canada, medical assistants typically complete an educational program that prepares them to perform special assisting and secretarial duties for physicians, dentists, nurses, health care facilities, and other health service providers. Instructional programs include courses in business and medical communications, medical terminology, principles of health care operations, public relations and interpersonal communications, software applications, record-keeping and filing systems, scheduling and meeting planning, policies and regulations, and professional standards and ethics.\n\nMedical assistant job responsibilities vary depending on the nature and size of the health care facility where the individual works, but typically involve multiple administrative duties such as scheduling appointments, handling private medical documents, and assisting patients with the admissions process.\n\nIn Malaysia, medical assistants are known as Assistant Medical Officers (AMO). They complete a three and half year diploma in medical assistant (DMA) undergraduate program recognized by the Malaysian Qualifications Agency. They work independently or with limited supervision of a physician to provide healthcare services to largely underserved populations. The occupation is more similar to that of clinical officers in Tanzania and elsewhere.\n\nIn the United States, medical assistants have traditionally held jobs almost exclusively in ambulatory care centers, urgent care facilities, and clinics, but this is now changing. Medical assistants now find employment in both private and public hospitals, inpatient and outpatient facilities, as well as assisted living facilities, administrative and clinical settings, or general practice and specialty doctor's offices. According to the U.S. Department of Labor's \"Occupational Outlook Handbook\", 2014–15 Edition, employment of medical assistants is expected to grow by 29%, much faster than the average for all occupations through 2022.\n\nThe New America Foundation has criticized medical assistant programs, particularly those run by profit-making schools like Kaplan and Everest Institute. Many graduates of the school cannot find full-time work, or cannot find work at all, cannot make enough to pay their loans, and go into default. According to the Department of Labor, median annual salary for medical assistants in 2011 was $29,100, but students with medical-assistant certificates typically earned less than $20,000. In some programs, graduates earned less than $15,080, the minimum wage, which means they were working part-time. For example, Drake College of Business, Elizabeth, NJ, charges $18,000, but 31% of graduates defaulted on loans. A few public community colleges have successful programs where graduates make more than $25,000 a year.\n\nIn the U.S., an institution's medical assisting program may be accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES) if its graduates plan to become certified or registered. Accreditation is a requirement of certification agencies such as the American Association of Medical Assistants (AAMA), the American Medical Technologists (AMT) and the National Health Career Association (NHA). Currently there are in excess of 600 CAAHEP accredited programs in can than 500 institutions, and more than 200 accredited by ABHES. Accreditation by CAAHEP, ABHES or other accreditation associations requires that the institution's medical assisting program meets specific educational standards and provides sufficient classroom, lecture, and laboratory time.\n\nProfessional certification is a way to measure competency of a medical assistant at an entry-level job. Certification for medical assistants is voluntary and optional, though encouraged by the American Association of Medical Assistants (AAMA) and a number of other certification bodies. Employers increasingly prefer or even require that the medical assistants they hire be certified.\n\nIn the United States, different organizations certify medical assistants. For one, the American Association of Medical Assistants (AAMA) was founded in 1956. Certification may be achieved by taking the CMA (AAMA) Certification Examination offered by the AAMA Certifying Board in consultation with the National Board of Medical Examiners, which also administers many national exams for physicians. The CMA (AAMA) exam is offered throughout the year at computer-based testing centers across the country. Only individuals who have successfully completed a CAAHEP or ABHES accredited medical assisting program are eligible for the CMA (AAMA) Certification Examination. Those who successfully complete the CMA (AAMA) Certification Examination earn the CMA (AAMA) credential, a title which then follows postnominally. A CMA (AAMA) must re-certify every 60 months by continuing education or re-examination in order to maintain certification.\n\nOther credential options include becoming a registered medical assistant (RMA). Credentialing is voluntary. The American Medical Technologists (AMT) agency is responsible for certifying MAs who choose this course. The AMT first began offering this certification in 1972. AMT has its own conventions and committees, bylaws, state chapters, officers, registrations, and re validation examinations. To become eligible to hold the title of RMA, a student must either pass a medical assisting curriculum at a school that accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA), or possess a minimum of five years experience.\n\nThe National Center for Competency Testing (NCCT) is an independent credentialing organization that has administered more than 400,000 certification exams across the United States since 1989. Its National Certified Medical Assistant certification program has earned accreditation by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA). Candidates who meet all medical assistant eligibility requirements and pass the NCCT national certification examination earn the credential NCMA (NCCT). NCCT accepts candidates from approved medical assistant programs in colleges/universities and provides additional experiential-based qualifying routes. Once certified, the NCMA (NCCT) must complete 14 clock hours of continuing education annually to maintain the credential.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243769", "title": "The FBI Story", "text": "The FBI Story\n\nThe FBI Story is a 1959 American drama film starring James Stewart, and produced and directed by Mervyn LeRoy. The screenplay by Richard L. Breen and John Twist is based on a book by Don Whitehead.\n\nJohn Michael (\"Chip\") Hardesty (James Stewart) narrates the story of a murder, seen in a flashback. Young Jack Graham (Nick Adams) takes out life insurance on his mother and plants a bomb in her luggage for a flight that she was taking from Denver, Colorado, to Portland, Oregon, November 1, 1955.\n\nNext we see Hardesty as he recounts his history as an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation during a lecture. The lecture becomes the narration of flashbacks as he tells of his life as an agent combating various crimes and criminals, including the Ku Klux Klan, Pretty Boy Floyd, Baby Face Nelson, and John Dillinger.\n\nThen he recounts his first involvement as a government clerk in Knoxville, Tennessee in May 1924, and his proposal to a librarian, Lucy Ann Ballard (Vera Miles). Ballard loves Hardesty but wants to change him. They marry with the idea that Hardesty will resign from the FBI and start practicing law. On his way to Washington D.C. his partner, Sam Crandall (Murray Hamilton), tries to talk him out of resigning. Then listening to the new director, J. Edgar Hoover, he becomes inspired to stay. He meets Lucy Ann for a shrimp dinner at Herzog's Seafood Restaurant and tries to evade her questions about his resignation, but she soon tells Chip that she is pregnant, and she, still trying to change him, allows him stay in the bureau, \"for a year\".\n\nThe next day Chip is sent to the South to investigate the Ku Klux Klan. He is moved around until he is sent to Ute City, Wade County, Oklahoma (The real case was in Osage County, the Osage Indian murders, between 1921 and 1923) to investigate a series of murders of Native Americans who had oil rich mineral rights and land. Jurisdictionally speaking, the FBI does not usually investigate murders, but in this case it got involved because one of the murders was committed on US Federal Government land. The FBI forensics labaratory ties the doctored wills and life insurance policies of the murder victims to a local banker, Dwight McCutcheon (in real life a rancher, William \"King of Osage\" Hale; played by Fay Roope), with the typewriter that he used. Lucy Ann has a miscarriage during this time.\n\nOn June 17, 1933 three FBI agents were escorting Frank \"Jelly\" Nash from a train to a car outside the Union Station in Kansas City when they were ambushed and all were killed in what is now called the Kansas City Massacre. The Kansas City Massacre changed the FBI; prior to this event the agency did not have authority to carry firearms (although many agents did) and make arrests, but a year later Congress gave the FBI statutory authority to carry guns and make arrests. Hardesty and Crandall are very excited by the Weyburn Bill (the right for agents to carry firearms), calling it \"a real Christmas present\", but Lucy Ann does not like the idea at all.\n\nAfter receiving a tip, Hardesty and Crandall head to Spider Lake, Wisconsin on April 22, 1934, but after barking dogs alerted the gangsters they scattered. They then head to a nearby country store to call the Chicago office. When they get there they find two men sitting in a car, with Baby Face Nelson (William Phipps), holding them hostage. Nelson comes up shooting, mortally wounding Crandall. (The real incident did occur on April 22, Baby Face Nelson, was hiding out with John Dillinger, but it was at the Little Bohemia Lodge just outside Manitowish Waters, Wisconsin, the two agents were Special Agents J. C. Newman and W. Carter Baum, Baum is the agent killed in the shootout. With them was also a local constable not shown in the film. Nelson was holding two hostages in a house, and when the car came up, Nelson, wanting to take the vehicle, rushed forward shouting for the occupants to get out, but then opened fire on the car shooting all three lawmen).\n\nThe film then quickly recounts Hardesty's (fictional) involvement in the capture and/or deaths of numerous infamous mobsters of the day including Dillinger, \"Pretty Boy\" Floyd, \"Baby Face\" Nelson, and Machine Gun Kelly (who coined the popular term \"G-Men\" during his arrest, shouting \"Don't Shoot G-Men, Don't Shoot\" upon being apprehended.) With the US entry into the World War II, enemy aliens (Americans of Japanese, German, and Italian descent) are quickly rounded up by the FBI and sent to \"concentration camps\", and although none of them were spies, the film argues that it was a necessary act to prevent possible espionage and collaboration with the Axis powers. The ranks of the \"bureau\" are quickly doubled from about 2500 to more than 5000 agents. One of those aspiring new agents is the deceased Sam's son George who is constantly frustrated and worried that he will never live up to his father's reputation, but a romance is clearly budding between the young man and Chip's oldest daughter. While dancing in the backyard, the party is suddenly interrupted by Chip's only son who plays the Marine Hymn on the phonograph before announcing his enlistment in the U.S. Marine Corps.\n\nSoon afterwards, George completes his FBI training and is sent off to a secret mission abroad, meanwhile the now ageing and white-haired Chip is sent by the FBI to relieve the duties of three agents in an unspecified South American country after their identities had been compromised (the CIA did not yet exist at the time, and U.S. wartime covert activities in Latin America were directed by the FBI's Special Intelligence Service). The third of the agents is revealed to be young George who has been intercepting various secret enemy radio messages. As local authorities move in to arrest the trio, George intercepts one last message, reporting an illegal shipment of platinum to Buenos Aires before destroying all of the radio equipment with a detonator, and the codebook with a lantern. The film then cuts to the first anniversary celebration of George and Chip's daughter in the United States. As the celebration continues, Chip and Lucy suddenly receive a telegram at the door, informing them of their son's death in the Battle of Iwo Jima.\n\nThe last investigation, \"50-Cent Clue\", involves an espionage case of a New York City clothes cleaners finding a hollow half-dollar with microfilm inside. The microfilm contains a series of numbers, which the FBI tries to decipher. (The real case involved a nickel, not a half-dollar, and took four years to unfold, not the short matter of days in the film. On June 22, 1953, a newspaper boy, collecting for the \"Brooklyn Eagle\", was paid with a nickel that didn't sound and feel right to him. But it wasn't until a Soviet KGB agent, Reino Häyhänen, wanted to defect in May, 1957, would the FBI be able to link the nickel to KGB agents, including Vilyam Genrikhovich Fisher (aka Rudolph Ivanovich Abel) in the Hollow Nickel Case. The deciphered message in the nickel turned out to be worthless, a personal message to Häyhänen from the KGB in Moscow welcoming him to the U.S. and instructing him on getting set up).\n\nThe film then ends with the conclusion of Hardesty's speech to his fellow FBI agents, walking out of the building he is greeted by his family, including his own grandson wearing an old hat that sang the tune of Yankee Doodle; the same hat that Chip had bought for his own children decades ago near the beginning of his career. Chip says, \"I guess I'll never understand how one little family can collect so much junk,\" and drives away. Various scenes are then shown, depicting the family driving past various DC landmarks such as the Washington Monument, the White House, and the Lincoln Memorial. The Marine Corps War Memorial is shown last while their hymn is played in the background before the dedication to the FBI and the words \"The End\" are shown.\n\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation had great influence over the production, with J. Edgar Hoover acting as a co-producer of sorts. Hoover had LeRoy re-shoot several scenes he didn't think portrayed the FBI in an appropriate light, and played a pivotal role in the casting for the film. Hoover and LeRoy were personal friends. Hoover had to approve every frame of the film and also had two special agents with LeRoy for the duration of filming. Hoover himself appears briefly in the film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243777", "title": "Vittorio Monti", "text": "Vittorio Monti\n\nVittorio Monti (6 January 186820 June 1922) was an Italian composer, violinist, mandolinist and conductor. His most famous work is his \"Csárdás\", written around 1904 and played by almost every gypsy orchestra.\n\nMonti was born in Naples, where he studied violin and composition at the Conservatorio di San Pietro a Majella. Around 1900 he received an assignment as the conductor for the Lamoureux Orchestra in Paris, where he wrote several ballets and operettas, for example, \"Noël de Pierrot\". He also wrote a method for mandolin \"Petite Méthode pour Mandoline, 98049\", in which he included some of his own works, \"Perle Brillante\", \"Dans Una Gondola\", and \"Au Petit Jour\". There were also works by F. Paolo Tosti.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243780", "title": "Drying height", "text": "Drying height\n\nOn a nautical chart, the drying height is the vertical distance of the seabed that is exposed by the tide, above the sea water level at the lowest astronomical tide.\n\nOn admiralty charts a drying height is distinguished from a depth by being underlined.\n"}
{"id": "2243785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243785", "title": "1811 in rail transport", "text": "1811 in rail transport\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243786", "title": "Harry Woodburn Chase", "text": "Harry Woodburn Chase\n\nHarry Woodburn Chase (April 11, 1883 – April 20, 1955) was the 12th President of the University of North Carolina (1919–1930), the 7th President of the University of Illinois (1930–1933), and the 8th President of New York University (1933–1951).\n"}
{"id": "2243789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243789", "title": "Band Geeks", "text": "Band Geeks\n\n\"Band Geeks\" is an episode of the American animated television series \"SpongeBob SquarePants\". It is the second part of the 15th episode of the second season, and the second half of the 35th episode overall. It originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on September7, 2001. It was written by C. H. Greenblatt, Aaron Springer, and Merriwether Williams, and the animation was directed by Frank Weiss. Springer served as storyboard director, and Greenblatt served as storyboard artist.\n\nIn this episode, Squidward tells a lie, claiming that he has a marching band, after his high school rival Squilliam Fancyson brags about being a successful bandleader. Squilliam offers to let Squidward and his band cover for him at the Bubble Bowl, a sporting event. Squidward accepts eagerly, but realizes he does not have a band. He recruits various citizens of Bikini Bottom to play in his band, but they perform terribly in rehearsal and ultimately break into a fight instead of rehearsing on their last day before the Bubble Bowl, which makes Squidward quit in defeat. After he leaves, the band gets their act together, and they give the performance of their lives. At the Bubble Bowl, Squidward is successful and triumphant in front of his rival.\n\nThe episode received widespread acclaim, with many fans and critics considering it the best episode of the entire series. It also received a nomination, and subsequently won at the 2002 Golden Reel Awards for Best Sound Editing in Television – Animation.\n\nSquidward Tentacles gets a call from his former high school classmate, Squilliam Fancyson, who is very successful and has succeeded in everything in which Squidward has failed, such as music. Squilliam reveals to Squidward that he has become the leader of a band and that they are supposed to play at the Bubble Bowl, but he will be busy at that time and will not be able to attend. Squilliam derisively suggests that Squidward's band should substitute for his at the Bubble Bowl, believing that Squidward does not have one. However, to impress Squilliam, Squidward defiantly insists that he does in fact have a band and accepts the offer. He assembles a large marching band composed of various Bikini Bottom residents, including SpongeBob, Patrick, Sandy, Mrs. Puff, Larry and Mr. Krabs.\n\nDuring their one week of training, the band performs consistently poorly and fails to improve at all. The week starts when Patrick and Sandy get into a brawl. On the second day, while practicing a march, two flag twirlers are killed when they spin the flags too fast (per Squidward's demand), causing them to fly into the air and crash into a blimp. On the third day, Squidward checks on Plankton's harmonica solo, but Plankton becomes exhausted and collapses from running back and forth between the holes, since the harmonica is bigger than he is. On the last day of practice, Squidward says if everyone plays loudly, they will be good. However, they take his theory a bit too literally; they play so loudly and horribly bad that they break the windows of the building. The band members start insulting each other as Squidward tries to bring down the tension but fails as the whole band gets into a huge brawl. After the brawl, band class ends, and everyone instantly calms down and starts filing out of the building; before they can leave, a grieving Squidward appears outside expressing his disappointment in all of them and goes home in distress over his failure. However, SpongeBob convinces the other band members to go through with the performance for Squidward's sake, and he takes command of their training.\n\nOn the day of the concert, when Squilliam shows up at the stadium in order to see Squidward fail, Squidward claims that his band died in a marching accident. However, Squidward's band shows up at the last minute, and he is forced to go through with the performance. They enter a large glass dome complete with human fans. Squidward cringes in fear as he conducts the band, assuming that the performance will be a disaster, but the band is tremendously successful, playing a rock ballad song called \"Sweet Victory\" (with SpongeBob's lead vocals provided by the song's actual singer, David Glen Eisley). Squilliam enters a state of shock and faints, leaving Squidward to celebrate in triumph as he leaps into the air.\n\n\"Band Geeks\" was directed by Aaron Springer, and was written by Springer, C. H. Greenblatt, and Merriwether Williams. Frank Weiss served as animation director, and Greenblatt worked as storyboard artist. The writers started to work for \"Band Geeks\" with the idea of a rival. Williams said, \"We always wanted to do a rival show, and I think we tried to do a rival show for SpongeBob, and it wasn't working. So we came up with the idea of a rival for Squidward and, in some ways it's Squidward's story, and SpongeBob and Patrick are just kind of around.\" The idea of having a band was unspecified. Williams remarked, \"I forget who was in band. I was not in a band, but I think maybe Doug <nowiki>Lawrence</nowiki> was in a band. I think Steve <nowiki>Hillenburg</nowiki> was in a band, too.\"\n\nThe music used in the segment of the episode where Squidward's marching band is playing while coming down the street was from Nick Carr, the series' music editor. He found a piece of marching band music that was a band intentionally playing poorly, but sound designer Jeff Hutchins said, \"You could still discern the tune.\" Hutchins thought \"Well, let's take this one step further. What if they couldn't even play their instruments, let alone a tune?\" He brought his portable DAT recorder to a musical instrument retail store and met two men who worked on its loading dock, packaging and shipping the instruments. Hutchins made the two men play most of the instruments terribly. He said, \"I got these two guys to squeak, blast, and squawk on most of the instruments they sold.\"\n\nUpon returning to the studio with the sound effects, he built a marching band, one instrument at a time. Hutchins said, \"They weren't in any key and had no rhythm whatsoever. When you heard it, you just had to say 'Ouch!'\" Hutchins played the sound effects for series creator Hillenburg for review. Hillenburg rejected it, saying \"it was too far over the edge.\" Hutchins said, \"a lot of effort for something that lasts only 15 seconds on screen. In this case, the whole thing never made it on the air.\"\n\nWhen storyboard artist Greenblatt, with the writers, was storyboarding \"Band Geeks\", they thought of \"a big number\" at the end, where everyone would rally together for Squidward. Greenblatt said, \"The story outline called for making it a really great marching band sequence, and it usually helps to have the music ahead of time to board to, so we started searching around.\" The writers were able to find music, as Nickelodeon has a library of royalty-free music. The writers listened to various marching band tunes. Greenblatt said, \"and the more we heard, it didn't seem terribly funny that the finale was just them playing marching band music well.\"\n\nHowever, David Glen Eisley's song \"Sweet Victory\" stood out from the other tracks in the library. Greenblatt said \"It was different than what we were looking for, but it was so amazing that we knew we had to use it. So we boarded the sequence to the music, and it felt like such a better ending than any song we could have written on our own.\" The writers gave it a freeze-frame shot for the ending. Greenblatt's favorite part was director Springer's drawings of Patrick on the electric drums and SpongeBob saying, \"It's the thrill of one more kill\" (an excerpt from \"Sweet Victory\"). The live action Bubble Bowl crowd is a combination of footage from a United States Football League game featuring the Memphis Showboats and the Birmingham Stallions on June 16, 1984 and footage shot specifically for the episode.\n\n\"Band Geeks\" originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on September 7, 2001, with a TV-Y7 parental rating. It was released on the DVD compilation titled \"SpongeBob SquarePants: Halloween\" on August 27, 2002, and on \"SpongeBob SquarePants: Home Sweet Pineapple\" that was released on January 4, 2005. The episode was also included in \"SpongeBob SquarePants: The Complete 2nd Season\" DVD released on October 19, 2004. On September 22, 2009, \"Band Geeks\" was released on the \"SpongeBob SquarePants: The First 100 Episodes\" DVD, alongside all the episodes of seasons one through five.\n\n\"Band Geeks\" received widespread acclaim among fans and critics. Upon release, the episode was awarded and honored at the 2002 Golden Reel Awards for Best Sound Editing in Television – Animation category. Tom Kenny, SpongeBob's voice actor, considers \"Band Geeks\" one of his favorite episodes. In a 2009 review, Michael Cavna of \"The Washington Post\" ranked the episode at 5 in his \"The Top Five \"SpongeBob\" Episodes: We Pick 'Em\" list. He said \"Squidward's mix of artistic aspiration in the face of goading, humiliation and unrelenting sub-mediocrity made this a kids' episode that adults can experience on a whole 'nother level.\" \"The Guardian\" ranked \"Band Geeks\" the second best episode of the show, next to \"Krusty Krab Training Video\".\n\nNancy Basile of About.com ranked \"Band Geeks\" at 1 in her \"Best \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" Episodes\" list, writing \"[The episode] has so many of the best elements of \"SpongeBob\", crafted into a story whose rhythm flows smoothly and quickly to reach a poignant end.\" She praised the entire premise, calling it \"funny just to think about.\" Basile also lauded the ending \"complete with a keytar and freeze-frame jump in the air.\" Emily Estep of WeGotThisCovered.com ranked the episode as the fourth-best \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" episode, explaining that \"most of the gags in 'Band Geeks' center around Squidward's bleak existence, but it's also stuffed with one-liners from and about each of the characters on the show, such as the line 'These claws ain't just for attractin' mates!' from an about-to-brawl Mr. Krabs, and when Squidward says, 'No, Patrick, mayonnaise is not an instrument,' in response to an inevitable query from the stupid star.\"\n\n\"Band Geeks\" was one of the top episodes as chosen by viewers at Nick.com in the event \"The Best Day Ever Marathon\" held in 2006. In November 2007, as part of the \"Top 100 Greatest Moments in Nicktoons History\" during \"Superstuff Nicktoons Weekend\", it is ranked as the 1 greatest moment of all time. In 2012, Nickelodeon in the United Kingdom launched an event called \"SpongeBob's Top 100\", where viewers can vote at Nick.co.uk for their favorite episode. With over 160,000 votes cast, \"Band Geeks\" emerged as the winner. It currently holds the highest rating and thus the 1 position for \"SpongeBob\" episodes on the series' IMDb page.\n\nThe featured song \"Sweet Victory\" was later released in the series soundtrack album called \"\" on November 15, 2005. \"Sweet Victory\" went from being a largely unknown production music track, to selling three hundred thousand iTunes downloads in one year after its exposure on the show.\n\nAfter the death of series creator Stephen Hillenburg on November 26, 2018, a Change.org petition was created which requested that the NFL pay tribute to him by playing \"Sweet Victory\" during the halftime show for Super Bowl LIII. By January 11, 2019, the petition received over 1.1 million signatures. On December 12, 2018, Mercedes-Benz Stadium, the host stadium for Super Bowl LIII, posted a scene from the episode on their official Twitter account, hinting at a possible success from the petition's efforts. On January 13, the headlining act, Maroon 5, also released a teaser video featuring a second of SpongeBob, which furthered speculation.\n\nDuring the halftime show on February 3, a short clip of Squidward and a snippet of the Bubble Bowl performance scene were used to announce guest singer Travis Scott, who Squidward described as \"a true musical genius who needs no introduction.\" Many social media users were critical of the failure to include the \"Sweet Victory\" song and found the brief animated segment to be an inadequate tribute to Hillenburg. CBS News reported that the response by SpongeBob fans was mixed and noted the positive response from the animated show's official Twitter account. Despite the show's mixed reception, \"Sweet Victory,\" after the Super Bowl aired, increased 566% when it came to the on-demand streams it garnered, going up from 46,000 streams on February 1–2 to 310,000 on February 3–4. This led the track to enter \"Billboard\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s United States Hot Rock Songs chart at number 23 and the Kid Digital Song Sales chart at number two, just under Pinkfong's \"Baby Shark.\"\n\nThe day after the game, the Dallas Stars' Twitter page uploaded a modified version of the full \"Sweet Victory\" sequence, in which the band's uniforms were altered from red to green to match the Stars' colors, with the title \"The #SuperBowl halftime show fans deserve\". The Stars' video had previously been shown during their February 1 game against the Minnesota Wild.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243797", "title": "Henry Townley Heald", "text": "Henry Townley Heald\n\nHenry Townley Heald (1904–1975) was the president of Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT).\n\nHeald was president of Armour Institute of Technology from 1938 to 1940, when it became Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT). He is credited with bringing architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe to Chicago in 1938 to direct IIT's architecture program. He led a team that investigated the idea of a research institute on the west coast and made proposals that would result in the creation of SRI International.\n\nHe left IIT in 1952 to become president of New York University and later, the Ford Foundation. He appeared on the cover of \"Time\" in 1957 for his work at the Ford Foundation.\n\nA scholarship at IIT is named after him. Awarded the Hoover Medal in 1959.\n"}
{"id": "2243810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243810", "title": "Daniel Van Buyten", "text": "Daniel Van Buyten\n\nDaniel Van Buyten (; born 7 February 1978) is a Belgian former footballer who played as a centre back. Nicknamed \"Big Dan\", Van Buyten was known for his uncompromising style of play, exploiting both his physical strength and aerial ability.\n\nBeginning at Charleroi as a striker, Van Buyten's career took off when he converted to a centre back, playing for a series of top flight clubs, including Marseille, Manchester City, Hamburger SV and Bayern Munich. Throughout his career, Van Buyten was also a regular starter for the Belgium national team, amassing 83 caps in an international career that spanned 13 years and which included participation at two FIFA World Cup.\n\nVan Buyten became the first-ever Belgian winner of the UEFA Champions League when Bayern Munich claimed the European crown in 2013.\n\nVan Buyten joined Olympique de Marseille in the summer of 2001, leaving Belgian side Standard Liège with whom he had been with since 1999. After two-and-a-half productive seasons with the club, on 31 January 2004 Van Buyten agreed to a short-term loan agreement with Manchester City, signing for the Premier League club until the end of the season. He proved to be a success in his half-season loan deal at the club, garnering praise from his manager, specifically in his performance against Chelsea. But former manager Kevin Keegan conceded that, \"I don't think we will keep him at the end of the season as I feel he will go to a big club then.\"\n\nVan Buyten returned to Marseille at the end of his loan agreement and was signed by Bundesliga club Hamburger SV in June 2004 to replace outgoing captain Nico-Jan Hoogma, agreeing to a four-year deal with the German side. For Hamburg he made 61 German top-flight appearances.\n\nIn June 2006, Bayern Munich announced that they had acquired Van Buyten from Hamburg and had signed him to a contract lasting through the 2009–10 season. Van Buyten had a highly successful first season at the Bavarian club, forming an effective centre-back partnership with Lúcio. Van Buyten scored his first goal for Bayern against Energie Cottbus on 9 December 2006, scoring the game-winning goal of a 2–1 victory for \"Die Roten\". Van Buyten then scored his second goal for the club on 26 January 2007, levelling the sides at 1–1 but Bayern fell to Borussia Dortmund by a score of 3–2.\nArguably Van Buyten's most valuable contribution in his debut season, however, came against Milan on 3 April 2007, in the first-leg of the UEFA Champions League quarter-final. Van Buyten scored two away goals to level the match and give Bayern Munich the advantage in the tie. In the quarter-final encounter against Milan, he scored twice with his left foot, once in the 78th minute to take Bayern to 1–1 and then he scored a stoppage time half-volley.\n\nOn 4 February 2010, Bayern Munich announced that Van Buyten had signed a new contract that would keep him at the club until 2012. During the second half of the 2010–11 season, Van Buyten was mostly relegated to bench player status, but recovered his starting spot towards the end of the season. He was part of the squad that blitzed FC St. Pauli on 11 May 2011, netting a goal in an 8–1 victory that condemned the Hamburg-based side to relegation to the 2. Bundesliga.\n\nOn 17 December 2011, in the match between Bayern Munich and 1. FC Köln, Van Buyten struck a free-kick so hard that the ball burst. On 30 April 2012, Van Buyten signed a one-year extension with Bayern Munich.\n\nDespite the arrival of centre-back Dante from Borussia Mönchengladbach in the summer of 2012, Van Buyten became an integral member of the back-line for the Bavarians during the 2012–13 campaign, part of a three-man rotation in the centre of defense with Dante and Jérôme Boateng. On 6 April 2013, with a 1–0 defeat of Eintracht Frankfurt thanks to a goal from Bastian Schweinsteiger, Van Buyten celebrated his third Bundesliga championship with Bayern, clinching the club's 23rd national title. Van Buyten played the full 90 minutes in the club's 3–0 second leg semi-final victory over Spanish champions Barcelona on 1 May, clinching a resounding 7–0 aggregate victory and a place in the Champions League final against fellow Bundesliga side Borussia Dortmund. Van Buyten is the first Belgian player in a Champions League final.\n\nAfter heavily been linked with big spenders Monaco, Van Buyten signed a further contract extension with Bayern Munich on a one-year rolling contract. Having been a part member of the squad under manager Pep Guardiola, and despite scoring against Werder Bremen, Van Buyten was rumored to join 1. FC Köln on a pre-contract agreement, though this was denied by a club official. After the end of the season, the club did not renew his contract, leaving him a free agent to sign with another club. Belgian Pro League club Anderlecht offered him a two-year contract in August 2014, but he rejected it, stating that he had retired from competitive football.\n\nVan Buyten was called up to the national team in 2001 and received his first cap for Belgium on 28 February 2001 against San Marino in a 2002 FIFA World Cup qualifying match, starting in a 10–1 thrashing of the nation. His first goal for the national team came in just his second cap, heading home the equalizing goal in a 2–2 draw with Scotland on 24 March 2001, earning a crucial point for ten-man Belgium in World Cup qualifying.\n\nAfter good performances with Marseille in France, the young defender was included in the 23-man roster for the 2002 World Cup in South Korea and Japan. He played the full game in Belgium's opening match of the tournament, a 2–2 draw with co-hosts Japan on 4 June. In the second group match, Belgium stuttered to a surprising 1–1 draw with Tunisia on 10 June while Van Buyten booked for the Belgians. Van Buyten helped Belgium pick up their first win of the tournament and in doing so progression to the knockout stage, stopping a late flurry from Russia to secure a 3–2 victory. Finishing as runners-up in the group, Belgium were dealt a tough draw with four-time champions Brazil.Despite a valiant effort, Van Buyten and the Belgians bowed out in the round of 16 as the duo of Rivaldo and Ronaldo led Brazil to a 2–0 win. The South Americans would eventually be crowned champions with a defeat of Germany in the final on 30 June by the same scoreline.\n\nFollowing Belgium's impressive display at the World Cup in Japan and South Korea, much was expected of the small nation in the qualifying phase of the UEFA Euro 2004 tournament and the country was placed in Pot A amongst the best teams in the European federation. Van Buyten played in all eight qualifying games for the national team but Belgium failed to make it to the final tournament, missing out on second spot in the group to Croatia on the head-to-head rule.\nOn 11 February 2009, he scored a rare double as the Belgians sunk Slovenia 2–0 in a friendly match. Seven months later, on 9 September, Van Buyten notched Belgium's only goal as Belgium slumped to a disappointing 2–1 defeat to lowly Armenia in FIFA World Cup qualifying. The loss meant that Belgium lost any hope of qualifying for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, with head coach Franky Vercauteren resigning minutes after final whistle.\n\nFor Euro 2012 qualification, Belgium were placed in Group A with the likes of Germany, Turkey and Austria. The defender netted a brace away to Turkey on 7 September 2010, but despite his best efforts, Belgium fell to a 3–2 loss as captain Vincent Kompany was sent off for two bookable offenses.\n\nVan Buyten was once again an integral member for the Belgians in yet another qualifying campaign, featuring in seven of the ten qualifying matches for the country. Belgium narrowly missed out in qualifying for the playoff-round, finishing two points behind Turkey with a 3–1 loss to Germany in the final qualifying round game on 11 October 2011.\n\nIn 2014 World Cup qualifying, the veteran defender made five appearances as Belgium reached its first tournament in 12 years.\n\nOn 13 May 2014, Van Buyten was named in Belgium's squad for the 2014 World Cup, in Brazil. He was the only player in the squad who had played at a major tournament before. At the age of 36, he started in the team's first game of the tournament, a 2–1 win against Algeria in Belo Horizonte.\n\nVan Buyten's father, Franz, was a popular Belgian catcher/wrestler in Europe from 1960 to 1980. His mother, Renate, is German.\n\nWhile he was with Manchester City, he, along with players Djamel Belmadi and Matías Vuoso, were the victim of theft perpetrated by two bankers. In January 2006, the bank workers, Paul Sherwood, a cashier, and Paul Hanley, his supervisor, were jailed for 32 months and 12 months respectively.\n\nHamburger SV\n\nBayern Munich\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2243816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243816", "title": "James McNaughton Hester", "text": "James McNaughton Hester\n\nJames McNaughton Hester (19 April 1924 – 31 December 2014) was an internationally recognized educator.\n\nHester was born in Chester, Pennsylvania. He spent his boyhood at various stations to which his father, a United States Navy Chaplain, was assigned, including Hawaii and Samoa. In 1942, he was graduated from Woodrow Wilson High School in Long Beach, California. He attended Princeton University, where he won honors in the humanities, election to Phi Beta Kappa, and was awarded an A.B. degree in 1945. After joining the United States Marine Corps' officer candidate programme, he was trained to be a Japanese-language officer. He subsequently served in Japan in a civilian capacity as the civil information and education officer on the Fukuoka Military Government Team.\n\nIn 1947, Hester entered Pembroke College, Oxford, as a Rhodes Scholar, earning a bachelor's degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics. Upon his return to the United States in 1950, he became assistant to the American Secretary to the Rhodes Trustees.\n\nRecalled to active duty with the Marines in 1951, Hester served seventeen months as a battalion adjutant and instructor at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Quantico, Virginia. After leaving the services, he spent several months at the National Archives in Washington, D.C., doing research for his doctoral thesis. He received the D. Phil. degree from Oxford University in 1955.\n\nAfter three years of business experience in management consultation and consumer research, Hester returned to academic life. In 1957, he became provost (administrative and academic head) of the Brooklyn Center of Long Island University in New York City and subsequently Vice President of Long Island University. In 1960, he became Dean of both undergraduate and graduate schools of arts and science at New York University. He became 11th President of New York University in 1962, at the age of 37. The University awarded him an honorary degree (L.H.D.) in 1977.\n\nHester was appointed first Rector of the United Nations University in November 1974 by United Nations Secretary General Kurt Waldheim after a worldwide search. He commenced full-time duty as Rector at the University's headquarters in Tokyo in September 1975.\n\nHester served as chairman of the President's Task Force on Priorities in Higher Education in the United States (1969). He was also president and a member of the executive committee of the Association of Colleges and Universities of the State of New York, and was president and member of the board of trustees of its Commission on Independent Colleges.\n\nHester served on the board of the American Council on Education, on the New York State Regents Advisory Council on Higher Education and Regional Co-ordinating Council for Post Secondary Education in New York City. He was the United States member on the Administrative Board of the International Association of Universities and a member of the executive committee of the Association of American Universities.\n\nUpon leaving the rectorship, Hester served a term as President of The New York Botanical Garden, and until his death remained President of the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation in New York, an operating foundation charged by its founder to support research on the causes, manifestations and control of violence, aggression, and dominance. This programme is carried out through grants in a wide variety of fields and by conferences and publications.\n\nAfter retiring from full-time involvement in the academic world, Hester continued a second career as highly regarded artist, whose oil paintings and portraits were commissioned by a wide array of individuals and institutions.\n\nHester was married in 1953 to the former Janet Rodes. They had three children, Janet, Margaret and Martha. He died 31 December 2014 in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nHester held honorary degrees from many leading universities and colleges, and was a Chevalier of the French Legion of Honour. In 1981, H.M. Emperor Showa of Japan conferred upon Hester the Order of the Sacred Treasure, First Class.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243820", "title": "Good Vibrations – Best of The Beach Boys", "text": "Good Vibrations – Best of The Beach Boys\n\nGood Vibrations – Best of The Beach Boys is the fourth official compilation album by The Beach Boys, and the first on their Brother Records imprint. In June 1974, The Beach Boys' old label, Capitol Records, released a double-album compilation of the band's 1962–1965 hits titled \"Endless Summer\", to capitalize on their popularity as a regular touring act. After the unofficial release became an unexpected commercial success, a follow-up, \"Spirit of America\", was rushed out by Capitol in the spring of 1975 and was almost as successful. Wishing to capitalize on this commercial resurgence with an official release, on Brother Records, The Beach Boys opportunistically issued \"Good Vibrations – Best of The Beach Boys\".\n\nThe band had temporarily received the licensing rights to all their Capitol albums from \"Pet Sounds\" onwards, and was exclusively able to use post-1965 material, including their contemporary works, to create a more diverse collection. Released in June 1975, \"Good Vibrations – Best of The Beach Boys\" peaked at number 25 in the US. The two Capitol compilations proved more attractive to shoppers, however, and far outsold this collection.\n\n\"Good Vibrations – The Very Best of The Beach Boys\" (Brother/Reprise MS 2223) hit number 25 in the US during a 23-week chart stay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243823", "title": "John C. Sawhill", "text": "John C. Sawhill\n\nJohn Crittenden Sawhill (June 12, 1936 – May 18, 2000) was president and CEO of The Nature Conservancy and the 12th President of New York University (NYU).\n\nBorn in Cleveland, Ohio in 1936, Sawhill graduated from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs in 1958. He earned a PhD in economics in 1963 from New York University, where he served as professor of economics. He was named president of New York University in 1975, serving until 1979. At a trying time in NYU's history, he received widespread acclaim for bringing about an academic and financial turnaround at the country's largest private university.\n\nHis research focused on the nonprofit sector, and he joined the Harvard Business School faculty in 1997 as part of the School's Initiative on Social Enterprise. His seminar Effective Leadership of Social Enterprises prepared students for leadership roles in nonprofit management.\n\nEarlier he held several government positions during the Nixon, Ford and Carter administrations. Those included being Deputy Secretary of Energy; Chairman of the U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corporation; Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration (appointed by President Nixon, he resigned that position in October, 1974), and Associate Director for Natural Resources, Energy, Science and Environment in the Office of Management and Budget. In 1977, he was elected to the Common Cause National Governing Board.\n\nDuring his ten-year tenure, The Nature Conservancy became the world's largest private conservation group and protected more than 7 million acres (28,000 km²) in the United States alone.\n\nSawhill, a senior lecturer at Harvard Business School and president and CEO of The Nature Conservancy, died of complications from diabetes May 18, 2000 at the age of 63. His wife was Isabel Sawhill and his son was James W. Sawhill.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243829", "title": "Campbellfield railway station", "text": "Campbellfield railway station\n\nCampbellfield was a former railway station on the Upfield railway line between Upfield and Gowrie, located in the suburb of Campbellfield, Victoria just to the north of the level crossing at Camp Road . The station opened in 1889, and closed in 1956. Campbellfield Station closed because the newly created Upfield station was considered to be better located to serve the Upfield housing estate. It was then demolished, with no trace remaining today.\n\nIt has been rumored that the station may be rebuilt in the not-too-distant future, due to the existence of the Campbellfield Plaza nearby, but nothing concrete has come of this as of 2016. However, in April 2017, the Victorian Planning Authority released its draft plan for the area, including the construction of a station at Campbellfield.\n\nBetween October and December 2017, works were carried out to remove the Camp Road boom gate controlled rail crossing. This resulted in the rail line being lowered to pass under the road, with provision made for both the installation of a second track and the construction of a possible future railway station.\n"}
{"id": "2243833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243833", "title": "John Brademas", "text": "John Brademas\n\nStephen John Brademas Jr. (March 2, 1927 – July 11, 2016) was an American politician and educator originally from Indiana. He served as Majority Whip of the United States House of Representatives for the Democratic Party from 1977 to 1981 at the conclusion of a twenty-year career as a member of the United States House of Representatives. In addition to his major legislative accomplishments, including much federal legislation pertaining to schools, arts, and the humanities, he served as the 13th president of New York University from 1981 to 1992, and was a member of and subsequently the chairman of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In addition he was a board member of the New York Stock Exchange and the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nThe oldest of four children, Brademas was born in 1927 to Stephen John Brademas, a Greek immigrant father, and the former Beatrice Goble, an American mother, in Mishawaka, Indiana. His father ran a restaurant and his mother was an elementary school teacher. He spent summers with his maternal grandfather, who was the state superintendent of schools in Canada, and possessed a large library.\n\nBrademas graduated as valedictorian from Central High School in South Bend, Indiana. He served two years in the U.S. Navy, stationed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\nHe attended Harvard University, from which he graduated with an A.B. magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa and where he was affiliated with Adams House. He won a Rhodes Scholarship and attended Brasenose College, Oxford, from which he received his D.Phil. in Social Studies.\n\nBrademas served as United States Representative in Congress from Indiana's 3rd congressional district for 22 years (1959–81), the last four as House majority whip. While in Congress he was a member of the Committee on Education and Labor, where he played a leading role in writing most of the federal legislation enacted during that time concerning schools, colleges and universities; services for the elderly and the handicapped; libraries and museums; and the arts and humanities.\n\nBrademas holds the distinction of being the first Greek-American member of Congress, preceding, among others, Olympia Snowe, Paul Tsongas and Paul Sarbanes.\n\nCosponsor of the 1965 legislation creating the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), Brademas for ten years chaired the congressional subcommittee with jurisdiction over them. He was chief House sponsor of the Arts, Humanities and Cultural Affairs Act; Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act; Museum Services Act; Library Services and Construction Act; National Commission on Libraries and Information Services Act; Education for All Handicapped Children Act; Alcohol and Drug Abuse Education Act; and International Education Act. He was also a major co-author of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; the Higher Education Acts of 1972 and 1976, which focused on student aid; and the measure creating the National Institute of Education.\n\nIn December 1963, the Studebaker Corporation closed its South Bend, Indiana automobile manufacturing plants, putting more than 5,000 people out of work. Brademas was instrumental in helping the South Bend area recover from the Studebaker closing through his contacts in Washington. In 1964, after receiving an $81 million contract from the government, Kaiser Jeep Corporation purchased the Chippewa Avenue truck plant from Studebaker, and put a sizable number of people back to work building military and postal vehicles. Today, although the Chippewa plant is no longer in use, AM General, successor to Kaiser Jeep and American Motors Corporation, produces the military Humvee and the Hummer H1 and H2 in Mishawaka, Indiana, just east of South Bend. This would have been nearly impossible without the work of John Brademas in the mid-1960s. Brademas was defeated for reelection on November 4, 1980, by Republican John Hiler.\n\nAfter leaving Congress, Brademas moved to New York and served as president of New York University from 1981 to 1992. In 1990, he co-chaired the bipartisan independent commission mandated by Congress to review the grant-making procedures of the NEA. He was appointed by President Bill Clinton as chairman of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, and was also chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy, as well as a member of the Consultants' Panel to the Comptroller General of the United States.\n\nFilm actress Paulette Goddard left her multimillion-dollar estate to New York University in large part due to her friendship with Brademas.\n\nBrademas served on a number of boards and national commissions on subjects ranging from the arts to higher education, foreign policy, jobs and small business, historic documents and records, and science, technology and government.\n\nHe was the chairman of the American Ditchley Foundation and co-chaired the Center for Science, Technology and Congress at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C.\n\nBrademas served as chairman of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as well as on the boards of Overseers of Harvard, New York Stock Exchange, Rockefeller Foundation and the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Academy of Athens. He served on several corporate board as well as boards of the Alexander S. Onassis Public Benefit Foundation, American Council for the Arts, Center for National Policy and the Spanish Institute.\n\nBrademas was awarded honorary degrees by 47 colleges and universities. He also received the annual Award for Distinguished Service to the Arts of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. The Middle Common Room of Brasenose College, Oxford, is located in the Brademas Room, which is named in honor of Brademas.\n\nOn October 3, 2011, the King of Spain bestowed on John Brademas the Order of Isabella the Catholic, a Spanish civil order granted in recognition of services that benefit the country.\n\nBrademas died on July 11, 2016 at the age of 89. He is interred at the Congressional Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243837", "title": "Tiến lên", "text": "Tiến lên\n\nTiến lên (Vietnamese: \"tiến lên\", chữ Nôm: , \"tiến\": advance; \"lên\": to go up, up; literally: \"go forward\"), also known as Vietnamese cards, Thirteen, Poison, Killer 13, \"'Bomb\"', is a Vietnamese shedding-type card game devised in Southern China and Vietnam. It is similar to Zheng Shangyou, which uses a specially printed deck of cards, Big Two, and other \"climbing\" card games popular in many parts of Asia. \"Tien len\", considered the national card game of Vietnam, is a game intended and best for four players.\n\nNote: From here on out, this article has no official sources or references to back up anything that has been written. This game has evolved a lot and so many house rules (real or fake) have been added to the game throughout many generations, that it might no longer be the original. If you have conflicting rules with another player, chances are it might not be an official rule. Please use your own logic to determine. \n\nA standard deck of fifty-two playing cards is used. The ranking of the cards from highest to lowest is:2 A K Q J 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3.\n\nThe cards are also ranked based on their suits. The ranking from highest to lowest is: Hearts ♥, Diamonds ♦, Clubs ♣, Spades ♠.\n\nTherefore, the 2♥ is the highest single card in the game, because the 2 is the highest-ranking card and hearts is the highest-ranking suit. Similarly, the 3♠ is the lowest single card in the game.\n\nThe card number takes precedence over the suit, so the 10♠ is higher than the 9♥.\n\nThe objective of the game is to be the first to get rid of all of your cards by playing various combinations.\n\nA standard deck of 52 playing cards is used (No jokers), is dealt perfectly evenly between four players (13 cards each, hence the name of the game). When playing with 2 to 3 players, deal 13 cards to each player. The remaining cards will be unused.\n\n\nA sequence can only be beaten by a higher sequence. In order to defeat a sequence, the higher sequence can be a mix of any suits, as long as rank of the highest card is higher. If, a person plays 6♥ 7♥ 8♠, that straight can only be defeated by any 3 card straight like 6♠ 7♦ 8♣, or higher. If a person extends the sequence, it must be defeated by matching the number of cards played, only in a higher sequence.\n\nIf 2s are played in combinations, beginning with a single pair, the double sequence or four-of-a-kind must be extended or enhanced to be able to defeat those quantity of 2s: Playing pairs of a card makes that card and the combination more powerful. By adding on more 2s to the pile, the play has gotten more powerful. As a result, a regular double sequence is too weak to defeat it, like any single 2. It can be defeated by a regular double sequence such as 10♠ 10♣ J♠ J♣ Q♠ Q♣ or a regular four-of-a-kind such as 3♥ 3♠ 3♦ 3♣. However, if two 2s are played, then a regular double sequence is not strong enough to beat it. This is because the power of a 2 has been doubled. The sequence must be extended or enhanced in order to defeat more than a single 2. You can play instant 2 killers out of turn.\n\nNotice that an extended double sequence has at minimum 4 doubles in consecutive order, rather than a maximum of 3 like a regular sequence. By extending the double sequence, the play has therefore gotten more powerful than a regular double sequence, and as a result is now able to defeat two 2s. The same concept applies to more than two 2s. The more 2s, the more extension needs to be done on a double sequence.\n\nFour-of-a-kinds are almost impossible to extend. Having all four of three numbers in sequential order will just about never happen without the use of trading. However, just in case a player gets extremely lucky, extended four-of-a-kinds have a different property than the extended double sequence. An extended four-of-a-kind such as 8♥ 8♦ 8♠ 8♣ : 9♣ 9♥ 9♦ 9♠ ||3♥ 3♠ 3♦ 3♣ : 4♠ 4♥ 4♣ 4♦ : 5♦ 5♣ 5♥ 5♠ in some versions of the game can defeat as many as four 2s in just one extension. However, the four-of-a-kind extension is so rare, there has never been a rule to extend it. Therefore, only the players can decide just what are the guidelines to it, and how many 2s can be defeated by extending it.\n\n\nThere are dealt hand combinations that can guarantee a player a very rare instant win:\nImportant to note: Instant wins are granted because if your hand of cards are played out, you have an extremely high chance of winning regardless. For example: Having Four 2s and continually playing singles almost guarantees 4 free shots .\n\n\nImportant to note: Instant wins are granted because if your hand of cards are played out, you have an extremely high chance of winning regardless. For example: Having 12 or 13 cards of the same color, does not give you a better chance of victory if it was played out. In fact having 13 black cards is disadvantageous, so you could make a new house rule called Auto Lose. \n\n\nAs explained earlier in the article, \"four 2s\" are simply all the twos together. This is the most powerful set of cards to have. As a result, the player will be too powerful to continue playing. Therefore, they have the choice of gaining an instant win. \"Six pairs\" is as it sounds: having six doubles. This means that if a player holds 13 cards, 12 of those cards must form doubles in order to gain an instant win. The last instant win occasion, \"ultimate dragon\", is the most difficult to attain. The ultimate dragon must contain two things in order for the player to receive an automatic victory: the 3♠, and the A♥. These two cards are essential in an ultimate dragon, because the three of spades commences the game, and the player can run the sequence straight to the ace of hearts. This makes the entire dragon completely unstoppable, therefore leaving the player with one remaining card, resulting in a victory.\n\nIn most games, only \"Four 2s\" is played as an instant win. And in a variation of it, the player with that four 2s will no long be a winner. He would like to tell another players and they will have the game restarted.\n\n\nIf x is the bet:\n -Variation rules: Cutting or bombing another cutup results in double the points the other player received for his/her cut up before being cut by yours.\n\nThere are many variations and house rules that are agreed upon before playing. The names tien len, thirteen, VC, etc., are generally used interchangeably and do not necessarily imply any particular set of rules. Some combinations of rules would by their nature be conflicting, so one or the other must be chosen. Some variations from the above rules are:\n\n\nIn Double Deck 13, two decks are used, one with a red back, one blue. This game requires 8 players, and the same rules are followed as regular thirteen with the following exceptions:\n\nIn Hawaii, each player is dealt 13 cards, regardless of the total number of players (2 or 4). Some of the basic rules include:\n\nThere are some less common variations as well:\n\nIn a version of 13 played by students at Akita International University, the rules for dealing and beginning a game are the same. However some of the basic rules are different:\n\nIn this version, played in pubs around Amsterdam, many of the rules are the same, except one big variation exists. Both red 3s (that being 3♥ and 3♦) are used as ultimate trumps. While the 2s still exist as the highest single cards (though cannot be used in straights), the red 3s can be played on any combination. 3♥ cannot be beaten by anything, while 3♦ can only be beaten by 3♥. The only exception to this is a chop (three consecutive pairs such as 4♥, 4♠, 5♣, 5♦, 6♠, 6♣, or four-of-a-kind such as K♥, K♦, K♣, K♠) that has been played on (and can only be played on) a single two. Red 3s cannot beat chops, only higher chops can beat chops. \n\nThis variation is referred to as Viet Cong.\n\nThe winner of the hand determines whether the cards in the next game are cleared after each round or at the end of the game. During the very first game the player with the 3♠ determines the card clearing procedure for that game.\n\nDraw Pile Thirteen does not change basic rules of play.\n\nPro Play Thirteen does not change the dealing or basic rules of play. The variations generally expand the combinations available to play:\n† Note multiple quads can be played as one bomb and do not have to be consecutive, for example: 4444 + 9999 can be played together\n\nPlayers play for 1st, 2nd, 3rd & 4th. No extra points for holding 2's or having extra cards unless you didn't get in as stated below in the 'Got to Get In' rule. First place gets 2 points, 2nd gets 1 point, 3rd gets minus 1 point & 4th gets minus 2 points. Variations of the points can be increased as long as it's still a zero-sum game. One extra point is given to someone who bombs someone's two. Points compound using the hierarchy of bombs listed above.\n\nWhite - out: If a player does not hit a single card before another player finishes, they are automatically eliminate from the game. For scoring, they will owe x2 the \"set amount\" for a normal loss.\n\nCambodian Switcheroo: When a player suggest you pass, insinuating he will go low or hit a card you like, sometimes even by showing you the card. Only to switch it at the last moment for another.\n\nPopular in south-central USA, this rule set aims to be simpler for players just starting. Standard rules apply, as well as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243847", "title": "Doss High School", "text": "Doss High School\n\nDoss High School is a high school located in southwestern Louisville, Kentucky. As of the 2017-2018 school year, there were 1,040 students at the school.\n\nThe school was originally proposed as Wisertown High School, in honor of the area of the county in which the school is/was located, but was, instead, named for a former member of the Jefferson County Board of Education. At the time Doss was built, Jefferson County population was growing. The City of Louisville had a separate Board of Education, and the city's population was declining. The two school systems were merged in the mid-1970s.\n\nThe school was built to relieve overcrowding from Butler, Fairdale, Western, Pleasure Ridge Park and Valley High Schools. The building opened in the Fall of 1967 at 7601 Saint Andrews Church Road. It began with the 7th, 8th, and 9th grades. The first graduating class was in 1971. The first class to complete grades 7 through 12 was in 1973.\n\nDuring the 1990s as the Jefferson County (KY) Public Schools moved their Career and Technical Education Programs into the local high schools Doss became the recipient of three magnet programs: Cosmetology, Early Childhood Education, and Pre-Engineering. Currently, Doss is a Business and Information Technology (BIT) themed school. Through its partnership with Class Act Federal Credit Union, the school has the first student-run credit union branch in the county. Students train at Class Act's Main Branch over the summer. During the school year Students handle all operations in the Credit Union under the supervision of a team composed of a Qualified Faculty Coordinator and a Branch Coordinator employed by Class Act. Students can major in accounting, banking and financial services, entrepreneurship, and management in the \"Class Act Academy of Business and Finance.\"\n\nOn October 28, 2016, Doss High School announced a new Manufacturing Engineering Technology magnet program.\n\nThe school athletic complex has three gymnasiums with the main gymnasium, the Leon Mudd Athletic Center, which seats a maximum of 1,800 people. Also, the Hayward Shartzer Stadium, the football stadium with a running track, which seats a maximum of 2,500 people. Also within the athletic complex are baseball and softball fields and tennis courts.\n\nNotable alumni of Doss High School include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243850", "title": "Silvering", "text": "Silvering\n\nSilvering is the chemical process of coating a non-conductive substrate such as glass with a reflective substance, to produce a mirror. While the metal is often silver, the term is used for the application of any reflective metal.\n\nMost common household mirrors are \"back-silvered\" or \"second-surface\", meaning that the light reaches the reflective layer after passing through the glass. A protective layer of paint is usually applied to protect the back side of the reflective surface . This arrangement protects the fragile reflective layer from corrosion, scratches, and other damage. However, the glass layer may absorb some of the light and cause distortions and optical aberrations due to refraction at the front surface, and multiple additional reflections on it, giving rise to \"ghost images\" (although some optical mirrors such as Mangins, take advantage of it).\n\nTherefore, precision optical mirrors normally are \"front-silvered\" or \"first-surface\", meaning that the reflective layer is on the surface towards the incoming light. The substrate normally provides only physical support, and need not be transparent. A hard, protective, transparent overcoat may be applied to prevent oxidation of the reflective layer and scratching of the metal. Front-coated mirrors achieve reflectivities of 90–95% when new.\n\nPtolemaic Egypt had manufactured small glass mirrors backed by lead, tin, or antimony. In the early 10th century, the Persian scientist al-Razi described ways of silvering and gilding in a book on alchemy, but this was not done for the purpose of making mirrors.\n\nTin-coated mirrors were first made in Europe in the 15th century. The thin tinfoil used to silver mirrors was known as \"tain\". When glass mirrors first gained widespread usage in Europe during the 16th century, most were silvered with an amalgam of tin and mercury,\n\nIn 1835 German chemist Justus von Liebig developed a process for depositing silver on the rear surface of a piece of glass; this technique gained wide acceptance after Liebig improved it in 1856. The process was further refined and made easier by French chemist Tony Petitjean (1857). This reaction is a variation of the Tollens' reagent for aldehydes. A diamminesilver(I) solution is mixed with a sugar and sprayed onto the glass surface. The sugar is oxidized by silver(I), which is itself reduced to silver(0), i.e. elemental silver, and deposited onto the glass.\n\nIn 1856-57 Karl August von Steinheil and Léon Foucault introduced the process of depositing an ultra-thin layer of silver on the front surface of a piece of glass, making the first optical-quality first surface glass mirrors, replacing the use of speculum metal mirrors in reflecting telescopes. These techniques soon became standard for technical equipment.\n\nAn aluminum vacuum-deposition process invented in 1930 by Caltech physicist and astronomer John Strong, led to most reflecting telescopes shifting to aluminum. Nevertheless, some modern telescopes use silver, such as the Kepler space observatory.\nThe \"Kepler\" mirror's silver was deposited using ion assisted evaporation.\n\nSilvering aims to produce a non-crystalline coating of amorphous metal (metallic glass), with no visible artifacts from grain boundaries. The most common methods un current use are electroplating, chemical \"wet process\" deposition, and vacuum deposition.\n\nElectroplating of a substrate of glass or other non-conductive material requires the deposition of a thin layer of conductive but transparent material, such as carbon. This layer tends to reduce the adhesion between the metal and the substrate. Chemical deposition can result in better adhesion, directly or by pre-treatment of the surface. \n\nVacuum deposition can produce very uniform coating with very precisely controlled thickness. \n\nThe reflective layer on a second surface mirror such as a household mirror is often actual silver. A modern \"wet\" process for silver coating treats the glass with tin(II) chloride to improve the bonding between silver and glass. An activator is applied after the silver has been deposited to harden the tin and silver coatings. A layer of copper may be added for long-term durability.\n\nSilver would be ideal for telescope mirrors and other demanding optical applications, since it has the best initial front-surface reflectivity in the visible spectrum. However, it quickly oxidizes and absorbs atmospheric sulfur to create a dark, low-reflectivity tarnish.\n\nThe \"silvering\" on precision optical instruments such as telescopes is usually aluminum. Although aluminum also oxidizes quickly, the thin aluminum oxide (sapphire) layer is transparent, and so the high-reflectivity underlying aluminum stays visible.\n\nIn modern aluminum silvering, a sheet of glass is placed in a vacuum chamber with electrically heated nichrome coils that can evaporate aluminum. In a vacuum, the hot aluminum atoms travel in straight lines. When they hit the surface of the mirror, they cool and stick. \n\nSome mirror makers evaporate a layer of quartz or beryllia on the mirror; others expose it to pure oxygen or air in an oven so that it will form a tough, clear layer of aluminum oxide.\n\nThe first tin-coated glass mirrors were produced by applying a tin-mercury amalgam to the glass and heating the piece to evaporate the mercury.\n\nThe \"silvering\" on infrared instruments is usually gold. It has the best reflectivity in the infrared spectrum, and has high resistance to oxidation and corrosion. Conversely, a thin gold coating is used to create optical filters which block infrared (by mirroring it back towards the source) while passing visible light.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243865", "title": "L. Jay Oliva", "text": "L. Jay Oliva\n\nLawrence Jay Oliva (September 23, 1933 – April 17, 2014), known as L. Jay Oliva, was the 14th President of New York University.\n\nBorn in Walden, New York he earned a B.A. from Manhattan College (1955) and a M.A. (1957)/Ph.D. (1960) from Syracuse University. He was a University Fellow at Syracuse, a Fribourg Fellow at the University of Paris and a member of Phi Gamma Delta.\n\nBorn to an Italian father, his mother was an Irish-speaker from County Galway, Ireland, and he showed interest and lent NYU to Irish-themed celebrations, exhibitions, etc. under the aegis of his Presidency of New York University. He also supported the formal establishment of the University's Irish and Irish-American Studies program within Glucksman Ireland House NYU in 1993.\n\nOliva authored and edited numerous works on Russian and European history, including, \"Misalliance: A Study of French Policy in Russia During the Seven Years' War\" (New York University Press, 1964) and \"Russia in the Era of Peter the Great\" (Prentice-Hall, 1969). His fields of academic specialization are 18th-century Russia, Russian diplomatic history and 18th-century Europe. \n\nOliva was given honorary degrees by Tel Aviv University (Doctor of Philosophy, 1994); University College Dublin (Doctor of Literature, 1993); Hebrew Union College (Doctor of Humane Letters, 1992); Saint Thomas Aquinas College (Doctor of Laws, 1989); and Manhattan College (Doctor of Humane Letters, 1987). He was decorated a chevalier of the French Legion of Honor (1997) and received the Premio Guido Dorso of Italy (1998).\n\nThrough Oliva's initiative, NYU was the founding member of the League of World Universities, established in 1991, whose membership now represents nearly fifty of the world's great urban universities. La Pietra, a cluster of five villas in Tuscany bequeathed to NYU by the late Sir Harold Acton, and the Lillian Vernon Center for International Affairs at Washington Square, serve as hubs for international activities that draw scholars and students from around the world. Oliva also created the \"NYU Speaking Freely\" program to provide students with opportunities for language learning outside the classroom. In recognition of this work, he received the Foreign Language Advocacy Award in 2001 from the Northeast Conference on the Teaching of Foreign Languages. He served as President of New York University from 1991 until May 16, 2002. Under his leadership the school's fund-raising efforts soared, increasing from approximately $100 million annually in 1991 to more the $350 million in 2001. In 1995 Oliva oversaw the completion of what was at that time the first billion-dollar campaign undertaken by an American university. Launched in 1985 under Oliva’s predecessor, John Brademas, the campaign was successfully completed five years ahead of schedule. He signed the first contract between a private university and a graduate assistant labor union, the Graduate Student Organizing Committee of Local 2110/United Auto Workers. \n\nOliva died on April 17, 2014, aged 80, of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife Mary Ellen and sons Jay and Edward.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243869", "title": "Voykovskaya (Moscow Metro)", "text": "Voykovskaya (Moscow Metro)\n\nVoykovskaya () is a Moscow Metro station on the Zamoskvoretskaya Line. It was opened on 31 December 1964 along with two neighbouring stations to the north, Vodny Stadion and Rechnoy Vokzal. Passengers may make out-of-station transfers to Baltiyskaya station on the Moscow Central Circle; however, the walk between stations can take more than 20 minutes.\n\nIt was built according to the standardized pillar-trispan design, which was widely used in the 1960s as a cost-saving measure. The station's architects were I. Petukhova and A. Fokina. The entrance of the station is under the M10 highway.\n\nThe station is named in honor of Pyotr Voykov, a prominent Bolshevik and Soviet diplomat. Voikov was assassinated in 1927 by a White Russian monarchist; however, his reported involvement in the execution of the family of the last Russian emperor Nicholas II led Russian Orthodox Church groups to push to rename the station.\n\nThe city held a vote on its “Active Citizen” platform in November to consider a name change. By a vote of 53% to 35%, the residents decided to maintain the Voikovskaya name.\n\nBaltiyskaya was originally slated to be name Voikovskaya; however, a similar vote on “Active Citizen” showed only 19% in favor of the name.\n"}
{"id": "2243873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243873", "title": "Kevin Mmahat", "text": "Kevin Mmahat\n\nKevin Paul Mmahat (Mama-Hat) (born November 9, 1964) is a former Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher.\n\nMmahat was born in Memphis, Tennessee and graduated from Tulane University, where he pitched for the Tulane Green Wave baseball team. He was drafted by the Texas Rangers in the 31st round of the 1987 Major League Baseball Draft, and was traded to the New York Yankees a year later.\n\nMmahat made his MLB debut on September 9, 1989 and played in his final MLB game on October 1, 1989. In his MLB career, Mmahat pitched innings and attained an ERA of 12.91.\n\nHe is married to the former Gina Tedesco with whom he has three children.\n\nHe owns and operates an exterior coating company called Mid South Coatings in New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243880", "title": "Ful medames", "text": "Ful medames\n\nFul medames (, ' ; other spellings include \"ful mudammas\" and \" foule mudammes\"), or simply fūl, is a stew of cooked fava beans served with vegetable oil, cumin, and optionally with chopped parsley, garlic, onion, lemon juice, chili pepper and other vegetable, herb and spice ingredients. It is notably a staple food in Egypt, especially in the northern cities of Cairo and Gizah. Ful medames is also a common part of the cuisines of many Arab, Middle Eastern and African cultures, including in Djibouti, Lebanon, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Ethiopia, Sudan, Yemen, Somalia and Saudi Arabia.\n\nSome writers have suggested that ful medames dated all the way back to Ancient Egypt.\n\nSome evidence of the use of ful is a cache of 2,600 dried fava beans unearthed at a late Neolithic site on the outskirts of Nazareth.\n\nThis cooking method is mentioned in the Talmud Yerushalmi, indicating that the method was used in Horn of African and Middle Eastern countries since the fourth century. Although there are countless ways of embellishing \"fūl\", the basic recipe remains the same. Once the \"fūl\" is cooked, it is salted and eaten plain or accompanied by vegetable oil, corn oil, butter, clarified butter, buffalo milk, béchamel sauce, cured beef (basturma), fried or boiled eggs, tomato sauce, garlic sauce, tahini, fresh lemon juice, chili peppers, or other ingredients.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the making of \"fūl\" in Cairo was monopolized by the people living around the Princess Baths, a public bath in a tiny compound near today's public fountain of Muhammad ‘Ali Pasha, a block north of the two elegant minarets of the Mosque of Sultan al-Muayyad above the 11th century Bab Zuweila gate. During the day, bath attendants stoked the fires heating the \"qidras\", which are huge pots of bath water. Wood was scarce, so garbage was used as fuel and eventually a dump grew around the baths. When the baths closed, the red embers of the fires continued to burn. To take advantage of these precious fires, huge \"qidras\" were filled with fava beans, and these cauldrons were kept simmering all night, and eventually all day too, in order to provide breakfast for Cairo's population. Cookshops throughout Cairo would send their minions to the Princess Baths to buy their wholesale \"fūl\".\n\nFūl is prepared from the small, round bean known in Egypt as \"fūl ḥammām\" (\"bath beans\"). The beans are cooked until very soft. Other kinds of beans used by Egyptian cooks are \"fūl rūmī\" (\"Roman\", i.e. \"European broad beans\"), large kidney-shaped fava beans, and \"fūl baladī\" (\"country beans\", which are of middling size). \"Fūl nābit\" (or \"nābid\") are fava bean sprouts, \"fūl akhḍar\" (\"green fūl\") are fresh fava beans, and \"fūl madshūsh\" (\"crushed fūl\") are crushed fava beans.\n\nFul medames was exported from Egypt to other parts of the Arab world, as well as other parts of Africa and Asia, but particularly to Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Palestine, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Somalia, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Sudan, Morocco and Libya.\n\nFul is a popular breakfast dish in Syria, especially Aleppo. The fava beans are left simmering in large copper jars throughout the night, to be served from the next morning on; the beans swim in tahini and olive oil, completed with a hint of red pepper paste (made from Aleppo pepper) over the top.\n\nIn Jordan, ful is made just like hummus in a form of a dip, usually made with tahini, garlic, tomato, lemon juice, ground cumin, olive oil and salt.\n\nIn Somalia, Fuul is a staple in breakfast food. It is often served with eggs, Khubz/Ceesh bread or the traditional Somali flatbread called Laxoox/Canjeero. It is very similar to the Egyptian, Sudanese, and Saudi variants of the dish; but usually spicier due to Somalis use of the Xawaash Spice mixture (Cumin, coriander, sage, peppercorn, fenugreek, turmeric, ginger, cardamom, cloves, nutmeg, and saffron). \n\nIn Morocco ful is known as \"bissara\" and consists of fava beans and split green peas (known locally as \"jabbana\") boiled together with garlic and served with cumin and seasoning. It is particularly popular in the north of the country and is eaten during the cold winter months.\n\nFul is a very common dish in Armenia; however, unlike in most Middle Eastern countries, it is there modified with more exclusive and rare spices.\n\nIn Ethiopia (and Eritrea), ful is one of the few dishes not eaten with a pancake-like bread called \"injera\" but is served with wheat flour bread. Places serving ful and the accompanying flour bread often provide a communal kitchen for patrons seeking to bake such types of breads since flour bread is not typical in the Ethiopian or Eritrean diet. The beans are topped, or mixed with, a combination of oil and \"berbere\".\n\nIn Malta, \"ful bit-tewm\" (beans with garlic) is usually associated with fasting during Lent and Good Friday. The beans are soaked in water overnight, cooked in oil with garlic and fresh or dried mint, then dressed with olive oil or vinegar before serving.\n\nFul medames salad () is an Arab breakfast mezze favorite, but it is also eaten as a hearty salad. It typically consists of fava beans, chopped tomatoes, onion, parsley, lemon juice, olive oil, pepper and salt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243885", "title": "29th (Worcestershire) Regiment of Foot", "text": "29th (Worcestershire) Regiment of Foot\n\nThe 29th (Worcestershire) Regiment of Foot was an infantry regiment of the British Army, raised in 1694. Under the Childers Reforms it amalgamated with the 36th (Herefordshire) Regiment of Foot to become the 1st Battalion, the Worcestershire Regiment in 1881.\n\nThe regiment was formed on 16 February 1694 during the Nine Years War by Colonel Thomas Farrington as Thomas Farrington's Regiment of Foot. Disbanded after the 1697 Treaty of Ryswick, it was reformed in 1702 when the War of the Spanish Succession began; while intended for the West Indies, a notoriously unhealthy posting, Farringdon's protests meant instead it joined Marlborough's army in Flanders in 1704.\n\nToo late for the Blenheim campaign, it fought at the Battle of Ramillies in May 1706 and the siege of Ostend in June. Lord Mark Kerr became Colonel when Farringdon died in October 1712, but with the war winding down, it became part of the Gibraltar garrison. It remained there for the next 30 years, including the Siege of Gibraltar during the 1727-1729 Anglo-Spanish War.\n\nDuring the 1740-1748 War of the Austrian Succession, it was based in British North America and helped capture the French North American stronghold of Louisbourg in October 1745. In 1746, 27 soldiers died in the Port-la-Joye Massacre, in part because they were unarmed. In response, officers were ordered to carry swords and side arms even off duty, leading to the nickname, the \"Ever Sworded.\"\n\nThe regiment remained in North America after the 1748 Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle returned Louisbourg to France; in 1749, it helped establish the town of Halifax, Nova Scotia during Father Le Loutre's War.\n\nA significant organisational change occurred in 1751; previously, regiments were considered the property of their Colonel, changed names when transferred from one to another and were disbanded as soon as possible. As part of a package of reforms driven by the increasing professionalisation of the military, each regiment was now assigned a number, based on precedence or seniority in the Army list; Colonel Peregrine Hopson's Regiment became the 29th Regiment of Foot.\n\nGeorge Boscawen replaced Hopson as Colonel in 1752 and his brother, Admiral Edward Boscawen presented him with 10 black youths taken in the 1759 Invasion of Guadeloupe. They were employed as regimental drummers, a tradition that continued until 1843.\n\nTogether with the 14th Regiment of Foot, the 29th was posted to Boston in 1768. On 5 March 1770, members of the Grenadier company under Captain Thomas Preston were involved in the Boston Massacre, when five colonists died during a riot in front of the Boston customs house. The 29th was later dubbed the \"Vein Openers,\" for allegedly drawing first blood in the American Revolution.\n\nThose involved were tried for murder, defended by John Adams, a future President of the United States; two soldiers, Hugh Montgomery and Matthew Kilroy were found guilty of manslaughter and branded on the thumb. Preston and the others were found not guilty and following the trial, the regiment moved to British-controlled Florida in 1771, then to England in 1773.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War in 1775, the Americans tried to capture Quebec City; they were forced to retreat but the 29th arrived in Quebec in June 1776 to reinforce British forces in what is now modern Canada. The Light and Grenadier companies were detached to join the 1777 Saratoga campaign, and fought at the Battle of Hubbardton on 7 July under Brigadier Simon Fraser. Following defeat in the Battles of Saratoga, these companies surrendered with the rest of Burgoyne's force in October 1777. The other eight remained in Canada, fighting in a number of raids and small battles along the Vermont and New York state frontiers.\n\nOn 31 August 1782, the unit was renamed the 29th (Worcestershire) Regiment of Foot by a royal warrant giving county titles to all regiments that did not already have a special title. This was an attempt to improve recruitment, but no depot was established in the county and recruits were liable to serve in any regiment.\n\nThe regiment returned to England after the Anglo-French War ended in 1783; in 1791, it was given the regimental march known as 'The Royal Windsor,' allegedly composed by Princess Augusta, with the help of Lord William Cathcart.\n\nThe French Revolutionary Wars broke out in 1792 and in 1794, members of the 29th took part in the British naval victory known as the Glorious First of June, serving as marines on HMS \"Brunswick\" and \"Ramillies\". The regiment was awarded a naval crown for its participation in the battle, during which the \"Brunswick\" sank the French ship \"Le Vengeur du Peuple\" and disabled the \"Achille\". It later fought in a more conventional role at Alkmaar in October 1799, during the Anglo-Russian invasion of Holland.\n\nIn 1808, the 29th joined Wellington's army engaged in the 1807-1814 Peninsular War in Spain and Portugal. At Roliça on 17 August, it suffered heavy losses assaulting an entrenched French position, which was taken only after a prolonged defence; at Vimeiro four days later, it held off an attack by Brenier's Brigade, allowing two other British battalions to first regroup, then repulse the attack.\n\nAfter the Battle of Grijó in May, it was engaged at Talavera in July; on 27th, with two other battalions, it attacked French positions on the hill called Cerro de Medellin. This was taken by the evening and then held throughout the next day, despite a series of French attacks and artillery bombardment; two French colours were captured in a bayonet charge that drove the French regiments from the field.\n\nAt the Battle of Albuera on 16 May 1811, it suffered heavy losses, including Ensigns Edward Furnace and Richard Vance killed saving the regimental colours. After this, it returned to England to refit and recruit more men.\n\nIn 1814, the 29th returned to Nova Scotia during the War of 1812 but did not see action; it was recalled to Europe in 1815 to face Napoleon during the Hundred Days campaign but arrived shortly after the Battle of Waterloo.\n\nTransferred to Bengal in 1842, during the First Anglo-Sikh War the regiment fought at the Battle of Ferozeshah in December 1845 and the Battle of Sobraon on 10 February 1846. At Sobraon, two battalions of Indian Sepoys twice unsuccessfully assaulted the Sikh earthworks before finally breaking through on the third assault: the regiment's commanding officer, Lieutenant Colonel Charles Taylor was killed in the assault.\n\nThe regiment fought at the Battle of Chillianwala in January 1849 and the Battle of Gujrat in February 1849 during the Second Anglo-Sikh War. A large detachment from the regiment helped to keep the Grand Trunk Road open between Kabul and Bangladesh during the Indian Rebellion.\n\nIn 1873 a practical system of recruiting areas based on counties was instituted. The 29th Sub-District, consisting of the counties of Herefordshire and Worcestershire was created, with headquarters at Norton Barracks, three miles from the city of Worcester. The barracks became the depot for the regiment along with the 36th (Herefordshire) Regiment of Foot and the militia of the two counties. On 1 July 1881 the Childers Reforms came into effect and the regiment became the 1st Battalion, the Worcestershire Regiment, while the 36th became the 2nd battalion.\n\nThe regimental badge of the regiment and later of the Worcestershire Regiment show the influence of the Coldstream Guards on the regiment. The Coldstream Guards and the 29th are the only two regiments to have the elongated star and garter of the Order of the Garter as their regimental badge with its motto \"Honi Soit Qui Mal Y Pense\" translated \"Shame be to him who evil thinks\" earning a third nickname The Guards of the Line.\n\nBattle honours won by the regiment were:\n\nColonels of the Regiment were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243891", "title": "Imants", "text": "Imants\n\nImants is a Latvian masculine given name, from the Livonian language: \"im\" meaning \"miracle\" added to \"and\" meaning \"gift\". The name is borne by more than 6,250 men in Latvia. Its nameday is celebrated on 1 July.\n\nThe name is one of the relatively few surviving Latvian names of indigenous origin from among the great number revived or introduced during the Latvian National Awakening of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nAccording to the Latvian calendar, the name day for Imants is July 1.\n\nThe name Imants may refer to the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243896", "title": "Keystone Corridor", "text": "Keystone Corridor\n\nThe Keystone Corridor is a 349-mile (562 km) railroad corridor between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, that consists of two rail lines: Amtrak's Philadelphia-to-Harrisburg main line, which also hosts SEPTA's Paoli/Thorndale Line commuter rail service; and the Norfolk Southern Pittsburgh Line. The corridor was originally the Main Line of the Pennsylvania Railroad.\n\nSince 2006, the line has been one of the high-speed corridors designated by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA). The track from Lancaster to Parkesburg permits trains of up to , while the section between Paoli and Philadelphia allows .\n\nAmtrak runs two intercity rail services along the Keystone Corridor: the Harrisburg-to-New York City \"Keystone Service\" and the Pittsburgh-to-New York City \"Pennsylvanian\". SEPTA operates daily Paoli/Thorndale commuter rail service between Philadelphia and Thorndale on the Philadelphia-to-Harrisburg main line. The towns along this stretch form a socio-cultural region called the \"Philadelphia Main Line\".\n\nThe tracks from Pittsburgh to Harrisburg are owned and maintained by Norfolk Southern, which acquired them from Conrail. They include the Horseshoe Curve west of Altoona. The tracks between Harrisburg and Philadelphia are owned and maintained by Amtrak, and are the only part of the Keystone Corridor that is electrified. The tracks join the Northeast Corridor at Zoo Interlocking near the Philadelphia Zoo and 30th Street Station.\n\nThe right-of-way that would become the Keystone Corridor was mainly laid by two railroads. The tracks east of Dillerville, just west of Lancaster, were originally the Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad, part of the state-owned Main Line of Public Works. From Lancaster west to Harrisburg, the tracks were laid by the Harrisburg, Portsmouth, Mount Joy and Lancaster Railroad. Except for minor realignments, today's Keystone Corridor runs along the same path.\n\nBoth lines eventually became part of the Pennsylvania Railroad's (PRR) main line.\n\nIn 1915, the PRR electrified the line from Philadelphia's Broad Street Station to Paoli, then the west end of commuter service. Electrification west of Paoli to Harrisburg came in the 1930s, after the PRR completed electrifying its New York-Washington, D.C. section (the present-day Northeast Corridor). The total cost of electrification topped $200 million, which was financed by government-supported loans from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the Public Works Administration.\n\nPassenger service remained unprofitable, returned to profitability during World War II, and then slumped again. The PRR overhauled much of the right-of-way in the 1950s, but chose to keep paying a stable dividend rather than reinvest in infrastructure. The result was dilapidated stations, slow, disjointed track conditions, and antiquated rolling stock which frequently broke down.\n\nIn 1968, the PRR merged with the New York Central to become Penn Central, which declared bankruptcy in 1970. In 1976, Amtrak took ownership of the line between Philadelphia and Harrisburg while Conrail (the merger of Penn Central, the Reading Company, and several other Class I railroads) took ownership of the remaining part of the line and the many branches, both electrified and non-electrified, that the Penn Central had owned. Amtrak took over the express Harrisburg-New York intercity rail service in 1971, while Conrail, under SEPTA auspices, continued Harrisburg-Philadelphia commuter services. In 1983, SEPTA took over all commuter services and truncated operations to Parkesburg (later truncated in 1992 to Downingtown, but later extended to Thorndale).\n\nPenn Central made an agreement with the federal government to provide a high-speed service called the Metroliner, which upgraded the Northeast Corridor tracks between New York and Washington by 1969, but neglected other areas such as the Keystone Corridor, a lack of maintenance that continued after Amtrak's takeover in 1976. The Keystone Corridor eventually served as a \"depository\" for the problem-prone Metroliner electric multiple unit cars. Amtrak also used electric locomotive-hauled trains for Harrisburg-New York service. Before the introduction of \"Acela\" electric high-speed service over the Northeast Corridor, and after facing a shortage of electric locomotives (both E60 and AEM-7 models), Amtrak used GE Genesis diesel locomotives between Harrisburg and Philadelphia, with an engine change to an electric (usually AEM-7) locomotive at 30th Street Station. Due to the slower schedules combined with higher ticket prices and competition from SEPTA, ridership declined.\n\nThe line between Philadelphia and Lancaster was four tracks until the 1960s, when the PRR removed two of the tracks west of Paoli. The line is now two tracks from Paoli to Harrisburg, save for a three-track section between the Glen and Park interlockings, and a four-track section between the Downs and Thorn interlockings.\n\nAs of 2004, most of the track was limited to a maximum speed of , except for a few 90 mile per hour (145 km/h)) sections between Downingtown and Lancaster. There are also curves which require slower speeds (especially in the section between Merion and Overbrook), and speed restrictions within interlocking limits.\n\nIn 1999, the Keystone Corridor was formally recognized as a \"designated high speed corridor\" by the FRA, as part of the TEA-21 transportation bill. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania will fund half of the project's costs, and Amtrak will fund the other half.\n\nThe goals of this project include:\nA summary appears in an FRA report.\n\nConstruction on the USD $145 million project began on March 7, 2005 and was completed in Fall, 2006. Amtrak's press releases have summarized the improvements as:\n\nThe installation of concrete ties also included replacement of the old jointed rail with new continuous welded rail (136 RE), track surfacing, and alignment. Track surfacing is adjusting the vertical profile of the two rails, leveling the rails on straight track and introducing superelevation (banking) in curves. The are broken down as:\n\nAmtrak replaced the signal and communications system and rebuilt the overhead catenary wire and upgraded electrical substations to provide the power needed to operate several electric trains simultaneously on this line. Since October, 2006, Amtrak, having sufficient \"Acela\" high-speed trainsets, started using electric push-pull trainsets for the first time since the mid-1990s. Using AEM7 locomotives and former Metroliner m.u. coaches modified into a push-pull cab-coach (with the locomotive \"pulling\" westbound trains and \"pushing\" eastbound), the electrified service is currently used on the Harrisburg-New York \"Keystone\" service, while the Genesis diesel locomotives are still used for the Pittsburgh-New York \"Pennsylvanian\" service. As on the Northeast Corridor, Amtrak trains between Paoli and Overbrook use the high-speed inner rails for normal operations.\n\nIn March 2011, Pennsylvania received a $750,000 grant from the High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Program to investigate extending high-speed electrified service from Harrisburg to Pittsburgh.\n\nAt-grade crossings with roads between Philadelphia and Harrisburg remained until 2014. In July 1999, PennDOT budgeted $9 million for this project to eliminate the three remaining crossings; however, these funds were later used for other projects. One of the crossings was in Elizabethtown and another in Mount Joy. The third, between Mount Joy and Lancaster, was blocked off using fencing and jersey barriers. Additional funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was used to complete the elimination of all at-grade crossings. The last was closed in 2014. Private crossings remain between Philadelphia and Harrisburg. There are still grade crossings between Harrisburg and Pittsburgh.\n\nThere have been earlier studies by the USDOT and FRA of the Keystone Corridor, and these studies contain proposals or speculations which might not be in the currently funded projects. Some of these ideas are below.\n\nAmtrak service to Suburban Station, which is in Center City Philadelphia, ended in 1988. An early study says that PennDOT used Suburban Station as the Philadelphia endpoint for the 90-minute service to Harrisburg. Restoring service to Suburban Station may increase ridership but would require using the upper level of 30th Street Station and either scheduling trains to turn at Suburban Station or to continue through the Center City Commuter Tunnel (with Amtrak trains turning around at Wayne Junction).\n\nBypassing 30th Street Station by using the New York-Pittsburgh Subway would allow trains to skip a time-consuming stop and reverse of directions at 30th St Station and allow fast service between New York and Harrisburg. Historically, the PRR fast trains going to NY from the west would bypass 30th St Station, and passengers for Philadelphia would change trains at North Philadelphia. One study suggested two daily electric-train round-trips between New York and Harrisburg with stops in North Philadelphia and Ardmore, a routing last used by Keystone trains in 1994.\n\nTrack reconfiguration between Zoo and Overbrook interlockings can increase track speeds which are usually due to the need to take diverging routes through switches. Reducing the number of diverging moves and the use of switches can increase speeds. Also, the reconfiguration can allow for the removal of the overhead bridge that the R6 Cynwyd trains use. Some other interlockings may be removed or reconfigured. With the reconfiguration near Zoo, the Overbrook interlocking can be removed and replaced with 4 through tracks. Bryn Mawr interlocking may have storage tracks added west of the station to allow R5 Bryn Mawr locals to turn without occupying an express track. Paoli interlocking may be removed if the four-track configuration were to continue west of the station. Paoli station may be reconfigured with high-level island platforms serving all four tracks, as part of a new Paoli transportation center. Frazer interlocking may be reconfigured for turning SEPTA trains and as the point where four tracks become two.\n\nElectrification may be converted to use commercial 60 Hz AC power instead of the special 25 Hz single-phase AC currently in use, although this is doubtful due to the costs involved, lack of real benefits and dedicated 25 Hz hydro-electric capacity at the Safe Harbor Dam. The Safe Harbor Dam also generates electricity for the Northeast Corridor itself, the power going from the dam to the NEC (at Perryville, Maryland), via a pylon network. Between Paoli and 30th Street Station, most of the overhead electric wire and other electrification system components date back to the original 1915 electrification, although the 1915 substations have been retired. West of Paoli the electrification dates from the late 1930s, and west of Downingtown the system is still controlled by the original 1939 power dispatching office in Harrisburg, utilizing electromechanical systems.\n\nThe four-track section between Overbrook and Paoli is numbered sequentially from the southernmost track (number 1 track) to the northernmost track (number 4 track).\n\nBetween March 7 and June 27, 2005, Amtrak worked on the number 4 track between Lancaster and Parkesburg, and from June 27 to September 2, 2005, they worked on number 1 track. A work gang with a track laying system (TLS) installed concrete crossties, new continuous welded rail, and new ballast, allowing for . The track layout at Lancaster station was simplified so that trains no longer have to take a diverging route to access the station platforms. Because tracks 2 and 3 have been removed, tracks 1 and 4 are the only tracks in this section.\n\nBetween October 3, 2005 and mid-December, Amtrak worked on the number 2 track from Paoli to a point between Narberth and Merion stations. On March 20, 2006, Amtrak started working on the number 3 track, starting within Paoli interlocking and working east towards Overbrook. As of April 6, 2006, a track laying system (TLS) has completed work to approximately milepost 16.7. 110-mph service started on October 30, 2006 following completion of a $145 million upgrade of the 104-mile line. Push-pull express trains will cut journey time from the current two hours to 90 minutes. Local service will improve to 105 minutes. Three weekday and two weekend roundtrips will be added as well.\n\nThe busiest part of the Keystone Corridor is the segment between Harrisburg and New York City, which sees multiple trains per day.\n\nThe following Amtrak rail lines serve Keystone Corridor stations:\n\nSEPTA Regional Rail operates commuter rail service on the Keystone Corridor between 30th Street Station and Thorndale as the Paoli/Thorndale Line service. Efforts to re-extend the line to Parkesburg and even to Atglen were under discussion by state Congressman Jim Gerlach, R-PA 6, and the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission. On March 7, 2019, it was announced that SEPTA service would be extended back to Coatesville \"in the near future\", with a new Coatesville station to be built.\n\nThe Cynwyd Line service also uses the line between 30th Street Station and the Valley interlocking. The proposed Schuylkill Valley Metro service to Reading would have also used this line. There is also a proposal to shift the line to eliminate a deteriorating truss bridge.\n\nA project to bring commuter rail service between Harrisburg and Lancaster called CorridorOne is in the early stages of planning.\n\nSEPTA's capital budget for fiscal year 2006 describes an $80.594 million project coordinated with the Amtrak project. SEPTA's effort to improve tracks 1 and 4 between Zoo and Paoli interlockings, will include:\n\nNorfolk Southern operates overnight freight service between the western junction of the Trenton Cutoff (a former Penn Central electrified \"through-freight\" line) and just west of Parkesburg via trackage rights, mainly supplying the ArcelorMittal steel plate manufacturing plant in Coatesville. Norfolk Southern also operates Enola Yard, a major freight classification yard near Harrisburg. Two other electrified through-freight lines, the Atglen and Susquehanna Branch (a.k.a. the Low-Grade Line) and the Philadelphia and Thorndale Branch, were abandoned by Conrail before its purchase by Norfolk Southern, with NS still maintaining the Low-Grade Line due to the catenary poles servicing the Keystone Corridor between Lancaster and Middletown, while the former has been looked at by the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission as a possible \"\"Cross-County Metro\"\" project connecting Thorndale with Trenton, New Jersey. Although there is electrified service on portions of the line all freight traffic is served using diesel locomotives.\n\nThe \"Broadway Limited\", a train that operated between Chicago and New York, used the Keystone Corridor between Pittsburgh and Philadelphia and the Northeast Corridor between Philadelphia and New York. Originally a Pennsylvania Railroad train, this route was discontinued by Amtrak in 1995 but later restarted by the passenger rail company and renamed the \"Three Rivers\". The \"Three Rivers\" was discontinued in 2005, eliminating direct passenger rail service between Philadelphia and Chicago. (Amtrak's current Chicago-to-Washington, D.C. service, the Capitol Limited, uses the rail line west of Pittsburgh).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243897", "title": "League of Electronic Musical Urban Robots", "text": "League of Electronic Musical Urban Robots\n\nThe League of Electronic Musical Urban Robots, or LEMUR, is a Brooklyn-based group of artists and technologists developing robotic musical instruments. Founded in 2000 by musician and engineer Eric Singer, LEMUR's philosophy is to build robotic instruments that play themselves. In LEMUR designs, the robots are the instruments.\n\nLEMUR is supported in part by grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, the New York State Council on the Arts (NYSCA), the Greenwall Foundation, the Jerome Foundation, and Arts International. LEMUR is also sponsored by Harvestworks Digital Media Arts Center.\n\nLEMUR is Eric Singer, Jeff Feddersen, Milena Iossifova, Bil Bowen, R. Luke DuBois, Leif Krinkle, Roberto Osorio-Goenaga, Bob Huott, Ajay Kapur, Rocío Barcia, and Marius Schebella; LEMUR composers include Joshua Fried, Mari Kimura, Brendan Adamson, and Lee Ranaldo; past contributors include Kevin Larke, David Bianciardi, Michelle Cherian, Michael Hearst, Brendan J. FitzGerald, Chad Redmon, They Might Be Giants, and Kate Chapman.\n\nGuitarbot\n<br>modBots\n\n"}
{"id": "2243904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243904", "title": "Kugluktuk", "text": "Kugluktuk\n\nKugluktuk (Inuinnaqtun: \"Qurluktuk\", \"the place of moving water\"; Inuktitut syllabics: ᖁᕐᓗᖅᑐᖅ , formerly Coppermine until 1 January 1996) is a hamlet located at the mouth of the Coppermine River in the Kitikmeot Region of Nunavut, Canada, on Coronation Gulf, southwest of Victoria Island. It is the westernmost community in Nunavut, near the border with the Northwest Territories.\n\nThe traditional language of the area is Inuinnaqtun and is written using the Latin alphabet, rather than the syllabics of the Inuktitut writing system. Like Cambridge Bay, Bathurst Inlet, and Umingmaktok, syllabics are rarely seen and are used mainly by the Government of Nunavut.\n\nThe community has the usual services: a post office, Northern Store, co-op store, and Hunters & Trappers Association. The two schools in the area are Kugluktuk High School and Jimmy Hikok Ilihakvik. In June 2004, a fuel line broke in the centre of Kugluktuk, spilling of diesel fuel.\n\nAt the 2016 census, the population was 1,491, an increase of 2.8% from the 2011 census. The Population centre showed a population of 1,057, in an area of , an increase of 1% from 2011.\n\nIn 1982, a division plebiscite was held. While approximately 80% of the population in what is now Nunavut voted in favour of division, Coppermine was one of only two communities to vote against division. Cambridge Bay was the other.\n\nThe community has been served by the Qiniq network since 2005. Qiniq is a fixed wireless service to homes and businesses, connecting to the outside world via a satellite backbone. The Qiniq network is designed and operated by SSI Micro. In 2017, the network was upgraded to 4G LTE technology, and 2G-GSM for mobile voice.\n\nKugluktuk is located on the shore of the Arctic Ocean. The surrounding landscape is dominated by the rocky and often barren Canadian Shield. The region has a subarctic climate, but barely so, with July having an average of . It has very cold and extremely dry winters, light snowfall. Though trees do exist in the region, they are dwarfed and extremely sparse.\n\nPlant growth in the region during summer months includes small shrubs, grass, moss, lichens, blueberries, blackberries, cranberries, various flowers, and dwarf willow and birch trees.\n\nKugluktuk features a subarctic climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Dfc\"); like most of mainland Nunavut; with wet summers and dry winters. It is in the transitional zone to a cold tundra climate (\"ET\"), but falls outside of it, since its warmest month of July surpasses the isotherm, averaging .\n\nThe highest temperature ever recorded in Kugluktuk was on 15 July 1989. The coldest temperature ever recorded was on 2 February 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243915", "title": "Sokol (Moscow Metro)", "text": "Sokol (Moscow Metro)\n\nSokol (, ) is a Moscow Metro station on the Zamoskvoretskaya Line. The station opened on 11 September 1938. Designed by K. Yakovlev, V. Polikarpova, and V. Andreev, it features a single row of pillars which flare upward into the arched ceiling, separated by circular coffers. Sokol is finished in a variety of materials, including white and gray Koyelga marble, onyx, granite, and white ceramic tile. The two entrances to the station are located on both sides of Leningradsky Prospekt. An additional exit to the underpass is available from the south end of the platform. Another entrance was cut in 2003 from the nearby Metro Market shopping center. It was the northwestern terminus of the line until 1964 when 3 northern stations were opened. A Zamoskvoretskaya Line depot is located near the station.\n\nThe station is named after the Sokol cooperative settlement (built in the 1920s) that also gave name to the Sokol District.\n\nOn 19 March 2006, a section of tunnel between Sokol and Voykovskaya stations collapsed and fell onto a metro train. It was reported that the accident was due to workers setting up an advertising billboard in the street above the tunnel. Despite a concrete slab piercing one of the carriages the accident did not cause any injuries.\n"}
{"id": "2243919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243919", "title": "Light aircraft manufacturers in the Czech Republic", "text": "Light aircraft manufacturers in the Czech Republic\n\nCzechoslovakia had significant history in producing aircraft but the aeronautical industry was extremely influenced by several negative factors at the end of the 1980s. The collapse of the East European market, combined with the world recession reduced the production of all aircraft manufacturers.\n\nSince 1990 many small private companies specializing mainly in the production of light sporting aircraft were founded. These firms are headed by very experienced engineers and workers, being former employees of big state owned aeronautical factories. Czech Republic became third largest manufacturer of such planes (after France and Germany).\n\nIncomplete list of manufacturers:\n"}
{"id": "2243921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243921", "title": "Gone Nutty", "text": "Gone Nutty\n\nGone Nutty (also known as Scrat's Missing Adventure) is an animated short film, directed by Carlos Saldanha for Blue Sky Studios. The short features the character Scrat from \"Ice Age\", who is yet again having troubles with collecting his beloved acorns. It was released on November 26, 2002 on the \"Ice Age\" DVD and VHS.\n\nThe film was nominated for the 2003 Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film.\n\nThe short begins with Scrat (Chris Wedge) after escaping the migration,\nreturning to a huge tree, hollowed out and filled to the brim with acorns. There is one more empty spot in the middle of the acorns where Scrat tries to stuff the last acorn he brought with him (he first tries to put it in the same way he had done in the opening of the first film, but he seems to remember what would happen if he did, so he gently screws it in instead). However, it pops back out when his back is turned and after two more tries at getting it in place—both with the same result—Scrat gets frustrated and stomps it into place, unwittingly causing all the acorns to fall out of a hole in the tree. The avalanche of acorns sends Scrat sliding down the side of a mountain. The acorns and Scrat then go into free fall.\n\nA short musical scene follows (to the tune of Tchaikovsky's Sleeping Beauty Waltz), with Scrat collecting acorns as he falls. Eventually Scrat collects and forms a 3-D sphere with the acorns, but then (with Scrat on top of it) it tilts upside down so Scrat and the acorns finally land hard on the icy land down below. There is one lone acorn left in the atmosphere (presumably the one he was trying to stuff into the tree). Scrat, stuck in the snow, is only able to free his arms before the acorn impacts right between his eyes with the force of a rifle bullet. The extreme force with which the acorn hits the ground results in a great big earthquake, shaping the Earth's continents (probably Pangaea) into their present-day form and trapping Scrat on the original spot from the center of the impact. When Scrat digs out the acorn, he finds it has been charred and thus crumbled into ash. Disappointed and defeated, he turns to the camera, sighs and puts on the remaining acorn cap as a beret.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243922", "title": "Chapingo", "text": "Chapingo\n\nChapingo is a small town located on the outskirts of the city of Texcoco, State of Mexico in central Mexico.\n\nIt is located at , about east-northeast of Mexico City International Airport.\n\nChapingo is most notable as the location of Chapingo Autonomous University \"(Universidad Autónoma Chapingo).\" The UACh, as it is known, is the country's most prestigious center for agricultural studies. It was founded as the National School of Agriculture in Mexico City in 1854 and has been located on its current Chapingo campus since 1923.\n\nIt is very close, about from both the Colegio de Posgraduados (CP) postgraduate study centre and the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT). \nChapingo combines with these other leading centers to form an unofficial \"national consortium for agricultural development\". \n\nIn the surrounding area is located also a new urban development now close to the municipal seat, Texcoco, cradle of the prehispanic Acolhuan culture, whose greatest figure was King Nezahualcoyotl. \nThis urban settlement comprises Chapingo, Huexotla, Unidad ISSSTE (residential area for staff of UACH) as well as Salitreria and Texcoco (pop. 150,000).\n\nUniversity of Chapingo holds students from all states of Mexico, through an admission process carried out every year. This process not only gives admission but awards full scholarships to all students selected. Students are divided into three categories, depending on their socioeconomical status, however, no fees are charged to any national student. On the other hand it holds rooms and facilities to accommodate students in campus.\n\nThe Autonomous university was a locus of work of the Rockefeller Foundation's initial support for beginnings of the Green Revolution with Norman Borlaug, who did a series of research projects on wheat varieties in the mid-1940s. UAC remains an important center for research.\n"}
{"id": "2243925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243925", "title": "Paul Rea", "text": "Paul Rea\n\nPaul V. Rea is an American radio, TV and web journalist, and media personality based in Clarkesville, Georgia.\n\nRea was born in Clarkesville, Georgia to Judy, a florist, and James M. Rea, an attorney. According to his mother, he wanted to be a DJ at an early age. When he was 6, Rea called a radio classifieds show, \"Dial and Deal\" on WIAF-AM, offering to sell his older sister. There were no takers. He also hosted the morning announcements at Habersham Central High School.\n\nRea began his career in 1983 at age 14 as an afternoon and weekend radio host and News Anchor for Clarkesville's WIAF. He was one of the station's youngest DJs.\n\nAfter completing high school, Rea went on to attend the University of Georgia, where he majored in Journalism. During his freshman year of college, Rea worked for both WGAU and WNGC as a DJ. Rea left the stations in 1988 to work for cross-town rival WBKZ, where he held the largely ceremonial title of Afternoon News Director.\n\nWriting and reporting news was a fraction of Rea's job. He was mostly a Disc Jockey playing oldies records from the 1950s and 1960s. While working for the station, he scored one significant story for it. During the 1988 Democratic National Convention in Atlanta, actor Rob Lowe became involved in a sex scandal with a 16-year-old girl. Rea managed to get one of the few interviews with Hue Henry, the attorney who sued Lowe on behalf of the girl and her mother. In 1989 Rea returned to WNGC as the host of their \"All Night Request Show.\"\n\nIn 1991 Rea was promoted to Music Director and Midday Host at WNGC. His work on the popular \"Paul Rea Midday\" led to an offer to host an afternoon video music show on Athens TV station WNGM-TV. In 1992 he joined actress/model Eaddy Thomas (Eaddy Mays) to co-host a morning news show on WNGM.\n\nWhen the show was canceled in 1994, Rea went back to radio at Magic 102.1 FM in Athens. He was reunited with Thomas and hosted a successful morning show for the station until leaving again for television news.\n\nIn 1997 he joined WNEG-TV the CBS affiliate in Toccoa, Georgia as a reporter and then as anchor of the \"Daybreak\" morning news show.\n\nHe joined WSAV-TV in Savannah in 2000 as a photojournalist. During his year at the station, he began his investigation of the Tybee Bomb.\n\nThe nuclear weapon was lost near Tybee Island, Georgia in the 1950s. With the help of amateur bomb hunters, Rea discovered documents that showed the weapon might still be dangerous, due to a small quantity of plutonium believed to be inside. These reports were rejected by the United States Department of Defense but the United States Air Force reopened the investigation, first in 2001 and again in 2005. Both recent investigations maintain the weapon is lost and no danger to the public.\n\nIn the summer of 2000, Rea was attacked while covering a story in Coffee County, Georgia. The incident came to light in a November 2005 article on TV journalists in \"Georgia Trend\" magazine. The article, \"Who's Who in TV News\" by Jerry Grillo, ranked Rea as one of the top reporters in the state.\n\nGrillo wrote:\n\nThough Rea almost certainly is the only person on \"Georgia Trend\"'s Who's Who list of TV news people to have taped his own beating, his experience defines the pluck and tenacity of the TV journalist.\nWhile the magazine claims Rea's camera was rolling during the attack, the footage was never broadcast.\n\nRea returned to anchor, write and produce the morning show at WNEG-TV in 2001. He also produced the station's popular \"Georgia Journey\" segments, showcasing unique people and places in Northeast Georgia.\n\nRea returned to WSAV-TV in 2003 to oversee the station's Community Report, covering neighborhood issues such as crime, blight, policing issues, and poverty in Savannah. Special reports include \"Counting Cops,\" in which he showed the Savannah Metropolitan Police Department was seriously understaffed, and \"Houses From Hell,\" which drew attention to some of the city's worst dilapidated houses.\n\nRea left his position at WSAV-TV in 2008. In 2009 he began working as a Media and Messaging Consultant for government and corporate clients including the City of Savannah.\n\nHe was a news reader on Fox News Radio 810 WYZI in Royston, Georgia from 2010 to 2014.\n\nOn September 24, 2010, Rea debuted as the anchor of \"Newsnight on the Patriot\", on WRWR-LD channel 38.1 in Warner Robins, Georgia. but this position was temporary. Behind the scenes, Rea was tasked with developing all programming for the fledgling station. During the six months of the station's launch, Rea oversaw the development of four original local programs, including a two-hour nightly local newscast. He helped transition two existing shows from radio to television.\n\nIn 2011 Rea returned to Savannah to provide media and messaging support to political clients in advance of that year's municipal elections. As of 2015, he returned to his hometown of Clarkesville, Georgia where he was a contributor to local news website nowhabersham.com.\n"}
{"id": "2243930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243930", "title": "Sati (Hindu goddess)", "text": "Sati (Hindu goddess)\n\nSati (, , ), is also known as Dākṣāyaṇī (Sanskrit: दाक्षायणी, lit. \"daughter of Daksha\"). Tamil \"Tāṭcāyiṇi\" , Telugu Dākṣāyaṇī . Kannada \"Dakshayani\" , Sati is the goddess of marital felicity and longevity in Hinduism. An aspect of Adi Parashakti, Sati(Dakshayani) is the first consort of Shiva, the second being Parvati who is the reincarnation of Sati.\n\nIn Hindu legend, both Sati and Parvati, successively play the role of bringing Shiva away from ascetic isolation into creative participation with the world.\n\nQueen Prasuti desired a daughter, Lord Brahma advised her and her husband Daksha to meditate upon the Goddess Adi-Parashakti. They gave up their royal robes, put on the guises of saints, and sat in a forest and meditated upon Goddess Adi-Parashakti. After a long time, Goddess Adi-Parashakti appeared awakening Daksha and Prasuti from their penance. Adi Parashakti invited them to request the desired boon from her, Daksha asked the Goddess to take birth again as their daughter. The Goddess gave them their consent but also gave them a warning that if ever she should be insulted, she would take up her Celestial form and disown them. Daksha and Prasuti agreed to take care of her.\n\nBack in their palace, Adi Parashakti again took human birth at the bidding of Lord Brahma. Daksha and Prasuti named their daughter Sati. Daksha was a son of Brahma and a great king in his own right. Also known as Dakshayani (being daughter of Prajapati Daksha), Sati was a newborn to Daksha and Prasuti's 23 daughters. In bidding of Adi-Parashakti to take human birth, Brahma's design was that she would please Shiva with humble devotions and wed him. It was natural that Sati, even as a child, adored the tales and legends associated with Shiva told by sage Narada and grew up an ardent devotee. As she grew to womanhood, the idea of marrying anyone else, as intended by her father, became unfair to her.\n\nTo win the regard of the ascetic Shiva, the daughter of king Daksha forsook the luxuries of her father's palace and retired to a forest, there to devote herself to austerities and the worship of Shiva. So rigorous were her penances that she gradually renounced food itself, at one stage subsisting on one leaf a day, and then giving up even that nourishment; this particular abstinence earned her the name Aparna. Her prayers finally bore fruit when, after testing her resolve, Shiva finally acceded to her wishes and consented to make her his bride.\n\nAn ecstatic Sati returned to her father's home to await her bridegroom, but found her father less than elated by the turn of events. The wedding was however held in due course, and Sati made her home with Shiva in Kailash. Daksha, depicted in legend as an arrogant king, did not get on with his renunciative son-in-law and basically cut his daughter away from her natal family. Daksha organized a yagna ritual and invited all the Gods, Goddesses and princes. But he did not invite Shiva or Sati because he was unhappy that his daughter had married an ascetic Shiva. Sati learnt about the yagna and asked Shiva to go with her. When Shiva refused, Sati insisted upon going and was escorted by Shiva's troops to her father's kingdom. Upon reaching, Daksha got angry on seeing her and yelled at her telling her she was not welcome. Sati tried to make him understand but to no avail.\n\nIt is said that when Daksha did not stop yelling, the angered Sati took the form of the goddess, \"Adi Parashakti\". Lightning and thunder threatened to destroy the Earth. All sorts of calamities arose as Mother Earth couldn't bear her strong radiance and power. The Gods, saints, sages, her mother, father and her sisters trembled in fear and respectfully saluted her, who was the Mother of the Universe (Jagadamba). Adi Parashakti introduced herself as the Eternal Power to Daksha and cursed him to be killed by Shiva, inclusive of all the Gods, princes and Goddesses. She cursed the yagna ritual, that it will never be completed, that Tamas would subdue its Sattvik nature.\n\nShe declared that from that moment, she renounces all the mortal relationships, nothing binds her.\n\nShe gave her final salutations to her husband Lord Shiva, and the mother of this mortal body, and then she prayed, hoped, that she be reborn to a father, whom she could respect.\n\nSo saying, Devi Sati immolated her mortal body through the invocation and provocation of her yogic powers.\n\nAs the Tatva of Shakti left the mortal shell, the mortal body of Devi Sati collapsed to the floor in scorching flames.\n\nAngered and grief-stricken Shiva learnt about Sati's death and he rendered a terrible \"Tandava\" or dance of destruction, the more Shiva danced, the more destruction arose. Later, Shiva pulled two locks of hair and fell it on the ground. One arose Virabhadra, Shiva's destructive and terrible incarnation, having eight hands holding weapons and possessing a dark complexion. The second arose Bhadrakali, the Supreme Goddess's violent and intense incarnation, having eighteen hands holding weapons like a discus, dagger, trident, spear, mace, scimitar, sword, vajra, conch shell, demon head, drinking vessel, goad, waterpot, cleaver, shield, bow and arrow. Shiva ordered them to wreak havoc. Virabhadra and Bhadrakali were assisted by eight other Goddesses named Kali, Katyayini, Chamunda, Ishaani, Mundamardini, Bhadra, Vaishnavi and Twarita who appeared at their side. In other versions, it was said that first Virabhadra arose and after he was held captive by Vishnu, who was protecting Daksha since he was Vishnu's devotee and the Lord had promised him protection in time of need, Shiva created Bhadrakali who freed Virabhadra and was embedded in him and rendered him more powerful.\n\nDaksha himself was decapitated by Virabhadra, while, others fell upon Daksha and Bhrigu's demon armies. After the night of horror, Shiva, the all-forgiving, restored all those who were slain to life and granted them his blessings. Even the abusive and culpable Daksha was restored both his life and his kingship. His severed head was substituted for that of a goat. Having learned his lesson, Daksha spent his remaining years as a devotee of Shiva. Out of grief and sorrow, Shiva carried Sati's body reminiscing their moments as a couple, and roamed around the universe with it. Vishnu had cut her body into 51 body parts using his Sudarshana Chakra which fell on Earth to become holy spots to pray to the Goddess named Shakti Peeths, to complete this massively long task, Lord Shiva took the form of Bhairava.\n\nEntirely all of her body parts were the symbolism of each manifestation of Goddess Adi-Parashakti, Bhairava has incarnated himself to protect her Shakti Peeths in different forms for the protection from the evil forces. After long interval, Adishakti was reborn as Parvati, who was also known as Uma or Hemavati, daughter of Himavan, king of the mountains, and his wife Menavati. This time, she was born the daughter of a father whom she could respect, a father who appreciated Shiva ardently. Naturally, she grew up to be a beautiful woman and harboured a sincere love and devotion to Shiva. In course of time, Parvati began to love Shiva with her entire being. She too went to the forest to do meditation to please her beloved, Lord Shiva and to attain him again as her husband. Lord Shiva consented to make her his bride once more. In course of time, she married Lord Shiva and gave birth to Karttikeya, Ashokasundari and the gana headed god Ganesha.\n\nDaksha once organized a grand \"yajna\" to which all the Gods were invited, with the exception of Sati and Shiva. Wanting to visit her parents, relatives and childhood friends, Sati sought to rationalize this omission. She reasoned within herself that her parents had neglected to make a formal invitation to them only because, as family, such formality was unnecessary; certainly, she needed no invitation to visit her own mother and would go anyway. Shiva sought to dissuade her, but she was resolved upon going; he then provided her with an escort of his \"ganas\" and bid her provoke no incident.\n\nSati was received coldly by her father. They were soon in the midst of a heated argument about the virtues (and alleged lack thereof) of Shiva. Every passing moment made it clearer to Sati that her father was entirely incapable of appreciating the many excellent qualities of her husband who was a god himself. The realization then came to Sati that this abuse was being heaped on Shiva only because he had wed her; she was the cause of this dishonour to her husband. She was consumed by rage against her father and loathing for his mentality. Her intense anger made her assume the celestial form of Adishakti whereby she terrorized all who were present there and her anger wrought havoc upon the Earth. Introducing herself to everyone, she cursed Daksha to die at Shiva's hands. Later, remembering her husband she called up a prayer that she may, in a future birth, be born the daughter of a father whom she could respect, Adishakti burnt Sati's body because of her radiance and heat as she was the Goddess of all energy and power(Shakti) (or) Sati invoked her yogic powers or yogic Agni which was attained by her due to severe devotion or puja done by her and immolated herself.\n\nShiva sensed this catastrophe, and his rage was incomparable. He loved Sati more than any and would never love any other woman after her. He danced the terrible Tandava or Rudratandava, a terrible dance of destruction and the power of his dance wrought havoc upon the Earth and threatened to give rise to Pralaya or the Great Destruction. He realized that Daksha had indirectly, killed Sati by his abuses and insults. In his terrible anger, he pulled a lock of hair (jata) and threw it on the ground from which arose Virabhadra and Bhadrakali, or collectively Manbhadra, two ferocious creatures who wreaked havoc and mayhem on the scene of the horrific incident. Nearly all those present were indiscriminately felled overnight. Daksha himself was decapitated.\n\nAccording to some traditions, it is believed that an angry Shiva performed the fearsome and awe-inspiring \"Tandava\" dance with Sati's charred body on his shoulders. During this dance, Sati's body came apart and the pieces fell at different places on earth. According to another version, Shiva placed Sati's body on his shoulder and ran about the world, crazed with grief. The Gods called upon the God Vishnu to restore Shiva to normalcy and calm. Vishnu used his Sudarshana Chakra to dismember Sati's lifeless body, following which Shiva regained his equanimity. Both versions state that Sati's body was thus dismembered into 51 pieces which fell on earth at various places. Several different listings of these 51 holy places, known as \"Shakti Peethas,\" are available; some of these places have become major centers of pilgrimage as they are held by the Goddess-oriented Shakta sect to be particularly holy. Besides 51 main Shakti peethas, some small peethas like Bindudham came into existence which are due to Sati's fallen blood drops.\n\nAfter the night of horror, Shiva, the all-forgiving, restored all those who were slain to life and granted them his blessings. Even the abusive and culpable Daksha was restored both to life and to kingship. His severed head was substituted for that of a goat. Having learned his lesson, Daksha spent his remaining years as a devotee of Shiva.\n\nDakshayani was reborn as Parvati, daughter of Himavat, king of the mountains, and his wife, Mena. This time, she was born the daughter of a father whom she could respect, a father who appreciated Shiva ardently. Naturally, Parvati sought and received Shiva as her husband. This legend appears in detail in Tantra literature, in the Puranas and in Kālidāsa's lyrical \"Kumārasambhava\", an epic that deals primarily with the birth of Kartikeya.\n\nKottiyoor Festival\n\nThe mythology of Daksha Yaga and Sati's self-immolation had immense significance in shaping the ancient Sanskrit literature and even had impact on the culture of India. It led to the development of the concept of Shakti Peethas and there by strengthening Shaktism. Enormous mythological stories in puranas took the Daksha yaga as the reason for its origin. It is an important incident in Shaivism resulting in the emergence of Shree Parvati in the place of Sati Devi and making Shiva a grihastashrami (house holder) leading to the origin of Ganapathy and Subrahmanya.\n\nShakti Peethas are shrines or divine places of the Mother Goddess. These are places that are believed to have enshrined with the presence of Shakti due to the falling of body parts of the corpse of Sati Devi, when Lord Shiva carried it and wandered throughout Aryavartha in sorrow. There are 51 Shakti Peethas linking to the 51 alphabets in Sanskrit. Nandikeshwari Temple is one of them.\n\nKottiyoor Vysakha Mahotsavam, a 27‑day yagnja ceremony, conducted in the serene hilly jungle location in North Kerala yearly commemorating the Daksha Yaga. It is believed that Sati Devi self immolated in this location and apparently this is the location of Daksha Yaga. The pooja and rituals were classified by Shri Sankaracharya.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243931", "title": "The Bus", "text": "The Bus\n\nThe Bus may refer to:\n\nArts and entertainment:\n\nPeople:\n\nPublic transportation:\n\n"}
{"id": "2243939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243939", "title": "Hainan Island incident", "text": "Hainan Island incident\n\nThe Hainan Island incident occurred on April 1, 2001, when a United States Navy EP-3E ARIES II signals intelligence aircraft and a People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) J-8II interceptor fighter jet collided in mid-air, resulting in an international dispute between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China (PRC).\n\nThe EP-3 was operating about away from the PRC island province of Hainan, and about away from the Chinese military installation in the Paracel Islands, when it was intercepted by two J-8 fighters. A collision between the EP-3 and one of the J-8s caused the death of a PRC pilot (declared dead after being missing), and the EP-3 was forced to make an emergency landing on Hainan. The 24 crew members were detained and interrogated by the Chinese authorities until a statement was delivered by the United States government regarding the incident. The exact phrasing of this document was intentionally ambiguous and allowed both countries to save face while defusing a potentially volatile situation between militarily strong regional states.\n\nThis sea area includes the South China Sea Islands, which are claimed by the PRC and several other countries. It is one of the most strategically sensitive areas in the world.\nThe United States and the People's Republic of China disagree on the legality of the overflights by U.S. naval aircraft of the area where the incident occurred. This part of the South China Sea comprises part of the PRC's exclusive economic zone based on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the Chinese claim that the Paracel Islands belong to China. This and similar claims have been persistently contested by Vietnam and the Philippines. The United States remains neutral in these disputes, but patrols the sea regularly with military ships and planes, under what it calls \"freedom of navigation\" operations. The PRC interprets the Convention as allowing it to preclude other nations' military operations within this area, but the United States does not recognize China's claim over the Paracel Islands and maintains that the Convention grants free navigation for all countries' aircraft and ships, including military aircraft and ships, within a country's exclusive economic zone. Notably, the United States is not party of UNCLOS.\nA PRC Sukhoi Su-27 force is based at Hainan. The island also houses a large signals intelligence facility for national security purposes that tracks civil and military activity in the area and monitors traffic from commercial communications satellites. As early as May 22, 1951, Hainan was targeted at the behest of U.S. Naval Intelligence for RAF photo-reconnaissance overflights, using Spitfire PR Mk 19s based at Kai Tak Airport in Hong Kong.\n\nThe EP-3 (BuNo \"156511\"), assigned to Fleet Air Reconnaissance Squadron One (VQ-1, \"World Watchers\"), had taken off as Mission PR32 from Kadena Air Base in Okinawa, Japan. At about 09:15 local time, toward the end of the EP-3's six-hour ELINT mission, two Chinese J-8s from Lingshui airfield, on the Chinese island of Hainan, approached the EP-3 as it flew at and , on a heading of 110°, about away from the island. One of the J-8s (\"81192\"), piloted by Lt. Cdr. Wang Wei, made two close passes to the EP-3. On the third pass, it collided with the larger aircraft. The J-8 broke into two pieces; the EP-3's radome detached completely and its No. 1 (outer left) propeller was severely damaged. Airspeed and altitude data were lost, the aircraft depressurized, and an antenna became wrapped around the tailplane. The J-8's tail fin struck the EP-3's left aileron forcing it fully upright, and causing the U.S. aircraft to roll to the left at 3–4 times its normal maximum rate.\nThe impact sent the EP-3 into a 30° dive at a bank angle of 130°, almost inverted. It dropped in 30 seconds, and fell another before the pilot, Lt. Shane Osborn, got the EP-3's wings level and the nose up. In a September 2003 article in \"Naval Aviation News\", Osborn said that once he regained control of the aircraft he \"called for the crew to prepare to bail out.\" He then managed to control the aircraft's descent by using emergency power on the working engines, such that an emergency landing on Hainan became a possibility.\n\nFor the next 26 minutes the crew of the EP-3 carried out an emergency plan which included destroying sensitive items on board the aircraft, such as electronic equipment related to intelligence gathering, documents and data. Part of this plan involved pouring freshly brewed coffee into disk drives and motherboards. The crew had not been formally trained on how to destroy sensitive documents and equipment, and as a result had to improvise.\n\nThe EP-3 made an unauthorized emergency landing at Lingshui airfield, after at least 15 distress signals had gone unanswered, with the emergency code selected on the transponder. It landed at , with no flaps, no trim, and a damaged left elevator, weighing . Following the collision, the failure of the nose cone had disabled the No. 3 (inner right) engine, and the No. 1 propeller could not be feathered, leading to increased drag on that side. There was no working airspeed indicator or altimeter, and Osborn used full right aileron during the landing. The surviving Chinese interceptor had landed there 10 minutes earlier.\n\nLt. Cdr. Wang was seen to eject after the collision, but the Pentagon said that the damage to the underside of the EP-3 could mean that the cockpit of the Chinese fighter jet was crushed, making it impossible for the pilot to survive. Wang's body was never recovered, and he was declared dead.\n\nBoth the cause of the collision and the assignment of blame were disputed. The U.S. government claimed that the Chinese jet bumped the wing of the larger, slower, and less maneuverable EP-3. After returning to U.S. soil, the pilot of the EP-3, Lt. Shane Osborn, was allowed to make a brief statement in which he said that the EP-3 was on autopilot and in straight-and-level flight at the time of the collision. He stated that he was just \"guarding the autopilot\" in his interview with \"Frontline\". The U.S. released video footage from previous missions which revealed that American reconnaissance crews had previously been intercepted by the same aircraft.\n\nBased on the account of Wang Wei's wingman, the Chinese government stated that the American aircraft \"veered at a wide angle towards the Chinese\", in the process ramming the J-8. This claim cannot be verified since the Chinese government did not release data from the flight recorders of either aircraft, both of which are in its possession.\n\nFor 15 minutes after landing, the EP-3 crew continued to destroy sensitive items and data on board the aircraft, as per protocol. They disembarked from the aircraft after soldiers looked through windows, pointed guns, and shouted through bullhorns. The Chinese offered them water and cigarettes. Kept under close guard, they were taken to a military barracks at Lingshui where they were interrogated for two nights before being moved to lodgings in Haikou, the provincial capital and largest city on the island. They were generally treated well, but were interrogated at all hours, and so suffered from lack of sleep. They found the Chinese food unpalatable as it included fish heads, but this later improved. Guards gave them decks of cards and an English-language newspaper. To pass the time and keep spirits up, Lts. Honeck and Vignery worked up humorous routines based on the television shows \"The People's Court\", \"Saturday Night Live\" and \"The Crocodile Hunter\". These were performed as they went to meals, the only time they were together. They gradually developed good relations with their guards, with one guard inquiring of them the lyrics for the song \"Hotel California\" by the Eagles.\n\nThree U.S. diplomats were sent to Hainan to meet the crew and assess their conditions, and to negotiate their release. They were first allowed to meet with the crew three days after the collision. U.S. officials complained at the slow pace of the Chinese decision.\n\nThe 24 crew members (21 men and 3 women) were detained in total 10 days, shortly after the U.S. issued the \"letter of the two sorries\" to the Chinese. The Chinese military boarded the EP-3 and thoroughly stripped and examined the aircraft's equipment. The crew was only partially successful in their destruction of classified material, and some of the material they failed to destroy included cryptographic keys, signals intelligence manuals, and the names of National Security Agency employees. Some of the captured computers contained detailed information for processing PROFORMA communications from North Korea, Russia, Vietnam, China and other countries. The plane also carried information on the emitter parameters for U.S.-allied radar systems worldwide. The fact that the United States could track PLAN submarines via signal transmission was also revealed to China.\n\nThe \"Letter of the two sorries\" was the letter delivered by the United States Ambassador Joseph Prueher to Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan of the People's Republic of China to defuse the incident. The delivery of the letter led to the release of the U.S. crew from Chinese custody, as well as the eventual return of the disassembled aircraft.\n\nThe letter stated that the United States was \"very sorry\" for the death of Chinese pilot Wang Wei (), and was \"very sorry\" the aircraft entered China's airspace and that its landing did not have \"verbal clearance\".\n\nThe United States stated that it was \"not a letter of apology,\" as some state-run Chinese media outlets characterized it at the time, but \"an expression of regret and sorrow\". China had originally asked for an apology, but the U.S. explained, \"We did not do anything wrong, and therefore it was not possible to apologize.\"\n\nThere was further debate over the exact meaning of the Chinese translation issued by the U.S. Embassy. A senior administration official was quoted as saying \"What the Chinese will choose to characterize as an apology, we would probably choose to characterize as an expression of regret or sorrow.\"\n\nThe crew of the EP-3 was released on April 11, 2001, and returned to their base at Whidbey Island via Honolulu, Hawaii, where they were subject to two days of intense debriefings, followed by a heroes' welcome. The pilot, Lt. Shane Osborn, was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for \"heroism and extraordinary achievement\" in flight. The J-8 pilot, Lt. Cdr. Wang Wei, was posthumously honored in China as a \"Guardian of Territorial Airspace and Waters\". His widow received a personal letter of condolence from President George W. Bush.\nU.S. Navy engineers said the EP-3 could be repaired in 8–12 months, but China refused to allow it to be flown off Hainan island. The disassembled aircraft was released on July 3, 2001, and was returned to the United States by the Russian airline Polet in an Antonov An-124 Ruslan. The repairs took place at Lockheed Martin in Marietta, Georgia for reassembly and to make it flightworthy again. The aircraft was then flown to L3 in Waco, Texas for missionization as they were the main provider of EP-3 maintenance and modernization at the time. The aircraft returned to duty prior to 2013.\n\nIn addition to paying for the dismantling and shipping of the EP-3, the United States paid for the 11 days of food and lodging supplied by the Chinese government to the aircraft's crew, in the amount of $34,567.89. The Chinese had demanded one million dollars compensation from the U.S. for the lost J-8 and their pilot, but this was declined and no further negotiations were held.\n\nThe incident took place ten weeks after the inauguration of George W. Bush as president and was his first foreign policy crisis. Both sides were criticized following the event; the Chinese for making a bluff which was called without any real concessions from the American side other than the \"Letter of the two sorries,\" and the U.S. first for being insensitive immediately after the event and later for issuing the letter rather than taking a harder line.\n\nFollowing the collision, China's monitoring of reconnaissance flights became less aggressive for a period of time. As of 2011, flights of U.S. surveillance aircraft near the Chinese coastline continued as before the incident.\n\nThe \"JAG\" episode \"Dog Robber\" that aired in late 2001 was loosely based on this event.\n\nHainan is currently the home of the PLAN Hainan Submarine Base, an underground facility capable of supporting nuclear ballistic missile submarines. In March 2009, the USNS \"Impeccable\", an ocean surveillance ship of the U.S. Navy, was on several occasions approached by Chinese ships and aircraft while operating south of Hainan; in actions Pentagon officials characterized as \"aggressive\" and \"harassment.\" In August 2014, the U.S. protested when a Chinese Shenyang J-11BH came within of a patrolling Boeing P-8 Poseidon aircraft and performed aerobatic maneuvers including a barrel roll. In May 2016, the U.S. protested when two Chinese Shenyang J-11BH aircraft reportedly came within of a U.S. EP-3 on \"a routine\" patrol approximately east of Hainan Island; China responded by demanding an end to U.S. surveillance near China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243941", "title": "Finitribe", "text": "Finitribe\n\nFinitribe were a Scottish electronic dance music group. The group is sometimes also referred to as Fini Tribe. The name was taken from \"finny tribe\", a term used by the Rosicrucians to describe the fishes.\n\nThe band formed in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1984, by Chris Connelly, John Vick, Andy McGregor, Philip Pinsky, David Miller and Simon McGlynn. Initially a post-punk guitar outfit, the band released a debut EP \"Curling and Stretching\" on their own Finiflex label in the summer of 1984, graduating to their first John Peel Session in 1985, before rethinking their whole approach in the mid 1980s.\n\nTired of the conventional drums, bass and guitar set up, they acquired a sampler and began experimenting with electronic music. The result was \"Let The Tribe Grow\", an EP released on the Glasgow label Cathexis and featuring \"De Testimony\", a seminal dance floor anthem for the original Balearic/Acid House generation. Subsequently, they signed to Chicago label Wax Trax and released two singles, \"I Want More\" (a cover of the Can song) and \"Make it Internal\", raising their profile in the States and resulting in extensive radio and club success. A long and arduous \"toilet\" tour of the UK in 1988 led to the departure of three members – including Connelly who relocated to the States and joined the Revolting Cocks and Ministry – and a parting of the ways with Wax Trax Records.\n\nThis in turn resulted in a resurrection of the Finiflex label and a distribution deal with Fast Forward for the-ir debut album, \"Noise Lust and Fun\". The band was now made up of Pinsky, Vick and Miller along with various contributions from Little Annie, Rosanne Erskine and Wilf Plum. A series of remix EP's proved their electronic and dance floor credentials and brought indie chart success. The band met and signed a long-term publishing deal with Andy Heath (director of Beggars Banquet and Momentum Publishing), allowing the band to grow and develop without the constant need for advances from record companies.\n\nAfter signing a new deal with One Little Indian the band with encouragement from label boss Derek Birkett ran into controversy almost immediately with the \"Animal Farm\" EP. \nSubverting the nursery rhyme \"Old MacDonald\" for the purposes of berating the similarly titled hamburger outlet, Finitribe (as they were now known) offered up a flavour of the anti-consumerist stance prevalent on new album \"Grossing 10k\" (1989). The subsequent threat of legal action was not exactly helped by a \"Fuck off McDonald's\" poster and T-shirt campaign.\n\nThe band continued to develop stronger links with the electronic music world for their next single and album. Andrew Weatherall produced and remixed the single \"101\" (1991) along with Graham Massey from 808 State. Justin Robertson then worked with the band to remix and produce the singles \"Ace Love Deuce\" and \"Forevergreen\" (1992). These singles all featured on the band's most critically and commercially successful album, \"An Unexpected Groovy Treat\" (1992), the last album they were to record for One Little Indian.\n\nThe success of this album allowed the band to re launch their 'Finiflex' label and the in-house production team recorded and released many singles including those by Justin Robertson, State of Flux, Ege Bam Yasi and Sparks. A Finiflex Compilation album \"And Away They Go\" was released to critical acclaim in 1993. The band was redeveloping their studio complex in Leith during this period and coordinated all management, recording, press and merchandise from there.\n\nAfter leaving One Little Indian the band further developed their studio complex and looked for a new recording deal. With the assistance of Tom Watkins (Pet Shop Boys, East 17) the band negotiated a deal with Pete Tong at London/FFRR. This deal allowed for the completion of the state of the art recording studio in Leith and facilitated complete independence for the recording of their next album. For the writing and pre-production of the band's fourth album they relocated to a small crofting settlement called Sheigra, near Kinlochbervie, in the north west of Scotland. In 1994, the band released the single \"Brand New\" and, although a minor hit, the relationship with London/FFRR was cooling. A further single \"Love Above\" and the album \"Sheigra\" were released in 1995. The band followed this with a tour with Sparks and then their own headlining tour of the UK.\n\nBy early 1996, David Miller and Philip Pinsky split from John Vick, the former continuing with Finitribe and John Vick successfully continuing with the studio complex Finiflex. The slimmed down Finitribe, now operating from a house built on the side of a volcano, started a new label U.G.T and released an LP by Ege Bam Yasi. While looking for a new label and a new singer Finitribe went to Essex to work with former Prodigy collaborator Jason Byrne. The result was the EP \"Squelch\" and the meeting up with future producer Witchman (John Roome).\n\nFor a short while the band hooked up with Chas Smash (Madness) as manager, this indirectly led to a meeting with Korda Marshall and a deal was struck with Infectious/ Mushroom Records (home of Garbage and Ash). The band's fifth album \"Sleazy Listening\" was recorded in Edinburgh with John Roome (Witchman) producing. It featured Paul Haig, Little Annie, Niroshini Thambar, Chris Ross, John Roome and Katie Morrison. The album mixed electronica and live instrumentation and received critical acclaim. Melody Maker stating that, \"If Finitribe had lived and worked in Bristol they would have won the Mercury Music prize by now\".\n\nThe album was launched with a sell out gig at The Shooting Gallery, Edinburgh with Davy Henderson's Nectarine No. 9. The band toured the UK with their most successful gigs for several years, headlining the ICA in London. They recorded the first ever John Peel live session and released three further singles for Infectious.\n\nThis was the band's last album and tour - their last gig was at a sell out Bath Moles Club in the summer of 1998.\n\nOther interests and priorities meant that Pinsky and Miller put Finitribe to one side. One more single was released, \"Bored\" (2000).\n\nIn January 2014, the band reissued \"De Testimony\" on limited 12\" vinyl.\n\nVick developed the Finiflex recording studio, based in Leith. Providing high-end sound recordings for television, radio, sound design and advertising with clients including IKEA and Irn Bru. Vick joined with DJ Davie Miller to form the band \"Finiflex\", releasing their first single \"Ta Ta Oo Ha\" in 2017, with an album \"Sulliven\" due in June 2018. The band supported Sparks at their Glasgow show in May 2018.\n\n\nThe members of Finitribe are known to be vegetarian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243944", "title": "The Barrytown Trilogy", "text": "The Barrytown Trilogy\n\nThe Barrytown Trilogy consists on the first three novels by Irish writer Roddy Doyle and is first published as a trilogy in 1992. All of the three novels have been adapted into successful movies.\n\nThe three novels are: \"The Commitments\" (1987, film 1991), \"The Snapper\" (1990, film 1993), \"The Van\" (1991, shortlisted for the 1991 Booker Prize, film 1996). All three novels are focused on the Rabbittes, a working-class family from Dublin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243946", "title": "Anthony Rother", "text": "Anthony Rother\n\nAnthony Rother (born 29 April 1972) is an electronic music composer, producer and label owner living in Frankfurt, Germany.\n\nRother's electro sound (\"Sex With the Machines\", \"Simulationszeitalter\", \"Hacker\") is characterized by repetitive machine-like beats, robotic, vocoder-driven vocals, melancholy, futuristic mood and lyrics that often deal with the consequences of technological progress, the relationship between humans and machines, and the role of computers in society.\n\nIn addition to electro, Rother also composes dark ambient music (\"Elixir of Life\", \"Art Is a Technology\"). He has also produced music for Sven Väth and DJ Hell.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243947", "title": "Sound generator", "text": "Sound generator\n\nA sound generator is a vibrating object which produces a sound. There are two main kinds of sound generators (thus, two main kinds of musical instruments). \n\nA full cycle of a sound wave will be described in each example which consists of initial normal conditions (no fluctuatiouizns in atmospheric pressure), an increase of air pressure, a subsequent decrease in air pressure which brings it back to normal, a decrease in air pressure (less pressure than initial conditions), and lastly, an increase which brings atmospheric pressure back to normal again. Therefore, the final conditions are the same as the initial, at-rest conditions. \n\nThe first kind is simple and is called the vibrating or oscillating piston. Examples of this type of sound generator include the soundboard of a piano, the surfaces of drums and cymbals, the diaphragm of loudspeakers, etc. The forward movement of something through the atmosphere causes an immediate increase in air pressure (compression) or condensation in the air adjacent to the piston. A complete cycle, or one complete soundwave, consists of an increase of pressure in the air, a subsequent decrease of pressure so that the pressure is back to normal, and a following decrease in air pressure called rarefaction. One complete cycle is produced when a drum is hit once with force. \n\nThe second kind of sound generator is the method utilized by wind instruments, such as trumpets. At the beginning of the cycle, sound pressure is normal. Then, an opening called an aperture (such as the opening on the mouthpiece of a trumpet) is partially open and a short stream of air under pressure is released. In the second step of a full cycle, the valve is completely open and pressure is at a maximum. In the third cycle, the valve is partially closed, and the pressure has decreased from the maximum value. Then, the valve is closed and the pressure is the same as normal undisturbed atmospheric pressure. Thus, a full cycle is produced. This happens very quickly in the vibration of lips (i.e., the aforementioned \"valve\") as they quickly open and close (or vibrate). More examples of this type of sound instrument include sirens, organs, saxophones, and trombones.\n"}
{"id": "2243954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243954", "title": "Aeroport (Moscow Metro)", "text": "Aeroport (Moscow Metro)\n\nAeroport (, \"Airport\", ) is a Moscow Metro station on the Zamoskvoretskaya Line. Its name, literally meaning \"airport\", owes to the nearby Khodynka Aerodrome, Moscow's first airport, no longer in operation. Now, there is a bus terminal (Goraerovokzal, \"Гораэровокзал\") which has regular service to Moscow's principal airports. Opened as part of the second stage in 1938, the station features a single-vault design. It was built using a cut-and cover method. Concrete segments of the vault were pre-cast and then lowered into the station.\n\nArchitects B. Vilensky and V. Yershov applied the aviation theme to this big open station, in what is seen as some of the best examples of Soviet Art Deco architecture. The most noticeable design feature is the network of intersecting ribs that fan out across the vaulted ceiling. These ribs originate from fan-shaped limestone panels spaced at regular intervals along the walls, which are red marble with shell-shaped brown marble insets. The floor is revetted with grey granite. Lighting comes from pyramidal objects which house luminescent lamps, although originally the station had chandeliers with normal tungsten bulbs.\n\nThe vestibule to the station is located on the north side of Leningradsky Avenue near the Viktorenko Street, and receives a daily passenger traffic of 59,800.\n\n"}
{"id": "2243958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243958", "title": "Sumi Jo", "text": "Sumi Jo\n\nSumi Jo, OSI (; ; born 22 November 1962) is a South Korean lyric coloratura soprano known for her Grammy award-winning interpretations of the bel canto repertoire.\n\nJo was born Jo Su-gyeong in Changwon, South Korea. Her mother was an amateur singer and pianist who had been unable to pursue her own professional music studies because of politics in Korea during the 1950s. Determined to provide her daughter with opportunities she never had, Jo's mother enrolled her in piano lessons at the age of 4 and later voice lessons at the age of 6. Although Jo's family lived in a rented property, her parents bought a piano for her to play. Her mother raised and trained Jo strictly. Jo recalled even when her mother went out, she locked the door outside so that Jo couldn't play truant. As a child, Jo would often spend up to eight hours a day studying music.\n\nIn 1976, Jo entered the Sun Hwa Arts School from which she graduated in 1980, receiving dual diplomas in voice and piano. She entered the department of vocal music at the Seoul National University with the best practical score since the department had opened. There she continued her music studies from 1981 to 1983. While studying at SNU, Jo made her professional recital debut, appeared in several concerts with the Korean Broadcasting System, and made her professional operatic debut as Susanna in \"The Marriage of Figaro\" with Seoul Opera.\n\nIn 1983, Jo left SNU in order to study at the Accademia di Santa Cecilia in Rome. Among her teachers were Carlo Bergonzi and Giannella Borelli. While Jo studied in Italy, she was frequently heard in concert in Italian cities and on national radio broadcasts and telecasts. It was during this time when Jo began to use \"Sumi\" as her stage name in order to make her name more friendly to European language speakers who often found it difficult to pronounce Su-gyeong. She graduated in 1985 with concentrations in keyboard and voice.\n\nFollowing graduation, Jo began to study with Elisabeth Schwarzkopf and won several international competitions in Seoul, Naples, Enna, Barcelona, and Pretoria. In August 1986, she was unanimously awarded first prize in the Carlo Alberto Cappelli International Competition in Verona, one of the world's most important contests, open only to first-prize winners of other major competitions.\n\nIn 1986, Jo made her European operatic debut as Gilda in Verdi's \"Rigoletto\" at the Teatro Comunale Giuseppe Verdi in Trieste. This performance drew the attention of Herbert von Karajan, who proceeded to cast her as Oscar in \"Un ballo in maschera\" opposite Plácido Domingo for the 1989 Salzburg Festival. Karajan's death during festival rehearsals prevented Jo from actually singing on stage under his baton (Georg Solti conducted the performances) but she did sing under Karajan in the studio recording of \"Ballo\", made in the early months of 1989 for Deutsche Grammophon.\n\nIn 1988, Jo made her La Scala debut as Thetis in Jommelli's \"Fetonte\". That same year she made her debut with the Bavarian State Opera and sang Barbarina in \"The Marriage of Figaro\" at the Salzburg Festival.\n\nIn 1989, Jo made her debut with the Vienna State Opera and returned to the Salzburg Festival to sing Oscar in Verdi's \"Un ballo in maschera\". That same year, she made her debut with the Metropolitan Opera, once again portraying Gilda in \"Rigoletto\". Jo would later reprise this role numerous times with the Met over the next fifteen years.\n\nIn 1990, Jo made her debut with the Chicago Lyric Opera as the Queen of the Night in Mozart's \"The Magic Flute\". The following year, she returned to the Metropolitan Opera for another performance as Oscar in \"Un ballo in maschera\" and made her Royal Opera, Covent Garden, debut as Olympia in \"The Tales of Hoffmann\". She returned to Covent Garden the next year to sing Adina in \"L'elisir d'amore\" and Elvira in \"I puritani\".\n\nIn 1993, Jo appeared in the title role of Donizetti's \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" with the Metropolitan Opera and sang the role of the Queen of the Night at the Salzburg Festival and Covent Garden. The following year she made her debut with Los Angeles Opera as Sophie in Strauss' \"Der Rosenkavalier\". In 1995 she sang the role of Countess Adèle in \"Le comte Ory\" at the Aix-en-Provence Festival.\n\nOver the next decade Jo maintained a busy schedule, singing Lucia in Strasbourg, Barcelona, Berlin, and Paris; \"La sonnambula\" in Brussels and Santiago, Chile; \"I Capuleti e i Montecchi\" with Minnesota Opera; Olympia and Rosina in New York; the Queen of the Night in Los Angeles; Gilda in Bilbao, Oviedo, Bologna, Trieste, and Detroit among others; \"Il turco in Italia\" in Spain; \"L'enfant et les sortilèges\" in Boston and Pittsburgh; \"Le comte Ory\" in Rome; and \"Dinorah\" in New York. She also appeared in performances at the Théâtre du Châtelet, Théâtre des Champs-Élysées, Opéra National de Paris, Washington Opera, the Deutsche Oper Berlin, Opera Australia, and the Teatro Colón.\n\nIn addition, she appeared with numerous symphony orchestras in concert, including the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra, the Cincinnati Pops, the Orchestra of St. Luke's, the Vienna Philharmonic, the London Philharmonic Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic, and the Hollywood Bowl Orchestra among others. Her work led her to sing under such conductors as Sir Georg Solti, Zubin Mehta, Lorin Maazel, James Levine, Kent Nagano, and Richard Bonynge. She also gave recitals throughout Europe, the United States, Canada, and Australia.\n\nIn 2002, Jo sang the theme song for the Korean Broadcasting System's broadcast of the 2002 FIFA World Cup, \"The Champions\".\n\nIn 2007, Jo performed her first Violetta in \"La traviata\" with the Toulon Opera and in the 2008/2009 season she was scheduled to perform the role of Zerline in \"Fra Diavolo\" at the Opera Comique and Opéra Royal de Wallonie.\n\nIn 2008, Jo participated in the Beijing Olympics with Renée Fleming and Angela Gheorghiu.\n\nIn 2011 Jo provided the singing voice of Veda Pierce in the HBO miniseries \"Mildred Pierce\".\n\nOn 9 March 2018, Jo performed a specially-recorded duet with fellow vocalist Sohyang, the song \"Here As One\", during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Paralympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea.\n\n\"Simple Song Number 3\", written by David Lang, performed by Jo, and featured in Paolo Sorrentino's 2015 film \"Youth\", was nominated for an Academy Award in 2016 in the Best Song category. Fellow nominees were \"Manta Ray\", performed by Anohni; \"Til It Happens to You\", performed by Lady Gaga; \"Earned It\", performed by The Weeknd; and \"Writing's on the Wall\", performed by Sam Smith (who won the category's award). Although Jo was invited to the ceremony and attended, she was not invited to perform the song. Anohni, a transgender singer, was similarly excluded and subsequently boycotted the ceremony. The other nominees performed their songs during the ceremony.\n\nOn the red carpet prior to the ceremonies, Jo and Lang voiced their disappointment with the producers' decision to exclude the song, indirectly referencing the controversy related to that year's Academy Awards and its lack of racial diversity.\n\nJo is the cousin aunt of South Korean actor Yoo Gun, his father's cousin sister. \n\nJust before she performed \"Ave Maria\" at Chatelet, Paris, in 2006, Jo's father, Enho Jo, died. When she learned that her father had died, she wanted to cancel the performance and return to South Korea for the funeral. Her mother reminded Jo of her promise to her audiences, and said that it was better if she went on with the show in honor of her father. Her performance was dedicated to her father and released as a DVD titled \"Sumi Jo in Paris – For my Father\".\n\nJo is an advocate for animal rights and one of only five Asian celebrities to make People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Asia-Pacific's (PETA) first-ever Best-Dressed 2008 list.\n\nAria of Zerbinetta in Ariadne auf Naxos, written by Richard Strauss in 1912, is a difficult piece with high notes over 20 minutes in length. Therefore, Strauss modified part of the sheet music because he thought it was impossible to sing. In 1994, however, Jo became the world's first artist to sing the unedited original record of the song. She recorded the song with a Japanese-American conductor, Kent Nagano, in Lyon, France. Jo said it was the hardest record to sing ever. In 1993, she became the first Asian soprano to win La Siola d'Oro. In addition, Jo won six international competitions for the first time as an Asian soprano, and was recorded as the first prima donna of the orient who starred in the world's opera theaters.\n\n\"Her voice is the best gift God has given,\" said Herbert von Karajan, who is considered as one of the greatest conductors of the 20th century, and praised her as \"a voice from above\". Karajan also admired, \"I am surprised that you have learned in Korea, are there such excellent teachers in Korea? Korea is a great nation\". The New York Metropolitan Theater Opera News praised \"her song has already crossed the criticism\". Le Monde of France evaluated her as \"Even fairies listen to her songs\".\n\nJo has over 50 recordings to her credit, including ten solo albums for Erato Records, the French division of Warner Classics. These recordings include complete operas, oratorio, operetta, orchestral works and Broadway standards. Notable recordings include the voice of the falcon in Sir Georg Solti's Grammy Award winning recording of Strauss's \"Die Frau ohne Schatten\" for the Decca label and the role of Oscar the page in Herbert von Karajan's recording of Verdi's \"Un ballo in maschera\" for Deutsche Grammophon.\n\nDecca\n\nErato – Warner Classics\n\nUniversal Korea – Deutsche Grammophon Korea\n\nKorean local labels\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243962", "title": "Silver Center", "text": "Silver Center\n\nThe Silver Center for Arts and Science (formerly Main Building) is the home of the New York University College of Arts and Science and NYU's Grey Art Gallery. The Dean of the College of Arts & Science and the college administration are located in this facility which forms an imposing landmark on the eastern border of Washington Square Park. \n\nAt the time of its construction in 1892, this facility was named Main Building. In 2002, it was renamed the \"Silver Center of Arts & Science\" in honor of Julius Silver, an alumnus of the College of Arts & Science, who bequeathed $150 million to the college. Renovations have dramatically improved the facility while maintaining the building's many historic features. Main Building previously served as the home of NYU's Washington Square College until all undergraduate liberal arts education was consolidated at the Washington Square in 1973 after the sale of the University Heights campus in the Bronx. \n\nThe current building was designed by Alfred Zucker, a German born and trained architect, in 1892. It replaced architects' Town, Davis & Dakin's original Gothic Revival structure from 1835. Zucker maintained the foundation and many other features of the original university building but not the Gothic facade, partially for sake of historic continuity. Today, NYU owns nine other buildings designed by Zucker that were built in this formerly commercial area, as lofts and wholesale stores. The Brown Building of Science (formerly the Asch Building) and the Waverly Building occupy the same block as the Silver Center. The Brown Building was the site of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire, which generated many of New York City's current labor laws. The three buildings are internally connected at the ground floor as well as by stairway and elevator (with the idiosyncrasy of adjacent floors that do not correspond by floor number.) The three buildings are known are the \"Main block.\" \nInitially, the light brick, stone and terra-cotta edifice housed University College and the School of Law. During those early years, in addition to serving as NYU's main academic building, the university rented offices, studio space and residential apartments within the building and the American Book Company also rented space in the building. This combination of institutional and commercial tenants is apparent in the building's tripartite facade design. The University's academic presence on the three top floors was marked by engaged Ionic columns capped by pediments. In 1927, due to the pressures of a growing post-war student body, NYU ejected commercial tenants to use the space for academic purposes.\n\nSamuel Colt developed the revolver and Samuel Morse invented the telegraph; John William Draper in 1840 took the first photograph in the United States in the original Main Building that the present structure replaced. Edgar Allan Poe, Herman Melville, Walt Whitman lived and taught and privately lectured there, Winslow Homer painted there, and architects Alexander Jackson Davis and Richard Morris Hunt had offices there. \n"}
{"id": "2243963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243963", "title": "Shakti Peetha", "text": "Shakti Peetha\n\nThe Shakti Peetha (, , \"seat of Shakti\") are significant shrines and pilgrimage destinations in Shaktism, the goddess-focused Hindu tradition. There are 51 or 108 Shakti peethas by various accounts, of which between 4 and 18 are named as \"Maha\" (major) in medieval Hindu texts. \n\nMost of these historic places of goddess worship are in India, but there are seven in Bangladesh, three in Pakistan, three in Nepal, and one each in China and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe legends behind the Shakti Peethas is based on the story of the death of the goddess Sati. Out of grief and sorrow, Shiva carried Sati's body, reminiscing about their moments as a couple, and roamed around the universe with it. Vishnu had cut her body into 51 body parts, using his Sudarshana Chakra, which fell on Earth to become sacred sites where all the people can pay homage to the Goddess. To complete this massively long task, Lord Shiva took the form of Bhairava.\n\nThe only exceptional Shakti Peethas is the Vindhyavasini Shakti Peetha.As it is believed that the Shaktipeeths were created on earth, where the body parts of Sati fell.But this is the place where Devi chose to reside after her birth in Dwapar Yuga as the sister of Krishna.\n\nLord Brahma performed a \"yajna\" (Vedic ritual of fire sacrifice) to please Shakti and Shiva. Goddess Shakti emerged, separating from Shiva and helped Brahma in the creation of the universe. Brahma decided to give Shakti back to Shiva. Therefore, his son Daksha performed several yagnas to obtain Shakti as his daughter in the form of Sati. It was then decided that Sati was brought into this world with the motive of marrying Shiva.\n\nHowever, due to Lord Shiva's curse to Brahma that his fifth head was cut off due to his lie in front of Shiva, Daksha started hating Lord Shiva and decided not to let Lord Shiva and Sati get married. \n\nHowever, Sati got attracted to Shiva and finally one day Shiva and Sati were married. This marriage only increased Daksha's hatred towards Lord Shiva.\n\nDaksha performed a \"yagna\" with a desire to take revenge on Lord Shiva. Daksha invited all the deities to the \"yajna\" except Lord Shiva and Sati. The fact that she was not invited did not deter Sati from attending the \"yagna\". She expressed her desire to attend the \"yagna\" to Shiva, who tried his best to dissuade her from going. Shiva eventually relented and Sati went to the \"yagna\". Sati, being an uninvited guest, was not given any respect at the \"yagna\". Furthermore, Daksha insulted Shiva. Sati was unable to bear her father's insults toward her husband, so she self-immolated.\n\nEnraged at the death and insult of his spouse, Shiva in his Virabhadra avatar destroyed Daksha's \"yagna\", cut off Daksha's head, but later replaced it with that of a male goat as he restored him to life.Virabhadra didn't stop fighting; he kept raging with anger. Gods prayed to lord Vishnu. He came there and started fighting him. Still immersed in grief, Shiva picked up the remains of Sati's body, and performed the Tandava, the celestial dance of destruction, across all creation. The other Gods requested Vishnu to intervene to stop this destruction, towards which Vishnu used the Sudarshana Chakra, which cut through Sati's corpse. The various parts of the body fell at several spots all through the Indian subcontinent and formed sites which are known as \"Shakti Peethas\" today.\n\nAt all the \"Shakti Peethas\", the Goddess Shakti is accompanied by her consort, Lord Bhairava (a manifestation of Lord Shiva).\nThe Vindhyavasini Shakti Peetha is a Shakti Peetha, despite the fact that any body parts If Sati did not fell there.This is because it is the place where Devi chose to reside after her birth in Dwapar Yuga.\nAt the time of birth of Lord Krishna to Devaki and Vasudeva, the Yogamaya(Devi) took birth in Gokul to Nanda Baba and Yashoda as per instruction of Lord Vishnu.The Vasudeva replaced his son Krishna with this girl child of Yashoda. When Kamsa tried to kill the girl she slipped from his hands and assumed the form of Mahadevi Adishakti. Thereafter Devi chose Vindhya Mountains as her abode to live on the earth.\n\nThe history of Daksha yajna and Sati's self-immolation had immense significance in shaping the ancient Sanskrit literature and even influenced the culture of India. It led to the development of the concept of Shakti Peethas and thereby strengthened Shaktism. Enormous numbers of stories in the Puranas and other Hindu religious books took the Daksha yagna as the reason for their origin. It is an important incident in Shaivism, resulting in the emergence of Parvati in the place of Sati Devi and making Shiva a grihastashrami (house holder), leading to the origin of Ganesha and Kartikeya.\n\nShakti Peethas are shrines or divine places of the Mother Goddess. These are places that are believed to have been blessed with the presence of Shakti due to the falling of body parts of the corpse of Sati Devi, when Lord Shiva carried it and wandered throughout Aryavartha in sorrow. There are 51 Shakti Peeth linking to the 51 alphabets in Sanskrit. Each temple has shrines for Shakti and Kalabhairava, and most Shakti and Kalabhairava in different Shakti Peeth have different names.\n\nSome of the great religious texts like the Shiva Purana, the Devi Bhagavata, the Kalika Purana, \"the AstaShakti,\" and \"Pithanirnaya Tantra\" recognize four major Shakti Peethas (centers): Bimala Temple (Pada Khanda) inside the Jagannath Temple of Puri, Odisha; Tara Tarini (Sthana Khanda, Purnagiri, Breasts), near Berhampur, Odisha; Kamakhya Temple (Yoni Khanda), in Guwahati, Assam; and Dakshina Kalika (Mukha Khanda) in Kolkata, West Bengal, all originating from the parts of the corpse of Mata Sati in the Satya Yuga.\n\nThe Ashtashakti and Kalika Purana says (in Sanskrit):\n\nFurther explaining the importance of these four Pithas, the \"Brihat Samhita\" also gives the location of these Pithas as (in Sanskrit)\n\nIn the listings below:\n\nApart from these 4 there are 48 other famous Peethas recognized by religious texts. According to the \"Pithanirnaya Tantra\" the 51 peethas are scattered all over present day countries of India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, China, Bhutan and Pakistan. The \"Shivacharita\" besides listing 51 maha-peethas, speaks about 26 more upa-peethas. The Bengali almanac, Vishuddha Siddhanta Panjika too describes the 51 peethas including the present modified addresses. A few of the several accepted listings are given below. One of the few in South India, Srisailam in Andhra Pradesh became the site for a 2nd-century temple.\n\nIn the listings below:\n\nThe details of this is available in the text \"TANTHRACHOODAMANI\" where Parvathi tells these details to her son Skanda. \n\nFirst relating to Brahmanda Purana, one of the major eighteen Puranas, it mentions 64 Shakti Peetha of Goddess Parvati in the Bharat or Greater India including present-day India, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, some parts of Southern Tibet in China and parts of southern Pakistan. Another text which gives a listing of these shrines, is the \"Shakti Peetha Stotram\", written by Adi Shankara, the 9th-century Hindu philosopher.\n\nAccording to the manuscript \"Mahapithapurana\" (c. 1690 – 1720 CE), there are 52 such places. Among them, 23 are located in the Bengal region, 14 of these are located in what is now West Bengal, India, 1 in Baster (Chhattisgarh), while 7 are in what is now Bangladesh.\n\nRishi Markandeya composed the 'Devi Saptashati' or the seven hundred hymns extolling the virtues of the Divine Goddess at the shaktipeetha in Nashik. The idol is also leaning a little to the left to listen to the sage's composition. The Saptashati or the \"Durga Stuti\" forms an integral part in the Vedic form of Shakti worship.\n\nThe third eye of Mata Sati fell below a tree in a mortuary in the Ishan corner of Vakreshwar. This is on the bank of the north-flowing Dwarka river in the east of Baidyanath. Here Mata Sati is called Chandi Bhagwai Ugra Tara and Bhairav is called Chandrachur. This Shaktipeeth is called Tarapith in Birbhum district West bengal, India.\n\nThe modern cities or towns that correspond to these 64 locations can be a matter of dispute, but there are a few that are totally unambiguous, these are mentioned in the \"Ashta Dasa Shakti Peetha Stotram\" by Manish Bhandari. This shubham dubey contains 18 such locations which are often referred to as \"Most Popular Shakti Peeths\".\n[*]Sharada Peeth: This temple is currently non-existent*. Only ruins are found in these places. Its ruins are near the Line of Control (LOC) between the Indian and Pakistani-controlled portions of the former princely state of Kashmir and Jammu. Instead, Sringeri Sharada Peetham, Sringeri in Karnataka even though not a Shakti Peetha, is this aspect of the goddess. Requests have been made by the Hindu community in Pakistan to the Pakistani government to renovate the temple, the issue being raised by former Indian Home minister L. K. Advani to the Pakistan authorities as a confidence-building measure, by increasing the people to people cross-border interaction.\n\nAmong these, the Shakti Peethas at Kamakhya, Gaya and Ujjain are regarded as the most sacred as they symbolise the three most important aspects of the Mother Goddess viz. Creation (Kamarupa Devi), Nourishment (Sarvamangala Devi/Mangalagauri) and Annihilation (Mahakali Devi).\n\nAs per Sankara Samhita of Sri Skanda Purana,\n\nDevanāgarī :\n\nलङ्कायाम् शांकरीदेवी कामाक्षी काञ्चिकापुरे। \nप्रद्युम्ने शृङ्खला देवी चामुण्दा क्रौञ्चपट्टणे॥\nअलम्पुरे जोगुलाम्ब श्रीशैले भ्रमराम्बिक।\nकोल्हापुरमहलक्ष्मी माहुर्यमेकवीरिका॥\nउज्जयिन्याम् महाकाळी पीठिकायाम् पुरुहुतिका। \nओड्ढ्यायाम् गिरिजादेवी माणिक्या दक्षवाटिके॥\nहरिक्षेत्रे कामरूपी प्रयागे माधवेश्वरी।\nज्वालायाम् वैष्णवीदेवी गयामाङ्गल्यगौरिके॥\nवारणास्याम् विशालाक्षी काश्मीरेतु सरस्वती।\nअष्ठादशैवपीठानि योनिनामप दुर्लभानिच॥\nसायंकालं पठेन्नित्यम् सर्वरोगनिवारणम्।\nसर्वपापहरम् दिव्यम् सर्वसम्पत्करम् शुभम्॥\n\nIAST:\n\nlaṅkāyām śāṃkarīdevī kāmākṣī kāñcikāpure।\npradyumne śṛṅkhalā devī cāmuṇdā krauñcapaṭṭaṇe॥\nalampure jogulāmba śrīśaile bhramarāmbika।\nkolhāpuramahalakṣmī māhuryamekavīrikā॥\nujjayinyām mahākāḻī pīṭhikāyām puruhutikā।\noḍḍhyāyām girijādevī māṇikyā dakṣavāṭike॥\nharikṣetre kāmarūpī prayāge mādhaveśvarī।\njvālāyām vaiṣṇavīdevī gayāmāṅgalyagaurike॥\nvāraṇāsyām viśālākṣī kāśmīretu sarasvatī।\naṣṭhādaśaivapīṭhāni yonināmapa durlabhānica॥\nsāyaṃkālaṃ paṭhennityam sarvaroganivāraṇam।\nsarvapāpaharam divyam sarvasampatkaram śubham॥\n\nGoddess Shankari in Sri Lanka, Kamakshi in Kanchipuram\nGoddess Shrinkhala in Pradymna and Chamunda in Mysore\n\nGoddess Jogulamba in Alampur, Goddess Brhamarambika in Sri Shailam\nGoddess Maha Lakshmi in Kolhapur and Goddess Eka Veera in Mahur\n\nGoddess Maha Kali in Ujjain, Purhuthika in Peethika\nGoddess Girija in Odhyana and Manikya in the house of Daksha\n\nGoddess Kama Rupi in the temple of Vishnu, Madhaveshwari in Prayagraj\nGoddess giving flame in Jwala Mukhi and Mangala Gowri in Gaya\n\nGoddess Vishalakshi in Varanasi, Saraswati in Kashmir\nThese are the 18 houses of Shakti, which are rare even to the Devas\n\nWhen chanted every evening, all the enemies would get destroyed\nall the diseases would vanish, and prosperity would be showered.\n\nThe Kerala Hindus believes that the self immolation of the Sati happened in the Kottiyoor in Kannur district in Kerala.The annual Kottiyoor Vysakha Mahotsavam is conducted to commemorate the self immolation of Sati.The Kottiyoor Temple is located on the both banks of the Bavali river.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243964", "title": "Titanium oxide", "text": "Titanium oxide\n\nTitanium oxide may refer to:\n\nOften used as an active ingredient in sunscreens combined with oxybenzone and octyl methoxycinnamate.\n\nUsed to give the white colour of titanium white paint.\n"}
{"id": "2243986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243986", "title": "Mink Lake (Lane County, Oregon)", "text": "Mink Lake (Lane County, Oregon)\n\nMink Lake is the second-largest wilderness lake in the U.S. state of Oregon. Mink Lake lies at about above sea level on a Cascade Range lava plateau in the Three Sisters Wilderness in eastern Lane County. One of many lakes in the Mink Lake Basin, it covers .\n\nHiking trails enter the Mink Lake Basin, at the headwaters of the South Fork McKenzie River, from many directions. The Pacific Crest Trail runs roughly north–south about east of the lake. Natural campsites abound in the area, but in warm weather mosquitoes can be a problem.\n\nSo few chemicals and nutrients enter this lake that it is classified as ultraoligotrophic, and it is thought to be among the most pristine lakes in Oregon. Fishing is possible here mainly because of stocking. Rainbow and cutthroat trout range in size from .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243993", "title": "Dragontown", "text": "Dragontown\n\nDragontown is the fifteenth solo album by Alice Cooper. It was released in 2001 on Spitfire Records. Like \"Brutal Planet\", the album displays a heavier metal style than many of his previous releases. It peaked on Billboard's \"Top Independent Albums\" Chart at #12, and the \"Billboard\" 200 at #197, his lowest album chart performance since 1983’s \"DaDa\", which did not chart at all.\n\nThis is the first Alice Cooper studio album to contain no singles. Although Cooper toured the album with his \"Descent into Dragontown\" tour in 2001 and 2002, only four \"Dragontown\" songs – “Sex, Death and Money”, “Fantasy Man”, “Every Woman Has a Name”, and “Triggerman” – were performed at all during this supporting tour, with only “Sex, Death and Money” and “Fantasy Man” remaining in the setlist to the end. With the exception of five performances of “Disgraceland” in July 2003 during the \"Bare Bones Tour\", nothing from \"Dragontown\" has ever been performed live subsequent to the end of the album’s supporting tour.\n\nDoug Van Pelt, editor of the Christian music oriented \"HM Magazine\", likened Cooper to C.S. Lewis, stating that he \"grabs the devil's microphone and attempts to spill his guts and reveal his wicked schemes.\" Van Pelt further states that \"It's Much Too Late\" exposes \"unrestrained truth\" in stating that \"The road to hell is littered with nice guys and good intentions...\" and likens \"Sex, Death and Money\" to Proverbs 5 and isn't really about 'Sex, Death, and Money, but talks against it, as the Bible states.\n\nA special edition was released on September 24, 2002, limited to 7,500 units. It includes the original album and a bonus disc with four additional tracks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243997", "title": "Dinamo (Moscow Metro)", "text": "Dinamo (Moscow Metro)\n\nDinamo () is a Moscow Metro station on the Zamoskvoretskaya line. It opened on 11 September 1938 as part of the second stage of the system. It was named for the former Dinamo Stadium, the home stadium of FC Dynamo Moscow. Passengers may make out-of-station transfers to the Bolshaya Koltsevaya and Kalininsko-Solntsevskaya lines via Petrovsky Park station.\n\nIt was the deepest station in Moscow Metro from 1938 until 1944.\n\nDinamo is under Leningradsky Avenue in the Aeroport District of Moscow near Petrovsky Park and the Petrovsky Palace. The VTB Arena was built on the same site and dinamo stadium adjacent to the station.\n\nThe station is situated at a depth of and follows a tri-vaulted deep-level pylon design. Designed by Ya. Likhtenberg and Yury Revkovsky, the station features a sport-themed decoration with bas-reliefs designed by Ye. Yason-Manzer depicting sportsmen in various practices in the vestibules and the central hall.\n\nThe pylons, faced with red tagilian marble and onyx have porcelain medallions also showing sportsmen. The walls are faced with onyx, white and grey marble, neatly tiled together. The floor is revetted with black marble, although the platforms were initially covered with asphalt.\n\nThere are two identical vestibules, each on the northern side of the Leningradsky Avenue, and the architect for the vestibules was Dmitry Chechulin.\n\nThe city is building an underground walkway between Dinamo and Petrovsky Park stations that will ease transfers between the stations. That walkway could open in late of 2019 - the beginning of 2020.\n\nIn 1940, physicists Georgy Flyorov and Konstantin Petrzhak used the station for their observations of the decay of uranium. The depth of the station reduced the potential effect of cosmic rays in their work. Working at night, the pair discovered spontaneous fission.\n"}
{"id": "2244003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244003", "title": "George Wolfe (CPA)", "text": "George Wolfe (CPA)\n\nGeorge B. Wolfe was born and raised in Columbia, South Carolina. He is a partner in the law firm of Nelson Mullins in Columbia, South Carolina. His practice is focused on representing foreign and domestic companies establishing or expanding operations in South Carolina. \n\nWolfe began his career in 1977 at the law firm of Wilmer, Cutler and Pickering (now known as Wilmer Hale) in Washington, DC. In 1983, Wolfe returned to his hometown of Columbia, South Carolina and joined Nelson Mullins and has practiced there since that time with the exception of 2001–2004, when he worked at the U.S. Treasury Department. From 1989-1993, Mr. Wolfe served as a member of the Investment Policy Advisory Committee (INPAC) to the United States Trade Representative under President George H.W. Bush. From 2001 to 2004, Wolfe served as deputy general counsel and counselor to the secretary for the Department of the Treasury. During this time, he also served two tours in Iraq (2003–2004) as part of the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA), where he worked on Iraq's financial reconstruction. After leaving the Treasury Department in 2004, Mr. Wolfe served as the first managing partner of the Nelson Mullins' Washington, DC office before returning to the firm's Columbia office in 2007. Wolfe was an employee of the United States government and worked for the Coalition Provisional Authority in 2003 and 2004.\nWolfe sat on the CPA's Program Review Board, the committee that made the final recommendation to CPA Administrator Paul Bremer over the $20 billion of contracts the CPA awarded. For its final three months Wolfe served as the board's chairman. As chair of the board he was also the Senior advisor to the Iraqi Ministry of Finance.\n\nThe KPMG audit of the Development Fund for Iraq reports that scheduling a meeting with Administrator Bremer had proven difficult.\nThen Bremer departed from Iraq early, leaving important loose ends dangling—like—the audit.\n\nThe auditors looked to Wolfe, the next most senior financial officer after Bremer for cooperation.\nHowever Wolfe: \n\nWolfe left government service in 2004, and returned as a partner in the law firm Nelson Mullins.\n\nWolfe graduated cum laude from Washington and Lee University in 1973. In 1977, he received his Juris Doctor from the University of Pennsylvania School of Law where he was a member of the Law Review and Order of the Coif.\n\nWolfe has served as president of the South Carolina Economic Developers Association and as chair of the Greater Columbia Committee of 100, the South Carolina Bar Corporate, Banking and Securities Law Section, and a South Carolina public-private sector group that created a strategic plan for the economic development of South Carolina. Wolfe has served as a board member for organization such as the South Carolina Chamber of Commerce, the South Carolina Council on Competitiveness, the Greater Columbia Chamber of Commerce, the Columbia World Affairs Council, and the Columbia Film Society.\n\nWolfe is a recipient of the Order of the Palmetto, the highest civilian award given by a South Carolina Governor. In addition, he received the South Carolina Department of Revenue Lifetime Public Service Award. Wolfe also received the Distinguished Service Award from the U.S. Treasury Department for his service there.\n"}
{"id": "2244004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244004", "title": "La Maison Française (New York University)", "text": "La Maison Française (New York University)\n\nLa Maison Française NYU is one of New York University's International Houses, located on its Washington Square campus. Since 1957, La Maison Française has served as a forum for French-American cultural and intellectual exchange, offering contemporary perspectives on French and Francophone issues. Its lectures, symposia, concerts, screenings, exhibitions, and special events provides a resource to the university community, as well as the general public.\n\nAs the public face of the Center for French Civilization and Culture of New York University, La Maison Française complements and enriches the programs offered by the Department of French, the Institute of French Studies, and NYU in France. In addition, it fosters interdisciplinary study through collaborations with various university departments, including the Department of Art History, the Department of Anthropology, the School of Law and home to the smallest baguette in New York. \n\nFounded in 1957 by Professor Germaine Brée, La Maison Française occupies a 19th-century carriage house on historic Washington Mews. Inside, the ground floor salon is an intimate and versatile space with seating for up to one hundred. The second floor \"salle de lecture\" provides an informal meeting place for students, visiting scholars, and the French Graduate Students Association. According to legend there's a vintage bottle of wine from Voltaire's personal \"cave\" built into the foundation.\n"}
{"id": "2244005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244005", "title": "Lake Koroneia", "text": "Lake Koroneia\n\nLake Koroneia () is a lake in the heart of the Thessaloniki regional unit in the Mygdonian basin in Greece. It is also known as Lake Agios Vasileios after the village Agios Vasileios and as Lake Langadas after the town Langadas, and is located about 14 kilometres east of Thessaloniki city centre. The motorway Egnatia Odos passes along the north side of the lake, and the old Greek National Road 2 passes along the south side. The lake is shared by the municipalities Langadas and Volvi.\n\nA million years ago, Lake Koroneia along with Lake Volvi and all of the Mygdonian basin was a single large lake. Since then, its area has declined and the distance from neighboring Lake Volvi is becoming larger. In the 1950s, Koroneia was among the lakes of Greece with the biggest fish production. In the 1970s, its area was 45 km², with a depth of about five metres. Since then it has shrunk to about one third of its original area, and its depth has decreased to less than 1 metre. In the summer of 2009, it was possible to walk across the lake. In spite of being a wetland of international importance, as recognized by the Ramsar Convention, the lake suffers from pollution and intensive agriculture. The European Commission has referred Greece to the European Court of Justice for its failure to protect Lake Koroneia.\n\nIn 2019, Lake Koroneia's worsening situation drew widespread attention and coverage by the Greek media, with reports for further water level decreases and sights of dead fish on its shores. The Greek government announced that the Ministries responsible for the lake, are working on urgent measures to help prevent the ecological catastrophe and improve the lake's situation.\n"}
{"id": "2244009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244009", "title": "Little Sandy Desert", "text": "Little Sandy Desert\n\nThe Little Sandy Desert, an interim Australian bioregion, is a desert located in Western Australia south of the Great Sandy Desert and west of the Gibson Desert. \n\nThe bioregion is located to the east of Great Northern Highway south of Newman and approximately north of Wiluna. To the north the nearest large area identifiable is the Karlamilyi National Park.\n\nIt is named because it is relatively close and similar to the Great Sandy Desert, but is much smaller. Its landforms, fauna and flora are all similar to the Great Sandy Desert. Both deserts are crossed by the Canning Stock Route. \n\nIndigenous groups that have identified with the region include the Mandilara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244010", "title": "The Snapper (novel)", "text": "The Snapper (novel)\n\nThe Snapper (1990) is a novel by Irish writer Roddy Doyle and the second novel in \"The Barrytown Trilogy\".\n\nThe plot revolves around unmarried Sharon Rabbitte's pregnancy, and the unexpected effects this has on her conservative, working class Dublin family. \nIn the Rabbite household, unwed motherhood isn't the disaster it might be elsewhere. When twenty-year-old Sharon informs her father, Jimmy Sr., and mother, Veronica that she's \"up the pole\", they aren't thrilled, but there's no display of histrionics. After asking who the father is (and not being told), Jimmy Sr. invites his daughter out to the local pub for a drink. Sharon's friends are as interested as her family in the father's identity, but she resolutely keeps mum about the truth until an event in the neighborhood brings it into the open. It turns out that the father was her friend Yvonne's father George Burgess, who took advantage of her while she was drunk. Sharon tells everyone that it was a Spanish sailor, to avoid the embarrassment and the shame of everybody knowing. However most of the town believe the truth. She is often criticised and made fun of because of Burgess being the father. Because of the incident, Burgess runs away from home, and Sharon quits her job as a shelf stacker.\n\n\"The Snapper\" was made into a film directed by Stephen Frears and starring Tina Kellegher and Colm Meaney.\n"}
{"id": "2244025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244025", "title": "Laser microphone", "text": "Laser microphone\n\nA laser microphone is a surveillance device that uses a laser beam to detect sound vibrations in a distant object. It can be used to eavesdrop with minimal chance of exposure.\n\nThe object is typically inside a room where a conversation is taking place and can be anything that can vibrate (for example, a picture on a wall) in response to the pressure waves created by noises present in the room. The object preferably should have a smooth surface for the beam to be reflected accurately. The laser beam is directed into the room through a window, reflects off the object, and returns to a receiver that converts the beam to an audio signal. The beam may also be bounced off the window itself. The minute differences in the distance traveled by the light as it reflects from the vibrating object are detected interferometrically. The interferometer converts the variations to intensity variations, and electronics are used to convert these variations to signals that can be converted back to sound.\n\nThe technique of using a light beam to remotely record sound probably originated with Léon Theremin in the Soviet Union at or before 1947, when he developed and used the \"Buran\" eavesdropping system. This worked by using a low power infrared beam (not a laser) from a distance to detect the sound vibrations in the glass windows. Lavrentiy Beria, head of the KGB, had used this Buran device to spy on the U.S., British, and French embassies in Moscow.\n\nOn 25 August 2009, was issued for a device that uses a laser beam and smoke or vapor to detect sound vibrations in free air (\"Particulate Flow Detection Microphone based on a laser-photocell pair with a moving stream of smoke or vapor in the laser beam's path\"). Sound pressure waves cause disturbances in the smoke that in turn cause variations in the amount of laser light reaching the photo detector. A prototype of the device was demonstrated at the 127th Audio Engineering Society convention in New York City from 9 through 12 October 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244034", "title": "Belorusskaya (Zamoskvoretskaya line)", "text": "Belorusskaya (Zamoskvoretskaya line)\n\nBelorusskaya (, ) is a Moscow Metro station on the Zamoskvoretskaya line. Designed by architects Ivan Taranov and Nadezhda Bykova, it was opened in 1938 as part of the second stage of the Moscow Metro.\n\nThe station is named after the nearby Belorussky Rail Terminal, from which westward trains towards Belarus and western Europe depart.\n\nThe station is decorated with national Belarusian motives, which include the facing of rectangular pylons faced with pink marble from Birobidzhan on the exterior and with black davalu marble in the passageway to the platforms. Bronze floor-lamps decorate the pylon niches, in the end of the central hall is a bust of Vladimir Lenin.\n\nThe station underwent several modernisations which slightly altered its original design. The floor, initially being based on Belarusian national ornaments, was replaced with square tiles of black and grey marble. The walls also initially covered with indigo ceramic tiles were replaced by indigo marble in 2004.\n\nIn 1952, a series of staircases was added to the southern side of the central hall, and a transfer to Belorusskaya station on the Koltsevaya line was opened. In 1958 the first cruise control system in the Moscow Metro was tested on Belorusskaya, with a photoelement installed on a train.\n\nThe station receives 139,700 passengers per day from the Koltsevaya line and 45,950 from its vestibule, built into the Belorussky Rail Terminal.\n"}
{"id": "2244043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244043", "title": "CCM mode", "text": "CCM mode\n\nCCM mode (Counter with CBC-MAC) is a mode of operation for cryptographic block ciphers. It is an authenticated encryption algorithm designed to provide both authentication and confidentiality. CCM mode is only defined for block ciphers with a block length of 128 bits.\n\nThe nonce of CCM must be carefully chosen to never be used more than once for a given key.\nThis is because CCM is a derivation of CTR mode and the latter is effectively a stream cipher.\n\nAs the name suggests, CCM mode combines the well known CBC-MAC with the well known counter mode of encryption. These two primitives are applied in an \"authenticate-then-encrypt\" manner, that is, CBC-MAC is first computed on the message to obtain a tag t; the message and the tag are then encrypted using counter mode. One key insight is that the same encryption key can be used for both, provided that the counter values used in the encryption do not collide with the (pre-)initialization vector used in the authentication. A proof of security exists for this combination, based on the security of the underlying block cipher. The proof also applies to a generalization of CCM for any size block cipher, and for any size cryptographically strong pseudo-random function (since in both counter mode and CBC-MAC, the block cipher is only ever used in one direction).\n\nCCM mode was designed by Russ Housley, Doug Whiting and Niels Ferguson. At the time CCM mode was developed, Russ Housley was employed by RSA Laboratories.\n\nA minor variation of the CCM, called CCM*, is used in the ZigBee standard. CCM* includes all of the features of CCM and additionally offers encryption-only capabilities.\n\nCCM requires two block cipher encryption operations on each block of an encrypted-and-authenticated message, and one encryption on each block of associated authenticated data.\n\nAccording to Crypto++ benchmarks, AES CCM requires 28.6 cycles per byte on an Intel Core 2 processor in 32-bit mode.\n\nNotable inefficiencies:\n\nThe catalyst for the development of CCM mode was the submission of OCB mode for inclusion in the IEEE 802.11i standard. Opposition was voiced to the inclusion of OCB mode because of a pending patent application on the algorithm. Inclusion of a patented algorithm meant significant licensing complications for implementors of the standard.\n\nWhile the inclusion of OCB mode was disputed based on these intellectual property issues, it was agreed that the simplification provided by an authenticated encryption system was desirable. Therefore, Housley, et al. developed CCM mode as a potential alternative that was not encumbered by patents.\n\nEven though CCM mode is less efficient than OCB mode, a patent free solution was preferable to one complicated by patent licensing issues. Therefore, CCM mode went on to become a mandatory component of the IEEE 802.11i standard, and OCB mode was relegated to optional component status, before eventually being removed altogether.\n\nCCM mode is used in the IEEE 802.11i (as CCMP, an encryption algorithm for WPA2), IPsec, and TLS 1.2, as well as Bluetooth Low Energy (as of Bluetooth 4.0). It is available for TLS 1.3, but not enabled by default in OpenSSL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244046", "title": "Bewick's wren", "text": "Bewick's wren\n\nThe Bewick's wren (\"Thryomanes bewickii\") is a wren native to North America. At about long, it is grey-brown above, white below, with a long white eyebrow. While similar in appearance to the Carolina wren, it has a long tail that is tipped in white. The song is loud and melodious, much like the song of other wrens. It lives in thickets, brush piles and hedgerows, open woodlands and scrubby areas, often near streams. It eats insects and spiders, which it gleans from vegetation or finds on the ground.\n\nIts historic range was from southern British Columbia, Nebraska, southern Ontario, and southwestern Pennsylvania, Maryland, south to Mexico, Arkansas and the northern Gulf States. However, it is now extremely rare east of the Mississippi River.\n\nJohn James Audubon is credited with having first described a specimen of the Bewick's wren, collecting the first known specimen in 1821. The Bewick's Wren is named after Audubon's friend Thomas Bewick, an English engraver and natural historian.\n\nThis is currently the only species of its genus, Thryomanes. The Socorro wren, formerly placed here too, is actually a close relative of the house wren complex, as indicated by biogeography and mtDNA NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 sequence analysis, whereas \"Thryomanes\" seems not too distant from the Carolina wren.\n\nA list of commonly recognized subspecies follows. Two have gone extinct during the 20th century, mainly due to habitat destruction and cat predation.\n\n\nThe last three are sometimes united as \"T. b. mexicanus\". The validity of subspecies needs to be verified using freshly caught birds and/or molecular data, as specimens are prone to foxing quickly.\n\nThe Bewick's wren has an average length of 5.1 inches (13 cm) and an average weight of 0.3 to 0.4 ounces (8 -12 g). Its plumage is brown on top and light grey underneath, with a white stripe above each eye. Its beak is long, slender, and slightly curved. Its most distinctive feature is its long tail with black bars and white corners. It moves its tail around frequently, making this feature even more obvious for observers.\n\nJuveniles look similar to adults, with only a few key differences. Their beaks are usually shorter and stockier. In addition, their underbelly might feature some faint speckling. Males and females are very similar in appearance.\n\nBewick's wrens, like many wrens, are very vocal. Both females and males make short calls while foraging and both use a harsh scolding call when agitated. Males also sing in order to attract mates and protect their territory. The song is broken into two or three individual parts; one individual male may exhibit up to twenty-two different variations on the song pattern, and may even throw in a little ventriloquism to vary it even further. A male wren learns its song from neighboring males, so its song will be different from its father's.\n\nGeographic differences have been observed in the appearance of the Bewick's wren. Eastern populations, prior to their decline, were described as being more colorful, such as having a reddish tint to its brown feathers. Pacific populations are described as being darker in appearance, while populations in the Southwest are described as having a grayer plumage.\n\nGeographic differences have also been noted in the song of Bewick's wrens. Each regional population of Bewick's wrens have distinctive vocalizations, in particular their call notes. Pacific populations sing notably more complicated songs than Southwestern populations. Eastern populations were also noted to be excellent singers.\n\nThe Bewick's wren once had a range that extended throughout much of the United States and Mexico and parts of Canada. It used to be fairly common in the Midwest and in the Appalachian Mountains, but it is now extremely rare east of the Mississippi River. It is still found along the Pacific Coast from Baja California to British Columbia, in Mexico, and in a significant portion of the Southwest, including Texas, Arizona, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Western populations do not tend to migrate. Eastern populations, prior to their decline, used to migrate from its northern range to the Gulf Coast.\n\nThe preferred habitat of the Bewick's wren is that of open woodlands and brush-filled areas such as hillsides and uplands. They are more common than house wrens in drier habitats, such as those found in the Southwest. In California, Bewick's wrens inhabit a shrubland area called chaparral.\n\nBewick's wrens are insect eaters. They glean insects and insect eggs from vegetation, including the trunks of trees. They typically do not feed on vegetation higher than 3 meters, but they will forage on the ground. Bewick's wrens are capable of hanging upside down in order to acquire food, such as catching an insect on the underside of a branch. When it catches an insect, it kills the insect prior to swallowing it whole. Bewick's wrens will repeatedly wipe their beaks on its perch after a meal.\n\nBewick's wrens will visit backyard feeders. They will eat suet, peanut hearts, hulled sunflower seeds, and mealworms. Like many insect-eating birds, the Bewick's wren widens its diet to include seeds in the winter.\n\nCourtship begins with the male singing from its perch. It will occasionally pause its song in order to chase its competitors. Bewick's wrens form monogamous pairs that will then forage together. The male wren begins building the nest in a cavity or birdhouse, with the female joining in later. The nest is constructed from twigs and other plant materials and is often lined with feathers. The nest is cup-shaped and located in a nook or cavity of some kind. It lays 5–7 eggs that are white with brown spots. The Bewick's wren produces two broods in a season. Pairs are more or less monogamous when it comes to breeding, but go solitary throughout the winter.\n\nIn 2016, the Bewick's wren was listed as least concern on the IUCN Red List of threatened species due to the size of its range and estimates of its population size. However, ornithologists have noted a severe decline in its eastern range and parts of its western range. In particular, it has virtually disappeared from east of the Mississippi. In 1984, the state of Maryland classified the Bewick's wren as endangered under its Maryland Endangered Species Act of 1971. Despite this classification, no breeding pairs of Bewick's wrens are known to remain in Maryland. In 2014, the North American Bird Conservation Initiative placed the eastern Bewick's wren on its watch list.\n\nSeveral theories have been proposed to explain its decline in its eastern range, including pesticide use and competition from other bird species. The most likely reason seems to be competition from house wrens. House wrens compete with Bewick's wrens for similar nesting sites. House wrens will destroy both the nests and eggs of Bewick's wrens. The reforestation of once open land has also negatively impacted the eastern Bewick's wrens.\n\nIn California, habitat loss due to development has impacted the Bewick's wren. In San Diego, the development of canyons has led to the gradual decline of native bird species, including the Bewick's wren.\n\nIn Washington, development has actually benefited the Bewick's wren, leading to an increase in its population. However, this has coincided with the decline of the Pacific wren thanks to increased competition between the two species.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244047", "title": "Brutal Planet", "text": "Brutal Planet\n\nBrutal Planet is the fourteenth solo studio album by Alice Cooper, released in 2000. Musically, this finds Alice tackling a much darker and heavier approach than on previous albums, with many songs approaching a somewhat modern-sounding, industrial/metal sound. Lyrically, it deals with themes of dark \"social fiction\", including domestic violence (\"Take It Like a Woman\"), prejudice (\"Blow Me a Kiss\"), psychopathic behavior (\"It's the Little Things\"), war (\"Pick Up the Bones\") and school shootings (\"Wicked Young Man\"). The album was followed by a sequel \"Dragontown\".\n\nDoug Van Pelt, editor of the alternative Christian music-oriented \"HM Magazine\", found that the lyrics communicated biblical morals \"in a very powerful way\". Van Pelt stated further that the final argument is provided in the title track, which condemns the systems of judgment that the world uses. Moreover, \"Blow Me a Kiss\" urges the listener to think deeper about spiritual matters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244052", "title": "Arlington Road", "text": "Arlington Road\n\nArlington Road is a 1999 neo noir thriller drama film directed by Mark Pellington and starring Jeff Bridges, Tim Robbins, Joan Cusack, and Hope Davis. The film tells the story of a widowed George Washington University professor who suspects his new neighbors are involved in terrorism and becomes obsessed with foiling their terrorist plot. The film was heavily inspired by the paranoid culture of the 1990s concerning the right-wing militia movement, Ruby Ridge, the Waco siege and Oklahoma City Bombing.\n\nEhren Kruger wrote the script, which won the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' (AMPAS) Nicholl Fellowship in 1996. The film was to have been originally released by PolyGram Filmed Entertainment, but the film's United States distribution rights were sold to Sony Pictures Entertainment for $6 million. The eventual release was the second title for Screen Gems (and its first wide theatrical release) while PolyGram (now part of Universal Studios) handled foreign rights. Tomandandy composed additional music in the film.\n\nMichael Faraday (Jeff Bridges) is a widower and college history professor at George Washington University with a 10-year-old son named Grant (Spencer Treat Clark). One day, Michael encounters a boy, Brady (Mason Gamble), stumbling in the middle of a road in his neighborhood with horrific injuries to his hands. Michael takes him to hospital and meets the boy's parents Oliver (Tim Robbins) and Cheryl Lang (Joan Cusack), discovering they are his neighbors. They soon become friends, and their sons join the Discoverers, a Boy Scouts-style group.\n\nActions of the Langs arouse latent suspicion in Michael. Michael sees blueprints in the Langs' house which are not for the building project Oliver, a structural engineer, claims, and a wrongly delivered letter suggests he lied about where he attended college. When Michael laments the FBI's lack of contrition after his wife Leah (Laura Poe), an FBI agent, was killed in the line of duty, Oliver states that the government should be punished for its mistakes. Michael's girlfriend, Brooke (Hope Davis), and Leah's former FBI partner, Whit Carver (Robert Gossett), dismiss Michael's concerns as paranoia.\n\nMichael takes his college class on a field trip to the site of the standoff in which his wife was killed, and passionately excoriates the FBI for failing to sufficiently investigate the besieged family, and for provoking the standoff. Michael's students appear uneasy.\n\nOliver tells Michael that Grant wishes someone could be punished for his mother's death, which again rouses Michael's suspicion. He discovers in archives that Oliver's real name is William Fenimore, and that he tried to blow up a post office in Kansas at age 16. He is seen by Oliver, who later confronts and berates him. Oliver states that he sought revenge on the government for causing his father's suicide, that he was imprisoned, and admits to changing his identity to hide his past from his children.\n\nMichael appears to let the matter drop. However, a few days later, Brooke sees Oliver swap cars with a stranger in a parking lot, and follows him to a delivery depot where a number of metal boxes are exchanged. From a payphone, she leaves Michael a message that his suspicions may have been correct, but is discovered by Cheryl.\n\nMichael learns of Brooke's (off-screen) death on the news, where it appears she died in a car crash. The next day, Michael inadvertently discovers that messages left on his answering machine had been erased. Again suspecting foul play, Michael phones Whit about Oliver/William and asks him to check FBI records, and records of calls to his home.\n\nMichael visits the father of the late Dean Scobee, accused of blowing up a federal building in St. Louis, from where the Langs had moved. Dr. Scobee is certain his son was innocent since 10 children died in the bombing. Michael becomes convinced Dean was set up when he sees him in a photo with Brady, with whom Grant is on a Discoverer field trip, and rushes in a panic to retrieve him. Troop leaders tell him that Grant was taken home with Brady. Michael confronts Oliver at his home, where he confirms that his group killed Brooke.\n\nThe next day Whit accosts Michael, stating the FBI discovered nothing suspicious about Oliver/William or his acquaintances, and says that Michael's 'missing' telephone message was from a payphone. The following morning, Michael slips out of his house, rents a car under a false name, drives to the payphone where Brooke made the phone call, and sees a passing delivery vehicle. He follows it to its depot, where he sees some men he recognizes from Oliver's house, and from Discoverer photographs, loading metal boxes into the van.\n\nMichael follows the van and is shocked to see Grant at the window. Oliver intercepts Michael's car and beats him, promising to kill Grant. Oliver expounds on his group's anti-government mission, and their current target: the FBI. Michael overpowers Oliver and drives to FBI headquarters, calling Whit to warn him.\n\nMichael sees a delivery van at the gate to the FBI building and illegally pursues it into the secure parking garage, but discovers that it is a different van and is empty. Whit tells Michael that he is the only unauthorized person in the building. Michael rushes back to his own car, discovering a bomb in the trunk seconds before it detonates. The blast partially collapses the FBI headquarters, as Oliver watches from a distance.\n\nA montage of news clips, which portray Michael as a lonewolf terrorist seeking revenge on the FBI for Leah's death, show that the Langs have successfully framed him. Statements from Michael's students (one of whom is a conspirator) support the official story, giving accounts of his erratic and paranoid behavior and inferring that he held a dangerous grudge against the FBI. Grant, now orphaned, moves in with relatives, tragically unaware of his father's innocence.\n\nIn the final scene, Oliver and Cheryl have put their house up for sale and prepare to move to another suburban neighborhood where they will plan their next terrorist attack, as well as look for another fall guy to take the blame for their group's actions as they did with Michael Faraday and many others before him.\n\n\nSony paid $6 million to acquire the film's United States distribution rights. It opened at #6 in its opening weekend with $7,515,145 behind \"American Pie\", \"Wild Wild West\"s second, \"Big Daddy\"s third, and \"Tarzan\" and \"The General's Daughter\"s fourth weekends. The film eventually grossed $24,756,177 in the United States theatrically. \n\nThe film made a worldwide gross of $41 million on a budget of $31 million. \n\nThe film holds a 63% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 91 reviews. with the site's consensus stating; \"A suspenseful thriller led by strong cast performances built around a somewhat implausible story.\" and a 2/4 rating by Roger Ebert, who wrote of the film:\"Arlington Road\" is a thriller that contains ideas. Any movie with ideas is likely to attract audiences who have ideas of their own, but to think for a second about the logic of this plot is fatal.\n\nThe film was initially released on October 26, 1999 by Columbia TriStar Home Video. The DVD was reissued in Superbit on February 12, 2002 by Columbia TriStar Home Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244071", "title": "Sinodonty and Sundadonty", "text": "Sinodonty and Sundadonty\n\nIn anthropology, Sinodonty and Sundadonty are two patterns of features widely found in the dentitions of different populations in East Asia and Southeast Asia. These two patterns were identified by anthropologist Christy G. Turner II as being within the greater \"Mongoloid dental complex\". Sundadonty is regarded as having a more generalised, proto-Mongoloid morphology and having a longer ancestry than its offspring, Sinodonty.\n\nThe combining forms \"Sino-\" and \"Sunda-\" refer to China and Sundaland, respectively, while \"-dont\" refers to teeth.\n\nTsunehiko Hanihara (1993) believed that the dental features of Aboriginal Australians have the characteristic of high frequencies of \"\"evolutionarily conservative characteristics,\"\" which is called the \"proto-sundadont\" pattern.\n\nC.G Turner II shows with his analysis of 2016 that sundadonty is the proto-Mongolid dental morphology and is not connected to the Australoid dental morphology. He also shows that sinodonty is predominant in Native Americans.\n\nAnalysis on the Sinodonty and Sundadonty of New world groups by G.R. Sott et al. (2016) shows the distinction between East Asians and Southeast Asians is not nearly as dramatic as the difference between all Asians and all New World groups. Other researchers like Stojanowski et al., 2013;\nStojanowski and Johnson, (2015) suggest New World groups may be neither Sinodont nor Sundadont and in most regards, could be viewed as super-Sinodont. A clear dental morphology not only ties New World groups to Asians, particularly northeast Asians, but it also exhibits a pattern largely consistent with the Beringian Standstill model (BSM) based on a Sinodont source population.\n\nTurner defined the Sinodont and Sundadont dental complexes in contrast to a broader Mongoloid dental complex. Hanihara defined the Mongoloid dental complex in 1966. In 1984, Turner separated the Mongoloid dental complex into the Sinodont and Sundadont dental complexes.\n\nRyuta Hamada, Shintaro Kondo and Eizo Wakatsuki (1997) said that, based on dental traits, Mongoloids are separated into sinodonts and sundadonts, which is supported by Christy G. Turner II (1989).\n\nTurner found the Sundadont pattern in the skeletal remains of Jōmon people of Japan, and in living populations of Taiwanese aborigines, Filipinos, Indonesians, Borneans, and Malaysians.\n\nIn 1996, Rebecca Haydenblit of the Hominid Evolutionary Biology Research Group at Cambridge University did a study on the dentition of four pre-Columbian Mesoamerican populations and compared their data to \"other Mongoloid populations\". She found that \"Tlatilco\", \"Cuicuilco\", \"Monte Albán\" and \"Cholula\" populations followed an overall \"Sundadont\" dental pattern \"characteristic of Southeast Asia\" rather than a \"Sinodont\" dental pattern \"characteristic of Northeast Asia\".\n\nTurner found the Sinodont pattern in the Han Chinese, in the inhabitants of Mongolia and eastern Siberia, in the Native Americans, and in the Yayoi people of Japan.\n\nSinodonty is a particular pattern of teeth characterized by the following features:\n\nThe EDAR gene causes the Sinodont tooth pattern, and also affects hair texture, jaw morphology, and perhaps the nutritional profile of breast milk.\n\nIn the 1990s, Turner's dental morphological traits were frequently mentioned as one of three new tools for studying origins and migrations of human populations. The other two were linguistic methods such as Joseph Greenberg's mass comparison of vocabulary or Johanna Nichols's statistical study of language typology and its evolution, and genetic studies pioneered by Cavalli-Sforza.\n\nToday, the largest number of references to Turner's work are from discussions of the origin of Paleo-Amerindians and modern Native Americans, including the Kennewick Man controversy. Turner found that the dental remains of both ancient and modern Amerindians are more similar to each other than they are to dental complexes from other continents, but that the Sinodont patterns of the Paleo-Amerindians identify their ancestral homeland as north-east Asia. Some later studies have questioned this and found Sundadont features in some American peoples.\n\nA study done by Stojonowski et al in 2015 found a \"significant interobserver error\" in the earlier studies and their statistical analysis of matched wear and morphology scores suggests trait downgrading for some traits.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244086", "title": "Heist of the Century", "text": "Heist of the Century\n\nHeist of the Century is the debut solo studio album by American rapper and Wu-Tang Clan affiliate La the Darkman from Grand Rapids, Michigan. It was released on November 17, 1998 through Supreme Team Entertainment. Production was handled by Carlos \"Six July\" Broady, 4th Disciple, Havoc of Mobb Deep, RZA, Raekwon, and DJ Muggs of Cypress Hill. It features appearances by many Wu-Tang Clan members and affiliates such as Ghostface Killah, Masta Killa and U-God among others.\n"}
{"id": "2244090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244090", "title": "New York State Route 104", "text": "New York State Route 104\n\nNew York State Route 104 (NY 104) is a east–west state highway in Upstate New York in the United States. It spans six counties and enters the vicinity of four cities—Niagara Falls, Lockport, Rochester, and Oswego—as it follows a routing largely parallel to the southern shoreline of Lake Ontario, along a ridge of the old shoreline of Glacial Lake Iroquois. The western terminus of NY 104 is an intersection with NY 384 in Niagara Falls, Niagara County, while its eastern terminus is a junction with NY 13 in the town of Williamstown, Oswego County. The portion of NY 104 between Rochester and the village of Webster east of the city is a limited-access highway known as the Keeler Street Expressway west of NY 590 and the Irondequoit–Wayne County Expressway east of NY 590; from Williamson to Oswego, NY 104 is a super two highway.\n\nThe majority of Ridge Road and modern NY 104 from the village of Red Creek to the town of Mexico were originally designated as part of Route 30, an unsigned legislative route, early in the 20th century. All of Ridge Road and its continuation through Oswego to the hamlet of Maple View gained a signed designation by 1926 and became part of U.S. Route 104 (US 104), a United States Numbered Highway extending from Niagara Falls to Maple View, . US 104, which never connected to US 4, its implied parent route, was redesignated as NY 104 . As part of the redesignation, NY 104 was extended east to NY 13 in Williamstown over what had been New York State Route 126.\n\nThe 104 designation, whether it be US 104 or NY 104, has shifted from surface streets to expressways and super twos, particularly from Rochester east to Oswego. The first such realignment occurred in the 1940s in Wayne County and was completed by the realignment of NY 104 onto the Irondequoit–Wayne County Expressway near Webster in the 1980s.\n\nNY 104 begins at the Rainbow Bridge in Niagara Falls. The Seaway Trail crosses NY 384 and follows NY 104 north on First Street for one block to the Niagara Scenic Parkway, where the byway and NY 104 veer onto Main Street. NY 104 follows Main Street through the city's largely commercial west side and intersects the northern or eastern terminus for US 62 (Ferry Avenue and Walnut Avenue) and US 62 Business (Pine Avenue). North of US 62 Business, the area becomes more residential as NY 104 meets NY 182 southeast of the Whirlpool Rapids Bridge. To the north, NY 104's name changes to Lewiston Road as it passes the south campus of Niagara University. Near the northern extent of the campus, NY 104 intersects the western terminus of NY 31, here named College Avenue. At the city limits, NY 104 meets the northbound Robert Moses State Parkway by way of a half-interchange. The portion of NY 104 between Third Street and the Lewiston town line is maintained by the city of Niagara Falls, and is the only part of NY 104 that is not maintained by the New York State Department of Transportation.\n\nNow in the town of Lewiston, NY 104 comes within view of the Niagara River gorge and begins to run along its eastern rim. NY 104 meets the northernmost point of NY 61 at the northern campus of Niagara University. Past NY 61, the route passes by the Niagara Power Visitors Center and over the Robert Moses Niagara Power Plant. On the opposite side of the plant, NY 104 connects with Interstate 190 (I-190) at exit 25 via Upper Mountain Road and passes under the eastern approach to the Lewiston–Queenston Bridge, which links I-190 with Ontario's Highway 405.\n\nPast I-190, NY 104 begins to deviate from the Niagara River. It heads through a small neighborhood situated between the Moses Parkway and NY 104 and intersects the northern end of NY 265. North of this junction, NY 104 curves northeast to descend the Niagara Escarpment. As it heads downward in elevation, it intersects the western terminus of NY 18 by way of an interchange. As part of the same exit, NY 104 meets the parkway one more time as well as the southern terminus of NY 18F near the village of Lewiston. Here, the Seaway Trail leaves NY 104 to follow NY 18F. East of the exit, NY 104 intersects NY 18 again by way of another interchange.\n\nEast of Lewiston village, NY 104 follows Ridge Road through a sparsely populated area of Niagara County. Much of this portion of NY 104 is bordered on its southern end by the Tuscarora Indian Reservation. At the Lewiston hamlet of Dickersonville, the extents of the reservation head south, and development along NY 104 increases slightly. NY 104 meets the northern terminus of NY 429 at the Lewiston–Cambria town line and crosses over NY 425 at Streeters Corners. Just east of this location is an intersection with NY 93 in the community of Molyneaux Corners. The two routes form a concurrency east to Warrens Corners, a hamlet on the Cambria–Lockport town line, where NY 93 turns south to serve the city of Lockport.\n\nNY 104 heads northeast through the extreme northwest corner of the town of Lockport to the town line, where it turns eastward to straddle the boundary between the towns of Lockport and Newfane. As it approaches the hamlet of Wrights Corners, the development along NY 104 increases substantially with the level peaking at the junction of NY 104 and NY 78. The two routes join for roughly into the town of Newfane before splitting north of the hamlet. Ridge Road continues northeast through a residential district, which gives way to open fields once more at Ridgewood. NY 104 turns east here, passing through the town of Hartland and intersecting the southern terminus of NY 148 and the northern terminus of NY 271. The route crosses into Orleans County at a junction with the southern terminus of NY 269, which straddles the county line.\n\nThe route heads northeast through the town of Ridgeway to the hamlet of the same name, where NY 104 meets NY 63. NY 63 joins NY 104 east along Ridge Road for about before continuing north toward Lake Ontario. NY 104, meanwhile, continues through the rural towns of Ridgeway and Gaines to a junction with NY 279 north of Albion. Not far to the east, NY 104 intersects NY 98, the primary north–south highway through Albion, in the hamlet of Childs. Just past the intersection on the north side of the road are two of the three cobblestone buildings of the Cobblestone Historic District, a National Historic Landmark.\n\nFarther east, Ridge Road enters the town of Murray, where it meets the northern terminus of NY 387 and intersects NY 237 in the hamlet of Murray. The two routes join for just under a mile (1.6 km) before NY 237 breaks away to the south toward Holley. NY 104 exits Orleans County later in the same fashion as it entered: by intersecting a state highway. After meeting the southern terminus of NY 272, NY 104 crosses into Monroe County and becomes West Ridge Road as it heads through the town of Clarkson. In the densely populated hamlet of Clarkson Corners, NY 104 intersects NY 19. The open fields return east of the hamlet, and largely surround Ridge Road as NY 104 intersects NY 260. NY 104 heads onward into Parma, where it widens to four lanes and has a junction with NY 259 in Parma Corners.\nEast of Parma Corners, development on NY 104 steadily increases as it heads toward the town of Greece. By the Parma–Greece town line, where NY 104 intersects the southern terminus of NY 261, Ridge Road is lined with commercial properties of varying size. Continuing east, NY 104 meets the northern terminus of NY 386. Here, NY 104 widens to a six-lane divided highway. Between NY 386 and NY 390 exit 24, NY 104 passes by several large shopping malls, the largest of which is The Mall at Greece Ridge at the intersection of NY 104 and Long Pond Road. At NY 390, NY 104 continues to be a six-lane divided highway as it heads toward Rochester. It enters the city limits upon meeting Mount Read Boulevard at an interchange.\n\nIn Rochester, NY 104 passes through an area known as Kodak Park, the large industrial complex owned by Eastman Kodak that occupies an entire neighborhood. In the middle of the complex, NY 104 crosses the Rochester and Southern Railroad and the CSX Transportation-owned Charlotte Running Track and intersects the eastern terminus of NY 18. Continuing east, NY 104 crosses the Genesee River gorge on the Veterans Memorial Bridge. On the opposite bank, it loses the name West Ridge Road and becomes a limited-access highway known as the Keeler Street Expressway.\nNorth of the first exit with St. Paul Street, Ridge Road resurfaces as East Ridge Road, which parallels the expressway to the north. NY 104 continues through Rochester and Irondequoit, connecting to North Clinton Avenue, Seneca Avenue, Hudson Avenue, Carter Street, Portland Avenue, North Goodman Street and Culver Road by way of interchanges. Between the Goodman Street and Culver Road exits, NY 104 passes the former Medley Centre. East of Culver, NY 104 encounters NY 590 and connects to NY 590 southbound by way of an interchange. East Ridge Road runs through the middle of this interchange, although there are no connections between Ridge and NY 104. There is also no access from NY 104 eastbound to NY 590 northbound; eastbound traffic must take Culver Road in order to go north toward Sea Breeze. Just east of the NY 590 interchange, NY 104 becomes the Irondequoit–Wayne County Expressway and crosses the Irondequoit Bay by way of the Irondequoit Bay Bridge. An access road between NY 104 just west of the bridge and NY 590 at Titus Avenue was once planned. Although entrance and exit ramps were built for the connection along NY 104, the rest of the link was never built, leaving no access from NY 104 westbound to NY 590 northbound and from NY 590 southbound to NY 104 eastbound.\n\nOn the other side of the bridge in the town of Webster, NY 104 has exits leading to Bay Road, Five Mile Line Road, Hard Road, and Holt Road prior to entering the village of Webster. Within the village, NY 104 meets NY 250 (North Avenue) and Phillips Road by way of interchanges before exiting the village. The expressway loosely parallels the southern edge of the primary Xerox campus to an exit with Salt Road, where it downgrades to a divided highway as it continues east to Basket Road and the Monroe–Wayne county line, partially delimited by NY 404.\n\nAs Ridge Road follows to the south, NY 104 continues east through Ontario, where it meets the northern terminus of NY 350 in Ontario Center. The four-lane divided highway continues east to Williamson, where the median separating the two directions of NY 104 comes to an end west of the hamlet of Williamson. In the center of the hamlet, NY 104 intersects the northern terminus of NY 21. NY 104 narrows to two lanes east of Williamson as development along the route declines once more, giving way to open fields and thick forests.\nNear the center of the county in the town of Sodus, NY 104 serves as the northern terminus of NY 88 northwest of the village of Sodus. While NY 88 heads east into the village, NY 104 bypasses Sodus to the north. East of the village, Ridge Road and NY 104 intersect as Ridge Road flips to the north side of NY 104. The two highways follow parallel routings southeast toward Alton, where NY 104 intersects NY 14. East of Alton, the gap between the two widens as Ridge Road veers north to access Sodus Bay. NY 104, meanwhile, follows a nearly linear routing into the town of Huron, where it intersects the northern terminus of NY 414.\n\nNY 104 continues on the eastward routing to the vicinity of the village of Wolcott, where it connects to the northern terminus of NY 89 via a half-diamond interchange south of the village. Northeast of this location in the town of Wolcott, Ridge Road intersects NY 104 once again, returning to the south side of the route. The two roads follow parallel routings once more to a junction south of Red Creek. At this rural intersection, NY 104 acts as the southern and northern (western) terminus of both NY 104A and NY 370, respectively, both occupying an extension of Ridge Road. Just east of the intersection is the Wayne–Cayuga county line. Only of the route are situated in Cayuga County, and the only junction of note within the county is with NY 38, which it meets in the Sterling hamlet of Martville. East of the junction, NY 104 turns sharply to the northeast and enters Oswego County.\n\nThe route continues northeast through the town of Hannibal to the village of the same name. Instead of entering the community, NY 104 bypasses it to the east. It intersects NY 3 east of Hannibal and heads north toward Lake Ontario. In the town of Oswego, NY 104 meets the northern terminus of NY 104A and assumes its northeasterly routing. It is here that the Seaway Trail rejoins NY 104. NY 104 heads along the Lake Ontario shoreline to the lake-side city of Oswego, the first location with significant development along the route since Williamson. The route intersects Sweet Road, a connector leading to the campus of SUNY Oswego, just west of the city limits.\nNY 104 enters the city as the two-laned West Seneca Street. At Baylis Street, the road widens to four lanes separated by a median. After seven blocks, NY 104 veers onto West Bridge Street, a four-lane street with no median. NY 104 continues along Bridge Street into downtown, where it intersects the northern terminus of NY 48 on the west bank of the Oswego River and the northern terminus of NY 481 on the east bank. As NY 104 heads through eastern Oswego, it separates from East Bridge Street and curves east to follow a more inland routing. The route reverts to two lanes as it exits the city limits.\n\nThe high level of development along NY 104 continues to the Scriba hamlet of the same name, where it begins to become more sporadic and give way to fields and dense forests. NY 104 heads northeast to New Haven and the western terminus of NY 104B. While NY 104B heads northeast toward the lake shore as part of the Seaway Trail, NY 104 cuts southeast to serve the village of Mexico. In the village center, NY 104 briefly overlaps NY 3 and intersects the western terminus of NY 69. The route continues due east through the rural town of Mexico to the small hamlet of Maple View, centered around the junction between NY 104 and US 11. Just outside the hamlet, NY 104 meets I-81 at exit 34. Past I-81, NY 104 heads east and southeast for nine miles (14 km) through the predominantly rural towns of Albion and Williamstown to its eastern terminus at a junction with NY 13.\n\nIn 1908, the New York State Legislature established Route 30, an unsigned legislative route extending from Niagara Falls, Niagara County in the southwest to Rouses Point, Clinton County, in the northeast. From Rochester to Red Creek, Route 30 was assigned to Ridge Road. Between Red Creek and the hamlet of Union Square (now Maple View) in the town of Mexico, it included most of modern NY 104. At the same time, the roadway alongside the Niagara River between Ridge Road in Lewiston and Pine Avenue in downtown Niagara Falls was designated, but not signed, as part of Route 18. By 1914, Route 30 was amended to also include the section of Ridge Road from Porter (modern NY 429) to Ridgeway (NY 63). In 1914, another section—from Ridgeway to the Orleans–Monroe county line—was also included in Route 30's definition as a spur route. The spur route became part of Route 30 on March 1, 1921, when the mainline route was realigned to follow Ridge Road between Ridgeway and Rochester.\n\nWhen the first set of posted routes in New York were assigned in 1924, the segments of Route 30 from Rochester to Red Creek and from Oswego to Maple View became part of NY 3. Between Red Creek and Oswego, NY 3 was routed on what is now NY 104A. Farther west, the portion of Route 18 from Niagara Falls to Lewiston was included as part of NY 34. By 1926, all of legislative Route 30 west of Rochester was designated as part of NY 31. In the late 1920s, however, NY 31 was realigned to follow Ridge Road west from Porter to Lewiston. In the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York, NY 34 became part of an extended NY 18 while New York State Route 3E was assigned to the portion of former legislative Route 30 between Red Creek and Oswego. NY 3E was renumbered to New York State Route 3F .\n\nUS 104 was assigned across Upstate New York in April 1935, extending from Niagara Falls to Maple View via Lewiston, Rochester, and Oswego. It overlapped NY 18 from Niagara Falls to Lewiston and replaced NY 3 and NY 31 from Lewiston to Maple View (except from Red Creek to Oswego, where US 104 followed NY 3F instead). As a result, NY 31 was shifted south onto most of its modern alignment while NY 3 was rerouted south of Watertown to follow what had been NY 3D. Although US 104 was technically a child route of US 4, it did not connect to US 4. A highway extending eastward from US 11 and US 104 at Maple View to NY 13 in Williamstown was designated as NY 126 .\n\nWhen it was first assigned, US 104 dipped south to serve downtown Rochester instead of bypassing it to the north. US 104 left Ridge Road at Lake Avenue and followed Lake Avenue and State Street south to Main Street in downtown. It followed Main Street and Winton Road to Empire Boulevard, where it turned east to rejoin Ridge Road in Webster. It was rerouted to continue east on Ridge Road over the Veterans Memorial Bridge and through Irondequoit to Culver Road. US 104 turned here, following Culver Road south to Empire Boulevard and the latter east to Winton Road, where it reconnected to its original routing through the city. The realignment created a significant overlap with NY 18, which joined US 104 in the vicinity of Kodak Park and separated at Culver Road, where it headed north instead.\n\nWork began in the 1940s on new super two alignments for US 104 in Wayne, Cayuga, and Oswego counties. The new highway was built on a routing parallel to that of Ridge Road and served as a bypass of the communities along Ridge Road. The first portion of the super two, extending from the Monroe–Wayne county line at Union Hill to west of Sodus, was built in the mid-1940s and completed by 1947. An extension of the highway around Sodus to NY 414 in Huron was constructed in the mid-1960s and opened by 1968. In between the end of the super two and Ridge Road, US 104 was routed on Lake Bluff Road. The remainder of the super two between Huron and Red Creek was finished by 1974. East of the super two, a bypass was constructed around the village of Hannibal during the early 1960s and opened to traffic by 1964.\nSimilar conversion projects were also conducted elsewhere. In Irondequoit, the portion of the Sea Breeze Expressway (now NY 590) from Empire Boulevard to Culver Road opened in the late 1950s. US 104 and NY 18 were extended eastward along East Ridge Road to meet the expressway at what is now exit 11. Both designations entered the freeway; however, NY 18 followed the roadway north to Culver Road while US 104 progressed south to Empire Boulevard, where it rejoined its former surface alignment towards Webster. The of Empire Boulevard between the Rochester city line and the Sea Breeze Expressway remains state-maintained to this day as NY 941B, an unsigned reference route.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, construction began on the Keeler Street Expressway, a limited-access highway extending across Irondequoit from the Genesee River (at the Veterans Memorial Bridge) to the Sea Breeze Expressway. The first section from North Goodman Street to the Sea Breeze Expressway was completed by 1968 while the remainder opened in late 1969. The name of the expressway was derived from Keeler Street, a small residential street that originally connected to East Ridge Road and St. Paul Street by way of a traffic circle on the east bank of the Genesee River. The street was turned into a dead-end street as a result of the expressway's construction. US 104 was moved from East Ridge Road to the expressway, which remains known, albeit infrequently, as the Keeler Street Expressway to this day. NY 18 remained on East Ridge Road, however, reducing the overlap between US 104 and NY 18 to just the portion on the Veterans Bridge. NY 18 was truncated to its current eastern terminus , eliminating the overlap entirely.\nThe first segment of an eastward extension of the Keeler Street Expressway, named the Irondequoit–Wayne County Expressway, opened between the Sea Breeze Expressway (at this point designated as part of NY 47) and Five Mile Line Road. In between, US 104 crossed Irondequoit Bay by way of the Irondequoit Bay Bridge. US 104's former surface alignment between NY 47 and Five Mile Line Road was redesignated NY 404 while US 104 was temporarily realigned onto Five Mile Line Road between the expressway and Ridge Road to connect to its former alignment.\n\nThe segment of I-81 through central New York was built on an alignment that closely paralleled US 11 from the Pennsylvania state line northward to the city of Watertown. The portion of I-81 near Maple View was completed in late 1961, at which time US 104 was extended eastward over NY 126 to meet the new highway. NY 126 was truncated on its west end to the I-81 interchange as a result. US 104 was redesignated as NY 104 , making the route the third to bear the NY 104 designation. As part of the change, NY 104 was extended east to NY 13, completely supplanting NY 126.\n\nBy 1978, the frontage roads between Five Mile Line Road and NY 250 in Webster were completed. NY 104 was rerouted eastward along the roadways while NY 404 was extended over NY 104's old alignment to NY 250 in Webster. The section from NY 250 to the existing expressway at the Wayne County line was built in the late 1970s while the main carriageway of NY 104 between Five Mile Line Road and NY 250 was completed in the early 1980s. NY 404 was extended east along the former alignment of NY 104 to the county line upon the total completion of the Five Mile Line Road–NY 250 segment.\n\nNY 104 has two suffixed routes, both of which were assigned .\n\nNew York State Route 104 Truck is a long truck route of NY 104 through the city of Rochester and town of Irondequoit in Monroe County. The route, which exists in the eastbound direction only, extends from the ramps connecting NY 104 to St. Paul Street east along East Ridge Road to Hudson Avenue, where it turns south to access NY 104. A long segment of NY 104 Truck follows the former alignment of US 104 east along East Ridge Road from St. Paul Street to Hudson Avenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244093", "title": "Mathematics (producer)", "text": "Mathematics (producer)\n\nMathematics, also known as Allah Mathematics, (born Ronald Maurice Bean, October 21, 1972) is a hip hop producer and DJ for the Wu-Tang Clan and its solo and affiliate projects. He designed the Wu-Tang Clan logo.\n\nBorn and raised in Jamaica, Queens, New York, Mathematics was introduced to hip hop by his brother who used to bring home recordings of the genre's pioneers like Grandmaster Flash & The Furious Five, Treacherous Three and Cold Crush Brothers. He began his career in 1987 DJing block parties and park jams in Baisley Projects, going by the name Supreme Cut Master. In 1988, he became the full-time DJ for experienced rapper Victor C, doing countless shows in clubs and colleges in New York City.\n\nIn 1990, Mathematics linked up with GZA/Genius, who would soon become one of the Wu-Tang Clan's founding members, but at the time was struggling to build a career on the Cold Chillin' label. This partnership earned Mathematics a spot on his first official tour, The Cold Chillin Blizzard Tour (with popular acts such as Biz Markie, Big Daddy Kane, Kool G. Rap & DJ Polo and Marley Marl).\n\nGZA left Cold Chillin after his first album, \"Words from the Genius\", did not achieve the sales target that was anticipated. He and Mathematics took to the road again, but this time with the help of GZA's cousins, RZA and Ol' Dirty Bastard. These three soon became the founding members of Wu-Tang Clan, then known as All In Together Now. The group soon dissolved, however, and the trio set their minds on creating the Wu group. During the group's inception, Mathematics used his experience as a graffiti artist to design a logo for the up-and-coming crew, as well as various other logos and designs the Wu-Tang's artists would use. In the years to come, he became a Wu-Element under the guidance of RZA.\n\nMathematics' first real exposure to production came late one night when he attended a session where he assisted RZA, his mentor, in constructing a beat from nothing. The track eventually developed into \"Ice Cream\" on Raekwon's \"Only Built 4 Cuban Linx\" album. RZA inspired Mathematics to follow the Wu-Tang, giving him advice on the nuances of hip hop production over the coming years. In 1996, Mathematics began record producing, in Staten Island, New York (Shaolin) and at home, in the P-Funk City, Plainfield, New Jersey, between heavily scheduled tour dates and rigorous road travelling with his father's gospel group, The Soul Seekers.\n\nHis first track, \"Fast Life\" featuring Ghostface Killah and the American football star Andre Rison, was included in the \"NFL Jams\" compilation album. Though this track faded into obscurity somewhat, it led to several more collaborations between Mathematics and Ghostface; Mathematics also began to produce for many other Wu-Tang members and affiliates, including several tracks on GZA's second album \"Beneath The Surface\" as well as Method Man's \"\", Inspectah Deck's \"Uncontrolled Substance\" and Method Man & Redman's \"Blackout!\". Eventually, he produced for the Clan as a group, with \"Do You Really (Thang, Thang)\", \"Careful (Click, Click)\".\n\nIn 2003, Mathematics moved into TV work, as he produced the main theme and all original music for the short lived show \"Wanda At Large\", which starred Wanda Sykes and was broadcast by the Fox Network. During this time and between continuous touring, Mathematics started work on his first solo full length project, \"Love, Hell Or Right\". Completely mixed, arranged and produced by himself, \"Love Hell or Right\" was released fall 2003 on his own Quewisha Records label in conjunction with High Times Records, and it went on to sell 30,000 units.\n\nAs well as using rappers from Mathematics' home borough of Queens, Eyes-Low and Buddah Bless, \"Love Hell Or Right\" had appearances from all the Wu-Tang Clan members except GZA and the then-imprisoned Ol' Dirty Bastard. Mathematics soon signed to the popular independent hip hop label Nature Sounds (home to Wu-Tang colleague Masta Killa as well as MF DOOM) and released his second album \"The Problem\" in 2005. On this album the entire Wu-Tang Clan appeared, including a posthumous appearance from Ol' Dirty Bastard. As well as working on his solo albums, Mathematics has continued to contribute beats to many Wu-Tang releases, including the first albums by Masta Killa and Streetlife. In January 2012 he was to release a sequel to \"The Problem\" entitled \"The Answer\", entirely produced by him with Wu-Tang members such as Raekwon, GZA, Method Man, Cappadonna, Masta Killa, Ol' Dirty Bastard, Ghostface Killah. Other artists include Redman and artists he is developing such as Ali Vegas, Eyeslow and Bad Luck.\n\nIn August 2017, it was confirmed that Wu-Tang Clan will release a new album, \"Wu-Tang: The Saga Continues\", which was entirely produced by Mathematics and was released on October 13, 2017. The first track off the album is titled \"People Say\" and features Redman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244100", "title": "Voiced velar lateral tap", "text": "Voiced velar lateral tap\n\nThe voiced velar lateral tap is an allophone of the velar lateral approximant in some languages of New Guinea, such as Kanite and Melpa. The extremely short duration of the in intervocalic position (20–30 ms) warrants calling it a tap, according to .\n\nThere is no specific symbol for this sound. However, an IPA capital L with a breve for extra-short, , would capture Ladefoged and Maddieson's description.\n"}
{"id": "2244105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244105", "title": "Lyle Waggoner", "text": "Lyle Waggoner\n\nLyle Wesley Waggoner (; April 13, 1935 – March 17, 2020) was an American actor, sculptor, presenter, travel trailer salesman, and model, known for his work on \"The Carol Burnett Show\" from 1967 to 1974, and for playing the role of Steve Trevor and Steve Trevor Jr. on \"Wonder Woman\" from 1975 to 1979.\n\nWaggoner was born in Kansas City, Kansas, the son of Marie (Isern) and Myron Waggoner, and spent part of his childhood in Excelsior Springs, Missouri. In 1953, he graduated from Kirkwood High School in Kirkwood, Missouri, and then studied briefly at Washington University in St. Louis. He then joined the United States Army, serving two years in West Germany as a radio operator.\n\nFollowing his military discharge, Waggoner studied mechanical engineering in the junior executive program at the General Motors Institute of Technology. He then sold encyclopedias door to door. He made his acting debut as a muscle man in a Kansas City production of \"Li'l Abner\", after which he created a sales promotion organization that enabled him to make enough money to finance a trip to Los Angeles to start an acting career.\n\nBy the mid-1960s, Waggoner was appearing regularly in television and films, including an episode of \"Gunsmoke\". He was a finalist for the title role in the TV series version of \"Batman\", but lost the role to Adam West.\n\nIn 1967, he appeared in \"Catalina Caper\" (with Tommy Kirk, a former child actor trying to restart his career as a young adult), a film which would eventually be lampooned by \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\". He also had a minor guest-starring role in the season-three episode \"Deadliest of the Species\" of the TV series \"Lost in Space\".\nAlso in 1967, Waggoner began a seven-year stint on \"The Carol Burnett Show\", a comedy sketch and variety show, on which he appeared as an announcer and performer. In 1973, Waggoner became \"Playgirl\" first male semi-nude centerfold. Waggoner left \"The Carol Burnett Show\" in 1974 in the hopes of advancing his career as a lead actor. His spot on the show was filled by frequent guest star Tim Conway (and his role as announcer by Ernie Anderson). He later appeared on some of the show's reunion specials.\n\nIn 1976, Waggoner was appointed \"mayor\" of Encino, California, by the local chamber of commerce. The \"mayor\" is not an actual government official; the post is an honorary \"goodwill ambassador\" position. In addition to Waggoner, other holders of the title have included Steve Allen, Mike Connors, Fred Travalena, Ronnie Schell, and Cesare Danova.\n\nA year after leaving \"Carol Burnett\", Waggoner landed the role of Steve Trevor for the pilot and first season of the television series \"Wonder Woman\" starring Lynda Carter. Initially set during World War II, when the subsequent two seasons advanced the timeline to the 1970s, Waggoner played Steve Trevor, Jr.\n\nWaggoner also appeared in several TV movies and minor motion pictures during the 1970s and 1980s, often cast for “hunk” appeal. He made guest appearances on numerous television series including \"Charlie's Angels\", \"The San Pedro Beach Bums\", \"Happy Days\", \"Mork & Mindy\", \"The Golden Girls\", \"Ellen\", and most recently \"The War at Home\". Waggoner also played at least three roles on \"The Love Boat\", \"Fantasy Island\", and \"Murder, She Wrote\" throughout their respective runs.\n\nIn 1979, Waggoner founded Star Waggons, a company that leased customized location trailers for use by the entertainment industry. In 1990, Waggoner co-produced and appeared in a consumer-product show called \"Consumer America\" with co-host Shawn Bruner. The series featured novel national products from self-help to home goods and lasted for about two seasons.\n\nWaggoner retired from full-time acting to run Star Waggons, but made occasional appearances, often parodying his earlier image (\"The Naked Truth\", \"That '70s Show\", and \"\").\n\nIn 1993, Waggoner was the host of an infomercial, “Let's Talk With Lyle Waggoner”, which advertised “Y-Bron”, supposedly a natural product that would cure male impotence. Scottsdale, Arizona based Twin Star was later fined $1.5 million for unsubstantiated claims about Y-Bron.\n\nWaggoner was married to Sharon Kennedy, an actress, financial consultant, and realtor. They married in 1961 and had two sons, Jason and Beau. He resided near Jackson, Wyoming, where he was a sculptor. His works can be seen at West Lives On Gallery of Fine Art in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and are usually humorous renditions of lovely ladies, some of which are cast at Eagle Bronze in Lander, Wyoming. He also had homes in Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico; Oxnard, California, and Westlake Village, California.\n\nWaggoner died in his home in the Los Angeles area at the age of 84 on March 17, 2020, from cancer.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2244108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244108", "title": "A Fistful of Alice", "text": "A Fistful of Alice\n\nA Fistful of Alice is a live album by Alice Cooper. It was released in 1997, and was recorded the previous year at Sammy Hagar's Cabo Wabo club in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. Slash plays guitar for part of the album (returning the favor after Cooper guested on \"The Garden from the 1991 Guns N' Roses album \"Use Your Illusion I\") and Cooper says before the song \"Desperado\" that it was written about Jim Morrison, who died in 1971, the same year Cooper wrote the song. Also featured in the album are Rob Zombie on vocals and Sammy Hagar on guitar. The only song from the show that has not been commercially released is the title track from 1991's \"Hey Stoopid\". The last song, \"Is Anyone Home?\", is a studio recording recorded specifically for the album. \n\n\"Live At Cabo Wabo '96\" is a 2005 re-packaged release of \"A Fistful of Alice\", using the UK track listing (see below).\n\n"}
{"id": "2244120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244120", "title": "Ice spike", "text": "Ice spike\n\nAn ice spike is an ice formation, often in the shape of an inverted icicle, that projects upwards from the surface of a body of frozen water. Ice spikes created by natural processes on the surface of small bodies of frozen water have been reported for many decades, although their occurrence is quite rare. A mechanism for their formation, now known as the Bally–Dorsey model, was proposed in the early 20th century but this was not tested in the laboratory for many years. In recent years a number of photographs of natural ice spikes have appeared on the Internet as well as methods of producing them artificially by freezing distilled water in domestic refrigerators or freezers. This has allowed a small number of scientists to test the hypothesis in a laboratory setting and, although the experiments appear to confirm the validity of the Bally–Dorsey model, they have raised further questions about how natural ice spikes form, and more work remains to be done before the phenomenon is fully understood. Natural ice spikes can grow into shapes other than a classic spike shape, and have been variously reported as ice candles, ice towers or ice vases as there is no standard nomenclature for these other forms. One particularly unusual form takes the shape of an inverted pyramid.\n\nAlthough natural ice spikes are usually measured in inches or centimeters, a report that appeared in the \"Harbor Creek Historical Society Newsletter\" by Canadian Gene Heuser, who hiked across frozen Lake Erie in 1963, spoke of \"small pinholes in the ice through which the water below was periodically forced under pressure to spout up into the air and freeze\" producing \"frozen spurts that looked to him like telephone poles standing straight up all over the lake\".\n\nIce spikes have been reported as a rare natural phenomenon for decades. A model of the mechanism of formation was put forth independently by O. Bally and H.E. Dorsey in the early 20th century and this is still the most widely accepted explanation of the phenomenon today. Spikes tend to form in containers such as bird baths and pet drinking bowls, where the water freezes quickly, rather than in large bodies of water such as lakes and ponds. A number of web pages displaying photographs of unusual ice formations and discussing the phenomenon have been published, and a number of cases of ice spikes being formed on ice cubes in domestic refrigerators have been reported. The ability to grow ice spikes in a controlled environment has prompted a small number of investigations by the researchers in the Physics Department of the California Institute of Technology under the direction of Kenneth G. Libbrecht into the conditions needed for the spikes to form.\n\nNaturally occurring ice spikes, often in the form of circular ice candles or polyhedral ice towers (usually triangular), are occasionally found in containers of frozen rainwater or tapwater. Water expands by 9% as it freezes into ice and the simplest shape of an ice crystal that reflects its internal structure is a hexagonal prism. The top and bottom faces of the crystal are hexagonal planes called basal planes and the direction that is perpendicular to the basal planes is called the c-axis.\n\nThe process begins when surface water nucleates around irregularities where it meets the container wall and freezes inward. If the c-axis of the first crystal to form is not vertical, the basal plane intersects the surface along a line perpendicular to the c-axis and ice needles tend to propagate across the surface along this line. At the same time a curtain of ice grows down into the supercooled water along the basal plane. As the film of ice grows to cover most of the surface the crystals merge and become fixed rigidly in place and the sheet of ice continues freezing towards the middle until only a small hole remains unfrozen. The crystallite curtains tend to join at an angle of 60 degrees and so the hole is often triangular, although other geometric shapes are possible. The continuing expansion of the ice downwards into the water then squeezes the remaining water up through the hole and a convex meniscus is formed which bulges slightly higher than the surface of the ice. As the edges of the meniscus freeze they create a small dam which causes the water to rise higher and as it expands above the ice dam the edges freeze again to form another dam on top of the first one. If the rate of expansion of the water is the same as the rate of freezing at the lip of the hole then this process is continually repeated and successive layers form a tube of ice. The growth of the tube continues in this way until the tip seals over or until all the water is frozen. The formation of ice spikes is related to the shape of the water body, the concentration of dissolved impurities, air temperature and air circulation above the water. Spikes that grow from a crystallite formed below the surface of the water may project from the ice sheet at a steep angle, rather than perpendicular to it.\n\nSmall ice spikes can be formed artificially on ice cubes produced in domestic refrigerators using distilled water in plastic ice cube trays. The formation of the spike is similar to that of the naturally occurring spike in that the expansion of interior water and the reduction of volume in the interior of the cube increase the pressure on the water pushing it upward through the hole. The growth of the tube ceases when the drop at the top of the tube freezes entirely, which is substantially before the rest of the water in the cube is frozen. This method produces small spikes which are usually round or triangular in cross section with sharp tips. Experiments using this method have been carried out in laboratory settings but it has been found that spikes are less likely to form in ice cubes made from non-distilled water as impurities in the water inhibit spike formation. This poses the question of how naturally occurring ice spikes form in tapwater or rainwater and Libbrecht and Lui have suggested that, in the case of the small spikes grown in a refrigerator, impurities will become increasingly concentrated in the small unfrozen droplet at the top of the tube reducing the freezing rate and so the growth of the tube. However, they believe that on the rare occasions when exceptionally large spikes grow in natural, outdoor ice formations, some other mechanism must remove the impurities that build up at the top of the growing tube. Either impurities may be forced into pockets that freeze more slowly, or perhaps a convective flow, which would be insignificant in the smaller, artificially grown spikes, replaces the water at the top of the tube with fresh water from below.\n\nThe results of the work carried out at Caltech have suggested other experiments that could be performed to further investigate this phenomenon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244121", "title": "Mayakovskaya (Moscow Metro)", "text": "Mayakovskaya (Moscow Metro)\n\nMayakovskaya (), is a Moscow Metro station on the Zamoskvoretskaya Line, in the Tverskoy District of central Moscow.\n\nThe name as well as the design is a reference to Futurism and its prominent Russian exponent Vladimir Mayakovsky. Considered to be one of the most beautiful in the system, it is a fine example of pre-World War II Stalinist Architecture and one of the most famous Metro stations in the world. It is most well known for its 34 ceiling mosaics depicting \"24 Hours in the Land of the Soviets.\" During World War II, it was used as a command post for Moscow's anti-aircraft regiment.\n\nThe station was built as part of the second stage of the Moscow Metro expansion, opening on 11 September 1938. If the first stage was more focused on the building of the system itself, both architecturally and in terms of the engineering, the stations appear modest in comparison to those that the second stage brought to the system. For the first time in the world, instead of having the traditional three-neath pylon station layout, the engineers were able to overlap the vault space and support it with two colonnades, one on each side. This gave birth to a new Deep column station type design, and Mayakovskaya was the first station to show this.\n\nLocated 33 meters beneath the surface, the station became famous during World War II when an air raid shelter was located in the station. On the anniversary of the October Revolution, on 7 November 1941, Joseph Stalin addressed a mass assembly of party leaders and ordinary Muscovites in the central hall of the station. During World War II, Stalin took residence in this place.\n\nAt the 1939 New York World's Fair the Soviet Pavilion included a life-size showcase copy of this station, whose designer Alexey Dushkin was awarded Grand Prize of the 1939 World's Fair.\n\nAlexey Dushkin's Art Deco architecture was based on a Soviet future as envisioned by the poet Mayakovsky. The station features streamlined columns faced with stainless steel and pink rhodonite, white Ufaley and grey Diorite marble walls, a flooring pattern of white and pink marble, and 35 niches, one for each vault. Surrounded by filament lights there are a total of 34 ceiling mosaics by Alexander Deyneka with the theme \"24-Hour Soviet Sky.\"\n\nIn 2005 a new second north exit was built, along with a new vestibule. Passengers leaving the station first descend on a short escalator ride into an underground vestibule, and then ascend the long way to the surface. The new exit also allows access to the 35th mosaic, which was previously hidden behind the service section. Other mosaic works were designed from scratch, accompanied by ample use of marble and stainless steel sculpturing. The bust of the poet Vladimir Mayakovsky was moved to the new surface vestibule, whose ceiling was also decorated with a mosaic composition from Mayakovsky's poem \"Moscow Sky\".\n"}
{"id": "2244125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244125", "title": "Camelot 30K", "text": "Camelot 30K\n\nCamelot 30K is a hard science fiction novel written by the United States physicist Robert L. Forward. It was published in 1993 by Tor Books. The story mainly deals with the concept of human contact and interaction with a kingdom of intelligent alien life that dwells on a frozen world where the ambient temperature is only 30 K or −240 °C (hence the title of the book). In \"Camelot 30K\", Forward uses exotic low-temperature chemistry to explain the aliens' unique biology and anatomy.\n\nIn 2009, humans make contact with their first extraterrestrials. The signal comes from beyond Neptune and even Pluto, on 1999 ZX, a celestial body between comet and planet in size, out in the Kuiper belt at 35 AU from the Sun. Twenty years later they send a scientific team to this small, ice-bound planetoid in the farthest reaches of the solar system in the Oort cloud.\n\nThis cold, dark planetoid ends up being a strange world indeed. There is only a thin hydrogen atmosphere, almost vacuum, and the average temperature is some 30 K (-243 °C, -406 °F), where only hydrogen, helium, and neon are gaseous in state and nearly everything else is a solid. Yet on this icy, frozen world, life manages to thrive: the keracks, which are no bigger than a few centimeters in length resemble \"large one-eyed prawns dressed in elaborate clothing\". The keracks, despite their small size, have built rather small cities and developed a complex society on their planetoid which they dubbed \"Ice\". They have a collectivistic hive-like society with a rich culture suggesting that of England in the time of King Arthur.\n\nThe human visitors' first contact is the female kerack Merlene, wizard of the kerack city of Camalor. The humans themselves, being too hot and large, are unsuited for direct contact with the natives on this chilly world. So, instead, they have built \"telebots\" through which they can communicate with Merlene and the other keracks.\n\nMerlene develops a fondness for conversing with the humans and eventually the humans and the keracks get to learn much about each other's worlds and cultures. The humans also teach Merlene more about science and technology which would hopefully advance the kerack race. The human scientists also uncover mysteries about the energy source of the keracks, who secrete an internal pellet of uranium and moderate its decay with a boron-rich carapace to provide internal warmth. Whenever a kerack dies its pellet is taken to be stockpiled by the colony's queen. The scientists discover the tragic conclusion of the kerack life cycle almost too late to save Merlene; when a kerack colony accumulated a large enough stockpile the queen would instinctively arrange it in such a way as to trigger a nuclear explosion, blasting kerack spores off of the Kuiper belt object to colonize other objects in the belt.\n\nSince the kerack colony is exploded in the process no living kerack had known of their fate. The book concludes with Merlene going traveling to warn other colonies of the consequences of their expanding stockpiles.\n\nForward created an impossible name in naming his minor planet. As minor planet provisional designations shows, a name of the form \"1999 ZX\" is not possible. It may be that he did this on purpose, to avoid an actual minor planet \"stealing\" the name, such as the real asteroid (14677) 1999 XZ.\n"}
{"id": "2244130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244130", "title": "Gary McCord", "text": "Gary McCord\n\nGary Dennis McCord (born May 23, 1948) is an American professional golfer, commentator and author.\n\nMcCord was born in San Gabriel, California, and raised in southern California, graduating from Ramona High School in Riverside. He was a two-time Division II All-American for the UC Riverside Highlanders of the University of California, Riverside. He won the NCAA Division II individual championship in 1970 and turned professional in 1971.\n\nMcCord played in over 400 PGA Tour events but never won. His best two finishes on the PGA Tour were at the Greater Milwaukee Open, placing second in both 1975 and 1977. During his years on tour, he had two dozen top-10 finishes.\n\nOne year in his career won the PGA Tour category of \"Fewest Putts.\" He helped reach this benchmark by, late in the season, deliberately missing the green and then chipping close to ensure few putts.\n\nMcCord was involved in an embarrassing episode during the 1984 FedEx St. Jude Classic in Memphis. When lining up a putt on the 15th green, McCord's pants split open, exposing his backside as he was not wearing any underwear. McCord wrapped a towel around his midriff and went off to find a replacement pair of pants. Eventually Peter Jacobsen offered McCord his rain pants for a \"fee\" of $20.\n\nAt age 37 in 1986, McCord joined CBS Sports as a golf analyst. He was noted for his outspokenness and irreverence, traits that had banished him from the CBS commentary team for the Masters Tournament.\n\nDuring the network's Masters coverage in 1994, McCord remarked that the 17th green was so fast it seemed to be \"bikini-waxed\", and that \"body bags\" were located behind the green for players who missed their approach shots. Several months later, Augusta National Golf Club used its influence with CBS to have him removed from the Masters commentary team. While McCord continued to cover every other golf event aired by CBS, he did not return to Augusta with the network. He was not the first CBS commentator to be banned: Jack Whitaker referred to the gallery at the end of the 18-hole playoff in 1966 as a \"mob\" rather than \"patrons\" and was banned for the next five Masters; he was allowed to return in 1972.\n\nAfter 33 years, McCord was not brought back for CBS’s 2020 golf broadcast team.\n\nMcCord also plays a limited schedule on the Champions Tour. After turning 50 in May 1998, he won his first title at the Toshiba Senior Classic in March 1999, and also won that year's Ingersoll-Rand Senior Tour Championship. Back in 1991, he won the Gateway Open on the Ben Hogan Tour, the second-tier golf tour in the U.S., now called the Web.com Tour.\n\nMcCord has also written two books, \"Just a Range Ball in a Box of Titleists\" and \"Golf for Dummies\". In 1996, he appeared as himself in the Kevin Costner movie \"Tin Cup\", a movie he says is based on his life. He and fellow former CBS commentator Peter Kostis are partners in the Kostis/McCord Learning Center in Scottsdale, Arizona. McCord formerly served as a co-announcer on the EA Sports' Tiger Woods PGA Tour series along with David Feherty.\n\nMcCord lives with his wife, Diane, in Paradise Valley, Arizona, and Edwards, Colorado.\n\n\n\nChampions Tour playoff record (1–2)\n\n\"Note: McCord only played in the PGA Championship.\"<br>\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2244160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244160", "title": "Harbin Hot Springs", "text": "Harbin Hot Springs\n\nHarbin Hot Springs is a non-profit hot spring retreat and workshop center at Harbin Springs in Lake County, Northern California. Named after Matthew Harbin, a pioneer who settled in the Lake County area. It is located about two hours northeast of the San Francisco Bay Area, in the United States. The facility was partially destroyed in the Valley Fire in September 2015, and was temporarily closed; as of September 2017 it was announced the resort would reopen in early spring 2018. In January 2019 it partially reopened, including the main pools and sauna, and a limited cafetaria service.\n\nThe baths were commercially developed by settlers in the 1860s, when buildings were erected on the site. The region is prone to wildfires and, over the years, successive lodges have been rebuilt when they burned down. Harbin Hot Springs issued several postcards advertising the resort in the 1920s and 1930s. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the property was run as a commune with the name Harbinger, \"centered around a man named Don Hamrick, a charismatic fellow who wore business suits and combined science with spiritualism in his lectures/sermons\". In 1969, Harbinger had about 120 people, but ultimately, the community did not thrive.\n\nAs of 2012, the clothing-optional retreat center was known as an outdoor spa with a New Age ambiance, where Watsu was developed.\n\nThe resort was evacuated because of the Valley Fire on September 12, 2015. By September 14, Harbin was almost completely destroyed by the fire with only the pool complex largely intact. In January 2019 it partially reopened, including the main pools and sauna, and a limited cafetaria service.\n\nRobert Hartley (AKA Ishvara) bought the land in 1972 to be a Gestalt center. Sold to the Heart Consciousness Church (HCC) in 1975, Harbin/HCC operates as a Retreat Center. Harbin/HCC maintains a more specifically religious organization, the New Age Church of Being, incorporated in 1996. Harbin is a center for the expression of New Age beliefs. Harbin's clothing-optional policy, its pools, and the natural beauty of the local landscape are part of Harbin's appeal to visitors, who must agree to membership, if only temporarily, for admission.\n\nHarbin has been a center for the development of new modes of healing and personal development, including Watsu (water shiatsu), a massage technique created by Harold Dull at Harbin in the early 1980s. Watsu, based on gently moving the body through water, is now practiced in spas throughout the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244167", "title": "The Woman Who Walked into Doors", "text": "The Woman Who Walked into Doors\n\nThe Woman Who Walked Into Doors (1996) is a novel by Irish writer Roddy Doyle, adapted from the 1994 RTÉ/BBC miniseries \"Family\".\n\nThe novel tells the struggle and survival of an abused wife named Paula Spencer. It is narrated by the victim. The title comes from an incident narrated in the book, where Paula's husband asks her how she received a bruise he was responsible for, and she replies that she \"walked into a door.\" A sequel, \"Paula Spencer\", was published in 2006. The narrative blends her recounting of the circumstances of her childhood, courtship and wedding day, with reflections on those events. The gathering drama is linked to the increasing awareness of moving towards a climax, which is on the one hand the outbreak of violence in her marriage, and on the other hand the violent death of her husband.\n\nThe Spencer family first appeared in the RTÉ/BBC miniseries \"Family\" in 1994.\n\nThe novel was adapted as an opera by the composer Kris Defoort and the director Guy Cassiers. It received its world premiere in November 2001 at deSingel in Antwerp, and toured extensively before being played in Dublin's Gaiety Theatre in October 2003.\n"}
{"id": "2244173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244173", "title": "Chris Cox", "text": "Chris Cox\n\nChristopher or Chris Cox may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244174", "title": "List of people from Dallas", "text": "List of people from Dallas\n\nThe following is a list of notable people who were born, or who have lived a significant portion of their lives, in Dallas, Texas (US).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244175", "title": "Britney Spears doll", "text": "Britney Spears doll\n\nThe Britney Spears doll is a celebrity doll made in the likeness of pop singer Britney Spears. Several versions of the doll were released. Each doll is dressed in costumes that resemble the clothing Spears had worn in concerts, appearances, and music videos. The Britney Spears doll was the first doll produced by Play Along Toys.\n\nJay Foreman and Charlie Emby, the founders of Play Along Toys, spent millions of dollars to license, advertise, and distribute the Britney Spears dolls. In 1999, Play Along Toys released the Britney Spears Fashion Doll; the Britney Doll was notable, as it was the first product Play Along Toys ever released. The dolls feature Spears in different outfits, make-up, and hairstyles from her concerts, appearances, photoshoots and music videos. The packaging the dolls were sold in often contained DVDs of music videos, stickers, and other accessories.\n\nA couple of years after Play Along Toys released the first Britney Doll, Yaboom Toys released their own version of the popular toy. The Singing Character, fashioned as Spears, plays a full-length version of one of Spear's popular songs when a button on the doll's stomach is pressed. The doll arrived on toy store shelves just in time for the holidays in 2000.\n\nA porcelain version of the Britney Doll was also released. The doll wears the classic outfit worn by Spears in the \"...Baby One More Time\" music video and is accompanied by a stand for easy display.\n\nOn October 15, 1999, the first Britney Spears Doll was released. The initial doll sold over 800,000 units. To date, over 5 million of the assorted Britney Dolls have been sold. According to the Winnipeg Free Press, the doll is the second best-selling celebrity doll of all time, behind only the Spice Girls dolls.\n\nThe first time Spears saw the doll she was displeased with its looks. She asked that the doll be changed because she felt it had the appearance of a \"bulldog chewing a wasp\". As Spears reasoned, \"I felt a bit bad about ordering changes but hey, it's my doll.\" Following the changes to the doll's face, the dolls sold out in the United States in December. In the United Kingdom, three weeks of sales resulted in 60,000 dolls being sold.\n\nProduction of the doll was later discontinued sometime in late 2001 or early 2002. Years after the doll’s discontinuation, it has become a collectors item among her fans and doll collectors, usually sold on eBay.\n\n...Baby One More Time Doll (1999): This collection is composed of four dolls fashioning costumes from music videos from 1999. One wears the clothing from Spears' \"...Baby One More Time\" music video, two wear ensembles resembling those worn in the \"(You Drive Me) Crazy\" music video, and the last wears an outfit from the \"Sometimes\" music video.\n\nVideo Performance Collection Doll (2000): This collection contains two dolls in different outfits from Spears' \"Born to Make You Happy\" music video, along with the outfit from her performance at the 1999 MTV Video Music Awards.\n\nLive in Concert Doll (1999): This doll wears clothing that Spears wore on stage during her \"(You Drive Me) Crazy Tour\". The box also contains a CD.\n\nPerforming for You Doll (2000): This doll wears the dress Spears wore at the 2000 Grammys. The set includes a CD.\n\nBritney Mini Doll (1999–2000): This collection is composed of 8 dolls; one with clothes from the “Oops!... I Did It Again” music video, one from the “…Baby One More Time” music video, and six wearing costumes that Spears wore during the (You Drive Me) Crazy Tour. Each doll comes with a stand to keep the doll upright.\n\nSinging Character (2000): This set of dolls, produced by Yaboom Toys, plays full length versions of Spears' songs from the early 2000s.\n\nSlave 4 U Doll (2019): Funko produced the doll, inspired by the singer's 2001 MTV Video Music Awards performance. She debuted the song I'm a Slave 4 U\", with an albino python wrapped around her neck. The doll includes a snake.\n\nConcert Stage (2000): This toy stage resembles the stage Spears performed on during her 2000 USA tour. The set includes a Britney Mini Doll and plays sound bytes from 5 songs performed during the tour.\n\nConcert Tour Bus (2000): This toy bus resembles the one used by Spears in her 2000 tour. The bus plays sound bytes from the songs “Oops!... I Did It Again” and “…Baby One More Time”.\n\nCool Convertible (2000): This toy car comes in three colors (red, purple, and turquoise) and is accompanied by a Britney Mini Doll.\n"}
{"id": "2244185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244185", "title": "Lilly Pulitzer", "text": "Lilly Pulitzer\n\nLillian Pulitzer Rousseau (1931-2013), better known as Lilly Pulitzer, was an American socialite and fashion designer. She founded Lilly Pulitzer, Inc., which produces clothing and other such wares featuring bright, colorful, floral prints. As the brand is popular with high society, she was called the \"Queen of Prep\".\n\nLillian Lee \"Lilly\" McKim was born to socialites Robert V. McKim and his wife, Lillian (née Bostwick) in Roslyn, New York in 1931, the middle daughter of three. Her elder sister was named Mary Maude, and her younger sister was Florence Fitch. Her mother, Lillian Bostwick McKim was an heiress to the Standard Oil fortune. Robert and Lillian McKim divorced, and Lillian remarried, to Ogden Phipps, in 1937.\n\nShe attended the Chapin School in New York City, along with Jacqueline Lee Bouvier (the future Jacqueline Kennedy, First Lady of the United States). In 1949, she graduated from Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Connecticut. She attended the college-finishing school Finch College in New York City, but left after one semester to work as a midwife assistant with Frontier Nursing Service in Kentucky {according to townandcountrymag.com} and as a volunteer at the Veterans Hospital in The Bronx. \n\nLilly and husband Peter Pulitzer settled in Palm Beach, Florida, shortly after their marriage. They owned several Florida orange groves and, with produce from these, she opened a fruit juice stand on Via Mizner in Palm Beach. While working at the stand, Pulitzer found that squeezing juice made a mess of her clothes. Seeking to camouflage the juice stains, she designed a sleeveless shift dress made of bright, colorful printed cotton. She discovered that customers loved her dress, so she produced more to sell at her juice stand. Eventually, she was selling more dresses than juice, and decided to focus on designing and selling what had become known as her \"Lillys\".\n\nIn 1959, Pulitzer became president of her own company, Lilly Pulitzer, Inc. The company's main factory was in Miami, Florida and the fabrics were produced by the Key West Hand Print Fabrics company in Key West. From the 1960s to the early 1980s, Pulitzer's bright, colorful clothes were very popular, worn by people such as Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Caroline Kennedy, and members of the Rockefeller, Vanderbilt and Whitney families. Lilly Pulitzer was a former classmate of Jackie's. After Jackie was featured in Life magazine donning one of Lilly's famous shifts, many preppy ladies followed her lead. The Jacqueline dress is one of Lilly Pulitzer's most successful styles. By 1984, Lilly closed down the entire clothing operation.\nLilly later stated that the first shift dress her former classmate, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was photographed in, was made of kitchen curtains.\nIn 1993, the rights to the brand were purchased by Sugartown Worldwide, Inc. They contacted Pulitzer with the hopes of reviving the brand because, \"they just loved Lilly, their mothers and sisters loved Lilly, and they wanted to bring the line back,\" Pulitzer said. Pulitzer was not involved in the day-to-day administration of the company, but she continued to serve in the role of creative consultant, approving new designs, fabrics, and collections, and branching out into other product lines. \n\nToday, the company maintains 75 Lilly Pulitzer Signature Stores (also known as Via Shops).\n\nThe brand, carried by 23 company-owned retail stores, also sells to independently owned shops and major department stores, such as Belk, Lord and Taylor, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Neiman Marcus. On December 21, 2010, Sugartown Worldwide, Inc. was purchased by Oxford Industries, Inc.\n\nIn April 2015, Target announced a collaboration with Lilly Pulitzer. Within hours, the collection was almost entirely sold out, in stores and online. In September 2019, Target will re-release pieces from its partnership with Lilly Pulitzer, among other iconic design partners.\n\nOn November 10, 2018 the Worth Avenue store, located in Palm Beach, Florida within very close proximity to the original fruit juice stand, was opened officially with a big block party and fashion show on sections of Worth Avenue.\n\nAlong with women's clothing, the company also produces children's clothing, swim, shoes, jewelry, accessories, bedding (revived in 2010), and stationery. Lilly never wanted to produce clothing that was suited for the colder months. “It’s always summer somewhere,” she was quoted as saying. In accordance with Mrs. Pulitzer's reported preferences, the dress was to be worn with bare feet and was lined, in order not to require underwear. The company launched an exclusive Bridal Collection in 2010. With everything Lilly does she follows the motto \"Everything is possible with sunshine and a little pink.\", which very accurately represents her fun and vibrant fabric designs. Every Lilly print hides a surprise. \"Lilly\" is painted into each one. If you look closely at your modern or vintage prints, you'll find it! The company had a collaboration with Target in the spring of 2015 which sold out in a matter of hours. Some Lilly Pulitzer fans were offended that the brand would be offered at discounted prices, and demand was so high for the collection that it crashed the Target website, angering many customers who were unable to purchase any of the products. The official launch date for the products was April 19, 2015.\n\nTo honor the original Lilly Pulitzer juice stand and store, the Worth Avenue store in Palm Beach holds exclusive and custom designs that can be created with your choice of print.\n\nPulitzer published a pair of lifestyle books—\"Essentially Lilly: A Guide to Colorful Entertaining\" and \"Essentially Lilly: A Guide to Colorful Holidays\"—with her friend, author Jay Mulvaney, showcasing her entertaining style. She also released two desk calendar books, \"Essentially Lilly 2005 Social Butterfly Engagement Calendar\" and \"Essentially Lilly 2006 Party Animal Engagement Calendar\". She was known to make special collections with sorority prints on them. She has held contests on her Facebook page to vote on which sororities will get their own prints. In 2014, Lilly Pulitzer stopped the production of sorority printed items.\n\nIn 1950, she eloped with Herbert (Peter) Pulitzer Jr., grandson of Joseph Pulitzer (publisher after whom the Pulitzer Prize is named). The couple had three children: Peter, Minnie and Liza. In 1969, Lilly and Peter were divorced. She married Enrique Rousseau shortly thereafter. Although she legally changed her name to Lillian McKim Rousseau, her clothing company continued to operate under the \"Lilly Pulitzer\" label. She continued to reside in Palm Beach, Florida. Enrique Rousseau died of cancer in 1993.\n\nOn April 7, 2013, aged 81, Pulitzer-Rousseau died at her home in Palm Beach, Florida.\n\nLisa Birnbach's tongue-in-cheek guides, \"The Official Preppy Handbook\" and its sequel \"True Prep: It’s a Whole New Old World\", feature Lilly Pulitzer clothing as must-have items for \"preppy\" women. \nThe Museum of Lifestyle & Fashion History in Boynton Beach, Florida, ran an exhibit from August 2010 through May 2011 about the clothing and designs of Lilly Pulitzer. Museum director Lori Durante stated \"\"Lilly Pulitzer fashion is relative to the American experience ... [it] is relevant to Palm Beach County, to Florida.\"\"\nIn 1966, The Washington Post reported that the dresses were “so popular that at the Southampton Lilly shop on Job’s Lane they are proudly put in clear plastic bags tied gaily with ribbons so that all the world may see the Lilly of your choice. It’s like carrying your own racing colors or flying a yacht flag for identification.”\nShe changed the summer uniform of countless thousands of American women who once wore flower printed cotton shirts, wrap around skirts and big, klonky, thick-soled loafers.The total look was usually that of a shirt tail flapping out awkwardly in the back. “Lilly Pulitzer,” the article continued, “neatly put a stop to all that.”\n\n"}
{"id": "2244187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244187", "title": "Archibald Baxter", "text": "Archibald Baxter\n\nArchibald McColl Learmond Baxter (13 December 1881 – 10 August 1970) was a New Zealand socialist, pacifist and conscientious objector.\n\nBaxter was born at Saddle Hill, Otago, on 13 December 1881, to John Baxter and Mary McColl. His father had migrated to New Zealand from Scotland in 1861. Leaving school at 12, Baxter worked on a farm and became Head Ploughman at Gladbrook Station.\n\nDuring the 1899–1902 Second Boer War New Zealand sent troops to help the British. Baxter considered enlisting, but heard a Dunedin lawyer, possibly Alfred Richard Barclay, speak about pacifism before he did so and decided against enlisting. He read pacifist and anti-military literature, forming a Christian Socialist view. Baxter also heard Keir Hardie speak during his 1908 visit to New Zealand and concluded that war would not solve problems. He convinced six of his seven brothers that war was wrong.\n\nWith the introduction of conscription under the Military Service Act 1916, Baxter and his brothers refused to register on the grounds that \"all war is wrong, futile, and destructive alike to victor and vanquished.\"\n\nThe Act did not recognise their stand, as the only grounds for a man to claim conscientious objection were:\n\n\"That he was on the fourth day of August, nineteen hundred and fourteen, and has since continuously been a member of a religious body the tenets and doctrines of which religious body declare the bearing of arms and the performance of any combatant service to be contrary to Divine revelation, and also that according to his own conscientious religious belief the bearing of arms and the performance of any combatant service is unlawful by reason of being contrary to Divine revelation.\"\n\nThis was a considerable contraction of the exemption allowed under the Defence Amendment Act 1912, which had provided under Section 65(2)\n\n\"On the application of any person a Magistrate may grant to the applicant a certificate of exemption from military training and service if the Magistrate is satisfied that the applicant objects in good faith to such training and service on the ground that it is contrary to his religious belief.\"\n\nThe 1916 Act meant that only Christadelphians, Seventh-day Adventists, and Quakers were to be recognised as conscientious objectors. As Baxter was not a member of one of these, he could not apply for objector status. According to the Act, Baxter was automatically deemed to be a First Division Reservist. The Act also required all eligible males to enroll in the Expeditionary Force Reserve or face up to 3 months imprisonment or a fine of £50. Baxter had not enrolled. Failing to enroll and being convicted of it also meant that Baxter could be immediately called up for service. Failure to report for duty became either desertion or absence without leave, offences under the Army Act.\n\nBaxter and two of his brothers – Alexander and John – were arrested by civilian police in mid March 1917 for failing to enroll under the Act and were first imprisoned in The Terrace Goal, Wellington. They were subsequently transferred directly to Trentham Military Camp when their appeals as conscientious objectors were rejected. On 21 March Archibald and John Baxter and William Little, another objector, refused to put on Army uniform; Alexander Baxter refused to work. All were Court Martialed, all stating that they did not consider themselves soldiers, having never volunteered or taken the oath of allegiance. None was represented by legal counsel. The four were sentenced to 84 days imprisonment with hard labour, served at both the Terrace Gaol and Mount Cook Prison. At the end of their sentence they were to be sent back to Trentham Camp. Back at Trentham after release, Archibald Baxter continued to refuse orders and was sentenced to 28 days detention.\n\nIn 1917 the Minister of Defence, Sir James Allen, decided that all men claiming to be conscientious objectors but not accepted as such should be sent to the Western Front. Accordingly, orders were given by Colonel H R Potter, Trentham Camp Commandant, that he along with 13 other conscientious objectors - his two brothers, William Little (Hikurangi), Frederick Adin (Foxton), Garth Carsley Ballantyne (Wellington), Mark Briggs (politician), David Robert Gray (Hinds. Canterbury), Thomas Percy Harland (Roslyn, Dunedin), Lawrence Joseph Kirwan (Hokitika), Daniel Maguire (Foxton), Lewis Edward Penwright (Geeverton, Tasmania), Henry Patton (Cobden Greymouth) and Albert Ernest Sanderson (Babylori, North Wairoa) - were to be shipped out. On 24 July they were embarked on the troopship \"Waitemata\" en voyage to Cape Town, where a measles epidemic on board caused the ship to stop. Archibald, Jack and Sanderson and some troops were taken to hospital, and the ship was condemned by the port authorities as unfit for troops, necessitating the civilian liner \"Norman Castle\" being used to take the main military group, including the other COs, to England.\n\nAfter recovery, Archibald and the other two COs were taken on the civilian liner \"Llanstephan Castle\", arriving at Plymouth, Devon, on 26 December. Baxter was still refusing to put on a uniform or do any work for the army. He was kept under detention at Sling Camp, Salisbury Plain, and then sent to France, Folkestone–Boulogne, and on to Étaples. British newspapers of the time reported that because he had been sent to the front he could be shot for disobeying orders.\n\nThere Baxter remained under detention and continued to refuse any military involvement. He had been assigned to E Company of the 28th Reinforcements, led by Captain Frederick Harold Batten, father of the aviator Jean Batten. He was placed under Lt Col George Mitchell, 3rd Otago Reserve Battalion, who investigated his case, questioning him about his beliefs, but ultimately finding that he was considered a soldier by the New Zealand Government. Mitchell told Baxter that if he did not obey military orders he should expect to be punished, as determined by Mitchell. Eventually Mitchell punished Baxter with 28 days of Field Punishment No.1 at Oudredoum (near Ypres in Belgium).\n\nA doctor examined Baxter before the punishment, and despite telling Baxter he thought he was unfit for it, spitefully passed him as fit. Because the personnel at Oudredoum would not punish him, he was moved to \"Mud Farm\" near Dickebusch (also known as Dikkebus) in West Flanders, where he was put under two hours punishment each day. Eventually he was sent to Abeele and back to Mitchell. On 5 March Mitchell ordered him up to the lines at Ypres. Provost Sergeant Booth was put in charge of Baxter and at one time punched him in the face and beat him up, Booth saying he had been ordered to do so. Baxter was placed under Captain Phillips and taken to the Otago Infantry Regiment camp. He was then returned to Booth's supervision.\n\nAt one stage Booth, on direction from a Captain Stevenson, placed Baxter by an ammunition dump being shelled by the Germans. Despite a heavy barrage, Baxter was unharmed. After further abusive treatment including starvation, he suffered a complete physical and mental breakdown, and was sent to hospital in England about May 1918. According to his records, by the time he went to hospital he had been assigned to the 3rd New Zealand Entrenching Battalion.\n\nBaxter was said to have been diagnosed as suffering from melancholia. He was returned to New Zealand, but during the voyage was diagnosed as being in good mental and physical health. He arrived on 21 September 1918, and returned to his Otago farm after the war.\n\nThe physical treatment given to Baxter can to a large extent be directly attributed to the attitudes of the Minister of Defence, Allen; the Commander of New Zealand forces based in England, Brigadiar-General Sir George Richardson, and General Godley, Commander of the New Zealand Expeditionary Forces. Godley gave orders that if Baxter and the others failed to comply, they were to be \"summarily punished or dealt with at reinforcement camps, where they are now, and that they are not to be sent up to the front.\" Neither Allen nor Richardson had any such qualms and were likely to be the reason behind Baxter being taken to the front.\n\nConcern about the fate of Baxter and the others sent to France began to be raised by the Dunedin branch of the Women's International League. The Canterbury Women's Institute also wrote expressing concern. In late 1917 English Quaker and wife of the late John Ellis, Maria Rountree, wrote about trying to find the fate of the 14 objectors, only to be stonewalled by the Commander of the New Zealand forces, Richardson. Harry Holland MP, citing an article in the \"Dominion\" on 21 November, deduced that the British Government had condemned the New Zealand government's sending of conscientious objectors to the front. The paper had written, \"the Imperial authorities have no wish to be troubled with men who will not fight..\". This effectively ended such deportations, but did not mean the release of those already in France.\n\nIn February 1918 the National Peace Council of New Zealand, wrote to the Minister of Defence, James Allen, expressing concern about the treatment of Baxter and the others. Of particular concern was the sending of the objectors to the front, where they could be court-martialled and shot for not fighting the enemy. Harry Holland MP also took up their cases, writing to the Prime Minister and newspapers.\n\nAs further news came of the inhumane way Baxter had been treated by the military, it was the subject of a Women's International League delegation to the Acting Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, Sir James Allen in June 1918. The treatment of both him and the other objectors continued to be raised after the war by Harry Holland MP and others. In 2014 a docu-drama of his treatment entitled \"Field Punishment No 1\" was televised.\n\nThe attitude of the military of the day towards Baxter was summed up in a letter from Colonel Robert Tate, Adjutant-General, New Zealand Military Headquarters, in which he stated \"Regarding Archibald Baxter ... the sympathy of many earnest people who would like to see the lot of the conscientious objector alleviated, is wasted on men [Baxter] who are in no sense conscientious but are merely defiant of all control and willing to be subject to no law but their own inclinations. ...\"\n\nOn 12 February 1921 Archibald married Millicent Amiel Macmillan Brown, daughter of the late Helen Connon, and Professor John Macmillan Brown, founding chair of Canterbury College. Brown opposed the marriage due to the disparity in the couple's backgrounds - Millicent, educated overseas, and Archie, who had received only a primary education. Millicent, in her autobiography, stated that she had heard of Baxter in 1918 and became a pacifist a short time later.\n\nDuring the 1920s the Baxters farmed at Brighton and had two sons, Terence (born 1922) and James Keir (born 1926). James' middle name was chosen in honour of Keir Hardie, a founder of the Labour Party in Britain, who notably spoke against war at a rally in London on 2 August 1914, two days before Britain (and New Zealand) declared war. James grew up to become one of New Zealand's most famous poets, and both sons became pacifists.\n\nWith Millicent's support, he founded the Dunedin Branch of the New Zealand No More War Movement in 1931. The movement sought to end conscription and promote disarmament. His father-in-law died in the 1930s and the Baxters inherited enough from his estate to enable them to travel. They moved to Wanganui, then went to Salisbury, England in 1937. Baxter addressed the 5th War Resisters' International conference (the last before World War II) in Copenhagen, 23–26 July. While living at Salisbury he wrote his account of his World War I experiences, published as \"We Will Not Cease\" in 1939. The family returned to New Zealand in 1938.\n\nBoth of Baxter's sons followed their parents' pacifism. His elder son, Terence, was imprisoned for refusing conscription during World War II. The National Service Emergency Regulations 1940, under which he was called up, were almost as limiting on the grounds for conscientious objection as the 1916 Act. Regulation 21 (2) required the person objecting to prove they held \".. a genuine belief that it is wrong to engage in warfare in any circumstances.\" The regulation further stated that \"Evidence of active and genuine membership of a pacifist religious body may in general be accepted as evidence of the convictions of the objector...\" Active and continuous membership of the Society of Friends or Christadelphians prior to the outbreak of war was taken sufficient proof. The Appeal Boards set up under the regulations tended to take a very narrow and sometimes contradictory view of conscientious objectors. After an April 1941 British court case those deemed to be politically based were unlikely to be accepted. The continuation of conscription must have been ironic for Baxter as many members of the now governing Labour Party had been imprisoned during World War I for opposing conscription. The prime minister, Michael Joseph Savage, had been very vocal opposing conscription during that war.\n\nDuring the war Baxter was an active member of the Dunedin Branch of the New Zealand Peace Pledge Union.\n\nAfter the war the Baxters continued their involvement with the peace movement. They lobbied against nuclear weapons, supported Amnesty International, and wrote against the Vietnam War, about which in 1968 Archibald said: \"…the only apparent justification that war ever had was that by destroying some lives it might clumsily preserve others. But now even that justification is being stripped away. We make war chiefly on civilians and respect for human life seems to have become a thing of the past. To accept this situation would be to accept the Devil's philosophy.\"\n\nDuring the 1950s–60s the Baxters also took a keen interest in botany, discovering on a trip to Dunstan a new plant species now known as \"Gingidia baxterae\".\n\nIn 1965, Baxter's younger son James convinced both Archibald and Millicent to become Roman Catholics.\n\nBaxter lived in Dunedin until his death on 10 August 1970.\n\nIn 2013 a group in Dunedin, chaired by Kevin P. Clements of the University of Otago National Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies, set up the Archibald Baxter Memorial Trust to honour Baxter and other conscientious objectors of the First World War. Terence Baxter is the trust's patron.\n\nThe Trust proposed an annual lecture in Baxter's name, an annual essay competition commencing in August 2014, and a memorial in Dunedin in Baxter's honour. The Trust's proposal for a memorial was controversial provoking negative comments to the local paper. The first lecture was given on 22 September 2014 by Australian historian and author Professor Henry Reynolds of the University of Tasmania. His lecture was titled \"Discovering Archibald Baxter and the thoughts on war which followed\". The topic for the Trust's first essay competition was \"They also served who would not fight\" and was to be set against a backdrop of New Zealand History. There were two age group categories: Junior (New Zealand school years 9-11) and Senior (New Zealand school years 12-13). The senior section was won by Modi Deng of Columba College and the Junior section by Rhys Davie of Tokomairiro High School.\n\nThe Trust hoped to raise $100,000 for what will be the first memorial to honour pacifism in New Zealand. The Trust hoped to unveil the memorial on the centenary of the Battle of Passchendaele in 2017. The proposal for the memorial was controversial provoking negative comments to the local paper. It took the Trust until July 2018 to obtain Resource consent to construct the memorial. The cost was then estimated to be $300,000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244193", "title": "Shankleville, Texas", "text": "Shankleville, Texas\n\nShankleville is an unincorporated community in Newton County, Texas, United States. It was founded as a Freedmen's town, one of over 500 such \"freedom colonies\" in Texas.\n\nShankleville was founded in 1867 by James \"Jim\" and Winnie (Brush) Shankle, the first African Americans to purchase land and become leaders of the settlement after Emancipation. It was named in honor of the two leaders, the 3rd Paternal great-grandparents to NFL Hall of Fame Defensive End Michael Strahan. This was confirmed through research done by the show Finding Your Roots. James and Winnie Shankle's son-in-law, Stephen McBride, was a co-founder who helped to develop the town. Shankleville was one of ten freedmen's settlements established in Newton County following the Civil War, including Biloxi, Cedar Grove, Galloway, Huff Creek, Indian Hills, Jamestown, Liberty, Pleasant Hill and St. John.\n\nThe Shankles bought \"a league\" of land and invited other families to live and create businesses there, amassing land holdings over 4,000 acres. \"Shankleville began as a rural community where African-Americans could live and farm their own land away from the violence of white supremacist activities, the strictures of segregation, and the economic enslavement of sharecropping, or working for less than subsistence wages as domestic servants and in other menial jobs,\" the U.S. Department of the Interior notes in its National Register of Historic Places designation of Shankleville's Addie L. and A.T. Odom Homestead.\n\nAt Shankleville, a single family—the related Shankle-McBride clan—had unusual financial resources that they initially used to purchase land early on, which fostered the development of the community (\"Handbook of Texas Online:\" \"Freedmen's Settlements\"). At its peak, Shankleville is thought to have housed about 75 families. The settlement prospered and included schools, churches, cotton gins, saw mills, grist mills, sugarcane mills, stores, and blacksmith shops.\n\nMcBride College was a two-story structure which operated from 1883 to 1909. Named after Stephen McBride, the school also served as a community center and town hall. During summer, teachers came to attend training conferences and seminars. When school was not in session, McBride College was also used to host revivals featuring traveling preachers. Good Morning America host and retired NFL player Michael Strahan is a descendant of Jim and Winnie Shankle.\n\nThe descendants of Shankleville are involved in historic research, community preservation, and family genealogy. Annual homecomings have been held since 1941 on the first weekend of August each year.\n\nThe Shankleville Historical Society was founded in 1988 to \"preserve the heritage\", \"document the history\", and \"propagate the legacy\" of Shankleville. The society hosts many cultural events in honor of Shankleville, including the annual Texas Purple Hull Pea Festival which celebrated its sesquicentennial homecoming in 2017. The festival features cultural events commemorating different historical aspects of the settlement. Purple-hull peas were a historic cash crop and a staple of the local economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244199", "title": "David Feherty", "text": "David Feherty\n\nDavid William Feherty (born 13 August 1958) is a former professional golfer and current golf broadcaster. As a touring professional he won five European Tour events, seriously competed at the Open Championship twice (1989 and 1994), and played on Europe's victorious 1989 Ryder Cup team. Late in his career he joined the PGA Tour. Since retiring, he has worked as a television personality; from 1997 through 2015 Feherty served as an on-course reporter for the \"PGA Tour on CBS\". In 2011, he introduced a self-titled interview series on Golf Channel and subsequently joined NBC Sports full-time in 2016.\n\nFeherty turned professional in 1976 and spent most of his playing career in Europe, where he won five times and finished in the top ten twice in the European Tour's Order of Merit, placing tenth in 1989 and eighth in 1990. He spent 1994 and 1995 playing mainly on the PGA Tour in the U.S., and the best result on the tour was a second-place finish at the 1994 New England Classic. His combined career earnings exceeded $3 million. Feherty represented Ireland in international competition and captained the victorious 1990 Alfred Dunhill Cup team. Feherty played for Europe on the 1991 Ryder Cup team.\n\nFeherty was born in Bangor, County Down, Northern Ireland. He lives with his second wife Anita and their five children in Dallas, Texas. They have one daughter, Erin, born in 1998. Anita Feherty has two sons from a former marriage. Until 1995 he was married to Caroline Feherty, a South African beauty queen. They have two sons.\n\nFeherty has had a long struggle with depression and alcoholism, which he publicly addressed in 2006. In an interview with \"Golf Magazine\" about his problems, Feherty said \"I used alcohol to mask my inner demons\". The outspoken columnist then took a shot at actor and noted Scientologist Tom Cruise, who has said that therapy and drugs are useless and that depression can be cured by physical exercise: \"\"Actually, some sort of exercise would have helped me. If I kicked the shit out of Tom Cruise, I'd feel a lot better about myself.\"\" Along with George Lopez, Feherty hosted the Lopez-Feherty Foundation Anti-Pro-Am in November 2005.\n\nIn 2008, Feherty was hit by a truck while cycling. He suffered three broken ribs, which punctured his lung. He was hospitalised for a few days with a tube in his chest. He resumed his broadcast duties at the 2008 Masters Tournament.\n\nFeherty became a naturalised citizen of the United States on 23 February 2010.\n\nIn 2012, Feherty was awarded the third-highest honor within the Department of the Army Civilian Awards, the Outstanding Civilian Service Award, for substantial contributions to the U.S. Army community through his work with the Troops First Foundation.\n\nOn 29 July 2017, Feherty's oldest son, Shey, died after a drug overdose on his 29th birthday.\n\nFeherty describes himself as a \"diehard atheist\".\n\nIn 1997, Feherty retired from the tours and joined CBS Sports as an on-course reporter and golf analyst. Feherty is a contributor to \"Golf Magazine\" and has his own column in the back of the magazine called Sidespin. He is also the \"New York Times\" and Booksense best-selling author of four books, \"A Nasty Bit of Rough\", \"Somewhere in Ireland a Village Is Missing an Idiot\", \"An Idiot for All Seasons\", and \"David Feherty's Totally Subjective History of the Ryder Cup\". On 21 June 2011, Feherty premiered his own weekly primetime talk show called \"Feherty\" on the Golf Channel.\n\nFeherty is also a co-announcer on EA Sports' Tiger Woods PGA Tour series with Jim Nantz, and Bill Macatee. Dallas, Texas. He is a periodic guest on Dallas' sports radio station, KTCK. He appears in advertisements for the Cobra golf company, showing off his trampolining and cheerleading skills in the advert, to show off the company's \"Speed\" drivers and woods.\n\nIn September 2005, Feherty guest-starred in the Season 6 episode of \"Yes, Dear\" (\"Greg's a Mooch\"). In the 18 April 2009, issue of \"D Magazine\", Feherty was one of five writers to comment on George W. Bush's move to Dallas. In his article, Feherty uses the article to express his support of Bush and to speak on politics. Criticism was aimed at Feherty for this suggestive comment about House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Leader Harry Reid: \"From my own experience visiting the troops in the Middle East, I can tell you this, though: despite how the conflict has been portrayed by our glorious media, if you gave any U.S. soldier a gun with two bullets in it, and he found himself in an elevator with Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid, and Osama bin Laden, there's a good chance that Nancy Pelosi would get shot twice, and Harry Reid and bin Laden would be strangled to death.\"\"\n\nFeherty made the following controversial remarks and described his politics as such: \"\"As for me, my politics are somewhere in the middle—and then way outside both wings. I believe in the death penalty, especially for pro-lifers, child molesters, those opposed to gay marriage, and for stupid dancing in the end zone. I believe in the abolition of estate taxes and the Pickens Plan. I'd lower the legal drinking age and raise the driving age to 18 nationwide, make Kinky Friedman governor of Texas, and make all schools, public and private, start earlier with one hour of physical exercise.\"\"\n\nCBS Sports distanced itself from Feherty's comments:We want to be clear that this column for a Dallas magazine is an unacceptable attempt at humor and is not in any way condoned, endorsed or approved by CBS Sports... David Feherty is an insightful and sometimes humorous commentator for CBS Sports' golf coverage...however, his attempt at humor in this instance went over the line, and his comments were clearly inappropriate. We hope he will use better judgment in the future.\"\"\n\nOn his nightly cable news television show \"Countdown\", Keith Olbermann went as far as to say the \"soon to be ex-CBS Sports golf analyst David Feherty\", based on comments Feherty made in the D-magazine article, leaving the audience with the impression CBS Sports was about to let Feherty go for his remarks. About two weeks later, Feherty announced the PGA Tour's Valero Texas Open, in San Antonio for CBS.\n\nIn August 2015, Feherty left CBS following his final event with the network—The Barclays. In September 2015, it was announced that Feherty would be moving to NBC Sports and Golf Channel full-time beginning in 2016, serving a similar role as he did with CBS. The deal also includes a renewal for \"Feherty\" on Golf Channel, a first-look development deal with Universal Television, and the ability for the two to collaborate on other projects, including some outside of golf.\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (2–1)\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut (3rd round cut in 1979 Open Championship)<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244215", "title": "Bob White (trade unionist)", "text": "Bob White (trade unionist)\n\nRobert White, (April 28, 1935 – February 19, 2017) was a prominent leader in the Canadian trade union and labour movement who was the founding president of the Canadian Auto Workers (now Unifor) after leading its separation from its American parent, the United Auto Workers, and then president of the Canadian Labour Congress. Born in Northern Ireland, he emigrated with his family to Canada at age 13, settling in Woodstock, Ontario. White died in 2017 at the age of 81 in Kincardine, Ontario.\n\nWhite began working at age 15 (Hay & Company - a wood furniture maker owned by US Plywood) and within a year he had already participated in a strike, his first pro-labour activity, and was elected a union steward at the age of 17. He led his first strike, against the same company, in 1957 at the age of 22, leading 500 workers off the job. Subsequently, White became fully immersed in the Canadian labour movement as a union organizer and then by 1959 president of Local 636 of the United Auto Workers (U.A.W.), a union based in the United States, that at the time had a large membership in Canadian industry (particularly in automobile manufacturing). In 1960 White was appointed as international representative of the U.A.W. and assigned to organizing duties within Canada. 1972 saw White named as administrative assistant to the director of the National Office of the U.A.W. White succeeded Dennis McDermott as Canadian Director of the UAW in 1978.\n\nIn 1984, White encouraged the Canadian Membership of the U.A.W. to split away from the American union and form a new and separate entity, the Canadian Auto Workers Union (properly the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada). An important event in the history of the Canadian labour movement, this split took place largely because the Canadian delegates to the U.A.W. conventions felt that they did not have a strength or voice at the American conventions. The schism and the formation of the C.A.W. as a separate entity was successful and White was acclaimed as the first leader of the fledgling union at the first C.A.W. convention in 1985.\n\nWhite became a national figure in Canadian labour and politics during this time and was outspoken in his opposition to the then proposed Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement. White served 3 terms as president of the largest private labour organization in Canada before stepping aside from this position to become the president of the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC) in 1992. In his capacity as leader of the CLC, White represented the interests of 2.2 million Canadian workers and was always a strong advocate of social justice issues and fair trade practices, not only for Canadians but workers around the world.\n\nWhite has been a vocal opponent of U.S. missile testing on Canadian soil and encouraged other world leaders to take a pro-active role against U.S. led military initiatives and continued to be an outspoken critic of international trade agreements that he argued failed to recognize basic human and labour rights.\n\nHe was awarded doctor of law degrees from York University, the University of Toronto, the University of Windsor, and St. Francis Xavier University. He was also inducted into the Order of Canada as an Officer for his exceptional service to the country.\n\nWhite was an advocate for jobs, labour and human rights before several international forums including the G8 and the OECD (the organization of the 25 most industrial nations). White was the President of the Trade Union Advisory Committee (TUAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). He was the first Canadian to hold the post. White was the chair of the Commonwealth Trade Union Council. White was also the chair of the Human and Trade Union Rights Committee of the 126 million-member International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, the largest trade union body in the world.\nIn retirement, he served as President Emeritus of the CLC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244218", "title": "Robert Fellowes, Baron Fellowes", "text": "Robert Fellowes, Baron Fellowes\n\nRobert Fellowes, Baron Fellowes, (born 11 December 1941) is a British courtier who was Private Secretary to Queen Elizabeth II from 1990 to 1999, and is also known as a brother-in-law of Diana, Princess of Wales and first cousin of Ronald Ferguson, the father of Sarah, Duchess of York.\n\nFellowes is the son of Scots Guards Major Sir William Fellowes, the Queen's Land Agent at Sandringham, and of his wife Jane Charlotte Ferguson, daughter of Brigadier-General Algernon Francis Holford Ferguson (great-grandfather of Sarah, Duchess of York). The Fellowes of Shotesham are an old country family, related to the Lords De Ramsey (senior branch).\n\nFellowes married Lady Jane Spencer, elder sister of Diana, Princess of Wales on 20 April 1978 at Westminster Abbey, when he was an Assistant Private Secretary to the Queen. The then-Lady Diana Spencer was a bridesmaid. They have three children, Laura Jane Fellowes, (born 19 July 1980), Alexander Robert Fellowes, (born 23 March 1983), and Eleanor Ruth Fellowes (born 20 August 1985).\n\nFellowes played cricket for Norfolk in the 1959 Minor Counties Championship, making one appearance each against Buckinghamshire and the Nottinghamshire Second XI. Fellowes was educated at Eton College and joined the Scots Guards in 1960 on a short service commission. After completion of service in 1963 he entered the banking industry, working for Allen Harvey and Ross Ltd, discount brokers and bankers, 1964–77. He was a managing director from 1968.\n\nIn 1977 Fellowes was recruited to join the Royal Household as Assistant Private Secretary. He spent the next 20 years in the Private Secretary's Office, becoming Deputy in 1986, and Private Secretary in 1990.\n\nFellowes left his position in February 1999 to return to private banking, his retirement having been announced implicitly on 1 June 1998 when his successor Robin Janvrin was named. He was created a life peer on 12 July 1999 taking the title Baron Fellowes, of Shotesham in the County of Norfolk in the Queen's Birthday Honours List. He sits as a crossbench peer.\n\nLord Fellowes was introduced to the House of Lords and took his seat formally on 26 October 1999. According to reports from the House of Lords, Lord Fellowes remains technically a member of the Royal Household.\n\nAfter retirement from the Royal Household, Lord Fellowes became Vice-Chairman, and then Chairman, of Barclays Private Banking. He is also a company director, and a trustee of the Rhodes Trust, the Mandela Rhodes Foundation and the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust. He is also Vice-Chairman of the Commonwealth Institute. He was Chairman of The Voices Foundation from 2004 until 2012. He became Chair of the Prison Reform Trust in 2001.\n\nBesides his life peerage, Lord Fellowes has received the following honours:\n\n\nHe was made a Privy Counsellor (PC) in 1990.\n\nHe remains the Secretary and Registrar of the Order of Merit as of 19 July 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244228", "title": "Gina Haley", "text": "Gina Haley\n\nLinda Georgina (Gina) Haley (born April 23, 1975 in Mexico) is an American singer-songwriter.\n\nHaley is the youngest child of rock and roll pioneer Bill Haley from his marriage to his last wife, Martha; she grew up in Harlingen, and she was only five years old when her father died in 1981. At 18 years old, she left home and set out to find her musical identity, which landed her in Houston.\n\nShe is classically trained on piano and an accomplished self-taught guitarist and songwriter. During the mid-1990s, she left Houston and moved to Los Angeles.\nShe managed to catch the eye of producer Michael Sembello, and worked closely with him writing, recording, and arranging tracks which appeared in television and movies. Gina also worked closely with songwriter Richard Rudolph, and published songs through Music Sales Group. Her first self-titled album was released in Japan in 1999 Heat Wave.\nDuring these years in Los Angeles, she sang with the world music group called The Bridge, whose members included Edu Falcao, Daniel Jobim, Paulinho Da Costa, Vincent Colaiuta, and Michael Sembello.\n\nGina later formed her own group, the Gina Haley Band, and continues to work in the musical field in her home state of Texas.\n\nOn July 6, 2005, she performed with her father's old band, The Comets at the Viper Room in West Hollywood as part of 50th-anniversary celebrations of her father's famous song \"Rock Around the Clock\" reaching the number-one position on American sales charts, as well as what would have been Bill Haley's 80th birthday.\n\nIn June 2008, the Gina Haley Band performed at the Bill Haley induction to the South Texas Music Walk of Fame in Corpus Christi, Texas. Other inductees included Chelo Silva, Pat Grogan, Joe Gallardo, Max Stalling, and The Reverend Horton Heat.\nMeeting Jim Heath (Reverend Horton Heat) was an important event in Gina's life. Jim had not intended to perform at the induction ceremony, as his band had not traveled with him, but decided to dedicate a Bill Haley song to Gina, a song that inspired him to become a musician. That song was \"Rock the Joint\". After years of contemplating making a rockabilly album, Gina had finally decided that it was time to carry on her father's legacy. A year later she sang \"Rock the Joint\" with Reverend Horton Heat at a concert in Dallas, Texas. She is now preparing a rockabilly show that is due to start next March 2011 in the UK with an album to follow.\nShe continues to perform in Texas with the Gina Haley Band, in her original alternative country sound.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2244232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244232", "title": "Eric Qin", "text": "Eric Qin\n\nEric Lee Chin, also known as Eric Qin (1967-1993), was an American composer of experimental music. While studying at the Mannes College of Music in New York City in the early 1990s, Qin founded the Rough Assemblage composers' collective, along with Mark De Gli Antoni and Norman Yamada.\n\nBorn and raised in New York City, Qin was killed in a bicycle accident on the Upper West Side of Manhattan on April 19, 1993, at the age of 25. His music was performed posthumously at the 1993 Bang on a Can Festival, and a CD of his music entitled \"Photographs\" was released in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244237", "title": "Signal (magazine)", "text": "Signal (magazine)\n\nSignal was a magazine published by the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany from 1940 through 1945.\n\n\"Signal\" was a glossy, illustrated photo journal and army propaganda tool, meant specifically for audiences in neutral, allied, and occupied countries. A German edition was distributed in Switzerland, Axis countries, and German-occupied Europe, but \"Signal\" was never distributed in Germany proper. \n\nThe promoter of the magazine was the chief of the Wehrmacht Propaganda Troops, Colonel Hasso von Wedel. \"Signal\" was published fortnightly (plus some special issues) in as many as 25 editions and 30 languages, and at its height had a circulation of 2,500,000 copies. It was available in the United States in English until December 1941. The last number was 6/45, only known in one sample from the Swedish edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244264", "title": "Rat-bite fever", "text": "Rat-bite fever\n\nRat-bite fever is an acute, febrile human illness caused by bacteria transmitted by rodents, in most cases, which is passed from rodent to human by the rodent's urine or mucous secretions. Alternative names for rat-bite fever include streptobacillary fever, streptobacillosis, spirillary fever, bogger, and epidemic arthritic erythema. It is a rare disease spread by infected rodents and can be caused by two specific types of bacteria. Most cases occur in Japan, but specific strains of the disease are present in the United States, Europe, Australia, and Africa.\nSome cases are diagnosed after patients were exposed to the urine or bodily secretions of an infected animal. These secretions can come from the mouth, nose, or eyes of the rodent. The majority of cases are due to the animal's bite. It can also be transmitted through food or water contaminated with rat feces or urine. Other animals can be infected with this disease, including weasels, gerbils, and squirrels. Household pets such as dogs or cats exposed to these animals can also carry the disease and infect humans.\nIf a person is bitten by a rodent, it is important to quickly wash and cleanse the wound area thoroughly with antiseptic solution to reduce the risk of infection.\n\nSymptoms are different for every person depending on the type of rat-bite fever with which the person is infected. Both spirillary and streptobacillary rat-bite fever have a few individual symptoms, although most symptoms are shared. Streptobacillosis is most commonly found in the United States and spirillary rat-bite fever is generally diagnosed in patients in Africa. Rat-bite symptoms are visually seen in most cases and include inflammation around the open sore. A rash can also spread around the area and appear red or purple. Other symptoms associated with streptobacillary rat-bite fever include chills, fever, vomiting, headaches, and muscle aches. Joints can also become painfully swollen and pain can be experienced in the back. Skin irritations such as ulcers or inflammation can develop on the hands and feet. Wounds heal slowly, so symptoms possibly come and go over the course of a few months.\n\nSymptoms associated with spirillary rat-bite fever include issues with the lymph nodes, which often swell or become inflamed as a reaction to the infection. The most common locations of lymph node swelling are in the neck, groin, and underarm. Symptoms generally appear within 2 to 10 days of exposure to the infected animal. It begins with the fever and progresses to the rash on the hands and feet within 2 to 4 days. Rash appears all over the body with this form, but rarely causes joint pain.\n\nTwo types of Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic bacteria can cause the infection.\n\nRat-bite fever transmitted by the Gram-negative coiled rod \"Spirillum minus\" (also known as \"Spirillum minor\") is more rare, and is found most often in Asia. In Japan, the disease is called \"sodoku\". Symptoms do not manifest for two to four weeks after exposure to the organism, and the wound through which it entered exhibits slow healing and marked inflammation. The fever lasts longer and is recurring, for months in some cases. Rectal pain and gastrointestinal symptoms are less severe or are absent. Penicillin is the most common treatment.\n\nThe streptobacillosis form of rat-bite fever is known by the alternative names Haverhill fever and epidemic arthritic erythema. It is a severe disease caused by \"Streptobacillus moniliformis\", transmitted either by rat bite or ingestion of contaminated products (Haverhill fever). After an incubation period of 2–10 days, Haverhill fever begins with high prostrating fevers, rigors (shivering), headache, and polyarthralgia (joint pain). Soon, an exanthem (widespread rash) appears, either maculopapular (flat red with bumps) or petechial (red or purple spots) and arthritis of large joints can be seen. The organism can be cultivated in blood or articular fluid. The disease can be fatal if untreated in 20% of cases due to malignant endocarditis, meningoencephalitis, or septic shock. Treatment is with penicillin, tetracycline, or doxycycline.\n\nThis condition is diagnosed by detecting the bacteria in skin, blood, joint fluid, or lymph nodes. Blood antibody tests may also be used. To get a proper diagnosis for rat-bite fever, different tests are run depending on the symptoms being experienced.\n\nTo diagnosis streptobacillary rat-bite fever, blood or joint fluid is extracted and the organisms living in it are cultured. Diagnosis for spirillary rat bite fever is by direct visualization or culture of spirilla from blood smears or tissue from lesions or lymph nodes.\n\nWhile obviously preventable by staying away from rodents, otherwise hands and face should be washed after contact and any scratches both cleaned and antiseptics applied. The effect of chemoprophylaxis following rodent bites or scratches on the disease is unknown. No vaccines are available for these diseases.\nImproved conditions to minimize rodent contact with humans are the best preventive measures. Animal handlers, laboratory workers, and sanitation and sewer workers must take special precautions against exposure. Wild rodents, dead or alive, should not be touched and pets must not be allowed to ingest rodents.\nThose living in the inner cities where overcrowding and poor sanitation cause rodent problems are at risk from the disease. Half of all cases reported are children under 12 living in these conditions.\n\nTreatment with antibiotics is the same for both types of infection. The condition responds to penicillin, and where allergies to it occur, erythromycin or tetracyclines are used.\n\nWhen proper treatment is provided for patients with rat-bite fever, the prognosis is positive. Without treatment, the infection usually resolves on its own, although it may take up to a year to do so. A particular strain of rat-bite fever in the United States can progress and cause serious complications that can be potentially fatal. Before antibiotics were used, many cases resulted in death. If left untreated, streptobacillary rat-bite fever can result in infection in the lining of the heart, covering over the spinal cord and brain, or in the lungs. Any tissue or organ throughout the body may develop an abscess.\nRat-bite fever (RBF) is a zoonotic disease. It can be directly transmitted by rats, gerbils, and mice (the vectors) to humans by either a bite or scratch or it can be passed from rodent to rodent. The causative bacterial agent of RBF has also been observed in squirrels, ferrets, dogs, and pigs. The most common reservoir of the disease is rats because nearly all domestic and wild rats are colonized by the causative bacterial agent, \"Streptobacillus moniliformis.\" Most notably, the Black rat (\"Rattus rattus)\" and the Norwegian rat (\"Rattus norvegicus\") are recognized as potential reservoirs due to their common use as laboratory animals or kept as pets. It is estimated that 1 in 10 bites from a rat will result in developing RBF. A person is also at risk of acquiring the bacteria through ingestion of contaminated water or food by rodent feces, though this is referred to as Haverhill Fever.\n\nResearchers are challenged in knowing the prevalence RBF. One factor that limits the known number of cases of RBF is that it is not a reportable disease. Rat-Bite Fever is classified as a notifiable disease, which means it is required by the state to be reported, however, the state is not mandated to provide that information to the CDC at the federal level. Identification of RBF is also hindered due to the presence of two different etiological bacterial agents, \"Streptobacillus moniliformis\" and \"Spirillum minus.\" RBF caused by \"Sp. minus\" is more commonly found in Asia and is termed Sodoku, whereas \"St. moniliformis\" is found more often in the United States and in the Western Hemisphere. Although cases of RBF have been reported all over the world, the majority of cases that have been documented are caused by \"St. moniliformis\" primarily in the United States, where approximately 200 cases have been identified and reported. Due to increasing population density, this illness is being seen more frequently, as humans have increased their contact with animals and the zoonotic diseases they carry. Most cases of the disease have been reported from densely populated regions, such as big cities. The populations at risk have broadened due to the fact that domestic rats have become a common household pet. In the United States it is estimated that children 5 years and younger are the most at risk, receiving 50% of the total exposure, followed by laboratory personal and then pet store employees. Other groups at increased risk are people over 65 years old, immunocompromised individuals, and pregnant women.\n\nSymptoms of RBF include sudden high temperature fevers, vomiting, headaches, painful joints/arthritis, and a rash that develops 2-10 days after infection. While symptoms differ between Streptobacillary and Spirillary RBF, both types exhibit an incubation period before symptoms manifest. Due to its symptoms, RBF is often misdiagnosed by clinicians, leading to lingering symptoms and worsening conditions in patients; left untreated the mortality rate (death rate) of RBF is 13%. Even when treated, RBF can lead to migratory and chronic arthritis which can persist for weeks to years after initial infection and treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244265", "title": "Independent Evangelical-Lutheran Church", "text": "Independent Evangelical-Lutheran Church\n\nThe Independent Evangelical-Lutheran Church (, abbreviated SELK) is a confessional Lutheran church body of Germany. It is a member of the European Lutheran Conference and of the International Lutheran Council (ILC) (of which the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod of North America is also a member). The SELK has about 33,000 members in 174 congregations. The seat of SELK is in Hanover.\n\nIn 1817, King Frederick William III of Prussia ordered the Lutheran and Reformed churches in his territory to unite, forming the Evangelical Church of the Prussian Union, a predecessor to today's Union of Evangelical Churches. As the uniting of Lutheran and Reformed Christians in Germany proceeded, some Lutheran groups dissented and formed independent churches, especially in Prussia, Saxony, Hanover and Hesse. These Lutherans held that Reformed doctrine and Lutheran doctrine are contradictory on many points (especially on the nature of the Real Presence of Christ in the Lord's Supper), and that such doctrinal differences precluded altar fellowship. So in the 1820s and 1830s Lutherans in Prussia and their congregations formed a new Lutheran church, recognised by the king in 1845 as the \"Evangelisch-Lutherische Kirche in Preußen\" (Evangelical Lutheran Church in Prussia). It was seated in Breslau and presided over by the \"Oberkirchenkollegium\" (Supreme Church Collegial Body).\n\nThe confessional Lutherans were persecuted during the first half of 19th century by the state. Many of them were not allowed to hold church services or have their children baptized or confirmed according to the liturgy of the Lutheran Church. In some areas of Germany, it took decades until the Confessional Lutherans were granted religious freedom.\n\nIn 1972 most of the Confessional Lutheran Church bodies in West Germany united to form the SELK. In 1991 the East German \"Evangelisch-Lutherische (altlutherische) Kirche\" (the Evangelical-Lutheran (Old-Lutheran) Church) joined the SELK.\n\nThe SELK bases its teaching on the Bible, consisting of the Old and New Testaments, which it confesses to be God's inerrant and infallible Word. The specific doctrines taught in the SELK are contained in the Book of Concord, to which SELK pastors profess a \"quia\" subscription, meaning that they subscribe to them, \"quia\" (because) they correspond to the Bible. These Confessions are:\n\n\nThe SELK has declined to join the Lutheran World Federation, viewing that body as theologically too liberal. Nevertheless, the Evangelical Lutheran Free Church (Germany), formerly in communion with the SELK, suspended relations in 1987 over perceived doctrinal laxity within SELK.\n\nThe SELK does not ordain women as pastors, and is strictly against the blessing of gay couples. This is in contrast to the German mainline Protestant churches, which do ordain women to ministry and allow the blessing of gay couples. The mainline Protestant churches (about 25 million members) are organized as the Evangelical Church in Germany (Evangelische Kirche in Deutschland, EKD).\n\nThe bishop of the SELK is elected by the synod. The current bishop is Hans-Jörg Voigt. The main office of the SELK is in Hannover, and is managed by the executive dean Michael Schätzel. The SELK is divided in four main districts, with a provost heading each one. These four districts are divided again in sub-districts, each in turn led by a superintendent.\n\n\n\nThe mission outreach of SELK is led by its mission society in Bleckmar in Lower Saxony near Celle, called Lutherische Kirchenmission (Bleckmarer Mission) e. V. It has missionaries and projects in South-Africa, Botswana, Germany, and Brazil.\n\nThe theological seminary is in Oberursel, near Frankurt/Main. All SELK pastors take part of their studies there. The professors are pastors of SELK. The seminary is accredited by the German state.\n\nFor different aspects of church life the SELK has a number of other institutions, such as an institution for youth, church music, worship service for children, a liturgy commission, and a commission for church education.\n\nThe SELK has full communion and fellowship with several Lutheran churches that have the same teaching and Lutheran doctrine, for example:\n\n\nThe SELK has a contract about partnership relations with several Lutheran churches in Eastern Europe:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244271", "title": "Running with Scissors (memoir)", "text": "Running with Scissors (memoir)\n\nRunning with Scissors is a 2002 memoir by American writer Augusten Burroughs. The book tells the story of Burroughs's bizarre childhood life after his mother, a chain-smoking aspiring poet, sent him to live with her psychiatrist. \"Running with Scissors\" spent eight weeks on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list.\n\n\"Running with Scissors\" covers the period of Burroughs' adolescent years, beginning at age 12 after a brief overview of his life as a child. Burroughs spends his early childhood in a clean and orderly home, obsessing over his clothes, hair, accessories, and having great potential, with his parents constantly fighting in the background.\n\nWhen his parents separate and his mother begins to second-guess her sexuality, Burroughs is sent to live with his mother's psychiatrist, Dr. Finch, who lives in a rundown Victorian house in Northampton, Massachusetts. Finch lives with his \"legal\" wife, Agnes, as well as his biological and adopted children and some of his own patients. Rules are practically nonexistent and children of all ages do whatever they please, such as having sex, smoking cigarettes and cannabis, and rebelling against authority figures. Finch feels that, at age 13, children should be in charge of their own lives. However, the dysfunctional issues that occur in the Finch family are outdone by the psychotic episodes frequently experienced by Burroughs' mother.\n\nThe Finch house is a parallel universe to the home Burroughs came from. It is filthy, with cockroaches roaming around the uncleaned dishes, Christmas trees left up year-round, stairs up which Burroughs is afraid to walk because he thinks that they will collapse under him, and nothing off limits. Eventually, Finch comes to believe that God is communicating with him through his feces and develops a form of divination to try and decipher these messages. When Hope, Finch's second oldest daughter, believes her cat is dying, she keeps it in a laundry basket for four days until it dies: \"Hope said Freud died of kitty leukemia and old age, I thought it was because Freud was stuck under a laundry basket with no food or water for 4 days.\"\n\nBurroughs' mother is shown as emotionally drained, excessive, self-centered, and ultimately incapable of being a parent. She has a sexual relationship with a local minister's wife, which is revealed to Burroughs when he accidentally walks in on them when he skips school. When this relationship ends, Burroughs' mother starts another with an affluent African-American woman. This relationship is tumultuous and unstable. At one point, they have a mental patient named Cesar live at their house after another of his mother's breakdowns as his \"dad\". Cesar attempts to rape Burroughs while he is sleeping, but is unsuccessful (when Cesar goes to live with the Finches later in the book, he pays one of the Finches' daughters for sex and is then forced from the home). His mother's biggest psychotic episode happens when she and Dorothy (her partner) move everything out of their house and attack Burroughs when he tries to intervene. This later ends with a \"road trip\" and events leading to Burroughs' mother being restrained on a bed.\n\nBurroughs tells Dr. Finch's adopted 33-year-old son, Neil Bookman, that he is gay. From the age of 13 to 15, Burroughs has an intense and open sexual relationship with Bookman, which begins when Bookman forces the young boy to perform oral sex on him. Neither his mother nor any member of the Finch family is bothered by their relationship. Burroughs begins to enjoy exacting power over Bookman by threatening to charge him with statutory rape. Bookman is obsessed with the young boy, even though Burroughs has problems with their relationship (going in phases of needing the affection of Bookman to wanting to humiliate or get away from him) which only infatuates Bookman more. Bookman eventually leaves Northampton for New York City and is never heard from again by Burroughs or the Finches, even after they try everything in their power to find him.\n\nBurroughs forms a close relationship with Finch's daughter, Natalie, who is one year older than he is, even though he dislikes her at the beginning of the book. They do everything together, from finding jobs to running behind a waterfall to demolishing the kitchen ceiling. They finally leave the Finch household together.\n\nAt the end of the book, when Burroughs is living in his own apartment with Natalie, he is asked to choose between his mother and Finch when she accuses the doctor of raping her in a motel to cure her of one of her psychotic episodes. He still considers Finch's family and his mother to be his family, and he cannot bring himself to choose sides, although he is fairly certain that Finch did rape his mother. Quoted from the book, Burroughs states: \"So it came to this: Was I a turd-reading Finch? Or was I my crazy mother's son? In the end, I decided that I was neither.\"\n\n\nThe film adaptation of \"Running with Scissors\", released in 2006, stars Alec Baldwin, Annette Bening, Brian Cox, Joseph Fiennes, Evan Rachel Wood, Jill Clayburgh, Gwyneth Paltrow and Joseph Cross as Burroughs. The plot of the film is focused on the relationship between the mother and the son.\n\nIn 2005, the family of Dr. Rodolph H. Turcotte (1919–2000), of Massachusetts filed suit against Burroughs and his publisher, alleging defamation of character and invasion of privacy. They stated that they were the basis for the Finch family portrayed in the book but that Burroughs had fabricated or exaggerated various descriptions of their activities.\n\nThe case was later settled with Sony Pictures Entertainment in October 2006, prior to the release of the film adaptation. Burroughs and his publisher, St. Martin's Press, settled with the Turcotte family in August 2007. The Turcottes were reportedly seeking damages of $2 million for invasion of privacy, defamation, and emotional distress; the Turcottes alleged \"Running with Scissors\" was largely fictional and written in a sensational manner. Burroughs defended his work as \"entirely accurate\", but agreed to call the work a \"book\" (instead of a \"memoir\") in the author's note, to alter the acknowledgments page in future editions to recognize the Turcotte family's conflicting memories of described events, and express regret for \"any unintentional harm\" to the Turcotte family. Burroughs felt vindicated by the settlement. \"I'm not at all sorry that I wrote [the book]. And you know, the suit settled—it settled in my favor. I didn't change a word of the memoir, not one word of it. It's still a memoir, it's marketed as a memoir, they've agreed one hundred percent that it is a memoir.\"\n\nFuture printings of \"Running with Scissors\" will contain modified language in the Author's Note and Acknowledgments pages. Where the Acknowledgments page had read: \"Additionally, I would like to thank each and every member of a certain Massachusetts family for taking me into their home and accepting me as one of their own,\" the following was substituted: \"Additionally, I would like to thank the real-life members of the family portrayed in this book for taking me into their home and accepting me as one of their own. I recognize that their memories of the events described in this book are different than my own. They are each fine, decent, and hard-working people. The book was not intended to hurt the family. Both my publisher and I regret any unintentional harm resulting from the publishing and marketing of \"Running with Scissors\".\"\n\nIn addition, on the Author's Note page—but, as the family agreed, nowhere else—the word \"book\" replaced the word \"memoir.\" The work is still described as a memoir on the cover, title page and elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244272", "title": "Peak meter", "text": "Peak meter\n\nA peak meter is a type of measuring instrument that indicates visually the instantaneous level of an audio signal that is passing through it (a sound level meter). In sound reproduction, the meter, whether peak or not, is usually meant to correspond to the perceived loudness of a particular signal.\n\nA peak-reading electrical instrument or meter is one which measures the peak value of a waveform, rather than its mean value or RMS value.\n\nAs an example, when making audio recordings it is desirable to use a recording level that is just sufficient to reach the maximum capability of the recorder at the loudest sounds, regardless of the average sound level. A peak-reading meter is typically used to set the recording level.\n\nIn modern audio equipment, peak meters are usually made up of a series of LEDs (small lights) that are placed in a vertical or horizontal bar and lit up sequentially as the signal increases. There are many variations on how this is implemented. They typically have ranges of green, yellow, and red, to indicate when a signal is starting to overload. \n\nThe term \"peak\" is used to denote the meter's ability, regardless of the type of visual display, to indicate the highest output level at any instant.\n\nA peak meter can also be implemented with a classic moving needle device such as those on older analog equipment (similar in appearance in some ways to a pressure gauge on a bicycle pump), or by other means. Older equipment used actual moving parts instead of lights to indicate the audio level. Because of the mass of the moving parts and mechanics, the response time of these older meters could have been anywhere from a few milliseconds to a second or more. Thus, the meter might not ever accurately reflect the signal at every instant of time, but the constantly changing level, combined with the slower response time, led to more of an \"average\" indication.\n\nBy comparison, \"peak\" type metering is designed to respond so quickly that the meter display reacts in exact proportion to the voltage of the audio signal. This can be useful in many applications, but the human ear works much more like an average meter than a peak meter. The analog VU meters are actually closer to the human ear's perception of sound level, because the response time was intentionally slow - around 300 milliseconds, and thus, many audio engineers and sound professionals prefer to use older analog style metering because it more accurately relates to what a human listener will experience in terms of relative loudness.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244277", "title": "Celebrity doll", "text": "Celebrity doll\n\nA celebrity doll is a doll modelled after a celebrity.\n\nCelebrity dolls have been in production for a very long time. In the 1840s, several famous ballerinas were featured as paper dolls. Also in the 19th century, various military heroes were portrayed as dolls/figures. With the advent of silent films, dolls of film stars were created. The John Bunny doll (a silent film star) was one of the first produced in 1914 by Louis Amberg & Sons. The first Charlie Chaplin doll was produced in 1915. The composition Baby Peggy doll was a huge success in 1923, also produced by the Amberg company. The Shirley Temple doll by Ideal was a phenomenon in the 1930s, and would go on to be one of the most successful celebrity dolls. First produced in 1934, millions of the composition Shirley dolls were produced (and, variations of the Shirley doll are being produced to this day, generally in porcelain or vinyl). After Shirley, companies like Alexander Doll Company and Ideal produced many different celebrity dolls, including Sonja Henie, Jane Withers and Deanna Durbin. Celebrity dolls still remain popular today, especially given the cult of celebrity that has developed in the 1980s-first decade of the 21st century. Because of the wide collecting audience for these dolls and their appeal as a cross-over collectible in many instances, some collectors also believe that the dolls have the possibility of appreciating in value in the future.\n\nThe best-selling celebrity dolls in history are the Spice Girls dolls, made in 1997, selling over eleven million, Other million selling dolls of recent years include the Britney Spears doll, made in 1999, the New Kids on the Block dolls (selling over two million dolls) and Christina Aguilera doll (selling over three million dolls). Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen dolls were also popular from 1999-2004. Dolls of Lindsay Lohan, Hilary Duff and Destiny's Child were being made in 2005-2006. In 2007-2009, dolls based on characters in Disney Channel movies and TV series, such as, \"High School Musical\", \"Hannah Montana\", \"The Cheetah Girls\", \"Camp Rock\" and \"Wizards of Waverly Place\" were released. In the 2010s, dolls of Katy Perry, Nicki Minaj and Lady Gaga were made for charitable efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244289", "title": "William Robinson (painter)", "text": "William Robinson (painter)\n\nWilliam Robinson AO (born 1936 in Brisbane) is an Australian painter and lithographer. \n\nRobinson studied art at Ballarat High School from 1955 to 1956. After graduating, he began working as an art instructor, eventually becoming head of the Painting Department at the Brisbane College of Advanced Education in 1982. In 1989 he retired to work full-time on his paintings. \n\nRobinson held his first exhibition in 1967. He rose to international prominence as a part of the exhibitions Australian Perspecta in 1983 and The Sixth Bienniale of Sydney in 1986.\n\nThe Metropolitan Museum of Art has several of his works in their collection, as does the National Gallery of Australia and several smaller Australian galleries.\n\nHe has won the Archibald Prize for portraiture twice: first in 1987 for \"Equestrian self portrait\", then in 1995 for \"Self-portrait with stunned mullet\". He has also won the Wynne Prize for landscape painting in 1990 (\"The rainforest\") and 1996 (\"Creation landscape – earth and sea\").\n\nRobinson released a solo exhibition, Landscapes, which consisted of oil paintings which showed fragments of the Australian bush in various perspectives.\n\nIn 2009 Robinson was the subject of a documentary by filmmaker Catherine Hunter. \"William Robinson: A Painter’s Journey\" traces the places that have inspired the artist, from his early farmyard paintings to the majestic Creation Landscape series and most recently, the quiet still life paintings drawn from the intimate surrounds of his Brisbane house and garden.\n\nIn 2011, The Queensland University of Technology (QUT) Art Museum curated a major retrospective exhibition \"William Robinson: The Transfigured Landscape\" which was opened by the Australian Governor General Quentin Bryce. There is an art gallery within Old Government House on the QUT's Garden Point campus devoted to Robinson's art, featuring many of his artworks, including some of his very first.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244296", "title": "Authenticated encryption", "text": "Authenticated encryption\n\nAuthenticated encryption (AE) and authenticated encryption with associated data (AEAD) are forms of encryption which simultaneously assure the confidentiality and authenticity of data. \n\nIn addition to protecting message integrity and confidentiality, authenticated encryption can provide security against chosen ciphertext attack. In these attacks, an adversary attempts to gain an advantage against a cryptosystem (e.g., information about the secret decryption key) by submitting carefully chosen ciphertexts to some \"decryption oracle\" and analyzing the decrypted results. Authenticated encryption schemes can recognize improperly-constructed ciphertexts and refuse to decrypt them. This, in turn, prevents the attacker from requesting the decryption of any ciphertext unless it was generated correctly using the encryption algorithm, thus implying that the plaintext is already known. Implemented correctly, authenticated encryption removes the usefulness of the decryption oracle, by preventing an attacker from gaining useful information that the attacker does not already possess.\n\nMany specialized authenticated encryption modes have been developed for use with symmetric block ciphers. However, authenticated encryption can be generically constructed by combining an encryption scheme and a message authentication code (MAC), provided that:\n\n\nA typical programming interface for an AE implementation provides the following functions:\n\n\nThe \"header\" part is intended to provide authenticity and integrity protection for networking or storage metadata for which confidentiality is unnecessary, but authenticity is desired.\n\nThe need for authenticated encryption emerged from the observation that securely combining separate \"confidentiality\" and \"authentication\" block cipher operation modes could be error prone and difficult. This was confirmed by a number of practical attacks introduced into production protocols and applications by incorrect implementation, or lack of authentication (including SSL/TLS).\n\nSix different authenticated encryption modes (namely OCB 2.0, Key Wrap, CCM, EAX, Encrypt-then-MAC (EtM), and GCM) have been standardized in ISO/IEC 19772:2009. More authenticated encryption methods were developed in response to NIST solicitation. Sponge functions can be used in duplex mode to provide authenticated encryption.\n\nBellare and Namprempre (2000) analyzed three compositions of encryption and MAC primitives, and demonstrated that encrypting a message and subsequently applying a MAC to the ciphertext (the Encrypt-then-MAC approach) implies security against an adaptive chosen ciphertext attack, provided that both functions meet minimum required properties. Katz and Yung investigated the notion under the name \"unforgeable encryption\" and proved it implies security against chosen ciphertext attacks.\n\nIn 2013, a competition was announced to encourage design of authenticated encryption modes.\n\nAEAD is a variant of AE that allows a recipient to check the integrity of both the encrypted and unencrypted information in a message. AEAD binds associated data (AD) to the ciphertext and to the context where it is supposed to appear so that attempts to \"cut-and-paste\" a valid ciphertext into a different context are detected and rejected.\n\nIt is required, for example, by network packets or frames where the header needs visibility, the payload needs confidentiality, and both need integrity and authenticity.\n\nThe plaintext is first encrypted, then a MAC is produced based on the resulting ciphertext. The ciphertext and its MAC are sent together. Used in, e.g., IPsec. The standard method according to ISO/IEC 19772:2009. This is the only method which can reach the highest definition of security in AE, but this can only be achieved when the MAC used is \"strongly unforgeable\". In November 2014, TLS and DTLS extension for EtM has been published as RFC 7366. Various EtM ciphersuites exist for SSHv2 as well (e.g., ).\n\nNote that key separation is mandatory (distinct keys must be used for encryption and for the keyed hash), otherwise it is potentially insecure depending on the specific encryption method and hash function used.\n\nA MAC is produced based on the plaintext, and the plaintext is encrypted without the MAC. The plaintext's MAC and the ciphertext are sent together. Used in, e.g., SSH. Even though the E&M approach has not been proved to be strongly unforgeable in itself, it is possible to apply some minor modifications to SSH to make it strongly unforgeable despite the approach.\n\nA MAC is produced based on the plaintext, then the plaintext and MAC are together encrypted to produce a ciphertext based on both. The ciphertext (containing an encrypted MAC) is sent. Used in, e.g., SSL/TLS. Even though the MtE approach has not been proven to be strongly unforgeable in itself, the SSL/TLS implementation has been proven to be strongly unforgeable by Krawczyk who showed that SSL/TLS was, in fact, secure because of the encoding used alongside the MtE mechanism. Despite the theoretical security, deeper analysis of SSL/TLS modeled the protection as MAC-then-pad-then-encrypt, i.e. the plaintext is first padded to the block size of the encryption function. Padding errors often result in the detectable errors on the recipient's side, which in turn lead to padding oracle attacks, such as Lucky Thirteen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244302", "title": "The Lawless State", "text": "The Lawless State\n\nThe Lawless State was written in 1976 jointly by Morton H. Halperin, Jerry J. Berman, Robert L. Borosage, and Christine M. Marwick. It recounts abuses of power by the U.S. Government throughout the Cold War, and is concerned mostly with surveillance methods and overstepped boundaries.\n\nTopics mentioned include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2244308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244308", "title": "Norbulingka Institute", "text": "Norbulingka Institute\n\nNorbulingka Institute, founded in 1995 by Kelsang and Kim Yeshi at Sidhpur, near Dharamshala, India, is dedicated to the preservation of the Tibetan culture in its literary and artistic forms.\n\nThe institute is named after Norbulingka, the traditional summer residence of the Dalai Lamas, in Lhasa, Tibet. The ground plan is based on the proportions of Avalokitesvara, the thousand-armed god of compassion, with the temple as the head.\n\nNorbulingka is dedicated to handing down tradition and restoring standards by providing training, education and employment for Tibetans. It supports an environment in which Tibetan community and family values can flourish. It reconciles the traditional creatively and respectfully with the modern, and seeks to create an international awareness of Tibetan values and their expression in art and literature. Norbulingka produces high quality, traditionally crafted art objects, as well as clothing and home furnishings. Free guided tours of the institute are available to visitors every day except Sunday. Workshop are also offered for those wishing to study Tibetan arts. The institute also runs two guesthouses—Norling Guesthouse and Chonor House. All proceeds from all Norbulingka's projects go directly back into the institute to further our endeavors to preserve Tibetan culture.\n\nNorbulingka's art studios include Tibetan statue making, thangka painting, screen-printing, applique and tailoring, woodcarving, wood painting, papermaking, and wood and metal craft.\n\nThe Academy of Tibetan Culture, established in 1997, offers a three-year course of higher education in traditional Tibetan studies, as well as English, Chinese, and world history.\n\nThe Research Department of Norbulingka houses the team composing the official biography of the Dalai Lama, of which nine volumes in Tibetan have already been published. The research section is also compiling a comprehensive encyclopedia of Tibetan culture.\n\nThe institute also has the two-storeyed 'Seat of Happiness Temple' (Deden Tsuglakhang) built in 1985 and set amidst the Japanese inspired Norbulingka gardens. It is known for its 1,173 murals of Buddha, frescoes of all the Dalai Lamas and drawings chronicling the life of the 14th Dalai Lama. In the main hall stands the 4 mt high gilded copper Buddha Sakyamuni statue, made by institute's master statue-maker, the late Chenmo Pemba Dorje, and one of largest such statues outside Tibet. Around the temple are workshops of artisans and apprentices that produce various art objects, which are sold at the Norbulingka Shop, for the benefit of Tibetan refugees.\n\nThe Losel Doll Museum has diorama displays of traditional Tibetan scenes, using miniature Tibetan dolls in traditional costumes.\n\nA short distance from the institute lies the Dolma Ling Buddhist nunnery, and the Gyato Monastery, temporary residence of the 17th Karmapa, Ogyen Trinley Dorje.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244314", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Incheon", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Incheon\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Incheon () is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church located in Incheon, South Korea. The diocese is suffragan to the Archdiocese of Seoul.\n\nOn 6 June 1961 Pope John XXIII erected as an Apostolic Vicariate of Incheon. It was elevated to a diocese the next year on 10 March. The seat is Dapdong Cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244316", "title": "Risk–benefit ratio", "text": "Risk–benefit ratio\n\nA risk–benefit ratio is the ratio of the risk of an action to its potential benefits. Risk–benefit analysis is analysis that seeks to quantify the risk and benefits and hence their ratio. \n\nAnalyzing a risk can be heavily dependent on the human factor. A certain level of risk in our lives is accepted as necessary to achieve certain benefits. For example, driving an automobile is a risk most people take daily, also since it is mitigated by the controlling factor of their perception of their individual ability to manage the risk-creating situation. When individuals are exposed to involuntary risk (a risk over which they have no control), they make risk aversion their primary goal. Under these circumstances individuals require the probability of risk to be as much as one thousand times smaller than for the same situation under their perceived control (a notable example being the common bias in the perception of risk in flying vs. driving).\n\nEvaluations of future risk can be:\n\nFor research that involves more than minimal risk of harm to the subjects, the investigator must assure that the amount of benefit clearly outweighs the amount of risk. Only if there is a favorable risk–benefit ratio may a study be considered ethical. \n\nThe Declaration of Helsinki, adopted by the World Medical Association, states that biomedical research cannot be done legitimately unless the importance of the objective is in proportion to the risk to the subject. The Helsinki Declaration and the CONSORT Statement stress a favorable risk–benefit ratio.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244325", "title": "Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose", "text": "Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose\n\nThidwick the Big-Hearted Moose is a 1948 children's book by Dr. Seuss.\n\nThidwick, a moose in a herd numbering approximately sixty who subsist mainly on moose-moss and live on the northern shore of Lake Winna-Bango, grants a small bug's request to ride on his antlers free of charge. The bug takes advantage of the moose's kindness and settles in as a permanent resident, inviting various other animals to live on and in the moose's antlers. The kind-hearted moose acquiesces to the unexpected living arrangements, treating the animals as 'guests' even though he never told them explicitly that they were allowed to live there. Unfortunately, his passengers are thoughtless and selfish, and the situation quickly gets out of control. When one of the guests, a woodpecker, begins drilling holes in Thidwick's antlers, the other moose give Thidwick an ultimatum: if he doesn't get rid of his guests then he will leave the herd. When Thidwick's sense of decency compels him to forgo the comforts of herd life in favor of indulging his guests, his herd leaves him behind. Winter comes, and the herd swims across the lake to find fresh supplies of moose-moss. Thidwick wants to do the same, but his guests object, and insist that Thidwick not take \"their home to the far distant side of the lake.\" Even as he faces starvation, Thidwick refuses to go against his guests' wishes, and he remains on the cold, northern shore of the lake where his guests prefer to reside. Meanwhile, the heartless residents of Thidwick's antlers, who pay no regard to the increasing physical or psychological load that the moose is forced to endure, continue inviting the other animals to live with them.\n\nThe situation comes to a head when a group of hunters spot Thidwick and pursue him, with the goal of shooting him and mounting his head on the wall of the Harvard Club in New York City: a building well known in the 1930s and 1940s for its hunting trophies. Thidwick attempts to outrun the hunters, but the heavy load, including his passengers' refusal to permit him to travel across the lake, prevents him from escaping. Just before his capture, however, Thidwick remembers that it is time for him to shed his antlers. At the last moment he drops his antlers, makes a snide comment to his former guests, and escapes by swimming across the lake to rejoin his herd. His former guests are captured by the hunters and are stuffed and mounted, still perched on his antlers, on the trophy wall of the Harvard Club.\n\nThe story explores the limits of hospitality and sharing. Neil Reynolds had discussed it as a parable of immigration issues and the social welfare state. \nAeon J. Skoble discusses Thidwick at length as an exemplification of the idea of property rights, and particularly of Locke's formulation of property rights.\nSkoble argues that Thidwick is badly mistaken in viewing the other animals as \"guests\", and that the story demonstrates this. In a later essay in the same volume, Henry Cribbs makes a similar point, considering whether \"Thidwick\" is a case of squatter's rights.\n\nShortly after the book was published, David Dempsey, writing in \"The New York Times\", said:\n\"Thidwick is a masterpiece of economy, and a shrewd satire on the \"easy mark\" who lets the conventions of society get the better of him. The genius of the story, however, lies in its finale. A man of less consistence than Seuss would have let Thidwick be rescued by the creatures he is defending (this is the customary Disney riposte in similar situations) but Seuss' logic is rooted in principle, rather than sentiment, and the sponging animals get what they deserve. Incidentally, this is also what the child expects.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244328", "title": "Body of Song", "text": "Body of Song\n\nBody of Song is the sixth solo album from punk/indie/alternative rock veteran Bob Mould (ex-Hüsker Dü/Sugar). It is his first studio album under his own name since 2002's controversial \"Modulate\".\n\nOriginally meant to be a semi-acoustic record as part of an informal trilogy that included \"Modulate\" and the electronic dance album \"Long Playing Grooves\" (recorded under the pseudonym Loudbomb), the project was initially recorded in Athens, GA with former Sugar bassist David Barbe playing bass and engineering, and Mould's 1998 tour band drummer Matt Hammon, at Barbe's Chase Park Transduction studio. After recording the initial version of the album, Mould decided to put the project aside temporarily.\n\nAfter settling into a new home in Washington, DC and furthering his interest in club music by forming the monthly Blowoff event with friend and dance music artist Richard Morel, Mould began writing new guitar-based material in 2004, often trying out new songs on audiences when giving solo vocal-and-guitar performances in clubs all over the United States. After reviving four of the recordings from the 2002 album sessions, Mould began writing and recording material in his home studio setup in his DC home, then went into DC's venerated Inner Ear Studio in March 2005 with Fugazi drummer/Garland Of Hours multi-instrumentalist Brendan Canty and Inner Ear's owner/engineer Don Zientara (who worked on most of the Dischord Records catalog, including Fugazi and Minor Threat) and cut several new songs. Canty's occasional Fugazi collaborator and Garland Of Hours bandmate Amy Domingues was tapped to contribute cello to two songs on the album.\n\n\"Body of Song\" contained much of the electronic influence of its predecessor \"Modulate\", but Mould's trademark guitar work, which had been buried in the former album's mix, was brought back to the forefront. Mould's club music explorations also influenced two of \"Body of Song\"'s tracks, \"(Shine Your) Light Love Hope\" and \"I Am Vision, I Am Sound\", and featured Mould treating his voice with a vocoder-style digital effect (similar to what had been used on Cher's voice on her song \"Believe\").\n\nMould released \"Body of Song\" through a label other than directly through his own Granary Music imprint for the first time since leaving Rykodisc after the release of \"The Last Dog and Pony Show\", signing a deal with Chapel Hill, NC-based independent label Yep Roc Records to distribute the album.\n\n\"Body of Song\" began garnering much positive press attention in the weeks leading up to the release. An advance digital single release on iTunes of the song \"Paralyzed\" became an immediate hit, and a specially packaged limited edition version sold out most of its pressing through direct advance orders (shipped to customers two weeks prior to the street date) from Yep Roc's web site (the remaining stock was saved for brick-and-mortar retail sale).\n\nIn conjunction with the release of the album, Mould formed his first live touring band since 1998, with Canty on drums, Morel on keyboards and vocals, and Jason Narducy (Rockets Over Sweden, ex-Verbow) on bass, ending a \"semi-retirement\" from full-band performance.\n\nAll songs written by Bob Mould and (c)(p)2005 Granary Music (BMI).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244332", "title": "G-Phoria", "text": "G-Phoria\n\nG-Phoria is a former annual video game awards show started in 2003 and ended in 2009, produced by and for the defunct G4 network.\n\nFormerly the event was formatted like a regular awards ceremony taped in front of an audience, featuring celebrities such as Hal Sparks, Carmen Electra, Wilmer Valderrama and Anna Nicole Smith, and musical performances, along with a red carpet preview show, and some game premieres. In 2006, the control of the show was given over to \"X-Play\", which made it a pure viewer's choice show hosted by Adam Sessler and Morgan Webb. After 2009 G-Phoria's honors were effectively blended into the traditional \"year in review\" show aired by \"X-Play\" in mid-December of each year until the show's end in 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244333", "title": "Eiji Oue", "text": "Eiji Oue\n\nOue began his conducting studies with Hideo Saito of the Toho Gakuen School of Music. In 1978, Seiji Ozawa invited him to spend the summer studying at the Tanglewood Music Center. While there, he met Leonard Bernstein, who became a mentor. Oue won the Tanglewood Koussevitzky Prize in 1980. He also studied under Bernstein as a conducting fellow at the Los Angeles Philharmonic Institute.\n\nOue became Music Director of the Greater Boston Youth Symphony Orchestras in 1982, a post he held until 1989. He was music director of the Erie Philharmonic from 1990 to 1995. He has also served as associate conductor of the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra. From 1995 to 2002, he was music director of the Minnesota Orchestra. During his Minnesota tenure, the orchestra saw its attendance decline from 84% to 69% in capacity. He presided over the orchestra's first tours to Europe and Japan. He also recorded 20 CDs with the Minnesota, most of which were recorded on the Reference Records label. Oue served as Music Director of the Grand Teton Music Festival in Wyoming from 1997 to 2003.\n\nFollowing a tour in 1997 with the NDR Philharmonie Hannover, Oue was subsequently appointed its principal conductor in September 1998. In 2003, he was appointed principal conductor of the Osaka Philharmonic Orchestra. Oue made his debut at the Bayreuth Festival in 2005 conducting \"Tristan und Isolde\". He became music director of the Orquestra Simfònica de Barcelona in September 2006. He is scheduled to step down from the Barcelona post after the 2009-2010 season.\n\nOue's commercial recordings include Niccolò Paganini’s \"Violin Concerto No. 1\" and Louis Spohr’s \"Violin Concerto No. 8\" with the Swedish Radio Symphony Orchestra and Hilary Hahn for Deutsche Grammophon.\n\nHe has been professor for conducting at the Musikhochschule Hannover since 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244335", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Cheju", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Cheju\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Cheju (제주, also romanized Jeju, ) is a Latin rite suffragan diocese in the ecclesiastical province of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Gwangju, South Korea, yet depends on the missionary Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples. Its episcopal see and mother church is Immaculate Conception Cathedral in Jeju City. \n\n\nAs per 2014, it pastorally served 71,845 Catholics (11.9% of 604,670 total) on 1,849 km² in 27 parishes with 51 priests (44 diocesan, 7 religious), 1 deacon, 110 lay religious (7 brothers, 103 sisters) and 17 seminarians.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244339", "title": "Milford Station, Nova Scotia", "text": "Milford Station, Nova Scotia\n\nMilford Station (pop. 1,000) is a Canadian village in Nova Scotia's East Hants municipal district in the Shubenacadie Valley.\n\nThe community is home to the largest open-pit gypsum mine in the world.\n\nMilford Station was originally named Wickwires after its original settlers, however John Wardrope suggested the new name in 1860 because of the presence of various mills in the vicinity. In 1857 the Nova Scotia Railway mainline from Richmond to Truro opened, passing through the community along the west bank of the Shubenacadie River, hence the term \"station\" in the community's name.\n\nMilford Station is primarily a service centre for local farming communities, although given its location along Highway 102, it has a growing residential population and is exhibiting exurban characteristics. Milford Station has an abundance of dairy cattle conceiving a 2:1 population to that of people.\n\nMilford Station has two schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244340", "title": "Emmanuel Félix de Wimpffen", "text": "Emmanuel Félix de Wimpffen\n\nEmmanuel Felix de Wimpffen (Freiherr von Wimpffen) (13 September 1811, in Laon26 February 1884) was a French soldier and general of Austrian descent.\n\nEntering the army from the military school of Saint-Cyr, he saw considerable active service in Algeria, and in 1840 became captain; in 1847 \"chef de bataillon\". He first earned marked distinction in the Crimean War as colonel of a Turco-Persian regiment, and his conduct at the storm of the Mamelon won him the grade of general of brigade.\n\nIn the campaign of 1859 he was with General MacMahon at the battle of Magenta at the head of a brigade of Guard Infantry, and again won promotion on the battlefield. Between this campaign and the Franco-Prussian War, he was mainly employed in Algeria, and was not at first given a command in the ill-fated Army of the Rhine. But when the earlier battles revealed incapacity in the commander of the 5th corps, De Wimpffen was ordered to take it over, and was given a dormant commission appointing him to command the Army of Châlons in case of Marshal MacMahon's disablement. He only arrived at the front in time to rally the fugitives of the 5th Corps, beaten at Beaumont, and to march them to Sedan.\n\nIn the disastrous Battle of Sedan on the first of September, MacMahon was soon wounded, and the senior officer, General Ducrot, assumed the command. Ducrot was beginning to withdraw the troops when Wimpffen produced his commission and countermanded the orders. In consequence it fell to him to negotiate the surrender of the whole French army.\n\nAfter his release from captivity, he lived in retirement at Algiers, and died at Paris in 1884. His later years were occupied with polemical discussions on the surrender of Sedan, the responsibility for which was laid upon him.\n\nHe wrote, amongst other works, \"Sedan\" (1871), \"La Situation de la France, et les reformes necessaires\" (1873) and \"La Nation armée\" (1875).\n\n"}
{"id": "2244346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244346", "title": "Private Secretary to the Sovereign", "text": "Private Secretary to the Sovereign\n\nThe Private Secretary to the Sovereign is the senior operational member of the Royal Household of the Sovereign of the United Kingdom (as distinct from the Great Officers of the Household, whose duties are largely ceremonial). The Private Secretary is the principal channel of communication between the monarch and the governments in most of the Commonwealth realms. They also have responsibility for the official programme and correspondence of the Sovereign. Through these roles the position wields considerable influence.\n\nThe office of Private Secretary was first established in 1805. The current Private Secretary is Sir Edward Young who succeeded Sir Christopher Geidt in 2017.\n\nColonel Herbert Taylor, who was appointed in 1805, is acknowledged as the first Private Secretary to the Sovereign. However, the office was not formally established until 1867. Constitutionally there was some opposition on the part of Ministers to the creation of an office which might grow to have considerable influence upon the Sovereign. However, it was soon realised that the Sovereign was in need of secretarial support, since his or her Ministers had ceased to provide daily advice and support with the growth of ministerial government. Queen Victoria did not have a Private Secretary until she appointed General Charles Grey to the office in 1861; her husband Prince Albert had effectively been her secretary until his death.\n\nThe principal functions of the office are:\n\nThe position of Private Secretary is regarded as equivalent to that of the permanent secretary of a government department. The incumbent is always made a Privy Counsellor on appointment, and has customarily received a peerage upon retirement (a life peerage since 1972). Until 1965, peerages granted to Private Secretaries were hereditary baronies, with the exception of Lord Knollys, who was created a viscount in 1911. All Private Secretaries since the time of Lord Stamfordham have been created peers, with the exceptions of Sir Alexander Hardinge (inherited his father's barony in 1944), Sir Alan Lascelles (declined as he felt titles to be a show of self-importance) and Sir William Heseltine (who is an Australian).\n\nThe Private Secretary is head of only one of the several operational divisions of the Royal Household. However, he or she is involved in co-ordination between various parts of the Household, and has direct control over the Press Office, the Queen's Archives, and the office of the Defence Services Secretary.\n\nThe Private Secretary is responsible for liaising with the Cabinet Secretary, the Privy Council Office (PCO), and the Ministry of Justice's Crown Office in relation to:\n\nReporting to the Private Secretary is the role of Director for Security Liaison which was established following a recommendation of the Security Commission in 2004. The post was first held by Brigadier Jeffrey Cook, OBE MC, who was in office 2004-2008. The Private Secretary has general oversight of security policy, though the Master of the Household is also involved, and the Keeper of the Privy Purse has responsibility for the ceremonial bodyguards, such as the Gentlemen at Arms and the Yeomen of the Guard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244348", "title": "Palmeira, Paraná", "text": "Palmeira, Paraná\n\nPalmeira is a Brazilian municipality in the state of Paraná, in the micro-region of Ponta Grossa. It is situated at south latitude 25º25'46\" and west longitude 50º00'23\", at an altitude of 865 meters and 70 km (43 mi) from the state's capital, Curitiba. Its population as of 2010 was 32.125 inhabitants. Its area is of approximately 1465,1 km² (5656.8 mi²).\n\nWith the construction of the Caminho de Viamão in the eighteenth century, many villages were springing up in the Campos Gerais region. With the defined settlement immigrants came. The Russian-Germans in 1878, the Poles in 1888 and the Italians in 1890 led by Giovanni Rossi, with the latter formed the first anarchist colony of America, Cecilia Colony. And, in 1951, came the German Mennonites who founded the Witmarsum Colony and the Witmarsum Joint Agricultural Cooperative Ltd. (\"Cooperativa Mista Agropecuária Witmarsum Ltda\") producer of dairy products, and poultry with Cancela brand. Created through State Law No. 238 of November 9, 1897, and installed on the same date, it was separated from Ponta Grossa.\n\nNatural citizens from Palmeira are called \"palmeirenses\".\n\nThe name is because the city was founded on a capon (forest in the middle of a clearing) previously called Capon of Palmeira (\"Capão da Palmeira\"), due to the presence of palms in the region.\n\n\"in work\"\n\nThe city's historical heritage include the \"Ponte dos Papagaios\" (Bridge of the Parrots), Ypiranga Football Club's (the city's football club) wooden bleaches, and the Cancela Farm House, a museum within Witmarsum Colony.\n\nPalm was the birthplace of important characters in Paraná's and Brazil's history, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2244351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244351", "title": "1949–50 in Scottish football", "text": "1949–50 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1949–50 season was the 77th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 53rd season of the Scottish Football League.\n\nRangers won the league with a 2–2 draw in their last match, away to Third Lanark, a game in which Rangers took a 2–0 lead\nbefore Thirds fought back to 2–2. Another goal for Third Lanark would have handed the title to Hibernian.\n\nA few days previously, Rangers had drawn 0–0 with Hibs at Ibrox before a crowd of 101,000, the largest crowd to\nwatch a League match in Britain since the war, a record that still stands. Had Hibs won this match they would\nhave become champions.\n\nChampions: Rangers\nRelegated: Queen Of the South, Stirling Albion\n\nPromoted: Morton, Airdrie\n\n\nKey:\n\n"}
{"id": "2244359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244359", "title": "George Powell (playwright)", "text": "George Powell (playwright)\n\nGeorge Powell (1668? – 1714) was a 17th-century London actor and playwright who was a member of the United Company.\n\nHe wrote a misogynistic play called \"The Imposture Defeated; or, A Trick to Cheat the Devil\", first performed in September 1697. This play portrayed the proper treatment of an adulteress as brutal confinement and isolation from others to punish her and prevent the spread of her attitude. It is thought that this play was rushed out as a result of Mr. Powell having seen an as yet unpublished copy of another playwright's manuscript, Mary Pix's \"The Deceiver Deceived\". Powell's version was cited by theatre critic Charles Gildon as the inferior of the two.\n\nGeorge Powell also wrote plays named \"Alphonso: King of Naples\" first performed in December 1690, \"A Very Good Wife\" first performed in April 1693, \"Bonduca: or, The British Heroine\" in 1695, and \"The Treacherous Brothers\" first performed in January 1690 under his own name. Each of these plays premièred at London's Theatre Royale. In collaboration with John Verbruggen, he wrote \"A new opera called Brutus of Alba: or, Augusta's Triumph\", first performed in 1696 at Dorset-Garden, London. All of the works he wrote or co-wrote were tragedies.\n\nWhen the United Company broke in two in 1694, with the walking out of the senior actors including Thomas Betterton, Elizabeth Barry, and Anne Bracegirdle, it is unlikely that Powell was invited to join them. While he was skilled and experienced, he was also notorious for his bad temper and alcoholism, and the rebel actors probably left him behind with some relief (Milhous). He demonstrated his drinking problem at the première of Vanbrugh's \"Relapse\" in November 1696, being according to Vanbrugh so drunk as the seducer Worthy that he molested Amanda, the object of his attentions, in a much more physical way than the script provided for. See \"The Relapse\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244361", "title": "At Swim, Two Boys", "text": "At Swim, Two Boys\n\nAt Swim, Two Boys (2001) is a novel by Irish writer Jamie O'Neill. The title is a punning allusion to Flann O'Brien's \"At Swim-Two-Birds\". The book is written in a stream-of-consciousness style, which has led to favourable comparisons to James Joyce.\n\nTen years after publication, Alison Walsh, reviewing the year 2001 for the \"Sunday Independent\", called it \"a vintage one in Irish writing\", specifically naming the \"unforgettable\" \"At Swim, Two Boys\" alongside books by Dermot Bolger, Eoin Colfer and Nuala O'Faolain. Terry Pender commented on \"At Swim, Two Boys\": \"With only this work O'Neill can take his rightful place among the great Irish writers beginning with Joyce and ending with Roddy Doyle\".\n\nSet in Dublin before and during the 1916 Easter Rising, \"At Swim, Two Boys\" tells the love story of two young Irish men: Jim Mack and Doyler Doyle. Jim goes to school on a scholarship (for which he is looked down upon) – he is quiet, studious, thoughtful, and naïve. In contrast, Doyler is outspoken, rebellious, brave, and affectionate. Doyler might once have received a scholarship, like Jim, but Doyler withdrew from school to find work and support his impoverished family, leading them to grow apart. They have an additional connection through their fathers, who served in the army together during the Boer War, and were once best friends.\n\nJim attends a Catholic school, regularly attends church, and plays in the school's flute band, where he is the object of his Latin teacher's obsession. \"Brother Polycarp\" likes to have extra prayer sessions with him alone, during which Jim is subject to mild sexual pawing whose nature he does not understand; Jim reminds Polycarp of his own past. Unbeknown to his father, Jim is offered the chance of a vocation to join the brothers of the church. When Doyler joins the flute band, their old friendship is renewed. Doyler takes Jim out to the Forty Foot a well known swimming area in Dublin Bay for a swim. The two boys make a pact: Doyler will teach Jim to swim, and in a year, on Easter Sunday, 1916, they will swim to the distant island of Muglins Rock and claim it for themselves. As their friendship grows, Jim reconsiders his vocation, ultimately refusing; Brother Polycarp is emotionally stricken and has to resign.\nMeanwhile, patriots appear on the novel's stage: \"Madame Eveline MacMurrough\" continues to support the idea of Ireland's liberty. The clergy also supports the patriotic body of thought, in particular, Father Amen O'Toiler – who pushes the boys church's flute band to resemble a regimental band. Even Jim's father, Mr. Mack, who is proud having served as a soldier in an Irish Battalion, is swollen with pride for the boys in MacMurrough's garden, seeing them all in uniform kilts.\n\nOnly \"Anthony MacMurrough\", the nephew of Eveline MacMurrough, turns away from their politics. After his return from imprisonment in England, for acts of gross indecency, his nationalist aunt Eveline MacMurrough is determined to redeem his reputation through a prosperous marriage. In a garden party, Eveline MacMurrough introduces him to Irish society, pushing him to follow her patriotic ideals. However, MacMurrough is still caught up in his memories of imprisonment, conversing with the internal voice of his dead prison-mate, Scrotes, on the fate of homosexuals.\n\nIn the meantime, Doyler works to help support his family, which has been driven to poverty by Mr. Doyle's alcoholism and illness. Doyler accepts payment from MacMurrough in return for sexual favours. Although Doyler is depicted as accepting his own sexuality, his response to the older man is ambiguous and ultimately MacMurrough fails to attract the boy. Doyler, being a vehement Socialist and outcast from the society of his home community, leaves home and joins the Irish Citizen Army at Dublin.\n\nJim, bereft of the pal of his heart Doyler, befriends MacMurrough, who becomes a mentor to Jim, teaching about swimming as well as homosexuality and philosophy. MacMurrough finds that he is unable to rid himself of his fascination with the two boys, their relationship and their pact to swim to the Muglins and claim them for Ireland. The night before Easter Sunday, Doyler leaves his duties as army member and visits Jim. They renew their pact, confessing their love for each other. The next morning, Easter Sunday, Jim and Doyler successfully swim to the Muglins. Not only do they claim the islands with an Irish green flag, but they also make love to one another. On their swim back to the Forty Foot, as Doyler is close to drowning, MacMurrough rescues both of them.\nWhile Doyler rests and recovers at MacMurrough's house, Jim feels responsible for the duties his friend cannot carry out. As the Easter Rising takes place, Jim grabs the uniform of Doyler and joins the fighting for the Irish Volunteers at Dublin downtown. Meanwhile, MacMurrough does not realize Jim's action. \n\nWhen Doyler discovers what Jim has done, both Doyler and MacMurrough go searching for Jim. As they approach downtown Dublin where the fighting is occurring, Doyler sees Jim standing in the open. Just as the two are about to be reunited, Doyler is himself fatally wounded.\n\n\"Jim\" is the son of shopkeeper Mr. Mack, who runs a small shop for everyday people's needs at Glasthule, close to Dublin. Jim is depicted as a naïve scholar boy and has a shy appearance: Jim Mack is worried about self-abuse and going to hell as he tries to obey to rules of church. He responds to the more experienced Doyler with friendship, which turns to love - possibly even desire, but recoils from Doyler's movements towards intimacy; he would love to kiss his friend, but cannot. Despite his naivete and inhibitions, he has a clear mind, sharp ideas and thoughts. He sees the pact with Doyler to swim to the Muglins as a symbol of their union, their very own experience which no one can take from them.\n\n\"Doyler\" is the rough diamond son of Mr. Doyle, who is Mr. Mack's old army pal. Doyler has grown up in poverty, hence he already knows quite a lot about life and is in no way naïve. Doyler used to be Jim's friend when they were about twelve, but Doyler left town for some time looking for work and his Irish roots . As Doyler returns, and the story unfolds, Jim and Doyler are both aged 15 to 16 years old. Doyler is sympathetic to the Irish workers front and later joins the Irish Citizen Army.\n\n\"Madame Eveline MacMurrough\" is depicted as the daughter of a republican figure famous in the history of the local patriotic movement. In the name of Ireland she supports the troops at the Western Front with socks to warm the soldiers' feet, and organizes a garden party to enliven the patriotism of the local society and to support its clubs. Finally, she even backs the Republicans by providing them with weapons for the Easter Rising.\n\n\"Anthony MacMurrough\" is the nephew of Eveline MacMurrough. Jim calls him \"McEmm\" as the story develops. Prior to the novel's action, MacMurrough has served a prison sentence in England of two years' hard labour for acts of gross indecency with a chauffeur-mechanic boy. As he returns to Ireland, his previous cellmate \"Scrotes\" follows in his mind, providing an internal ghostly friend, supporting the soliloquizing of MacMurrough. He stays at the home of his nationalist aunt Eveline MacMurrough, who pushes him to become a patriotic Irishman, mentoring and leading the young, and, in her imagination, eventually marrying. MacMurrough conforms to some degree but recognises his homosexuality as a permanent character trait. It is only when he becomes a mentor to Jim and Doyler individually, teaching them about swimming as well as homosexuality and philosophy, that he finds some degree of personal fulfilment.\n\n\n2005 Earthfall Dance Company \n\nWelsh dance company Earthfall created their 2005 production of \"At Swim Two Boys\" as the company’s second collaboration with Jamie O’Neill and incorporated both live and archive film footage, live music, dance, and text.\n\nThe production was inspired by Jamie O’Neill’s award-winning novel of the same name. Set in Ireland in 1916, the work juxtaposes the developing love affair between two young men with political turmoil in Ireland and the slaughter on the Western Front – contrasting the dream of national liberation and the search for personal freedom. The production is staged in a slowly filling lake in front of a waterfall and performed by two dancers and two musicians.\n\nThe original production toured for three years over 5 seasons with over 100 performances, playing to sell-out audiences in the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands, Croatia, and Germany. It was performed by Welsh dancers Terry Michael and Cai Tomas. Both dancers created the piece in collaboration with Earthfall, winning multiple awards and touring to critical acclaim.\n\nEarthfall toured a re-edition of this dance production across the UK in Autumn 2011, to coincide with the 10th anniversary of the publication of the book.\n\nIn September 2014 a play of this name will be performed in Paris. Christophe Garro adapted the novel with Jamie's approval, and the characters of Jim, Doyler, McMurrough, and many others will be created on stage. An English version of the play is available, and may be produced also.\nFor more information visit the website :\ndeuxgarconslamer.com\n\nIn December 2018 a play of this name was performed in Rochester, NY at the Multi-Use Community Cultural Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244362", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Jeonju", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Jeonju\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Jeonju () is a suffragan diocese of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church in the ecclesiastical province of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Gwangju, South Korea, yet depends on the missionary Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples.\n\nIts episcopal see is Joongang Cathedral of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, in Jeonju 전주시, Jeollabuk-do 전라북도 \nIt also has a former cathedral, now Jeondong Church of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, in Jeonju.\n\n\nAs per 2014, it pastorally served 190,465 Catholics (10.2% of 1,872,965 total) on 8,066 km² in 93 parishes and 5 missions with 213 priests (209 diocesan, 4 religious), 341 lay religious (7 brothers, 334 sisters) and 42 seminarians.\n\n(all Roman Rite) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244363", "title": "Robert Ryman", "text": "Robert Ryman\n\nRobert Ryman (May 30, 1930February 8, 2019) was an American painter identified with the movements of monochrome painting, minimalism, and conceptual art. He was best known for abstract, white-on-white paintings. He lived and worked in New York City.\n\nRyman was born in Nashville, Tennessee. After studying at the Tennessee Polytechnic Institute in Cookeville, between 1948 and 1949, and at the George Peabody College for Teachers between 1949 and 1950, Ryman enlisted in the United States army reserve corps and was assigned to an army reserve band during the Korean War. Ryman moved to New York City in 1953, intending to become a professional jazz saxophonist. He had lessons with pianist Lennie Tristano, which later informed his painting. Ryman soon took a day job at the Museum of Modern Art as a security guard to make ends meet, and met the artists Sol LeWitt and Dan Flavin, who were co-workers with him at MoMA. Immediately after quitting his job at MoMA, Ryman spent the next year working in the art division of the New York Public Library. He also met artist Roy Lichtenstein during this period of the 1950s.\n\nCaptivated by the newly acquired abstract expressionist works of Mark Rothko, Willem de Kooning, Clyfford Still, Jackson Pollock and Barnett Newman, Ryman became curious about the act of painting. From 1953 to 1960, he worked at the MoMA as a guard in order to be close to painting. He purchased some art supplies at local store and began experimenting in his apartment in 1953. That year, Ryman finished what he considered to be his earliest professional work, a largely monochrome painting titled \"Untitled (Orange Painting)\" (1955–59).\n\nRyman had a close relationship with the late conservator Orrin Riley, who would frequently give him advice on archival materials, many times testing the acidity of media the artist was interested in using. He was interviewed by the television writer and producer Barbaralee Diamonstein twice, once for the book and video production \"Inside New York's Art World\" in 1979 and again for \"Inside the Art World\" in 1993.\n\nIn 2009 he participated in the art project \"Find Me\", by Gema Alava, in company of artists Lawrence Weiner, Merrill Wagner and Paul Kos.\n\nHis most famous quote is \"There is never any question of \"what\" to paint only \"how\" to paint.\"\n\nIn 1961 the artist married art historian Lucy Lippard. They had a son together, Ethan Ryman, in 1964, who was first a sound engineer and recently began making art. The marriage ended in divorce. He later married artist Merrill Wagner. Robert Ryman's sons from his second marriage, Cordy Ryman and Will Ryman, are also artists and currently work in New York City.\n\nRyman died on February 8, 2019, at the age of 88.\n\nRyman was often classified as a minimalist; but, he preferred to be known as a \"realist\", because, he was not interested in creating illusions, but, only in presenting the materials he used in compositions at their face value. As he wrote in a statement for a 2010 exhibition at Pace Wildenstein, \"I am not a picture painter. I work with real light and space, and since real light is an important aspect of the paintings, it always presents some problems.\" The majority of his works feature abstract expressionist-influenced brushwork in white or off-white paint on square canvas or metal surfaces. A lifelong experimenter with media, Ryman painted and/or drew on canvas, linen, steel, aluminum, plexiglas, lumasite, vinyl, fiberglass, corrugated paper, burlap, newsprint, wallpaper, jute sacking, fiberplate, a composite material called gator board, feather board, handmade paper, and acrilivin. He used painted and/or drew with oil, acrylic, encaustic, Lascaux acrylic, casein, enamel, pastel, oil pastel, graphite, guache, and enamelac.\n\nBy the time Ryman began working, older artists like Barnett Newman, Mark Rothko, and Philip Guston had already reduced painting to its essences. In 1955 Ryman began what he considered to be his earliest professional work, a largely monochrome painting titled \"Orange Painting\" (1955–59). In 1968-69 he created his \"Classico\" series of compositions consisting of multi-panel paintings on a specific type of paper called Classico. For each work in the series, Ryman attached a configuration of heavy, creamy white sheets of the paper to a wall with masking tape, painted the sheets with a shiny white acrylic paint, removed the tape when the sheets were dry, mounted them on foamcore, and reattached them to the wall. The built-up paint edge tracing the outline of masking tape and the ripped paper left behind give witness to the process of creation. The various works in the Classico series differ in the organization of paper sheets, the configuration of tape traces, and the painted shape. Just as the \"Classico\" works were titled after the type of paper used as a medium, the so-called \"Surface Veil\" works from 1970 were named for the brand of fiberglass upon which the smaller pieces in this group were painted. Some of the 12-foot square paintings from the series were executed not on fiber-glass but on cotton or linen. In each of these works the pigment appears to form a membrane over the support due to the differing degrees of opacity and translucence in the white paint juxtaposed with areas where less of it has been applied, leaving the fabric exposed. These disruptions in the painting’s skin often mark the literal pauses between the artist’s working sessions.\n\nFrom around 1975 until 2003, Ryman often affixed his paintings to the wall with metal brackets. He would design each set of brackets specifically for each piece and have them constructed by a local metals fabricator.\n\nAlthough Ryman is most known for his paintings, he also experimented with printmaking creating etchings, aquatints, lithographs, silkscreens and relief prints. Like his paintings, his prints are readily identifiable by their predominantly square monochromatic surfaces exploring the values, textures and effects of various whites and other colors printed on paper and aluminum.\n\nHis prints and works on paper, have not yet been given the same attention, but his approach to making prints and drawings is the same. Working with the particular characteristics of each medium and process, Ryman, from 1969 onwards, explored new territory of making editions, all with a minimum of materials. In his printmaking, Ryman sought to control the texture of his surfaces in ways that he would continue to explore for the rest of his career. As in his paintings, his prints require viewers to pay attention, look closely and observe subtleties. Ryman’s prints both challenge a viewer and reward close looking.\n\nHe stated that his titles were meaningless, and that they only existed as a form of identification. Ryman actually preferred the term of \"name\" for an artwork instead of a title because he was not creating a picture or making reference to anything except the media and the materials. The \"names\" of his works often come from the names of art supplies, companies, or are just general words that do not carry much connotation. \n\nRyman had his first one-man show at Paul Bianchini's gallery, New York City, in 1967 at the age of 36; his first show in Europe came the following year at the Galerie Heiner Friedrich, Munich. One year later, Ryman was included in \"When Attitudes Become Form\", a seminal exhibition of works by Minimalist and Conceptual artists organized by the Kunsthalle Bern. His first one-man show at a museum was in 1972 at the Guggenheim Museum in New York City, displaying thirty-eight of Ryman’s works from 1965 to 1971. Ryman's works were represented in documentas 5 (1972), 6 (1977), and 7 (1982), in Kassel, in the Venice Biennale (1976, 1978, 1980 and 2007), and in the Whitney Biennial (1977, 1987, 1995). His first retrospective was organized by the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, in 1974. In 1993-94, the largest retrospective to date of Ryman's paintings, curated by Robert Storr, was exhibited at the Tate Gallery, Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia in Madrid, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis.\n\nRobert Ryman is represented by Pace Gallery in New York, and Xavier Hufkens in Brussels.\n\nThe Hallen für Neue Kunst, a former contemporary art museum in Schaffhausen, Switzerland (closed in 2014) had the largest public collection of Ryman's work, permanently exhibiting 29 pieces created from 1959 to 2007. In 2010 Ryman undertook a major reinstallation of his galleries at Hallen für Neue Kunst. Returning to the museum in 2008 — for the first time in 12 years — to revisit the permanent exhibition of his work that was first installed in 1983, he decided to transform the galleries into a “Gesamtkunstwerk” — a synthesis, or total experience, composed of 30 paintings from 50 years of work. \n\nIn 2017, Ryman donated 21 painting to the Dia Art Foundation’s permanent collection, making it the only site with an extensive permanent grouping, featuring works made as early as the late 1950s and continuing up to 2003. Other major museums collecting his works include the Museum of Modern Art, New York; the Tate, London; the Art Institute of Chicago and the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam.\n\nA recipient of numerous honors, Ryman was awarded a John Simon Guggenheim Foundation Scholarship (1973), the Skowhegan Medal from the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture (1985). He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters since 1994, and assumed the role of the organization’s Vice President in 2003.\n\nIn 2005, Ryman was awarded the Praemium Imperiale.\n\n2009 saw the publication of \"Robert Ryman: Critical Texts Since 1967\", edited by Vittorio Colaizzi and Karsten Schubert and published by Ridinghouse. The book charts the gradual evolution of the reception of and reaction to Ryman’s art. A comprehensive selection of over 60 essays and exhibition reviews has been collated into one volume, including texts by some of the most influential art historians and critics of their time; Yve-Alain Bois, Donald B. Kuspit, Lucy R. Lippard, Robert Storr and others.\n\nRyman's painting \"Bridge\" (1980) sold for $20.6 million at a Christie's auction in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244372", "title": "CNA938", "text": "CNA938\n\nCNA938 is an English radio station of Mediacorp in Singapore. Since mid-2019, the station runs as the complementary to its parent television counterpart in line with the latter's 20th anniversary. CNA938 broadcasts news and talk programmes from 06:00 to 23:59 hrs. SST daily, followed by an audio simulcast of CNA during overnight hours.\n\nThe 93.8 MHz frequency was originally known as NewsRadio 938 and was officially inaugurated on 1 January 1998 by then Singapore President Ong Teng Cheong. The brand was founded under the Radio Corporation of Singapore (RCS), which took over Singapore Broadcasting Corporation (SBC)'s radio-broadcasting operations on 1 October 1994 when it was privatised under Mediacorp's predecessor Singapore International Media (SIM Group of Companies). When the Television Corporation of Singapore (TCS) rebranded to MediaCorp on 12 February 2001, RCS subsequently became MediaCorp Radio.\n\nNewsRadio 938 rebranded as 938LIVE in 2005. A number of a new programmes and a stronger focus on news were introduced later in 2015.\n\nOn 6 November 2017, the station was relaunched with a new name, 938NOW, with a number of a new programmes and a stronger focus on news and lifestyle. It has expanded its content to include more tips and insights from experts in business, finance, health and wellness, medicine, parenting, food, technology, leisure, sports and travel. The station's new tagline was \"“In The Know, On The Go.”\"\n\nIn March 2019, in conjunction with CNA's 20th anniversary, Mediacorp announced that the station will be rebranded as \"CNA938\" (initially as \"CNA Talk\"). The new radio station was launched on 3 June that year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244382", "title": "James Smith McDonnell", "text": "James Smith McDonnell\n\nJames Smith \"Mac\" McDonnell (April 9, 1899 – August 22, 1980) was an American aviator, engineer, and businessman. He was an aviation pioneer and founder of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation, later McDonnell Douglas, and the James S. McDonnell Foundation.\n\nBorn in Denver, Colorado, McDonnell was raised in Little Rock, Arkansas, and graduated from Little Rock High School in 1917. He was a graduate of Princeton University class of 1921, and earned a Master's of Science in Aeronautical Engineering from MIT in 1925. While attending MIT he joined the Delta Upsilon fraternity. After graduating from MIT, he was hired by Tom Towle for the Stout Metal Airplane Division of the Ford Motor Company. In 1927, he was hired by the Hamilton Metalplane Company to develop similar metal monoplanes. He then went on to Huff Daland Airplane Company.\n\nIn 1928, McDonnell left Huff Daland and set up J.S. McDonnell & Associates, and with the help of two other engineers, McDonnell set out to design his first aircraft with his company name. This aircraft would then compete in a safe airplane contest sponsored by the Daniel Guggenheim Fund for the Promotion of Aeronautics and offered a $100,000 prize for the winning entry. His design was the Doodle Bug. After the failure of the Doodle Bug to win the contest (the Curtiss Tanager won) or any commercial orders due to the Great Depression, he dissolved his firm and worked for the Great Lakes Aircraft Company in 1931 before he was hired as an engineer for the Glenn L. Martin Company.\n\nMcDonnell resigned from Martin in 1938 and founded McDonnell Aircraft Corporation in 1939. Headquartered in St. Louis, the company quickly grew into a principal supplier of fighter aircraft to the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy, including the F-4 Phantom II fighter and the Mercury and Gemini space capsules.\n\nIn 1967, McDonnell Aircraft merged with the Douglas Aircraft Company to create McDonnell Douglas. Later that year Douglas Aircraft Company's space and missiles division became part of a new subsidiary called McDonnell Douglas Astronautics, located in Huntington Beach, California, producing the Delta series of launch vehicles. The new combined company also developed the F-15 Eagle and F/A-18 Hornet fighters.\n\nHe served as chairman of the United Nations Association of the United States, and in 1958 his company became the first organization in the world to celebrate United Nations Day as a paid holiday. In 1980 McDonnell was awarded the NAS Award in Aeronautical Engineering from the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nHe was succeeded as Chair of MD by his nephew Sanford N. McDonnell in 1980.\n\nJames McDonnell was married twice. His first marriage, to Mary Elizabeth Finney, took place in Baltimore, Maryland, on June 30, 1934. They had two children, James Smith McDonnell, III, born January 28, 1936, and John Finney McDonnell, born March 18, 1938. Mary McDonnell died on July 6, 1949. He married Priscilla Brush Forney on April 1, 1956, and adopted her three children from a previous marriage.\n\nMcDonnell died of a stroke on August 22, 1980. He was buried in Bellefontaine Cemetery in St. Louis.\n\nMcDonnell founded the James S. McDonnell Foundation in 1950, which supports scientific, educational, and charitable causes on a local, national, and international level. The \"McDonnell Center for the Space Sciences\" is named after him, which he co-founded - established in 1974.\nMcDonnell Hall, housing part of the physics department at his alma mater, Princeton, also bears his name and an airplane-inspired design.\n\nMcDonnell Park in St. Louis County is named in honor of James Smith McDonnell, as are the McDonnell Planetarium of the Saint Louis Science Center in Forest Park, the James S. McDonnell classroom and laboratory building at Princeton University, the James S. McDonnell Hall at Washington University in St Louis, and James S. McDonnell Boulevard near St. Louis Lambert International Airport.\n\nThe Arkansas Aviation Historical Society selected McDonnell in 1980 as one of five initial inductees in the Arkansas Aviation Hall of Fame.\n\nMcDonnell was enshrined in the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 1977.\n"}
{"id": "2244388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244388", "title": "Bundy tube", "text": "Bundy tube\n\nBundy tube, sometimes called Bundy pipe, is type of double-walled low-carbon steel tube manufactured by rolling a copper-coated steel strip through 720 degrees and resistance brazing the overlapped seam in a process called Bundywelding.\n\nIt may be zinc or terne coated for corrosion protection. It is used in automotive hydraulic brake lines in cars manufactured in the US since the 1930s.\n\nThe Bundy Tubing Company, started in the US, was bought in the 1980s by what is now the British company TI Automotive.\n\nA 1969 study by the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) recommended the replacement of Bundy tube with 90-10 copper-nickel alloy UNS C70600 (Kunifer pipe) because of corrosion concerns. Kunifer pipe has since been adopted by European automakers Volvo, Rolls-Royce, Lotus Cars, Aston-Martin, Porsche, and Audi. Bundy tube still retains the advantage of higher rigidity, which means less volume expansion under pressure.\n"}
{"id": "2244390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244390", "title": "Bishop of Masan", "text": "Bishop of Masan\n\nThis page lists the bishops of Masan.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Masan was created in 1966 by Pope Paul VI. It is suffragan to Archdiocese of Taegu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244392", "title": "Poseidonis", "text": "Poseidonis\n\nPoseidonis is the last remnant of the lost continent of Atlantis, mentioned by Algernon Blackwood in his short story, \"Sand\" (published in 1912), in his story collection, \"Four Weird Tales\" and is also detailed in a series of short stories by Clark Ashton Smith. Smith based Poseidonis on Theosophical scriptures about Atlantis, (such as \"Secret Doctrine\" by Helena Blavatsky) and his concept of \"the last isle of foundering Atlantis\" is echoed by the \"Isle of Númenor\" in J. R. R. Tolkien's legendarium.\n\n\nIn the Pusadian series of short stories by L. Sprague de Camp, Poseidonis refers to the fictional lost island continent of Pusad, whose name was later corrupted to Poseidonis by the Greeks and whose fate was supposedly one basis for the Atlantis legend.\n\nThe 1929 Malay-language novel \"Drama dari Krakatau\", about the Krakatoa eruption, starts depicting the origins of the Malay archipelago from rising sea levels caused by the sinking of Poseidonis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244396", "title": "Miss Brasil", "text": "Miss Brasil\n\nMiss Brasil Pageant is a beauty contest that has been held since 1954 between winners of the pageants in the states of Brazil. The winner of Miss Brazil competes in the Miss Universe . The Miss Brazil, and Brazil itself, are responsible for one of the most successful campaigns in history of Miss Universe, with two winners and several runners-up, finalists and semifinalists. It was considered one of the best organized and most successful beauty pageants during the 1950s and 1960s and is believed that much of the fame of the beauty of Brazilian women comes from this. The current Miss Brazil, is from the state of Minas Gerais, Júlia Horta.\n\nCompetition to win the crown of Miss Brasil began in the 1920s, following a trend throughout the world during that period. A famous controversy occurred when Miss Brasil 1929 competed in the International Pageant of Pulchritude, known as \"Miss Universe\" in the 1930s, but failed to place in the competition, much less win.\n\nThe angered Brazilians hosted their own international pageant in 1930 leading to two separate \"Miss Universe\" titles that year, not related to the modern Miss Universe competition created in 1952. In the Brazilian \"Miss Universe\", Miss Brasil won the title while in the other competition in the US, Miss United States received the crown of Miss Universe 1930. These competitions, like many others in the world, were discontinued as the Great Depression and World War II diverted the world's attention.\n\nThe modern Miss Brasil pageant was created in 1954 in the city of Petrópolis, Rio de Janeiro. The first edition of Miss Brasil, won by Bahia's representative Martha Rocha, was sponsored by the \"Folha de S.Paulo\" newspaper.\n\nIn the following year, Brazilian media businessman, mogul and journalist Assis Chateaubriand took the rights to the Miss Brasil pageant, when the winners qualified to the Miss Universe, Miss World (participation began at 1958) and Miss International pageants (participation begin in 1960, when the pageant was created). The magnate who created Diários Associados, was responsible for promotion of the national beauties until 1980, when the network Rede Tupi was lost its concession by order of Haroldo de Mattos, Brazilian minister of Communications at the time, due to its bankruptcy.\nThe Miss Brasil first four editions (1954 to 1957) were held in Palácio Quitandinha, Petrópolis. When Chateaubriand's media group assumed the promotion of pageant, it was massified nationally by its magazines and newspapers coverages, especially in the now defunct \"O Cruzeiro\" and \"O Jornal\".\n\nAll national winners of the pageant in this period were placed into Miss Universe pageant, held in Long Beach, California in the United States.\n\nMiss Brazil's \"golden era\" began in 1958, when the pageant was moved from Petrópolis to the Federal District at the time, Rio de Janeiro. Rio Grande do Sul's Iêda Maria Vargas and Bahia's Martha Vasconcellos were winners of the 1963 and 1968 editions of Miss Universe (both held in the Carioca gymnasium). The same year that Vasconcellos was crowned, Guanabara State's Maria da Gloria Carvalho nabbed the Miss International title, while in 1971, Lucia Tavares Petterle was elected Miss World.\n\nAdalgisa Colombo and Rejane Vieira Costa were 1st runners up at Miss Universe in 1958 and 1972 respectively. \"(See the winners table for 1959, 1962, 1971 and 1979 results)\".\n\nDue to a fire in a part of Maracanãzinho's structure, the Miss Brazil 1970 pageant winner, Guanabara State's Eliane Fialho Thompson was crowned in an event edition held only one time in Pavilhão de São Cristóvão (São Cristóvão Pavilion), in a Carioca northern zone district. Its edition was the first nationally televised by Rede Tupi via a microwave system powered by Embratel.\n\nIn 1973, due to lack of public and media interest, and possible feminist protests, organizers moved the site to Ginásio Presidente Médici in the country's capital, Brasília. The Miss Brasil 1972 pageant (won by the \"gaúcha\" representative Rejane Vieira Costa) was the last held in Maracanãzinho's dependencies.\n\nWhen the Miss Brasil pageant moved to the federal capital, Brasília, lack of public interest continued from 1973 to last edition in the city, held in 1980 (when Associados filed for bankruptcy protection due to closing of seven of Rede Tupi's owned and operated stations, except Bahia's TV Itapoan and TV Brasília, now Rede Record and Rede TV!'s, O&O and affiliate, respectively).\n\nIn the 1976 pageant, Helena Rubinstein cosmetics company retired its sponsorship of the Miss Brasil event. So, Catalina Swimwear brand continued its support to organization for some years until the mid-1980s, when the event broadcasting rights were assumed by SBT.\n\nAll Brazilian presidents of the period (except Ernesto Geisel) received the Miss Brasil state contestants in the Alvorada Palace days before the final nights, hosted by its coordinator at the time, Paulo Max, and actress Marly Bueno and telecasted by Tupi and its O&O, TV Brasília.\n\nWhen the channels of defunct Tupi were redistributed for media businessman and TV animator Sílvio Santos and Russian-Brazilian journalist and owner of \"Manchete\" magazine Adolpho Bloch groups, on April 23, 1981, the new network SBT (one of the results of the Rede Associada inventory) owned the Miss Brasil until 1989.\n\nFor the Miss Brasil pageant the 1980s was known the most tacky period, by opinion of some fans and television critics. The last top 5 obtained by a Brazilian representative in Miss Universe was in 1981, by the Rio de Janeiro candidate in national pageant, Adriana Alves de Oliveira. Because of the lack of ratings and announcers, SBT retired the promotion of Miss Brasil in April 1990, after the country had not participated in Miss Universe 1990.\n\nIn this period, Miss Brazil pageant was held in separate pageants for Miss Universe (the most expected and important), Miss World and Miss International. SBT telecast to same state pageants, nationwide in \"Programa Sílvio Santos\" and locally by the affiliates, such as TV Alterosa (Minas Gerais) and TV Itapoan (Bahia).\n\nIn 1990, the SBT's former producer of the pageant, Marlene Brito, took the Miss Brasil rights and production until 1993, when Leila Schuster was crowned without realization of a traditional pageant, but she was indicated by the national direction for representative the country in Miss Universe 1993. From 1994, Miss Brasil was owned by various directors, including the former host in Tupi's period, Paulo Max.\n\nThe present directors, Nayla Micherif and Boanerges Gaeta Jr., assumed the functions by partnership in 2002. Since this year, the pageant national telecast is back, after some local broadcasts of it in the 1990s.\n\nIn the new era, Miss Brasil was broadcast first on Rede TV! and since 2003, Band network has assumed the television rights of the event, with venues in São Paulo (2003, 2004 and 2008), and Rio de Janeiro (2005-2007).;)\n\n\nFrom 1994 to 1996, Miss Brazil was back to Rio de Janeiro. It was held initially at Ribalta house concert and, two years later, in the former Metropolitan (currently Citibank Hall).\n\nIn 1997, it was held in the northeastern city of Teresina, in Pavilhão de Eventos (Events Pavilion) Governador Guilherme Melo.\n\nFrom 1998 to present, Rio de Janeiro (Hotel Glória, Copacabana Palace, Ribalta, Citibank Hall and Vivo Rio) and São Paulo (Palace, today Citibank Hall, Via Funchal and Credicard Hall) alternated the rights to host the annual beauty telecast show, at first broadcast by local affiliates from Rede Manchete, Rede Record and CNT.\nIn 2017, IlhaBela, coast of São Paulo at the Red Theater\n\nStates who have yet to win the Miss Brasil Be Emotion title\n\nNotes\n\n\n\n\nSome Miss Brasil winners or finalists were acting in a lead or supporting roles in telenovelas and motion pictures after her reigns (nationwide or locally). By example:\n\n\nSome Miss Brasil winners or finalists acted or are still active hosting shows, sports programming or movie sessions aired in national television daily or weekly. They were/are:\n\n\nSome Miss Brasil pageant contestants, finalists or winners have appeared in popular reality television programs broadcast nationwide:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244399", "title": "Newton-second", "text": "Newton-second\n\nThe newton-second (also newton second; symbol: N⋅s or N s) is the derived SI unit of impulse. It is dimensionally equivalent to the momentum unit kilogram-metre per second (kg⋅m/s). One newton-second corresponds to a one-newton force applied for one second. \n\nIt can be used to identify the resultant velocity of a mass if a force accelerates the mass for a specific time interval.\n\nMomentum is given by the formula:\n\n\nThis table gives the magnitudes of some momenta for various masses and speeds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244416", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Busan", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Busan\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Busan () is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church located in Busan, South Korea.\n\nOn 21 January 1957 Pope Pius XII erected as an Apostolic Vicariate of Busan. It was elevated to a diocese by Pope John XXIII on 10 March 1962.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244442", "title": "Port Mouton, Nova Scotia", "text": "Port Mouton, Nova Scotia\n\nPort Mouton is a small village along Highway 103 on the southwest coast of Region of Queens Nova Scotia, Canada. It is about ten miles from Liverpool, the nearest significant community, and 160 kilometres from Halifax. The local residents pronounce it 'Port Mah-TOON'.\n\nOn May 13, 1604, the French explorers Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Monts and Samuel de Champlain landed at Port Mouton and built a temporary camp at Bull Point. The village takes its name because a sheep, excited to see land after a long journey, jumped overboard one of the vessels and swam to shore.\nThe most significant attraction near Port Mouton is the Seaside Adjunct to Kejimkujik National Park, part of which is accessible via a trail originating at Southwest Port Mouton, a fishing hamlet located on a local road which forks from the 103 Highway in Port Mouton. A study of the rocks (including a detailed map of the rocky landscape in the Seaside Adjunct) was made by a geology student from Dalhousie University earth science department in 1988. Businesses include a restaurant, general store, liquor store, year round travelers' hostel and one or two seasonal craft shops. Fishing is the main employer for those residents who work in the town, mostly on boats. The fish plant- of which that used to be the largest employer in Port Mouton, close down. There is a United Church of Canada and a Canada Post office located on the main highway. The K-8 school closed in the 1994, and children must now travel to Liverpool to attend school. The oldest house in Port Mouton is the Campbell House, which is now a local restaurant named Seascape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244448", "title": "South Park, San Francisco", "text": "South Park, San Francisco\n\nSouth Park is a small urban park and eponymous neighborhood in the larger South of Market neighborhood of San Francisco, California, consisting of 0.85 acres (0.34 ha) of public ground. The neighborhood centers on the small, oval-shaped park and South Park Street, which encircles the park. South Park is bounded by Second, Third, Bryant, and Brannan streets.\n\nThe two halves of the South Park Street re-join at both ends of the park and continue for short, straight stretches before terminating at Second Street on one end and Third Street on the other. This creates a curved line of buildings, which gives the street and park an unusual enclosed, urban character. Local businesses, restaurants and many apartment buildings dot the street.\n\nIn January 2016, the park was closed temporarily in order to undergo a $2.8 million renovation, which will include comprehensive infrastructural and cosmetic upgrades.\n\nThe South Park block was assembled in 1852 by English entrepreneur George Gordon.\n\nThe park was originally constructed in 1855 as the center of an exclusive residential community. It was modeled after a square in London, England, as a housing development of seventeen mansions plus townhouses (a total of 58 residences) on a 550-foot oval around a private grassy park. It featured the first paved streets and sidewalks in San Francisco. A windmill in the center of the park pumped water for the houses.\n\nFrom the late 19th to the early 20th century, South Park was also the center of one of San Francisco's largest Japanese American communities. Sandwiched between the waterfront and the South Pacific Railroad terminus, the area featured Japanese owned and operated hostels, hotels, baths, and shops. Many of the structures remain: the Madrid Hotel occupies what once was the Eimoto Hotel at 22 South Park.\n\nThe neighborhood began to lose exclusivity after the construction of Second Street, which made the area accessible to less affluent residents. Rich residents moved to the newer Nob Hill neighborhood in the late 19th century, and the city took over the park in 1897. It suffered further decline after the San Francisco earthquake of 1906, when most of the homes around the Rincon Hill neighborhood were destroyed. The oval park, however, has remained unchanged and is still a central meeting place in the neighborhood. After the quake, the neighborhood was rebuilt as warehouses, light manufacturing, nightclubs, and hotels. Immigrants from various countries came to the neighborhood, as well as longshoremen, drug addicts, and vagrants. The neighborhood began to attract artists and young professionals beginning in the 1970s.\n\nThe area flourished during the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, due to flexible office space at initially low rent. It was sometimes described as \"ground zero\" of the dot com revolution, with many start-up Internet companies based in the area. By late 2001, however, many of these companies had closed their doors. Yet, as of 2006, in an era for the Internet that some have dubbed Web 2.0, South Park has once again become home to many small Web-related companies.\n\nRecently, some neighbors in South Park have expressed opposition to a proposal to put an above-ground stop on the Central Subway at the southwestern end of South Park Street, on Third Street. Finally the routing of the line has been decided by the Municipal Transportation Agency, and will be along Fourth Street, one block farther west.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSouth Park is located between the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge (Interstate 80) and Oracle Park, the city's baseball stadium. Many of the nearby streets are one-way, and many carry traffic to and from the bridge, the stadium, and Interstate 280, which terminates slightly to the south of the neighborhood.\n\nOracle Park (formerly Pacific Bell Park, then SBC Park, then AT&T Park), where the San Francisco Giants major league baseball team plays, is two blocks south and east of South Park.\n\nMoscone Center, San Francisco's main convention facility, is four blocks north and west of South Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244450", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Pyongyang", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Pyongyang\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Pyongyang is a diocese of the Latin Church of the Roman Catholic Church in North Korea. Its only official bishop, Francis Hong Yong-ho, was imprisoned by the government of the North Korea led by Kim Il-sung in 1949 and later disappeared. The Archbishop of Seoul acts as the Apostolic Administrator for Pyongyang.\n\nIn 1927, the Pyongyang apostolic prefecture was carved out from the then Diocese of Seoul. The prefecture was entrusted to Maryknoll priests who had worked there since 1923. Monsignor Patrick Byrne, former apostolic delegate to Seoul from 1947-50, became its first apostolic prefect. The prefecture was elevated to apostolic vicariate in 1939 and Bishop William O'Shea became the first apostolic vicar.\n\nBut Bishop O'Shea was repatriated by Japanese colonialists after the Pacific War broke out in 1941. Archbishop Paul Ro Ki-nam of Seoul, the first Korean bishop in the country, then managed the vicariate as its apostolic administrator until Bishop Francis Hong Yong-ho, the second Korean prelate, became its apostolic vicar in 1943. The population of Pyongyang diocese as of 1943 was 3,650,623, all ethnic Koreans. \n\nBishop Hong was arrested by communists in the North and went missing in 1949. Since the Korean War, the North has not had a resident priest.\n\nThe vicariate was elevated to a diocese in 1962 when the Korean Church hierarchy was formally established.\n\nIn 1985, the late Bishop Daniel Tji Hak-soon of Wonju visited Pyongyang to meet his younger sister. It was the first time a prelate in the South visited the communist country since the Korean War. In 1998, then Auxiliary Bishop Andrew Choi Chang-mou of Seoul, now archbishop of Kwangju, visited Pyongyang as a delegate of Cardinal Stephen Kim Sou-hwan, then apostolic administrator of Pyongyang. This was the first pastoral visit to North Korea by a Korean bishop since the Korean War. Bishop Choi, president of Seoul archdiocese's National Reconciliation Committee, celebrated a Mass in the North's only Catholic church, Changchung Church. \n\nIn June 2002, Bishop Paul Choi Deog-ki of Suwon visited Pyongyang and delivered 2,002 soccer balls. From Sept. 8-10, 2005, Bishop Lazarus You Heung-sik of Daejeon, president of the committee for \"Caritas Coreana\" of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of Korea (CBCK), visited the capital of North Korea to attend the completion ceremony of a cultivation facility for seed potatoes donated by Caritas Coreana.\n\nThe (North) Korean Roman Catholics' Association was set up in June 30, 1988. Samuel Chang Jae-on has been its president since its establishment. The association published a catechism and a prayer book in 1991.\n\n\n\n\nhttp://directory.ucanews.com/dioceses/korea-pyongyang/342\n"}
{"id": "2244454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244454", "title": "Defence Services Secretary", "text": "Defence Services Secretary\n\nThe Defence Services Secretary is a senior member of the Royal Household of the Sovereign of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Defence Services Secretary is the senior member of the Royal Household responsible for liaison between the Sovereign and the British Armed Forces. He is answerable to the Secretary of State for Defence and the Chief of Defence Staff for tri-service appointments, national ceremonial events and honours, decorations, awards and medals. Since 1992 the Defence Services Secretary has been double-hatted with a second Ministry of Defence role, generally that of Assistant Chief of Defence Staff (Personnel).\n\nDefence Services Secretaries have been:\n"}
{"id": "2244455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244455", "title": "Roman Catholic High School", "text": "Roman Catholic High School\n\nThe Roman Catholic High School of Philadelphia, Founded by Thomas E. Cahill in 1890 as the first free Diocesan Catholic high school for boys in the nation. It is also known as \"Boys Catholic High School\" or simply \"Roman.\" The school is located at the intersection of Broad and Vine Streets in Center City, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States, within the Archdiocese of Philadelphia.\n\nThomas E. Cahill born May 27, 1828 was the son of Thomas Cahill, a native of County Louth Ireland colloquially known as 'the Wee County' who came to America in 1817 and of Maria Elliott, daughter of one of the oldest colonial families of Delaware. His father was a railroad contractor, who suffered heavy reverses in his business and his mother died at the age of 36. Thomas left school to do his share towards the support of a large family. At the age of 17, he opened a little store in Philadelphia, located between Pine and Spruce Street on 26th at a wharf on the Schuylkill River.\n\nSuccessful from the start, with the proceeds of his first venture, he embarked in the wood, coal, and ice business, and later organized the Cold Spring Ice and Coal Company. In 1854 he became the first president. In 1869 he effected a consolidation of the large ice firms of the city, which were incorporated under the name of the famous brand of Knickerbocker Ice Company.\n\nRoman Catholic was founded with funding provided by the estate of Thomas E. Cahill, a 19th-century Philadelphia merchant. He envisioned the need to create a school that offered a free Catholic education for boys, past their grammar school years. He died before he saw his vision come to life, however his wishes were followed and guided by his written will and his wife Sophia Cahill. As such, Roman Catholic opened its doors in 1890 and offered a free education to boys. Due to increased costs of staff and facilities, free admission to the school ended in the 1960s.\nWhen Roman Catholic High School was dedicated on September 6, 1890 a total of 105 boys were selected for entrance into the new high school. Later only 26 students survived economic hardships and became members of the first graduating class in 1894.The percentage of graduates compared to the number who began as freshman was a little less than 25%. It was not until 34 years later in 1928 that one-half of those who started received diplomas. During the 95 years of its opening, a total of 16,228 students were graduated from Catholic High.\n\nIn 1985, the Archdiocese slated the school for closing due to lowering enrollment. However, the school's alumni association, with the blessing of Philadelphia's John Cardinal Krol, embarked on a campaign to save the school. Roman's Alumni Association, which had existed for over 70 years, came together to raise funds and increase enrollment. The rector of the school even applied to have the building itself kept as a historic landmark, which was accepted. The significance of the historic landmark designation means the building on the corner of Broad and Vine Streets can never legally be torn down. Also, its exterior must always stay the same — though it does not have to remain a school.\n\nBefore 1986, students who attended Roman were from \"feeder parishes\"; Roman served as the school for the boys from the Center City, Chinatown, East Falls, Fairmount, Manayunk, North Philadelphia, and Roxborough regions of Philadelphia.\n\nToday, however, Roman enrolls boys from almost every Philadelphia neighborhood, including The Near and Far Northeast, West Philadelphia, Fishtown, Port Richmond, Mayfair, South Philly, New Jersey, Fox Chase, Roxborough, and the outlying suburbs.\n\nRoman Catholic High School was built to hold about 750 to 800 students. However, because of high demand, it is above capacity and holds closer to 1100. To select its students, the school holds an entrance test every October, November, and December. Of the 600 or 700 students that apply, only about 300 to 350 will be accepted. Students who do well on these tests also may receive scholarships ranging from a few hundred dollars to as much as $4000 a year. Usually, about 40 students receive scholarships.\n\nRoman, like other high schools, has a tracking system: that is, first track (also called honors track), second track, and third track. Roman, however, is unique in that it tracks its honors class into three classes. While students in the honors classes learn the same material at the same pace, it creates a better learning system to have students of the same level together.\n\nBeginning with the 2012–2013 school year, Roman announced the implementation of a 1:1 iPad initiative, starting with the incoming freshmen. Due to the ever-changing face of education, students require different tools and strategies. The initiative will allow students and teachers to individualize and differentiate instruction in a way that is familiar to today's students. Students will work on essential 21st century skill sets needed to meet state and national standards.\n\nIn July 2011, \"Philadelphia\" magazine published an article by Robert Huber regarding the 2011 grand jury report, which documented new charges of child sexual abuse by priests active in the Archdiocese of Philadelphia. The article included the story of Joe, a 59-year-old who spoke of his abuse at the hands of Father McGuigan when in the ninth grade at Roman Catholic High School.\n\nDedicated: Tuesday, September 29, 2009. Location: E side of N Broad St., between Vine & Pearl, Philadelphia by the Historical Commission as referenced on the List of Pennsylvania state historical markers. \nMarker Text: Thomas E. Cahill \"Entrepreneur and philanthropist who bequeathed the bulk of his estate to establish Roman Catholic High School for Boys, the first free Catholic high school in the US. Founded here in 1890, the school initiated a diocesan high school system that became a model throughout the nation. Coming from a poor immigrant family, Cahill sought to provide young men from similar backgrounds with the secondary education denied him.\"\n\nThe campus is composed of four facilities with the main building located on the northeast corner intersection of Broad and Vine Streets.\n\nMain Building-Original:\nDedicated on September 6, 1890. The footprint of the School's original building property established a main entrance on the frontage of North Broad Street. The buildings' length was 140 feet and extended eastward on Vine Street for 115 feet bordered on the north with the very narrow Pearl Street and bounded eastward by a ten foot wide alley commonly known as Watts Street, rededicated to the school. The land was formerly a Railroad Depot that was moved just north to Cahowhill Street. The exterior is a three-story building of Victorian Gothic design, faced with \"Lee, Massachusetts\" marble (the same as selected for Philadelphia City Hall), placed on a granite base (quarried from Conshohocken, Pennsylvania) and sited to impact majestically at the intersection by prominent architect Edwin Forrest Durang. The building has two ornamental stone facades along Vine and Broad Streets joined at a square corner tower and two brick facades at the rear of the building. The building originally had a 150-foot marble tower topped in copper at the corner of Board and Vine, which was destroyed by fire in 1959 and not replaced.\n\nOriginally, there were 20 classrooms, each designed to accommodate between 24 and 42 pupils, the building contained offices, a library suite, mechanical arts workshops, and on the third floor, a hall with a 700-person seating capacity, a gymnasium, and studios with natural lighting for drawing and modeling. External fire towers provided access to lavatory facilities, but no provision was made for a lunchroom. The tower, not entirely ornamental, was fitted with instruments for astronomy classes.\n\nHistorically Certified in 1986 by the Historical Commission, it is classified as Gothic Revival architecture and consistent with a number of important Catholic churches and institutions in the City.\n\nMain Building-East Wing:\nIn 1953 the original three-story building received an additional two-story wing along the eastside. It connected and integrated the exterior brick façade as part of the interior. The space was utilized for physics and biology labs and the cafeteria. in 1996 the school received permission form the Archdiocese to build a $3.5 million expansion to the school, which was funded by the many alumni, friends, and foundations who recognized the historical importance of sustaining a Catholic high school presence in Center City. This wing, which is dedicated as Renaissance Hall housed an expansion of the cafeteria, a new discipline office, one classroom, and an information center which housed the library, computer lab, and television studio (named after broadcaster John Facenda. an Alumni). Also during this project, the labs in the 1954 wing were completely gutted and remodeled with new technology, furniture, and equipment. The Library and Information Center was renovated in the summer of 2013 upgrading computers, copiers, printers and furniture named in honor of John and Mary McShain.\n\nAnnex Building- 13th & Wood Street:\nIn 2006, the school opened an additional building acquired from the City which had historical significance related to the City's Medical Examiner. The 13th Street Annex was dedicated to James McSherry, an alumnus and benefactor to the school. This new facility housed a sports training center, creative art studio, a multi-purpose room and the alumni association offices.\nArts Building-Howard Center for the Arts: \nAs part of \"A Vision of Promise” on May 30, 2017 the school held a breaking ground ceremony on an additional new building with anticipated completion sometime in 2018. The initial stage is the construction of a 40,000-square foot building. The arts center is named for Barry and Elayne Howard, longtime supporters and benefactors of Roman Catholic. \nThis new expanded academic facility is located about a block away at 1212 Wood Street, and includes band rooms, instrument storage space, a computer-aided design lab, a digital photography studio, a piano lab, a small theater and an expansion for art programs. More additions to the school in the Vision of Promise are planned.\n\nRoman Catholic has been prominent in the Philadelphia Catholic League in basketball since the League's inception, winning 30 championship games since 1920. In 2015, 2016, and 2018 Catholic High won the Philadelphia Catholic league Title (PCL), Philadelphia City Title (District XII) and Pennsylvania Boys Class AAAA (Large School) State Championship.\n\nRoman has also had success in football. In the 2006 playoffs, Roman finished with a strong 9–3 record while losing to La Salle in the second round of Catholic League playoffs. In 2007, Roman defeated Northeast Catholic, and Father Judge en route to a win in the Catholic League Championship, 10–9 over St. Joseph's Prep. This was Roman's best record ever at 12–2. This marks the team's second Red Division championship since the inception of the new Catholic League format, which began in 1999 and ended in 2007.\n\nRoman Catholic H.S. also has a rivalry with the public high school Roxborough High. This rivalry has started an annual Thanksgiving Day football game; a game Roman Catholic has beat Roxborough at for decades.\n\nBoys Catholic High School is home to one of the most successful crews in North America, practicing for over 10 months a year. Roman's crew team sculls (using two oars per man while rowing) rather than sweeps (using one oar a man while rowing). Recently it contributed a Lightweight Four to the Philadelphia Catholic League Rowing championships, finishing second in 2005 to Monsignor Bonner High School by six-tenths of a second. Roman's major sculling rivals are The Haverford School, Conestoga High School, and Malvern Preparatory School. In 2003 and 2005, two Roman students represented the United States at the Junior World Championships in Athens, Greece, & Brandenburg, Germany. In 2006, 2010, 2012, and 2016 the team won the Philadelphia Catholic League Championship.\n\nThe school's golf team has enjoyed many years of success as one of the top teams in the league.\n\nThe school's ice hockey team started in 1993. Since then, they have won 4 championships; 2000, 2002, 2010, and 2013.\n\nThe school's baseball team has won two Catholic League Championships; 1978 and 1992. The 1992 team had the best record in school history, finishing the season 15-1 (27-1 overall, losing only the final game of the regular season) after beating Bishop Kenrick in the Catholic League Championship game.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2244458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244458", "title": "Otto Rosenfeld", "text": "Otto Rosenfeld\n\nOtto Rosenfeld may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2244468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244468", "title": "Life Is Worth Living", "text": "Life Is Worth Living\n\nLife is Worth Living is an inspirational American television series which ran on the DuMont Television Network from February 12, 1952, to April 26, 1955, then on ABC until April 8, 1957, featuring the archbishop Fulton J. Sheen. Similar series, also featuring Sheen, followed in 1958–1961 and 1961–1968.\n\nHosted by Bishop (later Archbishop) Fulton J. Sheen, the series consisted of Sheen speaking to the camera and discussing moral issues of the day, often using blackboard drawings and lists to help explain the topic. When the blackboard was filled he would move to another part of the set, and request one of his \"angels\" (one of the TV crew) to clean the blackboard.\n\nIn 1952, DuMont was searching for programming ideas and tried a rotating series of religious programs hosted by a Protestant minister, a Jewish rabbi, or a Catholic bishop. While the other shows did not catch on, the bishop (Sheen) was a hit, found a sponsor in Admiral television sets, and became DuMont's only Emmy Award winner during its decade of broadcasting. \"Life Is Worth Living\" held the distinction of being aired on more stations (169) than any other regularly scheduled DuMont program, and is believed to have been the most widely viewed religious series in the history of television.\n\nPrior to \"Life Is Worth Living\", Sheen had appeared on the radio program \"The Catholic Hour\" from 1928 to 1952. With his hypnotic gaze, disarming smile, and dramatic delivery, Sheen was deemed a natural for television. Airing opposite NBC's highly popular Milton Berle show on Tuesday nights, Sheen was the only person to be competitive with Berle. Sheen drew as many as 10 million viewers each week.\n\nSheen and Berle enjoyed a friendly rivalry. Berle is reported to have joked, \"We both work for the same boss, 'Sky Chief Supreme'\", making reference to a grade of gasoline produced by Texaco, his sponsor. Later, when Sheen won an Emmy, Berle quipped, \"He's got better writers – Matthew, Mark, Luke and John!\" As a take-off on Berle's popular nickname \"Uncle Miltie,\" Sheen once opened his program by saying, \"Good evening, this is Uncle Fultie.\"\n\nThe charismatic Sheen became one of early television's most unlikely stars, winning an Emmy Award for \"Most Outstanding Television Personality\" in 1952. During his acceptance speech he happily borrowed Berle's line, crediting his four writers – Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John – for his success.\n\nSheen made famous statements against communism. In 1953 an episode of \"Life Is Worth Living\" consisted of a reading of the burial scene from \"Julius Caesar\", with Sheen substituting the names of Stalin, Beria, Malenkov, and Vyshinsky for Caesar, Cassius, Marc Antony, and Brutus. Sheen dramatically stated, \"Stalin must one day meet his judgment.\" One week later, the Russian dictator was dead from a stroke.\n\nWhen DuMont ceased network broadcasting in 1955, Sheen moved his show to ABC, lectured for a while, and returned to television from 1958 to 1961 with \"The Best of Bishop Sheen\" on the NTA Film Network, and in 1961 with \"The Fulton Sheen Program\", essentially a revival of \"Life Is Worth Living\".\n\nThe show was broadcast on local stations across America until 1968, with the later programs in color. Times had changed, and the 1960s programs did not match the audience of his earlier years. Sheen was later appointed as Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rochester, New York. He died in 1979.\n\nReruns of \"Life Is Worth Living\" and \"The Fulton Sheen Program\" continued to circulate as late as the early 1990s on broadcast stations. His status both as a television personality and popular religious figure fell sharply in the 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nIn 2002 a Cause for Canonization was opened to investigate the potential sainthood of Bishop Sheen. This, alongside the availability of his material on the internet, has resulted in a resurgence in popularity for Sheen's work.\n\nHis programs were reintroduced into circulation by (the) EWTN, with new introductions by actor Joseph Campanella. In the early 2010s he became a very popular figure among younger Catholics.\n\nSt. Bernard's School of Theology and Ministry in Rochester, New York, owns the copyright to the series, and The Fulton J. Sheen Company, Inc. owns the licensing rights. The Institute is thought to have the entire series in their archive.\n\nAlso, the UCLA Film and Television Archive has four episodes, the Museum of Broadcast Communications has five episodes, the Paley Center for Media has an unknown number of episodes, and the J. Fred MacDonald collection at the Library of Congress has six episodes.\n\nThe theme of \"Life is Worth Living\" during its time on the DuMont Network was Charles William's \"Said the bells\".\n\nFor Sheen's later programs, a recording of composer Fritz Kreisler's \"Marche Miniature Viennoise\" (1925) was used, but no on-screen credit was given for title, composer, or orchestra performing the song. Although Kreisler did record a version of this classical composition, it was arranged at a faster tempo and was therefore not the version used for the series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244470", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Suwon", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Suwon\n\nThe Diocese of Suwon (Lat.: \"Dioecesis Suvonensis\") is a particular church of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church. The seat of the Bishop of Suwon is at Jeongjadong Cathedral in Suwon, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.\n\nPope Paul VI created the episcopal see on October 7, 1963. The territory had previously been part of the Archdiocese of Seoul, to which Suwon is suffragan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244472", "title": "Private Secretary", "text": "Private Secretary\n\nA Private Secretary (PS) is a civil servant in a governmental department or ministry, responsible to a secretary of state or minister.\n\nA Private Secretary is normally of middle management level; however, as the key official responsible for disseminating the decisions and policy steers of ministers and as their gatekeeper, the role is of considerably greater significance than their grade would suggest. Depending on the status of the political principal the official works for they will be aided by an Assistant Private Secretary (APS), or even head a private office.\n\nA junior minister may have a three-person private office consisting of a Private Secretary and two Assistant Private Secretaries; whereas a more senior minister may have a five-person private office consisting of a Senior Private Secretary, Private Secretary and three Assistant Private Secretaries. The same applies to a Cabinet-level minister's private office but on a larger scale, due to a cabinet minister usually being responsible for entire, government departments and agencies.\n\nWhere the Private Secretary is a member of the Senior Civil Service, he or she will be referred to as a Principal Private Secretary, making the order of precedence Principal Private Secretary, Senior Private Secretary (rarely now in existence), Private Secretary and Assistant Private Secretary. A similar role to a Principal Private Secretary in the United States federal government would be chief of staff.\n\nThe Private Secretary is the principal link between a government minister and officials in the department or ministry. He or she has overall responsibility for coordinating the development of the minister's policy remit, ensuring that the decisions of the minister are clearly and fully implemented by the department. In that respect a PS and APS will often be in a position of debate with colleagues of much higher seniority, as well as be a sounding board for senior officials in the department and other ministerial private offices in Whitehall.\n\nA PS or an APS is always in attendance with the minister at every official meeting or event to provide support; and to ensure that a member of the UK Civil Service, who are non-political appointees, takes a factual note of discussions and commitments made.\n\nThey also have ownership of the ministerial diary, managing the minister's time with the diary secretary. This means prioritising invitations, commitments, policy briefings and submissions and parliamentary business. A PS is always the initial source of advice to Ministers on policy, parliamentary protocol, the process of cabinet government and departmental administration.\n\nOften the PS and APS will take on specific responsibilities within the private office, dividing their minister's portfolio between them, with each PS dealing solely with policy, correspondence and diary matters relating to it. They often deputise and support other members of the PO temporarily, but would be considered subject matter experts for that area of work in the department.\n\nWorking in a private office as a Private Secretary or an Assistant Private Secretary is highly desired due to widely being seen as essential for advancement to the Senior Civil Service. Although considered to be a highly rewarding and sought-after post, it is one of the most difficult when compared to others at the equivalent grade.\n\nDepending upon the seniority of their political principal, Private Secretaries may be regarded an important officials in their own right; the Queen's Private Secretary and the Principal Private Secretary to the prime minister being the most important. The latter is currently equivalent to a Director General in the Civil Service, and the former is viewed as being equivalent to a permanent under-secretary of state.\n\nA parliamentary private secretary (PPS) is a Member of Parliament appointed to act as unpaid assistant to a Minister, and should not be confused with a Private Secretary.\n\nIn India, the post of private secretary (PS) and an additional private secretary (APS) to the Union Council of Ministers of India (cabinet ministers and minister of state) are Group A (All India Services or Central Civil Services) officers, appointed by the President of India.\n\nA system of the Ministerial Secretary (, \"Hishokan\"), one to several per minister playing a role similar to the private secretary's, is also employed by the political system in Japan. The seven secretaries appointed to the prime minister are called the Executive Secretaries to the Prime Minister ().\n"}
{"id": "2244496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244496", "title": "Eintracht Braunschweig", "text": "Eintracht Braunschweig\n\nBraunschweiger Turn- und Sportverein Eintracht von 1895 e.V., commonly known as Eintracht Braunschweig () or BTSV (), is a German football and sports club based in Braunschweig, Lower Saxony. The club was one of the founding members of the Bundesliga in 1963 and won the national title in 1967. The club plays in the 3. Liga, the third tier of the German football league system.\n\nSince 1923, Eintracht Braunschweig has played at the Eintracht-Stadion. The club shares a rivalry with fellow Lower Saxon side Hannover 96.\n\nIn addition to the football division, Eintracht has departments for several other sports, of which historically the field hockey department has been the most successful.\n\nEintracht Braunschweig was founded as the football and cricket club FuCC Eintracht 1895 in 1895, became FC Eintracht von 1895 in 1906, then SV Eintracht in 1920.\n\nThe team has a colorful history and it quickly became one of northern Germany's favorite sides. In 1900, Eintracht Braunschweig was among the founding members of the German Football Association (DFB). It enjoyed success early on, playing in the upper tier league, winning the Northern German championship in 1908 and 1913, and placing three players on the Germany national team by 1914. Under the Third Reich, the team played in the Gauliga Niedersachsen and managed two appearances in the national final rounds. In 1942–43, Eintracht Braunschweig went into the national championship play-offs as one of the main favourites. The team under manager Georg \"Schorsch\" Knöpfle had just won the newly formed Gauliga Südhannover-Braunschweig with a record of 17 wins and 1 draw in 18 games, scoring 146 goals in the process. After a convincing 5–1 win over Victoria Hamburg in the first round, the draw saw the club paired with the other big favorites for the title, Helmut Schön's Dresdner SC. Dresden won the game held in Dresden with 4–0 and subsequently went on to win the German championship with an undefeated season.\n\nAs part of the denazification of Germany after World War II, the British authorities dissolved all previously existing sports clubs in Braunschweig and demanded the creation of a single, united sports club for the city. As such, Eintracht Braunschweig was merged into the new club TSV Braunschweig on 2 November 1945. TSV Braunschweig finally took on the club's current name, Braunschweiger TSV Eintracht von 1895, on 1 April 1949.\n\nThe club continued to play in the top division – now the Oberliga Nord – after the war, with the exception of a single season (1952–53) spent in tier II. The side was touched by tragedy in 1949 when goalkeeper Gustav Fähland died of internal bleeding a few days after being injured during a game in a collision with a Werder Bremen striker. Another appearance in the final round of the national championship came in 1958.\n\nEintracht Braunschweig's consistently high standard of play and financial stability helped it to become one of the 16 teams selected out of a group of 46 applicants for play in the Bundesliga, the new federal professional league formed in 1963. Once again the side enjoyed early success, capturing the national title in the 1966–67 season under manager Helmuth Johannsen with solid defensive play. That championship team gave up only 27 goals against, which stood as a Bundesliga record until bettered by Werder Bremen in 1988. Another ten players joined the national side from the team, mostly through the 1960s and '70s.\n\nThe club was hit by tragedy again during the winter break of the 1968–69 season when forward Jürgen Moll, aged 29 at the time, and his wife died in a car accident. Two charity matches were played for the benefit of the Molls' children, the first featured West Germany's 1954 FIFA World Cup-winning squad in the line-up of the tournament's final, and the second saw a combined squad of Eintracht Braunschweig and rivals Hannover 96 take on a Bundesliga all-star team.\n\nThe club found itself embroiled in the Bundesliga scandal of 1971, but with a somewhat unusual twist. A number of players accepted payments totaling 40,000 DM – not to underperform and so lose or tie a game, but rather to put out an extra effort to win. Ultimately, two players were suspended and another ten were fined.\n\nIn 1973, in the face of some opposition from the league, Braunschweig became the first Bundesliga side to sport a sponsor logo on its jerseys – that of Wolfenbüttel-based liquor producer Jägermeister. The move paid the team 100,000 DM and introduced a new way of doing business to football that is worth millions today. Other clubs quickly followed suit. Braunschweig's game against Schalke 04 on 24 March 1973 became the first-ever Bundesliga match to feature a club having sponsorship on its jersey. Jägermeister continued to sponsor the club until 1987, although a later attempt to rename the team \"Jägermeister Braunschweig\" was finally refused by the DFB in 1983.\n\nEintracht Braunschweig just missed a second title in 1977 when it finished third, one point back of champion Borussia Mönchengladbach and just behind second-place finisher Schalke 04 on goal difference. The club made news after the season by signing 1974 World Cup winner Paul Breitner from Real Madrid for a transfer fee of 1.6 million DM. Breitner, however, did not fit into the team at all and was sold to Bayern Munich after just one season.\n\nThe side counted a casualty in the Cold War in the death of Lutz Eigendorf, who fled East Germany in 1979, where he played for Dynamo Berlin, to come to the west to play for 1. FC Kaiserslautern. Shortly after his transfer to Braunschweig in 1983, he died in a motor vehicle accident which was revealed in 2000 as the assassination of a \"traitor\" arranged by the Stasi, East Germany's secret police.\n\nThe club played in the Bundesliga through to the mid-1980s having been relegated just twice, playing in the second division in 1973–74 and again in 1980–81. During the club's run of 322 games in the Bundesliga from 1963 to 1973, it set a record that still stands by not seeing a single player red-carded. In 1984–85, Eintracht Braunschweig was relegated from the Bundesliga for the third time.\n\nSince the 1985–86 season, the side has played at the tier II and III levels. In 1987, Braunschweig managed to set a mark even as they were demoted; it became the only team ever to have been relegated with a positive goal differential, with 52 goals for and 47 against. After having been stuck in the Regionalliga for most of the 1990s, Eintracht Braunschweig moved constantly between the 2. Bundesliga and the Regionalliga during the 2000s. At the end of the 2007–08 Regionalliga season, the club was facing a severe crisis, both financially and on the field: Eintracht was in serious danger of missing out on qualification for Germany's new nationwide third-tier league 3. Liga, which would have meant Braunschweig's first ever relegation to the fourth level of the German football league system.\n\nWith new manager Torsten Lieberknecht, however, who had only taken over the job a few weeks before, Eintracht Braunschweig managed to qualify for the 3. Liga on the last matchday of the season. Moreover, under Lieberknecht and also newly appointed director of football Marc Arnold, the club continued to steadily improve throughout the next few seasons; a resurgence on and off the field that was widely recognized by the German media. In 2010–11, the team won promotion back into the 2. Bundesliga as champions of the 3. Liga. There, Eintracht Braunschweig re-established itself quickly, finishing the 2011–12 season comfortably mid-table. The 2012–13 season should prove even more successful: on the second matchday, Braunschweig took over a direct promotion spot and kept it for the rest of the season. On the 31st matchday, the club secured its return to the Bundesliga after 28 years in the second and third divisions with a 1–0 away win over FC Ingolstadt 04.\n\nThe team finished the 2013–14 Bundesliga season in 18th place and was therefore relegated again after one season in the top-flight. Eintracht Braunschweig had spent most of the season on a relegation spot, but had a chance to stay in the league until the very last matchday. However, the club was officially relegated on 10 May 2014 after a 1–3 loss at 1899 Hoffenheim. Eintracht came close to a return to the Bundesliga in 2016–17: the club finished third in the 2. Bundesliga and qualified for the promotion play-off to the Bundesliga, but lost 0–2 on aggregate to VfL Wolfsburg to remain in the 2. Bundesliga.\n\nOn 13 May 2018, Eintracht Braunschweig were relegated to the 3. Liga after a 6–2 loss to Holstein Kiel.\n\nTraditionally, Eintracht Braunschweig plays its home games in the colours blue and yellow. Those colours are derived from the flag of the Duchy of Brunswick.\n\nThe club's crest contains a red lion on white ground. This symbol is derived from the coat of arms of the city of Braunschweig, which in turn is based on the insignia of Henry the Lion. The club badge went through various different versions during its history, most of the time however it consisted of a circular badge in blue and yellow, with a red lion on a white shield in the center of the circle.\n\nIn 1972–73, Eintracht Braunschweig scrapped the original crest and replaced it with a new design based on the logo of its sponsor, Jägermeister. This was initially done to circumvent the DFB's ban on shirt sponsors – a loophole in those rules allowed to club to put a very close looking symbol on their shirt as long as it was the club's official crest. In 1986, after Jägermeister stopped the sponsorship of the club, Eintracht Braunschweig adopted a new, diamond shaped logo containing the traditional red lion as well as the club's colours blue and yellow.\n\nIn 2011, the club members voted to return to the club's more traditional round crest. In March 2012, the club then presented the new version of the crest, which was adopted as the official logo at the start of the 2012–13 season. For the 2016–17 season, the club wore a special anniversary crest to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the club's 1966–67 Bundesliga title.\n\nEintracht Braunschweig plays at the Eintracht-Stadion in Braunschweig, built in 1923. Currently the stadium has a capacity of ca. 25,000, during the 1960s it held up to 38,000 people. Before the construction of the Eintracht-Stadion, the club played its home games at \"Sportplatz an der Helmstedter Straße\", which held 3,000 people.\n\nDespite spending recent years in the lower divisions, the club's fan support has remained strong: with 21,396 per game, Eintracht Braunschweig had the 24th-highest average attendance of any sports team in Germany during the 2011–12 season.\n\nEintracht Braunschweig has a strong rivalry with Hannover 96, while friendly fan relations exist with 1. FC Magdeburg, Waldhof Mannheim, and Swiss club Basel.\n\nBetween 1904 and 1985, Eintracht Braunschweig spent all but three seasons in Germany's top division. Between 1985 and 2013, the club then alternated between the second and third level of the German league pyramid, before returning to the top flight for the first time in 28 years at the end of the 2012–13 season.\n\n\n Juventus beat Eintracht Braunschweig 1–0 in a play-off in Bern to reach the semi-finals.\n\nThe list includes players with at least 250 games or 50 goals for Eintracht Braunschweig's first team, as well as players with at least one cap for their country's national or Olympic football team. However, players who did not receive any of their caps while playing for Eintracht Braunschweig are only included if they made at least ten appearances for the club.\n\nCaretaker managers in \"italics\".\n\nThe list includes former presidents and chairmen of Eintracht Braunschweig who have their own Wikipedia article.\n\n\n\"Eintracht Braunschweig II\", historically also referred to as \"Eintracht Braunschweig Amateure\", currently plays in the Regionalliga Nord. The team's current manager is Henning Bürger.\n\n\nThe club's Under-19 and Under-17 teams play in the Under 19 Bundesliga and the Under 17 Bundesliga, respectively in the 2014–15 season. The club's youth academy is located at the \"Sportpark Kennel\" near Schloss Richmond.\n\n\nAs a multi-sports club, Eintracht Braunschweig also has departments for athletics, basketball, chess, darts, field hockey, gymnastics, team handball, swimming and water polo, tennis and winter sports. The club was especially successful in athletics and swimming from the 1940s until the 1960s, with the club's athletes, among them the then-current 800 metres world record holder Rudolf Harbig, winning over 40 national championships during that period.\n\nThe field hockey department historically has been one of Eintracht Braunschweig's most successful sections. Eintracht's women's field hockey team has won numerous titles, mostly during the 1970s.\n\n\nThe list includes current or former players of Eintracht Braunschweig who have won medals at major international tournaments, e.g. the Women's Hockey World Cup or the Summer Olympics.\nEintracht Braunschweig's ice hockey department was founded in 1981. After years in the lower divisions, the team played its first and only season in Germany's second division, then named \"1. Liga\", in 1997–1998. In 2000 the ice hockey section became independent as \"Eintracht Braunschweig Eissport e.V.\", and eventually dissolved in 2003.\n\nEintracht Braunschweig's basketball department was founded in 1956. The club's women's team currently plays in the , the second tier of women's basketball in Germany.\n\nThe German 2009 drama film \"\" () tells the story of a group of Eintracht Braunschweig hooligans. The title is a reference to Eintracht's championship winning season 1966–67, as well as the name of the fictional supporters club the characters in the film belong to.\n\nIn 2008 the German jazz funk/hip hop band Jazzkantine produced a musical about Eintracht Braunschweig, titled \"Unser Eintracht\", in cooperation with the Staatstheater Braunschweig.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244497", "title": "Moo &amp; Oink", "text": "Moo &amp; Oink\n\nMoo & Oink was a Chicago, Illinois-based meat company and wholesaler that started at 35th and Calumet Avenue as early as the 1930s or 1940s. The family traces their roots back to 1856 in Russia. There were many relatives that went into the meat business from that family. Calumet was started by a 4th Generation family member. They sold different southern game back then as well as pork, chicken, beef and lamb. They specialized in soul food restaurants and BBQ's. It outgrew the 35th location and moved to 3831 S. Halsted in the 1960s. The company came to life in 1973 as the 7th generation took over. They were mostly serving BBQ's and Soul Food Restaurants back then, but the younger generation loved the face to face contact with the retail customers. \"I love a crowd\" was often heard on busy days. As the wholesale was growing, the newly started retail was taking off with a marketing plan that was completely \"out of the box\". It was about 1976 the company ordered the mascots Moo & Oink and the company went into orbit. Anyone that saw or heard about the mascots Moo & Oink immediately referred to Calumet as Moo & Oink.\n\nIts many promotional events and ad campaigns also made it a favorite shopping destination for many. Promotions like The 60-second Shopping Spree, 50 lbs. of food for $9.50 (WJPC's number on AM radio), free breakfasts at restaurants, etc., free BBQ's and more spread their customer base here, there, everywhere. Its late-night television commercials played through the late 1970s until the early 2000s. In 2004, they had a contest for a new \"Rap\" commercial. There was a winner, but after 25 years the company stuck with their popular commercial.\n\nAt Calumet's first Bud Billiken Parade in the pre-mascot era, employees held signs that said \"clap for catfish, \"whistle for ribs\", \"scream for chicken wings\" and more. After the parade, the advertising manager's secretary Lillian Bassett started a poem with the signs included. They worked on it and turned it over to DJ, businessman, commercial editor and more, the late Richard Pegue. About 5 months later he returned with a finished version of a commercial \"looped\" for the next Bud Billiken Parade.\n\nIt was one of the early Rap commercials for a business. When the Moo & Oink float first went down Dr. Martin Luther King Blvd you could hear folks singing the jingle as it was printed in a holiday weekend issue of the Daily Defender. After the parade, the jingle was made into a donut and played 52 weeks a year on 6 radio stations and 5 TV stations - mainly WGN and WPWR. By the 3rd year, the jingle was used in the Bud Billiken Parade, 500,000 people on the left side of the street and 500,000 people on the right side of the street sang along with the four 6-foot tall speakers Richard Pegue set up on the Moo & Oink float. It was an amazing show of love by the company that would do anything for their customers and the customers appreciation for the company.\n\nAs mentioned above, Moo & Oink were used until 2004 when an ad campaign asking listeners to send in a new Rap commercial went on air for 12 weeks. There were weekly winners and the 10 weekly winners competed in a Final showdown with BBQ for hundreds, as the entrees sang their raps. It was at the Hazel Crest store and a grand time was had by all. In 2005, there was a 12-week ad campaign that starred a Super Hero, the POWER MAN! That last 12 weeks. The characters did not talk until about 2004 or 2005, but they danced and made friends with kids and grownups from the very first time they were seen by the public. At one time there were 4 sets of Moo & Oink costumes and all could be around the 4 Moo & Oink stores at block parties, church affairs, and many more community events.\n\nThe 60-second radio commercials used a donut (15 seconds of jingle at open, a number of items on sale, and then 15 seconds of jingle at close) started with an attention-getting \"Moo and Oink! Moo Moo Moo!\" and eventually ends with a well-known sign-off \"Moooooooooooooo 'n' Oink!\". In 2005, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler sang the opening verse of the Moo and Oink jingle on the \"Weekend Update\" portion of \"Saturday Night Live\" in order to prove to Scott Podsednik that they were native Chicago White Sox fans.\n\nMoo & Oink popularity grew and grew over the years as their policy was to never lose a customer, not one! There were many products that Moo & Oink branded from the 1980s until October 2006. Day-to-day management changed hands in October 2006 and the business was soon headed downhill. In April 2010, the remaining owners revealed a new company logo, replacing the classic cartoon-ish cow and pig logo with a logo featuring animated but realistic looking animals.\n\nAll Moo & Oink stores closed in 2011, after the company went into Chapter 7 bankruptcy, though there was interest in buying and resurrecting the company. By the end of the year, the brand and trademark were sold to Best Chicago Meat. The stores remained unsold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244500", "title": "Port Joli, Nova Scotia", "text": "Port Joli, Nova Scotia\n\nPort Joli is a small village located along Highway 103 on the southwest coast of Region of Queens Nova Scotia, Canada. It is about 20 miles from Liverpool, Nova Scotia, the nearest significant town, and 120 miles from Halifax, Nova Scotia, the provincial capital. Port Mouton is about midway between Port Joli and Liverpool. The village's name, Port Joli, comes from the French \"joli\", meaning \"pretty.\" \nThe major attraction in Port Joli is the Seaside Adjunct to Kejimkujik National Park, the entrance to which is located about three miles down St. Catherine's Road, which runs from the 103 Highway to the sea. From there, a footpath leads through forest and brush to the beach at Caden Bay. Most of Port Joli's homes are only occupied during the summer months, and the majority of those who do live there year-round are retired. The only public facilities are a United Church of Canada, recently closed and sold, a small general store(also closed), a post office, and a community hall, under heritage renovations. The fishing wharf at the end of St. Catherine's Road was closed in the mid-1990s; a rock breakwater now exists in its place. The few remaining fishermen work from nearby Port L'Herbert and Port Mouton.\n\nWell-known American violist Walter Trampler died here in 1997. Late movie star Dudley Moore often summered here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244502", "title": "Transparent Anatomical Manikin", "text": "Transparent Anatomical Manikin\n\nThe Transparent Anatomical Manikin (\"TAM\") is a three-dimensional, transparent model of a human being, created for medical instructional purposes. TAM was created by designer Richard Rush in 1968. It consisted of a see-through reproduction of a female human body, with various organs being wired so specific body systems would light up on command, on cue with a pre-recorded educational presentation.\n\nRush eventually produced 42 TAMs, many of which are still displayed in US health education museums. A cheaper model, the \"Mobile TAM\", was created by Rush in the 1980s.\n\nThe Transparent Anatomical Manikin was used as cover art on the 1970 soundtrack album \"Music from The Body\", by Roger Waters and Ron Geesin, and the American alternative rock band Nirvana's 1993 album \"In Utero\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2244503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244503", "title": "Julia Belle Swain", "text": "Julia Belle Swain\n\nThe Julia Belle Swain is a steam-powered sternwheeler currently under restoration in La Crosse, Wisconsin, USA.\n\nThe \"Julia Belle\" was formerly based in Peoria, Illinois, making short excursions on Peoria Lake and two-day round trip cruises to Starved Rock State Park. Singer-songwriter John Hartford (\"Gentle on My Mind\") was a frequent guest pilot and often mentioned the \"Julia Belle\" in his songs, and penned a song named for the boat that appeared on his Mark Twang album. The boat ran excursions on the Ohio River at Evansville, Indiana during parts of the years 1975 and 1976. Later, the boat ran on the Tennessee River in Chattanooga, Tennessee.\n\nThe \"Julia Belle\", smaller and nimbler than some of its sisters on America's rivers, has entered the Great Steamboat Race twice, in 1975 and 1976. She won in 1976, beating better-known vessels such as the \"Delta Queen\" and the \"Belle of Louisville\".\n\nIn 2009, the owners of the \"Julia Belle Swain\" canceled their season because of the slow economy, and considered putting the steamboat up for sale. In 2013, the \"Julia Belle Swain\" was allowed to dock temporarily at Riverside Park in La Crosse.\n\nThe riverboat remained still, docked for five years on the backwaters of the Mississippi near the railroad bridge until it was sold in 2013 to the newly formed, not-for-profit Julia Belle Swain Foundation which had the intentions of restoring and preserving this beautiful boat. The restoration soon turned into a rebuild which included a new boiler system, new generators, new wiring, gutting the interior, improving the insulation, and new windows, etc., however, the only original piece used is the frame. The new interior will be more period correct and the steamer will again be \"Trone Fabulous\" as she was originally built. The restoration of the \"Julia Belle Swain\" cost over $1.5 million and is expected to be completed in 2017. After she is complete, the foundation expects to keep this attraction in La Crosse to hold weddings and other catering events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244504", "title": "Gryphon Audio Designs", "text": "Gryphon Audio Designs\n\nGryphon Audio Designs is a manufacturer of high-end audio equipment located in Denmark. Gryphon is known for their extremely expensive cost-no-object audio equipment, with few updates and product changes compared to their competition.\n\nGryphon was started by Flemming E. Rasmussen, after he obtained a degree in graphics arts from the Aarhus Art Academy in Denmark and he had been involved in the local music community as well as employed as a designer for a sportswear company. Mr. Rasmussen first founded 2R Marketing, which was an importer of high end audio products into Denmark, and developed a moving coil preamplifier for record players. After this preamp (which became the \"Gryphon Head Amp\") was shown at the 1986 Consumer Electronics Show it developed sufficient interest in Japan to justify the formation of a sister company, which has become Gryphon Audio Designs. Gryphon Audio Designs became a formal company in 1985, and gradually the importing of audio components into Denmark by 2R Marketing was phased out until it ceased in 1993. \n\nMr. Rasmussen owns a collection of master reel to reel tapes from the 1950s and 1960s. These tapes are played on a modified Studer A80 Reel to Reel tape deck to listen to products as they are being designed, in order to achieve a final product with the desired sound. \n\nGryphon products are designed and built by Gryphon Audio Designs at the factory in Ry, Denmark. Service is accomplished by Gryphon Audio Designs at their facility. To aid in service, the individual circuit boards in each Gryphon product has its own quality control certificate, while the completed unit also has its own quality control certificate. Records of all boards and devices are maintained at Gryphon Audio Designs, and all products are fully traceable.\n\nGryphon products are almost always dual mono, meaning each stereo channel is independent of the other, including separate power supplies and power transformers. Some even have separate power cords.\n\nGryphon products are almost always black, with black acrylic on the front panel.\n\nGryphon products typically have a very wide frequency response, much higher than 20 kHz, which is around the threshold of what is heard by humans.\n\nGryphon amplifiers have always been pure \"class A\" in circuit design, until the introduction of the Gryphon \"Encore\" amplifier. Class-A amplifiers set their output transistors to be operated in their most accurate, and most inefficient, range. Gryphon 100-watt-per-channel class-A amplifiers dissipate over 400 watts per channel even with no signal applied to their inputs. Gryphon uses large heat sinks and/or fans in their amplifiers to dissipate this large amount of heat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244505", "title": "United Nations Commission on Science and Technology for Development", "text": "United Nations Commission on Science and Technology for Development\n\nThe United Nations Commission on Science and Technology for Development (CSTD) is a subsidiary body of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), one of the six main organs of the United Nations. It was established by the General Assembly in its resolution 46/235 and provides overall direction to the related programme of work. The Commission is composed of 43 members and, pursuant to Economic and Social Council resolution 2002/37 meets on an annual basis and reports to the Council. In accordance with Council resolution 1993/75 the Commission receives specialized and technical advice from ad hoc panels and workshops that meet between sessions of the Commission to examine specific issues on science and technology for development. The UNCTAD secretariat provides substantive support to the Commission.\n\nThe commission met for the first time in April 1993 in New York City, USA. It replaced the former Intergovernmental Committee on Science and Technology for Development and its Advisory Committee created after the Vienna Conference on Science and Technology for Development in 1979. Since July 1993, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development Secretariat has been responsible for the substantive servicing of the Commission. The Commission has subsequently met in Geneva, Switzerland, at the Palais des Nations.\n\nThe CSTD was established to provide the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council with high-level advice on relevant issues through analysis and appropriate policy recommendations or options. This is done in order to enable those organs to guide the future work of the United Nations, develop common policies and agree on appropriate actions.\n\nAtta ur Rahman (scientist) is currently the Chairman of the Commission on Science and Technology for Development.\n\nThe commission has forty-three member states elected by ECOSOC for a term of four years. Experts nominated by their respective governments are supposed to possess the necessary qualifications and professional or scientific knowledge. The commission has eleven members from African States, nine members from Asian States, eight members from Latin American and Caribbean States, five members from Eastern European States, and ten members from Western European and other States.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244506", "title": "Patrick MacDonogh", "text": "Patrick MacDonogh\n\nPatrick MacDonogh (1902–1961) was an Irish poet. He was born in Dublin and educated at Avoca School and Trinity College, Dublin. MacDonogh worked as a teacher and commercial artist before joining the staff of Arthur Guinness Son & Co., where he later held a senior executive post.\n\nHe published five books of poetry, including \"Over the Water\" (1943) and \"One Landscape Still\" (1958).\n\n"}
{"id": "2244507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244507", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Daejeon", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Daejeon\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Taejon () is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Catholic church in South Korea. It is the diocese for Daejeon, South Korea. Nazarius Heung-sik Yoo is its bishop; Augustinus Kim Jong Soo is the auxiliary bishop.\n\nOn 23 June 1958 Pope Pius XII erected the Apostolic vicariate of Daejeon. The vicariate was raised to be a diocese on 10 March 1962 by Pope John XXIII.\n\n\n"}
