{"id": "2288147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288147", "title": "William Daniell", "text": "William Daniell\n\nWilliam Daniell (1769–1837) was an English landscape and marine painter, and printmaker, notable for his work in aquatint. He travelled extensively in India in the company of his uncle Thomas Daniell, with whom he collaborated on one of the finest illustrated works of the period – \"Oriental Scenery.\" He later travelled around the coastline of Britain to paint watercolours for the equally ambitious book \"A Voyage Round Great Britain.\" His work was exhibited at the Royal Academy and the British Institution and he became a Royal Academician in 1822.\n\nWilliam Daniell was born in Kingston upon Thames, Surrey. His father was a bricklayer and owner of a public house called The Swan in nearby Chertsey. Daniell's future was dramatically changed when he was sent to live with his uncle, the landscape artist Thomas Daniell (1749–1840) after his father's premature death in 1779. In 1784 William accompanied his uncle to India, who worked there on a series of prints, acting as his assistant in preparing drawings and sketches. William's brother Samuel Daniell remained independent of his uncle and also became a topographical artist; he went to South Africa in 1801 and after his return to England published \"African Scenery and Animals\" (1804–5), a collection of aquatints. From 1806 he lived in Ceylon.\n\nDaniell was sixteen when he accompanied his uncle to India. On 17 July 1786, a few months after their arrival in Calcutta, Thomas Daniell placed an advertisement in the \"Calcutta Chronicle\", announcing the forthcoming publication of a set of twelve views of the city. This seemed a promising idea, since Calcutta was rapidly expanding and its European inhabitants might be willing to buy prints showing its latest buildings. Both he and William were inexperienced printmakers and had to enlist the help of Indian craftsmen, but the set, executed in aquatint, was completed in November 1788 and sold well. Thomas then began planning an ambitious tour of northern India, possibly inspired by the wealth of picturesque scenery indicated in William Hodges's collection of aquatints, \"Select Views in India\" (1785–8). In August 1789, Thomas and William set off up-river past Murshidabad to Bhagalpur, where they stayed with Samuel Davis (1760–1819), an employee of the East India Company and a skilled amateur artist. They continued on to Kanpur and then travelled overland to Delhi, visiting Agra, Fatehpur Sikri and Mathura on the way; the following April they made a pioneering tour to Srinagar, Uttarakhand and Garhwal in the Himalayas.\n\nThomas and William Daniell were back in Calcutta at the end of 1791. They held a lottery of their completed work, using the proceeds to fund a tour to the South. Since the Third Mysore War was in progress, the Daniells suspected that a market existed among the British for oil paintings and drawings of the areas in which the conflict was taking place. They duly visited various hill-forts on their way south, as well as the huge and richly carved temples at Madurai, Mamallapuram and Rameswaram. Once back in Madras they held another lottery of their work and set off on a tour to western India. On their arrival in Bombay in March 1793 they met James Wales (1747–95), then busy drawing the area's cave temples. He took them to Elephanta, Karli and Kanheri among other places.\n\nIn September 1794 the Daniells returned to England. Over the period 1784 to 1794 William had kept a detailed diary of their travels. This is now in the British Library. After 1794 he no longer kept a diary and so we have no information in his own hand about the rest of his life. The Royal Academician, Joseph Farington, himself a landscape painter and topographical draughtsman, kept a diary from 1793 until he died in 1821. The Daniells were close friends of Farington. John Garvey has gone through the diary and extracted glimpses of William's private life and of his artistic work. The diaries are almost the only written record we have of the life of William Daniell.\n\nIn 1794, William and his uncle set up house at 37 Howland Street, Fitzroy Square. Their first priority was to publish a selection of their paintings of India. The views that were selected were made into aquatint prints, calling upon William's skills in this delicate medium. These skills were hard earned. Farington records in his diary that William had informed him that on his return to England he spent the next seven years working from six in the morning until midnight perfecting his aquatinting techniques.\n\nThe Daniells’ great work on India, \"Oriental Scenery\", was published in six parts over the period 1795–1808. It comprised a total of 144 coloured aquatints and six uncoloured title-pages. The cost of a complete set was £210. The publication was a success, both artistically and financially. Thirty sets were sold to the East India Company, and a further order for eighteen copies was received. Thomas Sutton in his book \"The Daniells: Artists and Travellers\" (1954), quotes a glowing tribute to the work of the Daniells from the \"Calcutta Monthly\" magazine:The execution of these drawings is indeed masterly; there is every reason to confide in the fidelity of the representations; and the effect produced by this rich and splendid display of oriental scenery is truly striking. In looking at it, one may almost feel the warmth of an Indian sky, the water seems to be in actual motion and the animals, trees and plants are studies for the naturalist. Further different versions of Indian scenes were published, and details can be found in Sutton's book, together with a detailed inventory of all the artistic output of Thomas, Samuel and William Daniell.\n\n\"Oriental Scenery\" took its place among such revered works as J. Stuart and N. Revett's \"Antiquities of Athens\" (1762), Baron Denon's \"Voyage dans la basse et la haute Egypte\" (1802) and Robert Wood's \"Ruins of Palmyra\" (1753) and \"Ruins of Balbek\" (1757). It provided an entirely new vision of the Indian subcontinent that was to influence both decorative arts and British architectural design. Above all, it formed a popular vision in Britain of a romantic and picturesque India that to some extent persists.\n\nDaniell's years after 1804 included making 72 etchings after George Dance's highly finished pencil profile portraits of Regency London's artistic establishment. \"A Collection of Portraits\" were published over ten years from 1804. Many are now held by the National Portrait Gallery. For \"Rees's Cyclopædia\" he contributed drawings, but these have not been identified.\n\nIn 1813 Daniell decided to undertake what was to be his greatest artistic work, \"A Voyage Round Great Britain\". His plan was to journey around the whole coast and record views of places of interest. An integral part of the venture was to provide a running commentary, which described the scenery and the conditions of the people. Daniell had already had excursions in England, Wales and Scotland and so he had a good idea where to go and what he might find by way of subjects for paintings.\n\nThe original intention was to make a coastal trip by sea, but it became clear early on in the venture that this was not practical, and most of the journey around the coast had to be made by road. The journey was completed in six separate trips, over the period 1813 to 1823. In the summer of 1813, Daniell and his companion, Richard Ayton, who was to write the accompanying text, covered the coast from Land's End to Holyhead. The following year in August they went from Holyhead to Kirkcudbright. Richard Ayton did not accompany Daniell on the rest of the journey, leaving Daniell to sketch the scenery and also write the text. Daniell's approach was to make pencil sketches of views that looked interesting, annotating them with details of colour and texture. The sketches included people and scenery. The transfer of the picture from paper to copper in the form of an aquatint plate required great artistic skill and dexterity. The process is very delicate. This was done on his return to London, as was the printing and colouring of the prints. Daniell must have had a very good visual memory of the places he had visited, as up to five years elapsed between the production of the sketches and the prints being completed.\n\nIn 1815, Daniell set out in May and travelled north to Wigtown. It is likely that he took the Mail Coach, a journey of 4 to 5 days. On his way north he travelled via Edinburgh, and took advice from many people there on the places to visit on the coast up and around the north of Scotland. The novelist Walter Scott not only advised Daniell on the places to visit in Scotland, but also provided him with material for inclusion in the accompanying text. Friends in Edinburgh were able to give Daniell letters of introduction to people who were willing to provide hospitality to him on his journey. This was important, as the availability of hostelries was very limited and their quality dubious.\n\nDuring July and August 1815 Daniell journeyed around the islands of Eigg, Rùm, Skye and Raasay, together with the Hebridean Islands of Harris and Lewis. His trip continued up the west coast of Scotland, around the north coast, out to the Orkney Islands and down the east coast as far south as Dundee. He arrived in Dundee in October 1815. When setting out from London in May, he had not planned to cover so much of the coastline on one visit, but the weather in 1815 was exceptionally favourable, with good visibility and clear skies providing perfect conditions for an artist. This mammoth journey resulted in 139 aquatint prints being finally published, the last completed in 1821.\n\nIn August 1821 Daniell once again journeyed north to St Andrews. During August and September he went around the coast as far as Southend, finding 28 subjects from which he produced prints. In the period July to September 1822, the journey as far as Torquay, along the popular south coast of England, resulted in a total of 52 published prints, and August and September 1823 brought Daniell back to Land's End, with a further 31 prints. The final prints of \"A Voyage Round Great Britain\" were published on 20 May 1825.\n\n\"A Voyage Round Great Britain\" was published by Longman in eight volumes over the period 1814 to 1825. The complete set of eight volumes was priced at £60. The final number of prints included was 308. Garvey's book follows Daniell around part of the voyage, the Hebridean islands of Eigg, Rum, Skye and Raasay, locating the viewpoints included in his aquatint prints.\n\nOver the period 1813 to 1825, in parallel with preparing the prints for the \"Voyage\", Daniell was busy on other projects, which included paintings for the Academy Exhibitions. Many of the works exhibited were oil paintings of Scottish scenes. The artistic quality of the paintings and aquatints produced and published by Daniell for \"A Voyage Round Great Britain\" was considered to be very high. The atmospheric effects which he was able to convey in the aquatint medium were quite overwhelming. This was particularly true of his portrayal of ships and maritime scenery, as he had demonstrated in many earlier paintings and prints. In February 1822 after many years of endeavour, Daniell was finally elected an R.A. In the final ballot the voting was between John Constable and Daniell, the result being 11 to 17.\n\nWilliam produced a number of marine paintings. One, \"The Burning of the \"Kent\"\" is in the Museum of the Queen's Royal Surrey's, having been rediscovered after having disappeared for over a hundred years. It is an illustration of the dramatic loss of the East Indiaman , and the rescue of some 550 survivors of her 650 crew and passengers.\n\nHis shipping scenes, such \"A Bird's-Eye View of the East India Dock at Blackwell\" (National Maritime Museum, London), were supplemented by greatly admired battle pieces. In 1825, he won a prize of £100 for a pair of paintings depicting the \"Battle of Trafalgar\", exhibited at the British Institution. Daniell turned to panorama painting before his death, beginning in 1832 with a painting of Madras, including a depiction of the Hindu mode of taming wild elephants.\n\nDaniell's last great artistic work was produced between 1827 and 1830. Over this time he became interested in the scenery around Windsor. In 1827, 1828 and 1830, he exhibited a total of five oil paintings of Windsor Castle and its surroundings and two oil paintings of Virginia Water, at the Royal Academy Exhibitions. These were considered to be among his finest oil paintings, and according to Sutton, his view of the Long Walk at Windsor was generally acknowledged to be his masterpiece in oils. Daniell produced a set of 12 aquatints of the Windsor and Virginia water views. Sutton writes of this series:These twelve prints are the finest aquatints ever made, standing alone at the highest possible peak: aquatint could go no further, and although attempts have been made by others to excel them, none succeeded. The prints were made in Daniell's usual way, engraved by himself from his own drawings, and published by himself at 14, Russell Place, Fitzroy Square. By this time he was a comparatively wealthy man, and one can imagine him lovingly and carefully tinting the plates, leisurely savouring their subtle beauties, unhampered by time or financial worry. We feel, in looking at these aquatints, that perhaps Daniell, with the philosophy of a much-travelled man, realised that in the cool greys and greens with which he \"stained\" his prints was the charm of his own land, more enduring than the exotic mystery of the Orient or the strange architecture of Hindistan.\n\nDaniell worked right up to his death, on 16 August 1837 at Brecknock Terrace, Camden Town (now 135 St Pancras Way). The house is marked by a commemorative plaque. He submitted five pictures to the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition in that year.\n\nThe final twist in the story of \"A Voyage Round Great Britain\", was the discovery, in 1962, of 306 of the original 308 Daniell copper plates, the location of which had not been known for more than 100 years. They are now the property of the Tate. It seems appropriate that of all the topographical books of the 19th century it should be copper plates for Daniell's \"Voyage Round Great Britain\" that have survived – they are a monument to his industry and his unsurpassed skill in handling the remarkable delicacy of the aquatint process.\n\nAmong his publications, engraved in aquatint, were:\n\nDaniell is represented in the following collections, among others: National Portrait Gallery, London; Royal Academy of Arts, London; National Maritime Museum, London; Courtauld Institute of Art, London; Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco; National Museums and Galleries of Wales, Cardiff; Indianapolis Museum of Art, U.S.A.; Falmouth Art Gallery, Falmouth, UK; Dallas Museum of Art, Texas; Watford Museum, Watford, UK; National Museum of India, New Delhi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288149", "title": "Joe T. Ford", "text": "Joe T. Ford\n\nJoe T. Ford is a former Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Alltel, a global communications company.\n\nJoe T. Ford graduated from the University of Arkansas in 1959 with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. While attending Arkansas, he was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity.\n\nFord went to work for Allied Telephone Company upon his graduation from college. Allied subsequently merged with Mid-Continent Telephone Corporation in 1983. The name of the newly expanded corporation was changed to Alltel, and Mr. Ford became its first President. Ford was promoted to CEO in 1987, and eventually became Chairman of the Board in 1991.\n\nUnder his leadership, Allied (now Alltel) grew from a predominantly rural Arkansas-based land line telephone company to a telecommunications giant with over 15 million customers and $10 billion in annual revenue.\n\nFord is the Vice Chairman of Augusta National Golf Club, and a co-founder of Westrock Coffee Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288155", "title": "Lehigh and New England Railroad", "text": "Lehigh and New England Railroad\n\nThe Lehigh & New England Railroad was a Class I railroad located in Northeastern United States that acted as a bridge line. It was the second notable U.S. railroad to file for abandonment in its entirety, the first being the New York, Ontario & Western Railway.\n\nAround 1868, serious proposals for the crossing of the Hudson River at Poughkeepsie began to appear. A charter for the Poughkeepsie Bridge Company was obtained in 1871, and the company was organized before the end of May. The charter was amended to allow placing piers in the river by 1872 (despite fierce opposition from navigation interests), and the company began raising funds. Through the influence of Andrew Carnegie, Pennsylvania Railroad president J. Edgar Thomson was persuaded to personally invest in the project.\n\nThis funding led to a surge of activity. The line was to be carried from Harrisburg to the crossing of the Delaware River at Portland by the South Mountain Railroad. The South Mountain and Boston Railroad was chartered in New Jersey on March 13, 1873 and also in New York to continue the line via Poughkeepsie and Boston Corners to the Massachusetts state line. At the state line, an extension of the planned Massachusetts Central Railroad would connect, taking traffic to Boston. Grading began on the various lines (known, in the aggregate, as the South Mountain and Boston Railroad), and the cornerstone was laid for a bridge pier at Poughkeepsie. However, the Panic of 1873 and the death of Thomson in May 1874 and loss of his personal support brought the project to a halt.\nAn attempt at revival was made in 1879. By this time the South Mountain Railroad had collapsed; a new railroad, the Pennsylvania, Poughkeepsie and New England Railroad, was incorporated on May 6, 1879 to follow its route from Harrisburg to the South Mountain and Boston connection at Portland. This company too would be short-lived; the South Mountain and Boston's New Jersey Division was renamed on March 11, 1880 to the Pennsylvania and New England Railroad, and that company's Pennsylvania Division was incorporated on May 5, 1880. The property of the PP&NE was sold to the P&NE (PA Division) on October 13, 1880. This does not seem to have improved the fortunes of this segment of the line; a third company, the Delaware and Slatington Railroad, was incorporated on September 9, 1881, to run from the P&NE (NJ Division) at Portland to Slatington on the Lehigh River. The P&NE (NJ Division) merged with the Delaware and Slatington on June 22, 1882 to form the Pennsylvania, Slatington and New England Railroad.\n\nIn the meantime, the P&NE (PA Division) was successful in laying one and one-sixth mile (2 km) of track to the east of Wind Gap about 1880. However, it was foreclosed on July 25, 1881, and reorganized as the Susquehanna and Delaware River Railroad on August 23, 1881; it was foreclosed again and reorganized on July 13, 1886 as the Harrisburg and New England Railroad. This company was supposedly reorganized as the Harrisburg and Eastern Railroad on July 31, 1891.\n\nThe Pennsylvania, Slatington and New England Railroad was formed June 22, 1882 as a consolidation of the Pennsylvania and New England Railroad (NJ Division) and Delaware and Slatington Railroad, to build from Slatington, Pennsylvania to Pine Island, New York. In December of that year, John L. Blair, who controlled the nearby Bangor and Portland Railway, acquired control of the PS&NE, in order to give the B&P direct access to New England and other points. Additionally the Central Railroad of New Jersey's Lehigh and Lackawanna Railroad could no longer access points on the B&P.\n\nConstruction was carried out through 1883, with grading finished in Pennsylvania and about 12 miles west from Sussex, New Jersey. The bridge over the Delaware River at Portland was built, and rails were laid for about half of the length in Pennsylvania. In early 1883 a dispute erupted with the Wind Gap and Delaware Railroad over the tracks between Pen Argyl and Bangor, which the PS&NE wanted to use. Later that year the company went bankrupt and construction stopped.\n\nThe Pennsylvania, Slatington and New England Railroad was sold at foreclosure to William W. Gibbs, president of the Poughkeepsie Bridge Company, on July 12, 1887, and was reorganized as the Pennsylvania, Poughkeepsie and Boston Railroad (also known as the \"Pickles, Pork, and Beans\" Line). Construction was begun, but the company again went bankrupt, and was sold at foreclosure December 14, 1894.\n\nAround that time, various other companies were chartered to build the line over the Poughkeepsie Bridge, and in 1889, the Central New England and Western Railroad was completed. That part would be combined with the PS&NE in 1892 by the Philadelphia and Reading Railway, but in 1893 the two parts were split. The eastern section later became part of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad, and the western section stayed independent to the end.\n\nThe Campbell Hall Connecting Railroad was chartered April 3, 1889 to obtain the right to operate the section in New York. It was originally planned to extend beyond Pine Island to Campbell Hall, the west end of the existing Poughkeepsie Bridge line.\n\nThe Philadelphia and Reading Railway gained control of the Central New England and Western Railroad in early 1892, and the PP&B soon after, giving it a route from Reading via the Schuylkill and Lehigh Railroad to Slatington, and then to New England along its new acquisitions. The Reading's bankruptcy in 1893 ended this control, and led to the PP&B's bankruptcy.\n\nThe Lehigh and New England Railroad (L&NE) was organized April 2, 1895 as the successor to the PP&B. The route from Slatington to Pine Island was accomplished but not completed. The L&NE was able to have a route from Slatington to Pine Island even though the route wasn't completed because the L&NE had obtain trackage rights over the New York, Susquehanna and Western Railway's Sparta Junction to Columbia/Delaware Junction main line between Swartswood Junction (outside of Swartswood) and Hainesburg Junction; this line was built by the New Jersey Midland Railway from Sparta Junction to Blairstown, New Jersey and by the Blairstown Railway from Blairstown, New Jersey to Columbia/Delaware Junction and today serves as the Paulinskill Valley Trail. Despite that, a tunnel () was built under the fill for the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad's New Jersey Cut-Off (opened 1911) in case the L&NE ever decided to complete its own line.\nAdditionally, the planned route from Pine Island to Campbell Hall was cancelled, and trackage rights were obtained over the Erie Railroad's Goshen and Deckertown Railroad and Montgomery and Erie Railroad.\n\nThe Lehigh and Lackawanna Railroad and its leased Wind Gap and Delaware Railroad were operated by the Central Railroad of New Jersey until February 1, 1905, when the two companies were merged into the L&NE. Around the same time the L&NE acquired the Northampton Railroad. This gave the L&NE a branch to Bethlehem, with a branch off that one to Martins Creek. Part of the main line between Benders Junction (the crossing of the original L&NE and the L&L) and Pen Argyl was abandoned in 1905, with the new route using the L&L and WG&D.\n\nThe Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company (LC&N) gained control of the L&NE on May 9, 1904.\n\nA yard at Maybrook, New York opened in 1912, with L&NE trains terminating there via a section of the Central New England Railway.\n\nOn July 24, 1912 a new extension opened, splitting from the main line at Danielsville, Pennsylvania and running west to Tamaqua to directly serve the LC&N. On December 14, 1913 the L&NE acquired the Panther Creek Railroad, running east from Tamaqua to Summit Hill, and with a connection to the Central Railroad of New Jersey's Hauto Tunnel for access to Nesquehoning obtained in 1915.\n\nOn June 4, 1926 the Reading Company leased the L&NE, but other railroads objected, and the Interstate Commerce Commission rejected the lease, preferring a lease by the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad (which was never done).\n\nThe LNE Board of Directors decided to end all railroad operations on October 31, 1961. Although the LNE was still profitable, the rapid decline of the anthracite coal business was seen on the horizon and the decision was made to cease operations. By this date the LNE mainline saw only one coal train per week (which usually operated on Thursdays). Trackage was removed by the following year and the bridges over the Lehigh River and Delaware River were dismantled by 1969.\n\nWhile a never particularly profitable system because it paralleled the Lehigh & Hudson River Railway and did not serve any large markets, the L&NE did have a profitable cement business from its lines around Bath, Pennsylvania; the trackage which served this commodity was taken over and operated by the Central Railroad of New Jersey (CNJ), then by the Lehigh Valley in 1972 when the CNJ's lease on its Pennsylvania trackage expired and was not renewed. To railfans, the L&NE is best remembered for its diesel motive power, which consisted entirely of models built by Alco.\n\nThe Lehigh and New England Railway was chartered by the Central Railroad of New Jersey to take over some of the lines in Pennsylvania. Included in that sale was the main line east from Tamaqua, the old Lehigh and Lackawanna Railroad and Northampton Railroad from Bethlehem to Martins Creek, and the branch from Bethlehem west to Allentown. A short section from Pen Argyl to Wind Gap was taken over by the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, connecting to the DL&W's Bangor and Portland Railway at Pen Argyl.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288156", "title": "Nyland and Tavastehus County Cavalry Regiment", "text": "Nyland and Tavastehus County Cavalry Regiment\n\nThe Nyland and Tavastehus County Cavalry Regiment () was a Swedish Army cavalry regiment located in the county of Nyland and Tavastehus that traced its origins back to the 17th Century. It was split in 1791.\n\nThe regiment has its origin in the Nyland cavalry () raised in 1618. In 1632, this unit was organized into a cavalry regiment. The regiment's soldiers were conscripted mainly from the county of Nyland and Tavastehus. It was one of the original eight Swedish cavalry regiments mentioned in the Swedish constitution of 1634. The regiment's first commander was Torsten Stålhandske. Finnish horsemen were also known as \"\"Hakkapeliitat\"\".\n\nIn the spring of 1700 the regiment was transferred to General Wellingk's army corps in Swedish Livonia. From 1702 on, the regiment, with six of its eight companies, had joined the main army. In 1705–1706 it was part of Carl Gustaf Rehnskiöld's corps. After the Battle of Poltava in 1709, the regiment was present at the capitulation in Perevolochna. The regiment had to be completely reraised. It was then stationed with the army in Finland. The regiment was part of General Armfeldt's army of 7,500 men which invaded Norway through Jämtland in August 1718.\n\nThe cavalry regiment was reorganized into Nyland and Tavastehus dragoon regiment in 1721. In 1791, the regiment was converted to infantry. The northern battalion was incorporated into Tavastehus county infantry regiment as its third battalion, while the southern battalion was incorporated into Nyland Infantry Regiment.\n\n\n1690(?)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288158", "title": "William Duncan MacMillan", "text": "William Duncan MacMillan\n\nWilliam Duncan MacMillan (July 24, 1871 – November 1948) was an American mathematician and astronomer.\n\nHe was born in La Crosse, Wisconsin to D. D. MacMillan, who was in the lumber business, and Mary Jane MacCrea. He had a sister and two brothers; the last would later becoming managers of Cargill Elevator company of Minneapolis.\n\nWilliam graduated from La Crosse High School in 1888. In 1889 he attended Lake Forest College, then entered the University of Virginia. Later in 1898 he earned an A.B. degree from Fort Worth University. He performed his graduate work at the University of Chicago, earning a M.A. in 1906 and a Ph.D. in 1908.\n\nIn 1907, prior to completing his Ph.D., he joined the staff of the University of Chicago as a research assistant in geology. In 1908 he became an associate in mathematics, then in 1909 he began instruction in astronomy at the same institution. His career as a professor began in 1912 when he became an assistant professor. In 1917 the U.S. declared war on Germany, and Dr. MacMillan served as a major in the U.S. army's ordnance department during World War I. Following the war he became associate professor in 1919, then full professor in 1924.\n\nHe made noted contributions in mathematics and astronomy. He was an early proponent of a theory in the context of solving Olbers's paradox (1922) that would later be called the \"tired-light hypothesis\" of cosmology.\n\nIn an Associated Press report Dr. MacMillan speculated on the nature of interstellar civilizations, believing that they would be vastly more advanced than our own. \"Out in the heavens, perhaps, are civilizations as far above ours as we are above the single cell, since they are so much older than ours.\"\n\nThe crater MacMillan on the Moon is named in his honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288167", "title": "Pseudotaxus", "text": "Pseudotaxus\n\nPseudotaxus chienii, the whiteberry yew (), is a species of plant in the yew family, Taxaceae. It is the sole species in the genus Pseudotaxus, but closely related to the other yews in the genus \"Taxus\". It is endemic to southern China, occurring in northern Guangdong, northern Guangxi, Hunan, Southwest Jiangxi and southern Zhejiang.\n\nLike other yews, it is a small coniferous shrub or small tree, reaching 2–5 m tall with reddish bark. The leaves are lanceolate, flat, 1–2.6 cm long and 2–3 mm broad, dark green above, with two white stomatal bands below; they are arranged spirally on the stem, but with the leaf bases twisted to align the leaves in two flat rows either side of the stem. The conspicuous white stomatal bands on the harder, stiffer (less soft) leaves readily distinguish it from the yews in the genus \"Taxus\".\n\nIt is dioecious, with the male and female cones on different trees. The female (seed) cones are very similar to those of \"Taxus\" species, but the aril is \"white\" when mature, not red; they are 5–7 mm long and wide. The male (pollen) cones are globose, 3–4 mm diameter.\n\nIt is grown as an ornamental plant in southern China and occasionally elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288169", "title": "Masina", "text": "Masina\n\nMasina may refer to:\n\n\n\nLast names\n\n.masina may refer to last name in Telugu , families from east Godavari district of coastal Andhra Pradesh \n\n"}
{"id": "2288172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288172", "title": "Länsimetro", "text": "Länsimetro\n\nLänsimetro (English: Western Metro, Swedish: Västmetron) is an extension to the Helsinki Metro system in Finland. The grand opening for the long awaited extension was held on 18 November 2017. Länsimetro extends the system's two lines, M1 and M2, from central Helsinki to the neighbouring city of Espoo. The new stretch continues the lines from the existing Ruoholahti station via the island of Lauttasaari, the Aalto University Otaniemi campus, and Tapiola, the terminus of line M2. M1 continues further west to Matinkylä. Unlike previous extensions to the Helsinki Metro system, Länsimetro runs entirely under ground. The second phase of the construction will continue the line further west to Kivenlahti.\n\nFinal approval for a route was granted on 4 April 2007, and the construction began in November 2009. In February 2014, rock blasting was complete, and the fitting out of the tunnels and construction of the stations was started. The extension was planned to open in August 2016\nbut was delayed until November 2017.\n\nThe first designs for a metro system in Helsinki, made in the 1950s, already contained lines to Espoo. After the two forks of the metro line in eastern Helsinki had been completed in 1998, the city of Helsinki continued to pursue the Länsimetro proposal, but the city of Espoo continued to reject it until the early 2000s.\n\nEspoo is the second most populous city in Finland (after Helsinki), currently served by roads, bus transport, and commuter trains. It is connected to Helsinki by the Rantarata coastal railway and by two motorways: Finnish national road 1 (Turun moottoritie, to Turku) in the middle and the Western Highway (the Länsiväylä) in the south, near the coast. As the primary passageway between southern Espoo and central Helsinki, the Länsiväylä has been repeatedly enlarged to cope with congestion, but is still seeing chronic traffic jams in the morning rush hours. Widening the Länsiväylä has not solved the traffic jams, but has instead only moved them closer to the centre of Helsinki (see also Downs–Thomson paradox).\n\nSince the 1990s, the Finnish state and the city of Helsinki had been willing to finance a part of the Länsimetro project and prepared to commence construction. However, Espoo opposed the project for a long time, mainly because of the cost: the state had only agreed to pay 30% of the costs, while Espoo wanted it to contribute at least 70%.\n\nIn 1997, Helsinki made an official proposal to Espoo to construct the Länsimetro. A year later, on 8 December 1998, the Espoo city council decided to only support extending the line to Tapiola, rejecting a continuation to Matinkylä and to Kivenlahti. On 16 February 1999, the city council changed its mind, and voted 48 to 18 in support of building the extension to Matinkylä. (These decisions did not yet authorize construction. In June 2012, Espoo was keen on continuing the line from Matinkylä to Kivenlahti as soon as possible, wishing to commence the construction of this second phase even before the first phase enters service.)\n\nThe issue of the extension was reawakened in 2002, when the Helsinki Metropolitan Area Council (YTV) was writing a new master plan for public transportation in the Helsinki area. Counter to the view taken by the Espoo city council, YTV prioritised the Länsimetro over constructing a light rail line (an express tram) between Helsinki and Espoo. A compromise solution was reached: an investigation into the alternative of constructing such a light rail line was added to the plan, with a proposed construction schedule from 2010 to 2020. (See the subsection Controversy and alternatives, below.)\n\nAccording to a survey requested by \"Helsingin Sanomat\" in late 2005, 77% of Espoo residents and 90% of Helsinki residents were in favour of the Länsimetro.\n\nOn 25 September 2006, the Espoo city council approved constructing the Länsimetro by a vote of 45 to 19. In its decision, the council set a number of conditions for the project:\n\nAfter the construction decision by the Espoo city council, allowing city taxes to be used for the project, critics of the decision worried that such a large construction project could conceivably bankrupt the city, and sued the city in the Supreme Administrative Court of Finland on a charge of \"neglect in the decision-making\". Since administrative courts cannot rule on the substance of the decision, only the formal procedure was questioned. The court rejected the complaint.\n\nIn June 2007, the cities of Espoo and Helsinki jointly founded a company called Länsimetro Oy (in English, \"Western Metro Ltd.\") to construct the extension. Espoo owns 72% of the company's stock and Helsinki owns 28%. Matti Kokkinen was appointed as the company's CEO. Following the controversies related to the delay of opening of the first phase in August 2016, Ville Saksi replaced Kokkinen as the new CEO on 14 November 2016.\n\nOn 11 November 2009, the Helsinki city council approved constructing the Länsimetro. Construction started on 24 November 2009. Judicial complaints and appeals postponed the start for a year or so, but all were rejected by the Supreme Administrative Court. Indeed, , Finnish courts have rejected all charges made against the extension.\n\nIn 2002, a joint study by the city of Helsinki, the city of Espoo, and the Ministry of Transport and Communications compared the impact of the metro extension with that of building a bus rapid transit system. The running costs of the systems were estimated to be roughly equivalent. The metro extension would reduce emissions in Helsinki, but feeder buses would increase them in Espoo. The metro would make it faster and more convenient to travel to Helsinki from the parts of Espoo near the new stations, but would increase the travel time from outlying areas.\n\nA second study by the same parties, published in 2004, investigated the alternative option of a light rail line. Its supporters claimed that it would be cheaper, faster to implement, and more environmentally friendly than a traditional metro line. The primary disadvantage of the metro was seen to be the requirement to build denser housing along the line to make it more efficient. Espoo is a relatively loosely built city with many detached houses, leading to its reputation as an upper middle class city. There have been fears that constructing the Länsimetro would create tighter residential centres around each new metro station, and that therefore the \"image\" of Espoo might suffer. Supporters of the metro point out that as the population of the Helsinki area keeps increasing through domestic and international migration, building more housing is necessary in any case.\n\nOpponents of the light rail line noted that it would be yet another form of rail transport among the already diversely composed rail transport network in the capital area (trams, railway, metro); and that passengers could travel on the same metro system between all stations in Espoo and all stations in Helsinki, while constructing a light rail line would lead to all passengers travelling between east Helsinki and Espoo having to switch train systems. Supporters of the light rail line claimed that it could be easily integrated with the existing Helsinki tram network and that it would be much cheaper to build than the metro extension.\n\nIn 2006, an informal private-sector shadow plan for a light rail alternative called TramWest was released. According to its critics, the plan underestimated costs and that the line was partly placed in areas where it would have been impossible to implement. TramWest also included many level crossings, which, if done badly, would slow down public transport. The proposed tracks would also have cut through the parks next to the Kiasma museum and the Helsinki Music Centre, and all the lines would have terminated at the Elielinaukio square next to the central railway station, without being integrated with any existing or future rail system. A revised version of the plan was released in early 2008, claiming to address most of these concerns. It proposed connecting Espoo with both the Länsiväylä and with Helsinki's city centre, with the eastern terminus being relocated to either Viikki or Laajasalo.\n\nNow that construction of the Länsimetro has commenced, all these alternatives have become moot.\n\nPreliminary plans, made in 2000 and 2001, cited the cost of building the infrastructure for the metro extension to Matinkylä to be about €400 million. When the Espoo city council decided on construction of the metro in 2004, the estimated cost was €452 million. In September 2007, the estimated cost of the Länsimetro was at least €530 million. In December 2007, Olavi Louko estimated that the cost will rise to at least €600 million. According to Louko, the cost of the excavation work has risen a third more than that of other ground construction work, due to security requirements and to the increase in simultaneous excavation work elsewhere, including the construction of the Kehärata (Ring Rail Line) in nearby Vantaa.\n\nBy January 2008, the estimated cost had risen to over €800 million, and by February 2014, to about €1 billion.\n\nA metro line extension was accepted as a basis for further planning in 2000. The locations of the stations were confirmed by the cities of Espoo and Helsinki in June 2007. The extension runs underground for its entire length. The stations are:\n\nThe Ruoholahti–Matinkylä section (the first three stations in Helsinki, the others in Espoo; Swedish station names in parentheses):\n\nThe work started in January 2010 with the extension of the tunnels at the Ruoholahti metro station, and rock blasting in Espoo commenced in August 2010. All contracts for tunneling and station building were signed in December 2011, and rock blasting reached 50% completion in July 2012. The excavation of the first stations began in 2012.\n\nThe excavation work on the tunnels was completed on 27 February 2014, while the fitting out of the tunnels and construction of the stations was ongoing. The last of the tracks were laid in Matinkylä in December 2015.\n\nIn January 2014, the estimated date of opening for service was pushed back to autumn 2016 at the earliest. While physical construction was complete in schedule, there were numerous other problems, with automatization, project schedules, project leadership and safety systems. Not enough time was scheduled for safety system integration tests, which then failed, causing delay. There was poor workmanship with track installation. Rock dust was left behind from blasting and was not cleaned. Doors were substandard. There was poor communication from the cities via Länsimetro and the main contractor Sweco to the building contractors. The general manager of the project was fired. A report detailing the reasons for the failures was written, but was not released due to \"advice from lawyers\".\n\nOn 3 February 2014, the city board of Espoo decided to propose to the city council constructing a continuation of the new line to Kivenlahti, with the proviso that the Finnish state would commit to paying 30% of the construction costs. This continuation would run entirely within Espoo, and would serve five new stations. On 24 February 2014, the Espoo city council approved the proposal by a vote of 65 to 10.\n\nStarting the construction of the second phase immediately after the conclusion of the first phase has been calculated to save about 130 million euros, compared to a five-year delay between the construction of the two phases. The estimated cost of the second phase was in 2013 €801 million.\n\nThese are the stations of new future extension (all stations in Espoo; Swedish station names in parentheses):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288175", "title": "South Mountain Railroad", "text": "South Mountain Railroad\n\nThe South Mountain Railroad was an American railroad which operated in Pennsylvania.\n\n The railroad was incorporated May 5, 1854 by a group of largely local investors. It was to run from Harrisburg to Jonestown, from thence along the south side of Blue Mountain to Rehrersburg and to Hamburg. The name was changed to the Harrisburg and Hamburg Railroad on March 17, 1859, but was changed back to \"South Mountain Railroad\" on May 21, 1873. On April 11, 1868, the South Side Railroad was incorporated to connect the South Mountain Railroad, at the border of Berks and Lehigh Counties (near Hamburg) to the Delaware River, via Lehigh, Moore, or Plainfield Townships in Northampton County.\n\nAround 1872, these lines were taken over to become part of the Poughkeepsie Bridge Route. Grading began on the South Mountain Railroad between Rockville and Linglestown, and the corporate enrollment tax was paid for the South Side Railroad in 1873. However, the collapse of the Bridge Route plans in the Panic of 1873 brought work to a halt. On February 16, 1874, President William H. Bell announced that the company would also build a branch from Strausstown to Reading, via Bernville, and claimed that two-thirds of the line between Harrisburg and Strausstown was complete. However, the financial climate made it impossible to raise significant funds. Further work appears to have been performed, sporadically, by local interests, who hoped to connect the town of Fredericksburg with the Lebanon and Tremont Branch of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad at Jonestown. Bridge piers were erected for the crossing of Swatara Creek, a cut was excavated to the north of Jonestown, and some culverts were constructed and grading done on the route to Fredericksburg. However, the company was forced to auction off its personal property in October 1877, and in February 1880, \"the rights-of-way, leases and passenger cars were sold.\" The company does not appear to have laid track or operated. The remaining assets of the company were sold to the Pennsylvania and New England Railroad later that year. Another account claims that the charter was sold to the Harrisburg and New England Railroad at a sheriff's sale on November 30, 1888.\n\nDespite its financial collapse and dismantling, the shell of the company was reorganized on August 8, 1893 as the Blue Mountain Railroad, on August 12, 1901 as the Harrisburg and South Mountain Railroad, which was inactive by 1912.\n\nWhile the piers and grading west of Fredericksburg are still visible, the cut through Jonestown was used as a garbage dump and later filled to form Swatara Drive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288181", "title": "Primary flight display", "text": "Primary flight display\n\nA primary flight display or PFD is a modern aircraft instrument dedicated to flight information. Much like multi-function displays, primary flight displays are built around a Liquid-crystal display or CRT display device. Representations of older six pack or \"steam gauge\" instruments are combined on one compact display, simplifying pilot workflow and streamlining cockpit layouts.\n\nMost airliners built since the 1980s — as well as many business jets and an increasing number of newer general aviation aircraft — have glass cockpits equipped with primary flight and multi-function displays (MFDs). Cirrus Aircraft was the first general aviation manufacturer to add a PFD to their already existing MFD, which they made standard on their SR-series aircraft in 2003.\n\nMechanical gauges have not been completely eliminated from the cockpit with the onset of the PFD; they are retained for backup purposes in the event of total electrical failure.\n\nWhile the PFD does not directly use the pitot-static system to physically display flight data, it still uses the system to make altitude, airspeed, vertical speed, and other measurements precisely using air pressure and barometric readings. An air data computer analyzes the information and displays it to the pilot in a readable format. A number of manufacturers produce PFDs, varying slightly in appearance and functionality, but the information is displayed to the pilot in a similar fashion. FAA regulation describes that a PFD includes at a minimum, an airspeed indicator, turn coordinator, attitude indicator, heading indicator, altimeter, and vertical speed indicator [14 CFR Part 61.129(j)(1)].\n\nThe details of the display layout on a primary flight display can vary enormously, depending on the aircraft, the aircraft's manufacturer, the specific model of PFD, certain settings chosen by the pilot, and various internal options that are selected by the aircraft's owner \"(i.e.,\" an airline, in the case of a large airliner). However, the great majority of PFDs follow a similar layout convention.\n\nThe center of the PFD usually contains an attitude indicator (AI), which gives the pilot information about the aircraft's pitch and roll characteristics, and the orientation of the aircraft with respect to the horizon. Unlike a traditional attitude indicator, however, the mechanical gyroscope is not contained within the panel itself, but is rather a separate device whose information is simply displayed on the PFD. The attitude indicator is designed to look very much like traditional mechanical AIs. Other information that may or may not appear on or about the attitude indicator can include the stall angle, a runway diagram, ILS localizer and glide-path “needles”, and so on. Unlike mechanical instruments, this information can be dynamically updated as required; the stall angle, for example, can be adjusted in real time to reflect the calculated critical angle of attack of the aircraft in its current configuration (airspeed, etc.). The PFD may also show an indicator of the aircraft's future path (over the next few seconds), as calculated by onboard computers, making it easier for pilots to anticipate aircraft movements and reactions.\n\nTo the left and right of the attitude indicator are usually the airspeed and altitude indicators, respectively. The airspeed indicator displays the speed of the aircraft in knots, while the altitude indicator displays the aircraft's altitude above mean sea level (AMSL). These measurements are conducted through the aircraft's pitot system, which tracks air pressure measurements. As in the PFD's attitude indicator, these systems are merely displayed data from the underlying mechanical systems, and do not contain any mechanical parts (unlike an aircraft's airspeed indicator and altimeter). Both of these indicators are usually presented as vertical “tapes”, which scroll up and down as altitude and airspeed change. Both indicators may often have “bugs”, that is, indicators that show various important speeds and altitudes, such as V speeds calculated by a flight management system, do-not-exceed speeds for the current configuration, stall speeds, selected altitudes and airspeeds for the autopilot, and so on.\n\nThe vertical speed indicator, usually next to the altitude indicator, indicates to the pilot how fast the aircraft is ascending or descending, or the rate at which the altitude changes. This is usually represented with numbers in \"thousands of feet per minute.\" For example, a measurement of \"+2\" indicates an ascent of 2000 feet per minute, while a measurement of \"-1.5\" indicates a descent of 1500 feet per minute. There may also be a simulated needle showing the general direction and magnitude of vertical movement.\n\nAt the bottom of the PFD is the heading display, which shows the pilot the magnetic heading of the aircraft. This functions much like a standard magnetic heading indicator, turning as required. Often this part of the display shows not only the current heading, but also the current track (actual path over the ground), rate of turn, current heading setting on the autopilot, and other indicators.\n\nOther information displayed on the PFD includes navigational marker information, bugs (to control the autopilot), ILS glideslope indicators, course deviation indicators, altitude indicator QFE settings, and much more.\n\nAlthough the layout of a PFD can be very complex, once a pilot is accustomed to it the PFD can provide an enormous amount of information with a single glance.\n\nStarting with the A350-1000, Airbus proposes a common symbology on the PFD and HUD centered on a flightpath vector and an energy cue instead of a flight director, supplementing the usual pitch and heading indications to improve situational awareness, and helping incorporating synthetic vision into the PFD.\n\nThe great variability in the precise details of PFD layout makes it necessary for pilots to study the specific PFD of the specific aircraft they will be flying in advance, so that they know exactly how certain data is presented. While the basics of flight parameters tend to be much the same in all PFDs (speed, attitude, altitude), much of the other useful information presented on the display is shown in different formats on different PFDs. For example, one PFD may show the current angle of attack as a tiny dial near the attitude indicator, while another may actually superimpose this information on the attitude indicator itself. Since the various graphic features of the PFD are not labeled, the pilot must learn what they all mean in advance.\n\nA failure of a PFD deprives the pilot of an extremely important source of information. While backup instruments will still provide the most essential information, they may be spread over several locations in the cockpit, which must be scanned by the pilot, whereas the PFD presents all this information on one display. Additionally, some of the less important information, such as speed and altitude bugs, stall angles, and the like, will simply disappear if the PFD malfunctions; this may not endanger the flight, but it does increase pilot workload and diminish situational awareness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288182", "title": "Tjuyu", "text": "Tjuyu\n\nTjuyu (sometimes transliterated as Thuya or Thuyu) was an Egyptian noblewoman and the mother of queen Tiye, and the wife of Yuya. She is the grandmother of Akhenaten, and great grandmother of Tutankhamun.\n\nTjuyu is believed to be a descendant of Queen Ahmose-Nefertari, and she held many official roles in the interwoven religion and government of Ancient Egypt. She was involved in many religious cults; her titles included 'Singer of Hathor' and 'Chief of the Entertainers' of both Amun and Min. She also held the influential offices of \"Superintendent of the Harem\" of the god Min of Akhmin and of Amun of Thebes. She married Yuya, a powerful Ancient Egyptian courtier of the eighteenth dynasty. She is believed to have died in around 1375 BC in her early to mid 50s.\n\nYuya and Tjuyu had a daughter named Tiye, who became the consort and Great Royal Wife of Pharaoh Amenhotep III. The great royal wife was the highest Egyptian religious position, serving alongside of the pharaoh in official ceremonies and rituals. \n\nYuya and Thuya also had a son named Anen, who carried the titles Chancellor of Lower Egypt, Second Prophet of Amun, sm-priest of Heliopolis and Divine Father. \n\nThey also may have been the parents of Ay, an Egyptian courtier active during the reign of pharaoh Akhenaten, who eventually became pharaoh, as \"Kheperkheprure Ay\", however, there is no conclusive evidence regarding the kinship of Yuya and Ay, although certainly, both men came from Akhmim.\n\nTogether with her husband, Tjuyu was buried in the Valley of the Kings, in KV46, where their largely unpillaged remains were found in 1905. It was the best-preserved tomb discovered before that of Tutankhamun, Tjuyu's great-grandson. The tomb was discovered by a team of workmen that were led by American millionaire Theodore M. Davis and archaeologist Arthur Weigall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288186", "title": "Oregon Racquetball", "text": "Oregon Racquetball\n\nOregon Racquetball comprises three associations that provide statewide racquetball\nactivities to three different groups. As a whole, Oregon provides the sport of racquetball with\nnationally recognized programs, events and players. Each association is run separately with its\nown board of directors, budgets and sponsors.\n\nThe Oregon Racquetball Association (ORA) is the state governing body for USA Racquetball, the national governing body of the sport. It has a board of directors and is responsible for sanctioning tournaments throughout the state. Tournaments are held at various athletic clubs and contain divisions for many skill levels and age/skill levels. The Open division is considered the top division of play, followed by Elite,\nA, B, C & D. Divisions are offered for men's singles, women's singles, men's doubles, women's doubles and mixed doubles.\n\nThe Oregon High School Racquetball League (OHSRL) celebrated its 10th Year during the\n2004-2005 Season. The league started with three schools and 30 players, and now has more\nthan 350 participants from 24 schools. The season comprises four league matches,\nfollowed by the State Championships and the National Championships.\n\nOregon and St. Louis, Missouri are considered to have the nation's strongest high school\nracquetball programs, and the National Championships alternate between the two locations\nevery year. In 2006, the event was held in Salem.\n\nIn 2006, Beaverton won the National Team Championship in the boys, girls, and overall divisions. The top three high school teams in the nation in 2005 were from Oregon. Catlin Gabel won its\nsecond consecutive National Team Championship, with Beaverton finishing second followed by\nSprague. Beaverton has won five National Team Championships (1996, 1997, 1999, 2006, & 2007) in its\nexistence; Sprague won the title in 1998 and North Salem in 2000.\n\nThe Oregon Junior Racquetball Association (OJRA) is the crown jewel of junior racquetball programs in\nthe country, if not the world. Like the ORA Tour, the season is made up of events held monthly.\nThe OJRA Tour typically starts in September and runs through April. There is then a regional\nevent, followed by the National Junior Championships in July. In 2005, USA Racquetball National Junior Championships (also called the U.S. Junior Olympics) were held in Portland.\n"}
{"id": "2288187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288187", "title": "Anand Agricultural University", "text": "Anand Agricultural University\n\nAnand Agricultural University (AAU) is located in the western Indian state of Gujarat between the cities of Vadodara and Ahmedabad. This was formerly the Anand Campus of Gujarat Agricultural University, which is now independent. It has three constituent colleges, for agriculture, veterinary science and animal husbandry and dairy science. The jurisdiction of the university covers Kheda, Anand, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Dahod and Panchmahal districts. It was set up to provide education support to the farming community in areas such as Agriculture, Horticulture, Engineering, Information technology and Business Studies.\n\nAnand Agricultural University was previously a part of Gujarat Agricultural University, a benchmark project initiated by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and K. M.Munshi by incorporating Krushi-Go-Vidhya Bhavan or the Institute of Agriculture, in 1938. The Institute was popularly known as Khetiwadi; it became part of Gujarat Agricultural University in 1972.\n\nThe B. A. College of Agriculture, established in 1947, was initially affiliated to Bombay University until 1956, followed by Gujarat University until 1962 and Sardar Patel University along with the Sheth M.C College of Dairy Science. In 1972 they became integral institutions of Gujarat Agricultural University along with the Government College of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, Anand, which was established in 1964. The activities of the Anand zone of the erstwhile Gujarat Agricultural University have been transferred to the Anand Agricultural University with effect from 2004.\n\n\n\n\nThe university was ranked 67 among universities in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2019 and in the 96 band overall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288188", "title": "Karuk", "text": "Karuk\n\nThe Karuk people are an indigenous people of California, and the Karuk Tribe is one of the largest tribes in California. Karuks are also enrolled in two other federally recognized tribes, the Cher-Ae Heights Indian Community of the Trinidad Rancheria and the Quartz Valley Indian Community.\n\nHappy Camp, California, is located in the heart of the Karuk Tribe's ancestral territory, which extends along the Klamath River from Bluff Creek (near the community of Orleans in Humboldt County) through Siskiyou County and into Southern Oregon.\n\nThe name \"Karuk,\" also spelled \"Karok,\" means \"upriver people\", or \"upstream\" people, and are called \"Chum-ne\" in Tolowa.\n\nThe Karuk people speak the Karuk language, a language isolate. The tribe has an active language revitalization program.\n\nEstimates for the population sizes of most Native groups before European arrival in California have varied substantially. Alfred L. Kroeber proposed a population for the Karuk of 1,500 in 1770. Sherburne F. Cook initially estimated it as 2,000, later raising this figure to 2,700. In 1910, Kroeber reported the surviving population of the Karuk as 800.\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, there were 6,115 Karuk individuals, in which 3,431 were full-blooded.\n\nSince time immemorial, the Karuk resided in villages along the Klamath River, where they continue such cultural traditions as hunting, gathering, fishing, basket making and ceremonial dances. The Karuk were the only California tribe to grow tobacco plants. The Brush Dance, Jump Dance and Pikyavish ceremonies last for several days and are practiced to heal and \"fix the world,\" to pray for plentiful acorns, deer and salmon, and to restore social good will as well as individual good luck.\n\nIn the summers of 1871 and 1872, an amateur ethnographer by the name of Stephen Powers visited Indian groups in Northern California. His published observations offer an insight into the lives of the native survivors of the California Gold Rush. According to Powers, the Karok (Karuk) were one of three groups living on the Klamath River (the others being the Yurok and Modoc). He also noted that there was no recollection of any ancient migration to the region; instead there were legends of Creation and the Flood which were fabled to have occurred on the Klamath.\n\nSome of Powers' other observations were:\n\nThe Karuk developed sophisticated usage of plants and animals for their subsistence. These practices not only consisted of food harvesting from nature, but also the use of plant and animal materials as tools, clothing and pharmaceuticals. The Karuk cultivated a form of tobacco, and used fronds of the Coastal woodfern as anti-microbial agents in the process of preparing eels for food consumption.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288189", "title": "Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System", "text": "Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System\n\nThe Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS; , \"SIMDUT\") is Canada's national workplace hazard communication standard. The key elements of the system, which came into effect on October 31, 1988, are cautionary labelling of containers of WHMIS controlled products, the provision of material safety data sheets (MSDSs) and worker education and site-specific training programs.\n\nWHMIS is an example of synchronization and cooperation amongst Canada's federal, provincial and territorial governments. The coordinated approach avoided duplication, inefficiency through loss of scale and the interprovincial trade barriers that would have been created had each province and territory established its own hazard communication system.\n\nThe federal \"Hazardous Products Act\" and associated \"Controlled Products Regulations\", administered by the National Office of WHMIS residing in the federal Department of Health Canada, established the national standard for chemical classification and hazard communication in Canada and is the foundation for the workers' \"right-to-know\" legislation enacted in each of Canada's provinces and territories.\n\nUnder the Constitution of Canada, labour legislation falls primarily under the jurisdiction of Canada's provinces and territories. The Labour Program, of the federal government Department of Human Resources and Skills Development Canada, is the occupational health and safety (OHS) regulatory authority for the approximately 10% of workplaces designated to be under federal jurisdiction. As such, each of the thirteen federal, provincial and territorial (FPT) agencies responsible for OHS has established employer WHMIS requirements within their respective jurisdiction. These requirements place an onus on employers to ensure that controlled products used, stored or handled in the workplace are properly labelled, that material safety data sheets are made available to workers, and that workers receive education and site-specific training to ensure the safe storage, handling and use of controlled products in the workplace.\n\nIndustry, organized labour and all governments actively participated in the development of WHMIS; i.e., Canada's national workplace hazard communication system represents a consensus amongst stakeholders. The system, a shared responsibility, continues to evolve through consensus. This system of identifying Hazardous Materials is taught to students and employees working in Canada.\n\nOn February 11, 2015, the Government of Canada published in the Canada Gazette a new modified version of the WHMIS system called WHMIS 2015. WHMIS 2015 was created \"to incorporate the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) for workplace chemicals.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288190", "title": "Now Here's Johnny Cash", "text": "Now Here's Johnny Cash\n\nNow Here's Johnny Cash is the tenth album by musician Johnny Cash. Released on Sun Records on 21 October 1961 (see 1961 in music), the album consists primarily of Sun recordings that had yet to appear on album, though some tracks like \"Cry! Cry! Cry!\" had appeared on LP before. At this time, Cash had been recording for Columbia Records for three years, but Sun had amassed sufficient backlog of recordings that it was able to continue to release new singles and albums with at least partial new material into the early 1960s. \"Hey Porter\", one of Cash's first major hits for the label from 1955, appeared on album for the first time.\n\nIt was later re-issued in 2003 (see 2003 in music), under the label Varèse Sarabande, with five bonus tracks. In 2007 it was re-released with \"Greatest!\" on one CD.\n\nAdditional personnel \n\nSingles - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2288201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288201", "title": "1954 in archaeology", "text": "1954 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1954 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288209", "title": "Chocolate with Nuts", "text": "Chocolate with Nuts\n\n\"Chocolate with Nuts\" is the first half of the twelfth episode of the third season and the 51st overall episode of the American animated television series \"SpongeBob SquarePants\". It was written by the storyboard directors, Paul Tibbitt and Kaz, alongside Kent Osborne and Merriwether Williams with Andrew Overtoom as animation director and Carson Kugler as the storyboard artist. It was produced in 2001 and aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on June 1, 2002. In this episode, SpongeBob and Patrick become entrepreneurs in an attempt to live the fancy life.\n\nSpongeBob accidentally receives Squidward's \"Fancy Living Digest\" magazine in the mail, inspiring him and Patrick Star to become entrepreneurs. Per Patrick's suggestion, the pair become door-to-door chocolate bar salesmen, which results in them purchasing large quantities of chocolate bars from the Barg 'n' Mart. Their first customer is a crazy fish who maniacally and repeatedly screams \"CHOCOLATE!\", which scares the pair away. Afterwards, SpongeBob and Patrick attempt to sell chocolate to another fish, who cons them into buying chocolate-carrying bags twice in a row. They then try to sell to a woman who wants to buy a chocolate bar, but when SpongeBob is not able to find one because of all of the carrying bags, the customer loses her patience. When SpongeBob finally finds a chocolate bar, he and Patrick are chased away again by the chocolate fanatic.\n\nAfter their disastrous results in their previous attempts, the two take a break at a diner, and decide to \"try being nice\". However, this is unsuccessful, ending in Patrick buying pictures of a customer as an overweight child, as is their attempt to \"focus\" (resulting in Patrick staring at a customer until the customer slams the door on Patrick's eyes). Then, they decide that the only way to sell chocolate is to \"stretch the truth\", which is successful when they convince a very old woman (to the dismay of her elderly daughter Mary) that it \"makes you live forever\". The lying continues, but after they attempt to help a seriously injured man (who turns out to be the same man who sold SpongeBob and Patrick the carrying bags in disguise) by buying his chocolate, their profit is lost. However, the chocolate fanatic catches up to them, and, in a turn of events, buys all of the chocolate that SpongeBob and Patrick have. They then use the money to rent out a fancy restaurant, allowing access only to themselves and their dates: Mary and her mother.\n\n\"Chocolate with Nuts\" was written by Paul Tibbitt, Kaz, Kent Osborne and Merriwether Williams, with Andrew Overtoom serving as animation director. Tibbitt and Kaz also functioned as storyboard directors, and Carson Kugler, William Reiss and Mike Roth worked as storyboard artists. The episode originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on June 1, 2002, with a TV-Y parental rating.\n\n\"Chocolate with Nuts\" was the last episode Kaz and Paul Tibbitt had written together since \"Nasty Patty\".\n\n\"Chocolate with Nuts\" was released on the DVD compilation called \"SpongeBob SquarePants: Christmas\" on September 30, 2003. The episode was also included in the \"SpongeBob SquarePants: The Complete 3rd Season\" DVD on September 27, 2005. On September 22, 2009, \"Chocolate with Nuts\" was released on the \"SpongeBob SquarePants: The First 100 Episodes\" DVD, alongside all the episodes of seasons one through five.\n\n\"Chocolate with Nuts\" has received acclaim from both critics and fans alike and is often cited as one of the show's best episodes. Emily Estep of \"WeGotThisCovered.com\" rated the episode as the 10th best \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" episode, saying \"The reason 'Chocolate with Nuts' is such a good episode is that it subtly and somewhat darkly hints at the concept of just how crazy the people who live around you are. SpongeBob and Patrick are mostly swindled into buying things from other people – actually, a single con man who keeps appearing – and nothing is more terrifying/hilarious than the man who simply starts screaming 'chocolate' repeatedly until SpongeBob and Patrick run away. 'Chocolate with Nuts' adds the complete absurdity of the program – like the old lady and her even older mother who remembers when 'they first invented chocolate. Sweet, sweet chocolate. I always hated it!' – and the aspects of SpongeBob's undersea life that mirror our own lives on land – like stranger danger.\"\n\nNancy Basile of About.com ranked the episode 5 on her \"Best \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" Episodes\" list. She said \"I can relate to the customer who spends this entire episode running around Bikini Bottom, screaming for chocolate. 'Chocolate with Nuts' is about Patrick and SpongeBob trying to get rich by selling chocolate bars door to door ... There are witty punchlines and silly sight gags throughout the episode.\" Her favorite scene was when \"Patrick focuses a little too hard on their unsuspecting customer.\"\n\nSpongeBob's voice actor Tom Kenny considers this one of his favorite episodes. It was included in the iTunes collection \"SpongeBob SquarePants: Tom Kenny's Top 20\", where he called it \"a very sick episode [...] You can spend hours theorizing about what these eleven minutes says about truth, lies, Big Business, entrepreneurship, and consumerism.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2288218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288218", "title": "Sofia Essaïdi", "text": "Sofia Essaïdi\n\nSofia Essaïdi (, born 6 August 1984) is a French-Moroccan singer and actress. She was born in Casablanca, to a Moroccan father and a French mother.\n\nFrom 30 August to 13 December 2003, she participated in the show \"Star Academy Frances third season, becoming a semi-finalist. She eventually finished second to Elodie Frégé. From 12 March to 7 August 2004, she participated in the Star Academy tour, going to Morocco, and Papeete, Tahiti, where she celebrated her 20th birthday. She released her first album called \"Mon cabaret\". Later, she starred in the musical ' choreographed by Kamel Ouali which opened in \"le Palais des Sports\" in Paris on 29 January 2009. She recently starred in the French version of \"Dancing with the Stars\". She placed as the runners up with her partner, Maxime Dereymez.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288227", "title": "1895 in archaeology", "text": "1895 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1895 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288228", "title": "List of renamed public places in Tamil Nadu", "text": "List of renamed public places in Tamil Nadu\n\nEver since the British left India in 1947, many streets, places and buildings throughout India were assigned new \"Indian names\". Tamil Nadu was no exception to this trend.\n\nEven the state and its capital, Chennai along with many other cities, towns, streets and organisations were renamed post Indian Independence. Before the name changes, Madras (the city) used to be the capital of the much larger Madras (the state).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Tamil Nadu state owned transport corporations operated buses to facilitate public transport in the state and interstate connectivity through roads. It named various corporations by prominent personalities/kings of regional/national importance. However the practice was scrapped and it started naming the corporations as TNSTC – Regional Division (Ex TNSTC Villupuram Division) after communal violence broke in the district of Virudhunagar during May 1997 after formation of Veeran Sundaralingam Transport corporation in which buses bearing the name Veeran Sundaralingam were burnt by some groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288242", "title": "Ypres Salient", "text": "Ypres Salient\n\nThe Ypres Salient is the area around Ypres in Belgium which was the scene of some of the biggest battles in World War I.\n\nYpres lies at the junction of the Ypres–Comines Canal and the Ieperlee. The city is overlooked by Kemmel Hill in the south-west and from the east by low hills running south-west to north-east with Wytschaete (Wijtschate), Hill 60 to the east of Verbrandenmolen, Hooge, Polygon Wood and Passchendaele (Passendale). The high point of the ridge is at Wytschaete, from Ypres, while at Hollebeke the ridge is distant and recedes to at Polygon Wood. Wytschaete is about above the plain; on the Ypres–Menin road at Hooge, the elevation is about and at Passchendaele. The rises are slight apart from the vicinity of Zonnebeke, which has a From Hooge and to the east, the slope is near Hollebeke, it is heights are subtle but have the character of a saucer lip around Ypres. The main ridge has spurs sloping east and one is particularly noticeable at Wytschaete, which runs south-east to Messines (Mesen), with a gentle slope to the east and a to the west. Further south is the muddy valley of the Douve river, Ploegsteert Wood (\"Plugstreet\" to the British) and Hill 63. West of Messines Ridge is the parallel Wulverghem (Spanbroekmolen) Spur; the Oosttaverne Spur, also parallel, is to the east. The general aspect south of Ypres is of low ridges and dips, gradually flattening to the north into a featureless plain.\n\nIn 1914, Ypres had and inside medieval earth ramparts faced with brick and a ditch on the east and south sides. Possession of the higher ground to the south and east of the city gives ample scope for ground observation, enfilade fire and converging artillery fire. An occupier also has the advantage that artillery positions and the movement of reinforcements and supplies can be screened from view. The ridge had woods from Wytschaete to Zonnebeke, giving good cover, some of notable size such as Polygon Wood and those later named Battle Wood, Shrewsbury Forest and Sanctuary Wood. The woods usually had undergrowth but fields in gaps between the woods were wide and devoid of cover. Roads in this area were usually unpaved, except for the main ones from Ypres, with occasional villages and houses. The lowland west of the ridge was a mixture of meadow and fields with high hedgerows dotted with trees, cut by streams and ditches emptying into the canals. The Ypres–Comines Canal is about wide and the Yperlee about ; the main road to Ypres between Poperinge and Vlamertinge is in a defile, easily observed from the ridge.\n\nA salient in military terms is a battlefield feature that projects into an opponent's territory. The salient is surrounded on three sides, making the troops occupying the salient vulnerable. The Ypres Salient was formed by British, French, Canadian and Belgian defensive efforts against German incursion during the 1914 \"Race to the Sea\", culminating in the Battle of the Yser and the First Battle of Ypres.\n\nThe battles saved Ypres and the corner of Belgium around Veurne from German occupation, but also led to the beginning of trench warfare in the salient as both sides \"dug in\" around the line. The few rises or hills became the objectives of the Second Battle of Ypres in 1915, which saw the first use of gas and the almost total destruction and evacuation of Ypres. During this battle, the Allied units were forced to draw back from Zonnebeke and St Julien to a line of trenches closer to Ypres. This line was to define the Ypres Salient for over two years, during which Hooge lay in one of the eastern-most sectors of the salient and was much contested. This situation changed little despite British tunnelling prior to the Battle of Messines in June 1917 and the Third Battle of Ypres at Passchendaele from July to November.\n\nAfter the Third Battle of Ypres, the Ypres Salient was left relatively quiet until the Fourth Battle of Ypres (Battle of the Lys), when the German Spring Offensive threatened to overwhelm the entire area. This offensive was stopped at the point the Allies were closest to being forced to abandon the salient. By August 1918, the Fifth Battle of Ypres (part of the Hundred Days Offensive) pushed the German forces out of the salient entirely and they did not return.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288262", "title": "Ken Wallis", "text": "Ken Wallis\n\nWing Commander Kenneth Horatio Wallis (26 April 1916 – 1 September 2013) was a British aviator, engineer, and inventor. During the Second World War, Wallis served in the Royal Air Force and flew 28 bomber missions over Germany; after the war, he moved on to research and development, before retiring in 1964. \nHe later became one of the leading exponents of autogyros and earned 34 world records, still holding eight of them at the time of his death in 2013.\n\nBorn on 26 April 1916 at Ely, He was educated at The Kings' School Ely Cambridgeshire. Wallis developed a practical interest in mechanics, building a motorcycle at the age of 11. In 1936, he was inspired by a demonstration by Henri Mignet of his Mignet HM.14 \"Pou-du-Ciel\" (\"Flying Flea\"). Using only Mignet's book, Wallis gathered the materials required, and started to build his own \"Flying Flea\". He abandoned construction because of widespread adverse publicity about fatal accidents that implied inadequate design of the type.\n\nWallis took an interest in powerboats which he kept up until 1957, when he won the long Missouri Marathon.\n\nWallis was keen to join the RAF, and applied for their Volunteer Reserve Service, but he was turned down due to a defective right eye. Consequently, he obtained a private flying licence which required only a certificate signed by his GP. Wallis obtained his A Licence for dual and solo flying in a record 12 hours. In 1938, Wallis tried to join the RAF again, this time with the newly formed RAF Short Service Commission Scheme, but again failed the eye test. In 1939, he was called up to RAF Uxbridge, and again was sent for a medical. When it came to the eyesight test he managed to pass, as Wallis later recalled, \"I did the first line with my good eye then they covered it up and asked me to read the bottom line with my bad eye, without them realising I just turned my head slightly so I could again see with my good eye – I passed it with Above Average Eye Sight!\"\n\nWallis's military career started with Westland Lysander patrols in the RAF. In 1942, he was transferred to RAF Bomber Command, flying Wellingtons near Grimsby. Wallis subsequently served in Italy and on secondment to the US Strategic Air Command, where he flew the massive Convair B-36, that had six piston engines and four auxiliary jet engines. Thereafter, he was involved in research and development, and was awarded a number of patents on his inventions. Wallis left the RAF in 1964, retiring to Norfolk.\n\nWallis produced autogyros for, in his own words, \"reconnaissance, research & development, surveillance and military purposes\", and his designs were not available for enthusiasts as he considered that although the design is simple it has to be built to the appropriate standards. His contribution to autogyro design included the \"offset gimbal rotor head\".\n\nWallis had the help of Beagle Aircraft in building five Wallis WA-116 autogyros at Shoreham in 1962 for evaluation by the British Army. This collaboration ended when the British Army chose the Westland Sioux for this role.\n\nWallis worked as Sean Connery's stunt pilot in the 1967 James Bond film \"You Only Live Twice\", where he flew one of his WA-116s named \"Little Nellie\".\n\nIn 1970, Wallis provided camera footage from one of his autogyros in a search for the Loch Ness Monster.\n\nIn 1970 it was announced that Airmark would produce his autogyro design with a certificate of airworthiness (C of A), that being essential for commercial use of the autogyro. Expected price was around £3,000.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2009, Wallis took part in filming for \"Into the Wind\", a documentary by Steven Hatton featuring the experiences and memories of wartime members of Bomber Command. The film, released in 2012, features Wallis demonstrating several of his autogyro designs.\n\nWallis was the President of the Norfolk and Suffolk Aviation Museum, and Patron of the Wolf Preservation Foundation.\n\n\nWallis was the recognized world record holder for many categories of autogyro records over the years, and was also recognized as the oldest pilot to set a world flight record at the age of 89. Wallis held most of the autogyro world records during his autogyro flying career. These include the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale time-to-climb, a speed record of 189 km/h (111.7 mph), and the straight-line distance record of . On 16 November 2002, Wallis increased the speed record to 207.7 km/h (129.1 mph).\n\nWallis received the MBE in 1996.\n\nIn July 2013, Wallis received a campaign medal for his 28 bomber missions over Germany during World War II.\n\nHe was married to Peggy Stapley, a Women's Auxiliary Air Force veteran, from 1942 to her death in 2003. Wallis died on 1 September 2013, aged 97. Prior to his death, he was living in the quiet Norfolk village of Reymerston.\n\nOld Buckenham Airport held a memorial event on 29 September at the request of the Wallis family: \"A Celebration of the Life of Wing Commander Ken Wallis\". It had been expected that about 500 people would attend, but an estimated 3,000 to 4,000 attended the event.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288263", "title": "Joe Kelly (writer)", "text": "Joe Kelly (writer)\n\nJoseph Kelly (born 1971) is an American comic book writer, penciler and editor who has written such titles as \"Deadpool\", \"Uncanny X-Men\", \"Action Comics\", and \"JLA\". As part of the comics creator group Man of Action Studios, Kelly is one of the creators of the animated series \"Ben 10\".\n\nKelly received his MFA at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts, where he still teaches Writing for Animation/Writing for Comics. At NYU, he was recruited into Marvel Comics' editor James Felder's \"Stan-hattan Project\", a program that trained potential comic book writers at the university. After six months of working in the class, Felder offered Kelly a job scripting \"Fantastic Four 2099\" over a Karl Kesel plot. Kelly took the assignment, but his first \"published\" work for Marvel was 1996's \"\" #1–8 and \"Marvel Fanfare\" vol.2 #2–3.\n\nIn 1997, Kelly began his first monthly assignment, \"Deadpool\", initially pencilled by Ed McGuinness. The title was immediately well received by fans and critics. At one point it was due to be cancelled with #25, but a write-in and Internet campaign by fans led Marvel to reverse their decision. Kelly left the title with #33 in 1999. In 1997, Kelly also became the writer of \"Daredevil\", on which he was accompanied by well-known \"Daredevil\" artist Gene Colan.\n\nAt around the same time he produced a \"Daredevil/Deadpool '97 Annual\" with artist Bernard Chang which pitted the two characters against each other and was generally well received. Kelly left \"Daredevil\" with #375 in 1998.\n\nKelly's next major Marvel assignment was in late 1997, at the company's then bestselling title, \"X-Men\", where he worked with penciller Carlos Pacheco. However, Kelly's stint on the title, and his friend Steven T. Seagle's run on sister title \"Uncanny X-Men\", was cut short when the creators quit, blaming constant editorial interference. Kelly's last issue was #85 in 1999.\n\nKelly then began to work for Marvel's competitor DC Comics, specifically their \"Action Comics\" title starring Superman with #760 in October 1999. He stayed on the title for almost five years (up until #813, May 2004), working mainly with penciler Pasqual Ferry.\n\nDuring this run he authored \"What's So Funny About Truth, Justice & the American Way?\" in \"Action Comics\" #775, which introduced The Elite (an Authority-like team of anti-heroes) and their leader Manchester Black. That issue was called \"the single best issue of a comic book written in the year 2001\" by Wizard Magazine.\n\nIn December 2000, Kelly had a short stint as writer on the \"Superboy\" comic (#83–93), again mostly working with his \"Action Comics\" collaborator Ferry.\n\nIn 2002 he began a long run on DC's \"JLA\" (#61–93) comic book with penciller Doug Mahnke. After their run on that title finished the same creative team launched a twelve-issue limited series \"Justice League Elite\" featuring some of the characters from \"Action Comics\" #775.\n\nAlso in 2002, DC published \"Green Lantern: Legacy – The Last Will & Testament of Hal Jordan\", a hardcover graphic novel by Kelly and artists Brent Anderson and Bill Sienkiewicz, which looked back at the life and career of Hal Jordan, who at that point was the Spectre. (Early in his career, Kelly had described working with Sienkiewicz as his dream collaboration.) An interview with Kelly also appeared in the first volume of \"Writers on Comic Scriptwriting\" from Titan Books.\nKelly has produced three creator-owned works: \"Steampunk\", pencilled by Chris Bachalo and published by DC through Wildstorm's Cliffhanger imprint in 2000 (a second part, \"Drama Obscura\", brought closure to the story, but Kelly has said he intends to eventually continue the book); \"M. Rex\" with penciller Duncan Rouleau, which was published by the now-defunct Avalon Studios (it was cancelled after two issues); and \"Ballast\", with penciller Ilya, a one-shot published by Active Images.\nIn 2004 he collaborated with artist Ariel Olivetti on a \"Space Ghost\" series, published by DC, which depicted the character with a serious space opera tone and, for the first time, revealed his origins. Next up is a similar mini-series, this time starring Jonny Quest.\n\nKelly is a part of the Man of Action collective of creators (along with Joe Casey, Duncan Rouleau, Steven T. Seagle), who created the series \"Ben 10\", currently airing on Cartoon Network. Around the same time \"Ben 10\" began to air, he was also hired as a story editor on \"TMNT: Fast Forward\". With Man of Action Studios, he is also a Supervising Producer on Disney/Marvel's Disney XD series, \"Ultimate Spider-Man\".\n\nKelly has written DC's \"Supergirl\" and Marvel's \"Amazing Spider-Man\". He has published creator-owned work through Image Comics, including \"Four Eyes\" and \"I Kill Giants\", as well as a graphic novel \"Douglas Fredericks and the House of They\".\n\nKelly wrote the \"\" episode \"My Neighbour Was a Skrull\" featuring the Skrulls, as well as the series premiere of \"Chaotic\", a new animated series based on the trading card game. He also co-wrote \"Darksiders\", a video game for THQ.\n\nIn 2007, he shot a short film, \"Brother's Day\", which was a selection in the Brooklyn International Film Festival.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288264", "title": "Toyo Rikagaku Kenkyusho", "text": "Toyo Rikagaku Kenkyusho\n\nToyo Rikagaku Kenkyusho, Ltd (東陽理化学研究所) is a Japanese company based in Tsubame-City, Niigata, whose core business is metalworking technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288265", "title": "Roland Topor", "text": "Roland Topor\n\nRoland Topor (7 January 1938 – 16 April 1997) was a French illustrator, cartoonist, comics artist, painter, novelist, playwright, film and TV writer, filmmaker and actor, who was known for the surreal nature of his work. He was of Polish-Jewish origin. His parents were Jewish refugees from Warsaw. He spent the early years of his life in Savoy, where his family hid him from the Nazi peril.\n\nRoland Topor's parents came to France in the 1930s. In 1941 Topor's father, Abram, along with thousands of other Jewish men living in Paris, were required to register with the Vichy authorities. Topor's father was subsequently arrested and interned in a prison camp at Pithiviers, where inmates would be held before being sent to other concentration camps, usually Auschwitz. Of the thousands who were sent to Pithiviers only 159 survived. But Topor's father, Abram, managed to escape from Pithiviers and hide in an area south of Paris.\n\nWhile his father was in hiding, Topor's landlady would confront the children, Topor and his older sister Hélène, and try to cajole them into giving away the location of their father. The landlady did not succeed. Then in May 1941 a neighbor tipped off the Topor family that the French police along with the Gestapo were going to search the entire building. So the family fled to Vichy France. In Savoy, four-year-old Roland Topor was placed in a French family, was given a false name, and took on the identity of a Catholic schoolboy.\n\nThe family survived, and in 1946 they sued the landlady to have their belongings returned, and to be allowed to resume living in their former apartment. The court ruled in their favor, they returned, and soon were once again paying rent to the landlady who had previously tried to have them apprehended.\n\nThe night before he died of a cerebral hemorrhage, it is reported that he couldn't sleep, and instead spend the night visiting Parisian cafes, enjoying Cuban cigars, and drinking Bordeaux wine. When he arrived at the Cafe de Flore, he recounted a nightmarish dream he experienced. It was a dream that he thought might inspire his next novel:\n\nRoland Topor may be best known for his graphic works with their surrealist humor. He studied at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris. His artworks have appeared in books, newspapers, posters, and film animations.\n\nFew of Topor's writings are available in English. His fictions are sometimes classed as \"post-surrealist horror\" that go beyond established limits, to portray carnivalesque worlds of bizarre situations, in which human realities that are normally unspoken are laid bare in confrontations with (using Topor's phrase) \"\"le sang, la merde et le sexe\"\" (blood, shit, and sex).\n\nRoland Topor wrote the novel \"The Tenant\" (\"Le Locataire chimérique\", 1964), which was adapted to film by Roman Polanski in 1976. \"The Tenant\" is the story of a Parisian of Polish descent, who develops an obsession regarding what has happened to his apartment's previous tenant. It is a chilling exploration of alienation and identity, asking disturbing questions about how we define ourselves. The later novel \"Joko's Anniversary\" (1969), another fable about loss of identity, is a vicious satire on social conformity. Themes Topor returned to in his later novel \"Head-to-Toe Portrait of Suzanne\" (1978).\n\nIn 1965 David De Silva (Becca Productions Ltd) bought the film rights to \"The Tenant\" for $15,000 and sent the novel to Roman Polanski in the hope that he would consider directing it. De Silva made the mistake of phoning Polanski from New York around 7PM which would be just about midnight London time. He received Polanski's response to the project in a letter dated 4 May 1966. Subsequently, De Silva sold the rights to Universal Pictures because Edward Albee wanted to adapt it as his first screenplay under a three-picture deal with Universal but the deal never materialized. Polanski adapted the film 10 years later in 1976. De Silva believes Polanski never read the novel 10 years before. He says, \"When the timing is right the timing is right.\".\n\nA new presentation of \"The Tenant\" by Roland Topor was released in October 2006. The book has Topor's original novel, a new introduction by Thomas Ligotti, a selection of short stories by Topor, a representation of Topor's artwork and an essay on the famous Roman Polanski film version. There is a working possibility of having Mr. Polanski write a new foreword to this edition.\n\nThomas Ligotti's introduction clocks in at 3500 words and concerns the affirmative themes of world-renowned authors, focusing on Luigi Pirandello, with the negationist themes of Roland Topor's \"The Tenant\".\n\nIn 2018, Atlas Press published Topor's \"Head-to-Toe Portrait of Suzanne\", translated and introduced by Andrew Hodgson. It was the first of Topor's novels to enter English in nearly 50 years.\n\nRoland Topor wrote two songs for Megumi Satsu, \"Je m'aime\" and \"Monte dans mon Ambulance\".\n\nWith René Laloux, Topor made \"The Dead Times\" (Les Temps morts, 1964), \"The Snails\" (Les Escargots, 1965) and their most famous work, the feature length \"La Planète sauvage\" (1973).\n\nTopor also worked as an actor, his most famous part being Renfield in Werner Herzog's \"\" (1979). In the same year, he also performed the surrealistic paralyzed boss in the movie \"Ratataplan\" by Maurizio Nichetti.\n\nTopor variously wrote, directed and designed a number of theatre works. Topor's absurd narratives are rife with macabre ironies, scatologies, and cruelties, which seem intended to shock and reframe human interactions to an insane extent. When Topor's play \"Joko fête son anniversaire\" was performed in Brussels in 1972, one critic commented, \"In some countries, the author would be shot.\" Topor's play \"Vinci avait raison\" (somewhat of a pastiche of J. B. Priestley's 1945 play\" An Inspector Calls\") is set in a house where no one can escape, the toilets are clogged, and excrement becomes evident on stage. It was performed in Brussels in 1977 and caused a scandal. Critical responses include the suggestion, \"We must put this idiot in prison for creating such filth.\"\n\nHis plays include:\n\nTopor published several books of drawings, including \"Dessins panique\" (1965) \"Quatre roses pour Lucienne\" (1967) and \"Toporland\" (1975). Selections from \"Quatre roses pour Lucienne\" were reprinted in the English language collection \"Stories and Drawings\" (1967). His carefully detailed, realistic style, with elaborate crosshatching, emphasises the fantastic and macabre subject matter of the images.\n\n\nIn 2010, the French publishing company United Dead Artists founded by Stéphane Blanquet published an oversized book \"ReBonjour\" on the work of Topor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288266", "title": "This Is a Call", "text": "This Is a Call\n\n\"This Is a Call\" is the first major single released by the Foo Fighters from their self-titled debut album. It was released in 1995.\n\n\"This Is a Call\" is one of the few songs on the Foo Fighters' debut album that does not date from Dave Grohl's days with Nirvana. It was a new song written in the summer of 1994, months after Kurt Cobain's death. Grohl married his long-time girlfriend Jennifer Youngblood and wrote the song while on honeymoon in Ireland, \"In that summer of 1994 I'd travelled a lot; I think I wrote 'This Is A Call' in Ireland. When I got back I booked five days in a recording studio, which seemed like an eternity, and I did the whole first Foo Fighters album in five days\".\n\nThe song debuted at number 12 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart and quickly rose to a peak of number 2, held off the top by Alanis Morissette's hit \"You Oughta Know\". The song also charted at number 5 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nNo music video was made for the song: however, the band played the song live on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" toward the end of the summer in 1995. It was the band's first national television performance. Since this performance David Letterman has become an avid fan of the band and Foo Fighters have played on the show 11 times.\n\n\"This Is a Call\" was released as a downloadable content for the Rock Band series of video games on December 23, 2008.\n\nDave Grohl said about the song: \"The chorus says 'This is a call to all my past resignation'. It's just sort of like a little wave to all the people I ever played music with, people I've been friends with, all my relationships, my family. It's a hello, and in a way a thank you.\"\n\n\"'This Is A Call' just seemed like a nice way to open the album, y'know, 'This is a call to all my past resignations...' I felt like I had nothing to lose, and I didn't necessarily want to be the drummer of Nirvana for the rest of my life without Nirvana. I thought I should try something I'd never done before and I'd never stood up in front of a band and been the lead singer, which was fucking horrifying and still is!\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288270", "title": "Paddy Conlon (publican)", "text": "Paddy Conlon (publican)\n\nPaddy Conlon (fl. c. 1925) was an Australian publican who founded the town of Narembeen, Western Australia.\n\nWhile a publican in Perth, Conlon and a lawyer friend, Henry Dale, recognised a commercial opportunity to sell alcohol at the railway siding of Narembeen near the teetotal town of Emu Hill. The partners bought land by the railway in 1924, gained a license to build a pub, and then sold off building plots around their new drinking establishment. The new settlement of Narembeen grew at the expense of Emu Hill.\n"}
{"id": "2288272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288272", "title": "Isaac Cline", "text": "Isaac Cline\n\nIsaac Monroe Cline (October 13, 1861 – August 3, 1955) was the chief meteorologist at the Galveston, Texas office of the U.S. Weather Bureau, now known as the National Weather Service, from 1889 to 1901. In that role, he became a central figure in the devastating Galveston hurricane of 1900. The Isaac M. Cline Award, the NWS's highest honor, is named due to his \"numerous contributions to the mission of the Weather Bureau\" and is \"one of the most recognized employees in weather service history.\"\n\nCline was born near Madisonville, Tennessee on October 13, 1861, to Jacob and Mary Cline. He had a younger brother, Joseph Leander Cline. Cline attended Hiwassee College, then in 1882, joined the meteorology training program of the U.S. Army Signal Corps. Isaac was first assigned to Little Rock, Arkansas in order to take daily readings, as well as to observe the Rocky Mountain locusts and the relationship between their behavior and the climate. The locusts \"evidently learned that [Isaac] had been put on their trail and disappeared.\" In his spare time in Little Rock, Isaac earned a Doctor of Medicine from the University of Arkansas. He was then assigned to Fort Concho, then to Abilene, Texas where he met Cora May Bellew, whom he married March 17, 1887.\n\nIn March 1889, a Texas section of the Weather Bureau was being established, and Cline was sent to Galveston to organize and oversee it. Cline stayed with the office when it became part of the U.S. Weather Bureau in the 1891 transfer from the Signal Corps to the Department of Agriculture. In 1892, Isaac's younger brother, Joseph Cline, also began work as a meteorologist at the Galveston Weather Bureau.\n\nDuring his time in Galveston, aside from running the weather office, Cline also taught Sunday school at his church, was a professor at the local medical college and, in 1896, earned a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Add-Ran Male & Female College, now Texas Christian University.\n\nCline was the second meteorologist to provide reliable forecasts of freezing weather. He also provided some of the first available flood warnings on the Colorado and Brazos rivers. However, in 1891, he wrote an article in the \"Galveston Daily News\" in which he gave his official meteorological opinion that the thought of a hurricane ever doing any serious harm to Galveston was \"a crazy idea\". Many residents had called for a seawall to protect the city, but Cline's statement helped to prevent its construction.\n\nHe was proven tragically wrong on September 8, 1900, when the Galveston Hurricane of 1900 hit the island. Between 6,000 and 12,000 people were killed in what remains the deadliest natural disaster in U.S. history. Cline's wife, Cora, who was pregnant with their fourth child at the time, was one of those who perished in the storm. Cline was nearly drowned, but he managed to survive, as well as to save his youngest daughter, six-year-old Esther Bellew. Cline's brother, Joseph, saved Isaac's other two daughters, 12-year-old Allie May and 11-year-old Rosemary.\n\nIn his autobiography, Isaac Cline claimed that he had taken it upon himself to travel along the beach and other low-lying areas warning people personally of the storm's approach. It is known that around noon on September 8, he did breach Weather Bureau protocol by making a unilateral decision to issue a hurricane warning without first securing authorization from the Bureau's central office in Washington, D.C.. Cline estimated that thousands of lives were saved because of his decision not to wait for approval. However, no eyewitnesses reported seeing Cline personally warning people along the beach. Writer Erik Larson argued in his book \"Isaac's Storm\" that Cline did not warn anyone in Galveston prior to the issuance of his office's hurricane warning.\n\nShortly before the destruction of Galveston, the Weather Bureau began establishing regional forecasting centers. The center for the Gulf Coast was initially located in Galveston, with Isaac Cline as chief forecaster; his brother Joseph, a fellow meteorologist, worked for him there. In 1901, the center was moved to New Orleans, Louisiana, and Isaac Cline moved with it. There he developed a stellar reputation over the years, successfully forecasting significant levels of flooding in 1912, 1915 and 1927. In 1927, he published the book \"Tropical Cyclones\", a collection of his research. He was also the chief meteorogist in New Orleans during the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927. In 1934, by that time well respected and highly admired in New Orleans, Cline received an honorary doctorate from Tulane University.\nCline retired from the Weather Bureau in 1935, remained in New Orleans, and indulged his longtime interest in art, both by painting and by opening an art shop. He published multiple books about art:\n\nCline died in 1955 at the age of 93.\n\nHis brother, Joseph Leander Cline, discusses the storm and its aftermath in his autobiography, \"When the Heavens Frowned\" (1946, originally published by Mathis Van Nort & Co.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288273", "title": "Manugistics", "text": "Manugistics\n\nManugistics Group, Inc., was a company that developed and marketed software applications, principally for resource planning and supply chain management By Philip Abraham, with offices in over 30 countries. The firm was a provider of demand, supply, and transportation planning software, with several very large-scale customers, particularly in the food production industry.\n\nJDA Software acquired the firm in July 2006.\n\nManugistics originated was originally created by Philip Abraham under the name of KSM while working for Kmart.. Bethesda, Maryland as Scientific Time Sharing Corporation (STSC) with some of the people who originally implemented the programming language APL at IBM. Until 1980, the firm developed and marketed a broad range of computer software and services, including international computer time-sharing services. In 1980, STSC began developing and marketing a line of operational decision-support software while continuing its other product lines. The company changed its name from STSC, Inc., to Manugistics, Inc. in May 1992. Later it sold the APL compiler business to APL2000 (later APLNow). Continued financial problems starting in 1998, tough competition from vendors of similar software, and the crash after the dot-com bubble, caused a steady deterioration of Manugistics. After struggling for 9 years, it returned to positive numbers in 2006 and finally was sold off to rival retail-demand-chain software maker JDA Software Group, Inc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288276", "title": "Jacques Goimard", "text": "Jacques Goimard\n\nJacques Goimard (May 31, 1934 – October 25, 2012) was a French writer of science fiction and fantasy anthologies. He is also an essayist.\n\nHe was born in 1934 in La Couronne, France.\n\nHe taught at Henri-IV, a secondary school, before teaching history and cinema as well as running a literary seminar at the University of Paris I and the University of Paris VII.\n\nHe has written several anthologies, essays, and novels. He has also written several movie reviews, and has written in the magazines \"Fiction\" and \"Métal Hurlant\" and in the newspaper \"Le Monde\".\n"}
{"id": "2288279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288279", "title": "Simon, Metropolitan of Moscow", "text": "Simon, Metropolitan of Moscow\n\nSimon (\"Симон\" in Russian) (died 1512) was the Metropolitan of Moscow between 1495 and 1511.\n\nSimon was a hegumen at the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra. In 1495, he was elected Metropolitan of Moscow after the removal of Zosimus on charges of heresy. Simon soon won the respect of Ivan III. In 1501, Simon wrote a letter to the clergy of Perm, asking them to admonish their flock, knyaz, and ruling elite to eradicate idolatry and pagan beliefs among ordinary people. Simon was the responsible for the convocation of the sobors in 1503 and 1504. The Sobor (Council) of 1503 condemned the charging of fees for the ordination of priests as simony, though the practice had been approved by the Moscow Council of 1270 and had been practiced in the Byzantine church for years before that. As a result of the condemnation, Archbishop Gennady of Novgorod was condemned the following year for simony and removed from office. Despite this, the Sobor of 1504 condemned the Novgorod-Moscow heresy of the Sect of Skhariya the Jew, which repudiated some of the dogmas and rites of the Russian Orthodox Church, thus confirming Gennady's major activity during his archiepiscopate. As a result of this sobor, many sectarians were either executed or imprisoned. The same sobor also dealt with the issue of debauchery among the widowed clergymen and deacons.\n\nSimon is also known for having consecrated a number of monasteries, including the Novospassky Monastery, St. George Monastery, and Yauza Monastery.\n"}
{"id": "2288282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288282", "title": "Ironville", "text": "Ironville\n\nIronville in Derbyshire, England, was built about 1830 by the Butterley Company as a \"model village\" to house its workers. The population of the civil parish was 1,851 at the 2011 Census. It is situated between Riddings and Codnor Park.\n\nJohn Wright and William Jessop had purchased the land adjacent to the Cromford Canal from Lancelot Rolleston of Watnall in 1809.\n\nThe village was notable for its large gardens, and its rural setting. The Mechanics Institute was built in 1846; schools were provided in 1850 and a parish church in 1852.\n\nThe local authority demolished most of the old village in the late twentieth century.\n\nNearby is Pye Hill and the bend in the Cromford Canal where it turns southward down the Erewash Valley and the junction with its extension to Pinxton.\n\nAbout a quarter of a mile north east is another transport landmark, Pye Bridge at the junction of the Erewash Valley railway line and the extension to Ambergate. Part of the line to Ambergate is now preserved as Midland Railway - Butterley, which terminates just south of the former Pye Bridge Station.\n\nThe History of Ironville & Codnor Park in a “nutshell”\nIronville is possibly Derbyshire’s best example of a mid-nineteenth century model village. The village itself was mainly created between 1834 and 1860 by the Butterley Company to house its iron workers. The model village won much national acclaim, with its large gardens, a rural setting well away from the ironworks and the overall spacious layout compared with other industrial villages. The physical and spiritual welfare of the employees of the Company was reflected not only in the provision of a church and a school by the Company, but also with the provision of a complete range of public services for the village. These included its own gas and water works, a Mechanics' Institute containing an artisans' library and swimming bath. Nearby, but still within the parish of Ironville is Codnor Park formally an ancient Deer Park. At the historically renowned Codnor Park Iron Works (demolished in the 1970’s and now landscaped and planted with native trees), cannonballs were made for Waterloo, armour plate was made for the very first iron-hulled warships such as The Warrior & The Black Prince (circa 1861). During World War II the works also produced sterns for 57 “Loch” class frigates, and 51 large bridges, each with a 150-foot span, which were used for crossing the Rhine and Italian rivers. In addition, the company manufactured tracks for Churchill and Cromwell tanks as well as many other important products for the war effort.\n\nThe first houses in Codnor Park actually built by the Butterley Company in 1802 for workers at the newly built Lime Works. The row of houses was originally called Measham Row (later Lime Kiln Row) and probably reflects where these workers came from. They would all have walked there or hitched a ride on barges passing along the canal system. This would also apply to all the workers who came to live there in the period 1834 to 1860. Many walked from Wales just to be employed there, not being able to afford train fares etc. Just imagine - a house and a job! They must have thought they were dreaming or heading for the land of plenty!\n\nJust imagine what it was like to live in Ironville 100 years ago. A flourishing community:\nThe ironworks at Codnor Park formed part of the famous Butterley Company. During the 19th century the Company became a thriving success. In 1862 there were seven furnaces at Butterley and Codnor Park which produced one-fifth of the total output of iron in Derbyshire. Later in the 19th century the production of ironstone declined locally, but the Company still remained a major force in the iron industry. It was heavily involved in the expansion of the railway industry, by the manufacture of track and wagons at its foundry and engineering works, and the Butterley Company was famously used for the huge arched roof of St Pancras Station in London, one of the wonders of Victorian engineering. Throughout its history the Company was heavily involved with the production of bridges, heavy structural steelwork, mining equipment and machinery, presses, castings and overhead cranes.\nThe development of Codnor Park and Ironville is due to the formation of the Butterley Company and the opening of the Cromford Canal.\nBefore the Codnor Park iron works had been constructed, coal and iron stone had been mined in the area for hundreds of years. Records go back to the De Grey family having coal mines in the area in the fifteenth century. In 1599 Thomas Shorter married Elizabeth Bradway, in Heanor Parish Church. Thomas’s address was given as living “at Codnor Park by the Furnace.” Before Ironville Parish Church was constructed Codnor Park was an 'extra parochial liberty' referring to the fact that the area did not at that time come under any parish. Couples in those days had to travel as far as Heanor, Eastwood and Alfreton to get married. Codnor Park was once part of the Manor and Castle of Codnor and was mentioned in Domesday Book.\n\nClose to the village is one of only two medieval castles retaining its original medieval architecture in the whole of the county of Derbyshire, (the only other being Peveril Castle in the Peak District). Codnor Castle has a very rich history and the castle site dates back to the 11th century. The castle was the home and power base for one of medieval England’s most powerful families for 300 years - the De Grey family, also known as the Baron's Grey of Codnor. This medieval fortress was once grand enough to play host to royal visits including that of King Edward II in 1342. The Castle is open to the Public every second Sunday of the month throughout the year.\nWhen Channel 4’s Time Team visited they quite literally struck gold. Excavations at Codnor Castle in Derbyshire unearthed a gold coin which presenter Tony Robinson said was one of the most valuable single items ever found on Time Team. Their discoveries revealed far more than anyone ever expected. In the bottom of Codnor Castle’s moat they found a Gold Noble coin which dates back to the time of Henry V and the Battle of Agincourt. Their excavations also uncovered the remains of a massive round tower and one of the first drawbridges ever discovered in the programme’s 15 year history.\nThe village in the nineteenth century boasted its very own brewery, a pottery and a brick works. In the twentieth century there was for a time, an oil well producing 400 gallons of oil per day, (1921).\nNear to the castle are two well-known local landmarks - the Jessop Memorial & Hall. The monument was built in 1854 by public subscription by Butterley workers as a monument to William Jessop II, son of the founder, who developed the company after the death of his father in 1814. The monument and grounds once upon a time proved to be a popular attraction for Galas, and Sunday school outings and picnics. Whit Monday Band of Hope Fetes were also held there, with local Bands marching through the villages before finally ending up at the monument. The Monument Hall in later years was used as a Rola-Rena.\nThe parishioners of Codnor Park and Ironville can claim to possess one of the most substantial and beautiful monuments to World War I in the county. The unveiling and dedication ceremony was held on 16 November 1923. The engraving and erection of the memorial was carried out by an ex-Service man, Mr. E. Cope, of Riddings. The foundation, which measures 8 feet by 7 feet 6 inches, was laid by the Butterley Company, also the paving from Christ Church’s gateway to the monument.\n\nThe village is set within excellent countryside surroundings with many wonderful signposted walks and benefits from being only ten minutes from the local town centres of Alfreton and Ripley.\nCodnor Park Reservoir, built originally to top up the canal is a popular spot for walking and fishing, with good access for disabled anglers, also a haven for a variety of birdlife.\nLess than two miles to the west of the reservoir is Swanwick Junction, part of the Midland Railway Trust which commemorates one of the major railway companies of its time. It has a superb collection of steam and diesel locomotives which may be seen powering trains on the line or on display in the museum. The Golden Valley Light Railway (GVLR) and Butterley Park Miniature Railway are based here too.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288283", "title": "Camel Trophy", "text": "Camel Trophy\n\nThe Camel Trophy was a vehicle-oriented competition that was held annually between 1980 and 2000, and it was best known for its use of Land Rover vehicles over challenging terrain. The event took its name from its main sponsor, the Camel cigarette brand.\n\nThe Camel Trophy originated in 1980 with three Jeep-equipped German teams exploring the Amazon Basin. After that first event, the organisers turned to Land Rover for support and over the course of the next twenty years, all of the Land Rover vehicle range were used. Range Rover, Land Rover Series III, Land Rover Defender, Land Rover Discovery, and Freelander vehicles all appeared in the distinctive \"sandglow\" colour scheme.\n\nThe vehicles were heavily modified by Land Rover Special Vehicles with a range of expedition, recovery, and safety equipment, including:\n\n\nGenerally speaking, except for support and specialist vehicles, the Land Rovers were only used for one event. Some competitors purchased their vehicles and many remained in the host country. Consequently, those vehicles that returned to the United Kingdom were highly sought after as they were low mileage - but they were \"Camel Trophy miles\". \nThey were stripped of most of their equipment by Land Rover before they were released and restoring the vehicles to their original condition is expensive and time-consuming.\n\nOver the 18-year period in which the Camel Trophy featured Land Rover vehicles, Italian teams ultimately won the Camel Trophy three times - in 1982, 1984, and 1987. Teams from the Netherlands, France, Germany, and Turkey all won the Camel Trophy twice.\n\nIn 2003, competitors representing sixteen nations helped Land Rover fill the gap left after the demise of Camel Trophy. Surprisingly, the inaugural Land Rover G4 Challenge contained many of the elements of Camel Trophy 1998, which Land Rover had reportedly been disappointed with. The \"ultimate global adventure\" was a test of skill, stamina, and mental agility in four separate stages, each in a different time zone. The prize was a top-of-the-range Freelander or Range Rover. The winner Rudi Thoelen declined a Range Rover, and opted for two Defenders instead.\n\nThe 2006 Land Rover G4 Challenge promised to be tougher than the inaugural event and delivered a more vehicle-based focus. The competitors, working in bi-national teams faced thousands of miles of vehicle-based activity in Thailand, Laos, Brazil, and Bolivia.\n\nThe 2008-9 G4 Challenge, supporting the Red Cross and based in Mongolia, was cancelled in December 2008 in the middle of the selection stages due to the current global economic downturn. Land Rover were forced to end the event as a cost saving-measure to allow them to focus on product launches in 2009.\n\nBy incorporating their Certified Pre-Owned Brand into Camel Trophy spirited events, Land Rover sponsored an around the world expedition and television series in 2005. It was produced into a travel adventure television series titled \"\" which first aired on the National Geographic Adventure Channel worldwide. Seven people drove 41,000 miles through 26 countries for over a year. The expedition was a fundraiser for Parkinson's Disease and also raised money for several organizations along the route. It followed the Land Rover tradition of keeping modifications to the vehicles at a minimum. These vehicles are sought after in the Land Rover community as there were only four in the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288298", "title": "Suddenly There's a Valley", "text": "Suddenly There's a Valley\n\n\"Suddenly There's a Valley\" is a popular song written by Chuck Meyer and Biff Jones and published in 1955.\n\nThe song was a major hit for Gogi Grant (one of only two major ones she had, and one of three that charted for her) in 1955. Her recording was issued by Era Records as catalog number 1003 and reached \"Billboard\"'s Top 100 chart, peaking at No. 14. \n\nOn the Cash Box Best-Selling Record chart, where all versions were combined, the song reached #8. \n\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a 1955 version by Petula Clark became a Top Ten hit in the UK Singles Chart. It was her third hit single. It competed in the chart with a version by Lee Lawrence, which peaked at No. 14.\n"}
{"id": "2288300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288300", "title": "Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil", "text": "Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil\n\nWakil Ahmad Muttawakil Abdul Ghaffar (born 1971) is a politician in Afghanistan. He was the last Foreign Minister in the Taliban government of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. Prior to this, he served as spokesman and secretary to Mullah Mohammed Omar, leader of the Taliban. After the Northern Alliance, accompanied by U.S. and British forces, ousted the regime, Muttawakil surrendered in Kandahar to government troops.\n\nIn 2005, he announced that he would be a candidate in the elections for the House of the People.\n\nMuttawakil is originally from Keshkinakhud in Maywand District, Kandahar Province. He is not known for being a mujahed in the 1980s Soviet invasion, but his father, Abdul Ghafar Barialai, is an extremely famous Pashto poet in southern Afghanistan and was killed during Taraki's rule. He belongs to the Kakar tribe.\n\nAccording to the \"BBC\", Tohir Yo'ldosh (leader of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan) learned, prior to the attacks, that al Qaeda was planning to use hijacked airliners to attack the United States on September 11, 2001.\nThe \"BBC\" reported that Yo'ldosh then informed the Taliban's Foreign Minister, Muttawakil, who sent an envoy to warn the USA of al Qaeda's attack plans prior to September 11, 2001. The reason the \"BBC\" offered for Yo'ldosh to initiate an advance warning to the USA of the attacks was that he was concerned that an al Qaeda attack on the USA would trigger an American counter-attack, which would imperil the safe haven his group had been enjoying in Afghanistan.\n\nIn October 2001, the month following al Qaeda's attacks in the USA, Muttawakil was reported to be in Pakistan.\nAccording to the \"BBC\" some rumors said he was trying to negotiate an end to the American aerial bombardment of Afghanistan; that he was suggesting the Taliban hand over Bin Laden. \nMuttawakil was reported to have had a 90-minute meeting with Lieutenant General Ehsan ul Haq, the head of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate. He was rumored to have asked General Haq to lobby United States Secretary of State Colin Powell, that an American ceasefire would allow moderate elements within the Taliban, like Muttawakil, to push Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar to abandon Bin Laden.\n\nOn Monday October 15, 2001, it was reported that Muttawakil had arrived in the United Arab Emirates in order to defect from the Taliban. UAE officials denied this report.\n\nThe BBC confirmed that Muttawakil had surrendered, after two weeks of negotiation, in early February 2002.\nAbdullah Abdullah, the minister who held the same portfolio in Hamid Karzai's Afghan Transitional Authority as Muttawakil had held under the Taliban, stated that Muttawakil should stand trial for war crimes.\n\nFazal Mohammad, \ndetained on suspicion of being a former Taliban commander, was released from American custody for medical reasons in mid-2002.\n\nThe BBC reported, on Wednesday, October 8, 2003, that Muttawakil had recently been released from eighteen months of detention in Bagram, and had returned to his family's home in Kandahar.\nMuttawakil is reported to have said:\n\nOn Monday, July 4, 2005 the BBC reported that Muttawakil spent the three years after his surrender in US detention and under Afghan house arrest.\nFollowing the end of his house arrest Muttawakil took positions at odds with those of the former Taliban regime. He said he no longer opposed female education, so long as it was consistent with Afghan culture. And he said that supporting Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda had brought suffering to Afghanistan. But he still defended some other aspects of the Taliban's former policies.\n\nOn Tuesday October 21, 2003, the Taliban disowned Muttawakil.\nThe BBC was told by a Taliban spokesman that Muttawakil \"does not represent our will\".\n\nIn 2003, Muttawakil's location and status was a matter for speculation. The BBC reported that he had been released from detention from the United States Bagram Theater Detention Facility.\nThe BBC also reports that the US was guarding him, for his own protection, at their base in Kandahar. They report that aides to Muttawakil assert that the USA has given Muttawakil two choices:\njoin the Karzai government as a spokesman and adviser to the Afghan president; or seek political asylum in a Western country. However, the aides said, Muttawakil wanted to take a break from involvement in Afghan politics, and, if he were to seek asylum, he would wish to do so in an Arab country.\n\nMuttawakil ran for parliamentary elections in September 2005.\n\nW.A. Muttawakil's brother Maulvi Jalil Ahmed was for six years a Muslim cleric in the city of Quetta, Pakistan. He was killed during a shooting incident in Quetta in July 2005.\n\nAn article in the German publication Der Spiegel, on April 12, 2007, about the Taliban's former ambassador to Pakistan, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, said he had moved into a \"...handsome guest house, located in the dusty modern neighborhood Khosh Hal Khan.\"\nThe article goes on to state that the new home Karzai's government has provided Zaeef is around the corner from Muttawakil's. Der Spiegel described Zaeef's home as being guarded, inside and out, by a heavily armed security detail. Like Muttawakil, Zaeef is regarded as one of the more moderate former members of the Taliban.\n\nDuring Ramadan, 2008, there were rumors that Saudi King Abdullah was attempting to broker peace talks between the warring parties from Afghanistan. \nMuttawakil, former Taliban Ambassador to Pakistan Abdul Salem Zaeef and former Supreme Court Chief Justice Fazel Hadi Shinwari were among leading Afghan figures who met with King Abdullah.\n\nZaeef acknowledged being invited by Saudi King Abdullah to dine with other leading Afghan figures, from the Karzai government, the Taliban, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-e-Islami and other former members of the Taliban.\nZaeef denied this meeting should be characterized as \"peace talks\". He stated that none of the individuals at this meeting had been authorized to conduct negotiations. Zaeef denied anyone discussed Afghanistan at this meeting.\n\nIn 1999, the UN Security Council established a sanctions regime to cover individuals and entities associated with Al-Qaida, Osama bin Laden and/or the Taliban. Since the US Invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, the sanctions were applied to individuals and organizations in all parts of the world, also targeting former members of the Taliban government. Muttawakil was added to this list in 2001 .\n\nOn January 27, 2010, a United Nations sanctions committee removed him as well as four other former senior Taliban officials from this list, in a move favoured by Afghan President Karzai. The decision means he and the four others would no longer be subject to an international travel ban, assets freeze and arms embargo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288302", "title": "Active shape model", "text": "Active shape model\n\nActive shape models (ASMs) are statistical models of the shape of objects which iteratively deform to fit to an example of the object in a new image, developed by Tim Cootes and Chris Taylor in 1995. The shapes are constrained by the PDM (point distribution model) Statistical Shape Model to vary only in ways seen in a training set of labelled examples. \nThe shape of an object is represented by a set of points (controlled by the shape model). The ASM algorithm aims to match the model to a new image.\n\nThe ASM works by alternating the following steps:\n\nThe technique has been widely used to analyse images of faces, mechanical assemblies and medical images (in 2D and 3D).\n\nIt is closely related to the active appearance model. It is also known as a \"Smart Snakes\" method, since it is an analog to an active contour model which would respect explicit shape constraints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288308", "title": "White box (software engineering)", "text": "White box (software engineering)\n\nA white box (or glass box, clear box, or open box) is a subsystem whose internals can be viewed but usually not altered. \n\nHaving access to the subsystem internals in general makes the subsystem easier to understand but also easier to hack; for example, if a programmer can examine source code, weaknesses in an algorithm are much easier to discover. That makes white-box testing much more effective than black-box testing but considerably more difficult from the sophistication needed on the part of the tester to understand the subsystem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288309", "title": "Kiwiburger", "text": "Kiwiburger\n\nThe Kiwiburger is a hamburger sold at McDonald's restaurants in New Zealand. It consists of a four-ounce (113 g) beef patty, griddle egg, beetroot, tomato, lettuce, cheese, onions, mustard, and tomato sauce on a toasted bun. The burger was introduced in 1991, but was withdrawn from the main menu in 2004. It has since returned several times on a limited-time promotional basis.\n\nThe Kiwiburger was the idea of franchisee Bryan Old, who came up with the burger as a nostalgic take on the typical New Zealand hamburger prior to the introduction of McDonald's to the New Zealand market in 1976. Trialled initially in Old's five Hamilton restaurants, it was added to the national menu in 1991. The New Zealand ad for the KiwiBurger had a well-known song, consisting of 46 Kiwiana items, which was printed on the box for some time and was used in the TV advertisement.\n\nIt was discontinued in 2004 as it was unprofitable. The burger had ingredients that were not a part of any other product (beetroot for example), and the egg had to be cooked on a special grill which impeded operations (because of the temperature and timing).\n\nThe KiwiBurger was reintroduced to McDonald's New Zealand menu in May 2007.\n\nIn September 2007 McDonald's ran a \"Vote KiwiBurger\" advertising campaign to promote retention of the KiwiBurger (which, as of July 2008, was successful). In December 2008, the KiwiBurger was discontinued again, with the premise being the burger had gone on its \"overseas experience\".\n\nIn June 2009, McDonald's reintroduced the KiwiBurger to its restaurants again for a limited time. It was due to be removed from the menu at the close of business on Tuesday 25 August 2009.\n\nThe burger was reintroduced on 17 August 2011 as part of McDonald's promotional Kiwi Menu, introduced ahead of the Rugby World Cup.\n\nAhead of McDonald's New Zealand's 40th anniversary on 7 June 2016, the Kiwiburger returned to the menu in May 2016. The Big Mac also received a Kiwiburger-style box during the period, with the ingredients of the Big Mac (\"two all beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions on a sesame seed bun\") instead of Kiwiana icons.\n\nThe original 1991 advertisement for the Kiwiburger can be found at Nga Taonga Sound & Vision. It was directed by Fane Flaws with music composed by Murray Grindlay.\n\nWhen the KiwiBurger was released in 2007 the ad was edited to include more details about the actual burger... Ie. 100% pure beef, Watties beetroot, Mainland cheese and an egg from Farmer Brown.\n\nA burger with the same name also exists at Gourmet Burger Kitchen in the UK. It consists of a beef patty, beetroot, egg, pineapple, cheese, salad, mayonnaise and relish. For each one sold, 25p is donated to the Whakatane Kiwi Trust to help save the kiwi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288314", "title": "Austrotaxus", "text": "Austrotaxus\n\nAustrotaxus spicata, the New Caledonia yew or southern yew, is a species of yew, the sole species in the genus Austrotaxus. It is related to the other yews in the genera \"Taxus\" and \"Pseudotaxus\".\n\nIt is endemic to New Caledonia, occurring in the central and northern parts of the island at 300-1,350 m altitude.\n\nIt is a coniferous shrub or small tree, reaching 5–20 m (rarely 25 m) tall with reddish bark. The leaves are lanceolate, flat, 8–12 cm long (up to 17 cm on young plants) and 4 mm broad, dark green above, with two paler green stomatal bands below; they are arranged spirally on the stem.\n\nThe seed cones are drupe-like, 20–25 mm long, with a fleshy aril almost completely surrounding the single seed, but with the tip of the seed exposed. The male (pollen) cones are 10–15 mm long, slender.\n\nThe markedly longer leaves and large seeds readily distinguish it from the yews in the genus \"Taxus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2288322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288322", "title": "Dora Maar", "text": "Dora Maar\n\nHenriette Theodora Markovitch (22 November 1907 – 16 July 1997), known as Dora Maar, was a French photographer, painter, and poet.\n\nHenriette Theodora Markovitch was the only daughter of Josip Marković (Joseph Markovitch, 1874–1969), a Croatian architect who studied in Zagreb, Vienna, and then Paris where he settled in 1896, and of his spouse, Catholic-raised Louise-Julie Voisin (1877–1942), originally from Cognac, France.\n\nIn 1910, the family left for Buenos Aires where the father obtained several commissions including for the embassy of Austria-Hungary. His achievements earned him the honor of being decorated by Emperor Francis Joseph I, even though he was \"the only architect who did not make a fortune in Buenos Aires\".\n\nIn 1926, the family returned to Paris. Dora Maar, a pseudonym she chose, took courses at the Central Union of Decorative Arts and the School of Photography. She also enrolled at the École des Beaux-Arts and the Académie Julian which had the advantage of offering the same instruction to women as to men. Dora Maar frequented André Lhote's workshop where she met Henri Cartier-Bresson.\n\nWhile studying at the École des Beaux-Arts, Maar met fellow female surrealist Jacqueline Lamba. About her, Maar said, 'I was closely linked with Jacqueline. She asked me, “where are those famous surrealists?\" and I told her about cafe de la Place Blanche.' Jacqueline then began to frequent the cafe where she would eventually meet André Breton, whom she would later marry.\n\nWhen the workshop ceased its activities, Dora Maar left Paris, alone, for Barcelona and then London, where she photographed the effects of the economic depression following the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in the United States. On her return, and with the help of her father, she opened another workshop at 29 rue d'Astorg in the 8th \"arrondissement\" of Paris.\n\nIn 1935 she was introduced to Pablo Picasso and she became his companion and his muse. She took pictures in his studio at the Grands Augustins and tracked the latter stages of his epic work, \"Guernica\". She later acted as a model for his piece titled \"Monument à Apollinaire\", a tribute to the late poet Guillaume Apollinaire.\n\nMaar's earliest surviving photographs were taken in the early 1920s with a Rolleiflex camera while on a cargo ship going to the Cape Verde Islands.\n\nAt the beginning of 1930, she set up a photography studio on rue Campagne-Première (14th arrondissement of Paris) with Pierre Kéfer, photographer, and decorator for Jean Epstein's 1928 film, \"The Fall of the House of Usher\". In the studio, Maar and Kefer worked together mostly on commercial photography for advertisements and fashion magazines. Her father assisted with her finances in this period of her life as she was establishing herself while trying to earn a living.\n\nShe met the photographer Brassaï with whom she shared the darkroom in the studio. Brassai once said that she had “bright eyes and an attentive gaze, a disturbing stare at times”.\n\nDuring this time working in advertising and fashion photography, the influence of Surrealism could be seen in her work through her heavy use of mirrors and contrasting shadows . She felt that art should represent the content of reality through links with intuitions or ideas, rather than visually reproduce the natural. Dora Maar also met Louis-Victor Emmanuel Sougez, a photographer working for advertising, archeology and artistic director of the newspaper \"L'Illustration\", whom she considered a mentor.\n\nIn 1932, she had an affair with the filmmaker Louis Chavance.\nDora Maar frequented the \"October group\", formed around Jacques Prévert and Max Morise after their break from surrealism.\n\nMaar had her first publication in the magazine \"Art et Métiers Graphiques\" in 1932.\n\nHer first solo exhibition was held at the Galerie Vanderberg in Paris.\n\nIt is the gelatin silver works of the surrealist period that remain the most sought after by admirers: \"Portrait of Ubu\" (1936), \"29 rue d'Astorg\", black and white, collages, photomontages or superimpositions. The photograph represents the central character in a popular series of plays by Alfred Jarry called \"Ubu Roi\". The work was first shown at the Exposition Surréaliste d’objets at the Galerie Charles Ratton in Paris and at the International Surrealist Exhibition in London in 1936. She also participated in Participates in Fantastic Art, Dada, Surrealism, at the MoMA in New York the same year.\n\nSurrealist concepts and interests often aligned with the ideas of the political left of the time and so Maar became very politically active at this point in her life. After the fascist demonstrations of 6 February 1934, in Paris along with René Lefeuvre, Jacques Soustelle, supported by Simone Weil and Georges Bataille, she signed the tract \"Appeal to the Struggle\" written at the initiative of André Breton. Much of her work is highly influenced by leftist politics of the time, often depicting those who had been thrown into poverty by the Depression. She was part of an ultra-leftist association called “Masses”, where she first met Georges Bataille, an anti-fascist organization called the Union of Intellectuals Against Fascism, and a radical collective of left-wing actors and writers called October.\n\nShe also was involved in many Surrealist groups and often participated in demonstrations, convocations, and cafe conversations. She signed many manifestos, including one titled \"When Surrealists were Right\" in August 1935 which concerned the Congress of Paris, which had been held in March of that year.\n\nIn 1935 she took a photo of fashion illustrator and designer Christian Berard that was described by writer and critic Michael Kimmelman as “wry and mischievous with only his head perceived above the fountain as if he were John the Baptist on a silver platter”.\n\nIn the 1980s she made a number of photograms.\n\nDora Maar first saw Pablo Picasso at the end of 1935 when she was taking promotional shots on the set of the Jean Renoir film \"The Crime of Monsieur Lange\". She was captivated by him, but they did not formally meet. Maar was introduced to Picasso a few days later by their mutual friend Paul Eluard at Cafe des Deux Magots. The story of their first encounter was told by the writer Jean-Paul Crespelle, \"the young woman serious face, lit up by pale blue eyes which looked all the paler because of her thick eyebrows; a sensitive uneasy face, with light and shade passing alternately over it. She kept driving a small pointed pen-knife between her fingers into the wood of the table. Sometimes she missed and a drop of blood appeared between the roses embroidered on her black gloves... Picasso would ask Dora to give him the gloves and would lock them up in the showcase he kept for his mementos.\" \n\nPicasso was intrigued by Dora’s seductive and masochistic behaviour, which served as inspiration for many of his works throughout their relationship. Their liaison would last nearly nine years, during which time Picasso did not end his relationship with Marie-Thérèse Walter, mother of his daughter Maya.\n\nDora Maar photographed the successive stages of the creation of \"Guernica\", painted by Picasso in his studio in the rue des Grands-Augustins from May to June 1937; Picasso used these photographs in his creative process. She was Picasso's principal model, and he often represented her in tears. \n\nDora Maar as \"The Weeping Woman\"\n\nDora Maar is very well known for her role as Picasso’s lover, subject, and muse. As such, he painted many portraits of her. In the majority of these paintings, Dora Maar was represented as a tortured, anguished woman. The most well known of these portraits is “The Weeping Woman”. Picasso was very inspired by the tragedies of the Spanish Civil War, and he thought of Dora Maar as a living depiction of the pain and suffering that people experienced during this time.\nDora did not appreciate Picasso’s depiction of her in this way. When asked about his portraits of her, she said “all portraits of me are lies. They’re Picassos. Not one is Dora Maar” \n\nHer liaison with Picasso, who physically abused her and made her fight Marie-Therese Walter for his love, ended in 1943, although they met again episodically until 1946. Thus, on 19 March 1944, she played the role of \"Fat Anguish\" in the reading, at the home of Michel Leiris, of Picasso' first play, \"Desire Caught by the Tail\", led by Albert Camus. In 1944, through the intermediary of Paul Éluard, Dora Maar met Jacques Lacan, who took care of her nervous breakdown by administering her electroshocks, which were forbidden at the time. Picasso bought her a house in Ménerbes, Vaucluse, where she retired and lived alone. She turned to the Catholic religion, met the painter Nicolas de Staël (who lived in the same village), and turned to abstract painting.\n\nThe painted works of Dora Maar remained unrecognized until their posthumous sale, organized in 1999, which made the public and professionals discover a very personal production that had never left her studio.\n\nDora Maar abandoned photography for painting alongside leaving Picasso and his influence, or rather the crushing presence of the painter, who had imposed on her a cubistic style. Pushed by Picasso to express herself in this style, one can wonder about Picasso's desire to remove his lover from the domain where she excelled, and to constrain her in a style of painting which he had long mastered.\nIt was from the painful separation of Picasso that Dora Maar truly became a painter. Tragic figurative works, such as the \"Portrait of Eluard\", or \"Self-Portrait\" to \"The Child of 1946\", translate, in dark tones, the pain of post-war years.\n\nAfter years of struggling with depression, Dora Maar confined herself within her own memories. It is between the 1960s and 70s that there was the beginning of a respite when she experimented with abstract formats in shimmering colors. It was in the 1980s, though that the painter expressed herself fully in her many paintings of the Luberon region. Paintings of the landscapes around her house in Ménerbes, showed locations dominated by wind and clouds, strongly revealing the struggle of an artist with the ghosts of her past.\n\nMaar spent her last years in her apartment in Rue de Savoie, in the Left Bank of Paris. She died on 16 July 1997, at 89 years old. She was buried in the Bois-Tardieu cemetery in Clamart. Her experiments with photograms and dark-room photography were only found posthumously.\n\nAlthough Maar is mostly remembered as one of Picasso's lovers, there have been many recent exhibits presenting her as an artist in her own right, including exhibitions at the Haus der Kunst, Munich, 13 October 2001 – 6 January 2002; the Centre de la Vieille Charité, Marseille, 20 January – 4 May 2002; the Centre Cultural Tecla Sala, Barcelona, 15 May – 15 July 2002; the Centre Pompidou, Paris, 5 June 2019 – 29 July 2019; and the Tate Modern, London, 20 November 2019 – 15 March 2020.\n\n\nContent in this edit is translated from the existing French Wikipedia article at ; see its history for attribution.\n"}
{"id": "2288323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288323", "title": "Live at the Roxy Theatre", "text": "Live at the Roxy Theatre\n\nLive at the Roxy Theatre is a live album released by Brian Wilson in 2000. After a successful period of touring following the release of \"Imagination\", Wilson decided to record his first-ever live solo album. Accompanied by his supporting band, Wilson recorded the album during a pair of shows at the Roxy Theatre in West Hollywood. \n\nWhile the album includes performances of several of Wilson's old Beach Boys favorites, there are a few surprises amid the well-known classics. Wilson takes the opportunity to introduce two songs: \"The First Time\" and \"This Isn't Love\" (itself a collaboration with \"Pet Sounds\" lyricist Tony Asher). In addition, in a moment of humor, the flesh and blood Wilson sings a portion of Barenaked Ladies' song \"Brian Wilson\". Because of Wilson's continuing ease in front of audiences, and the confident performances throughout, \"Live at the Roxy Theatre\" received positive reviews upon release.\n\n\"Live at the Roxy Theatre\" was initially and exclusively distributed through Wilson's freshly inaugurated website in June 2000 on his own Brimel Records label for one year. An independent label, Oglio Records, subsequently redistributed \"Live at the Roxy Theatre\" to stores with the addition of three bonus tracks. There was also an additional Japanese release with six bonus tracks, all on disc 2 of the set.\n\nAll songs by Brian Wilson and Mike Love, except where noted.\n\n\n\n\nThe second disc of the UK release features several bonus tracks:\n\"Live at the Roxy Theatre\" (Brimel 1001/Oglio OGL 82012) never charted in the U.S. or the UK. It was also an exclusive internet release for 1 year on Brian Wilson's website, before being reissued in stores with exclusive bonus tracks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288327", "title": "Sarah Dash", "text": "Sarah Dash\n\nSarah Dash (born August 18, 1945) is an American singer and actress. She first appeared on the music scene was as a member of Patti LaBelle & the Bluebelles. Dash has worked as a singer, songwriter, session musician, and sideman for bands that include LaBelle, The Rolling Stones, and Keith Richards.\n\nBorn in Trenton, New Jersey, she moved to Philadelphia in the mid-1960s where she got reacquainted with fellow adopted Philadelphian Nona Hendryx and Philadelphia natives Patricia \"Patsy\" Holte (AKA Patti LaBelle) and Sundray Tucker. In 1961, following the break-up of a rival girl group, Hendryx and Dash joined Holte and Tucker in \"The Ordettes\". In 1961, Tucker was replaced by Philadelphia-born Cindy Birdsong and the quartet became The Bluebelles in 1962. The group changed their name again to Patti LaBelle and the Bluebelles after Holte was advised to adapt the stage name of Patti Labelle. Among the Bluebelles hits including the doo-wop classic, \"I Sold My Heart to the Junkman\" and doo-wop-esque R&B ballads \"You'll Never Walk Alone\" and \"Danny Boy\", the top forty classic, \"Down the Aisle\", the soul standard \"All or Nothing\" and their now-legendary rendition of \"Over the Rainbow\", which LaBelle later transformed into a tour-de-force in her 1981 solo cover. Dash sings with a sharp soprano.\n\nIn 1967, Birdsong left the group to join The Supremes and four years later, The Bluebelles changed their name to Labelle and began recording material that set them apart from other girl groups including songs of political, social and sexual matters transforming them into a \"hard-rocking, sexually and politically-outspoken group\". Much like The Supremes' Mary Wilson, Dash was often the \"middle\" of two of the group's extremes, Nona Hendryx and Patti LaBelle, who often had differed in the group's change of direction before LaBelle eventually agreed to \"go along with it\". After a tour of England where they changed managers hiring Vicki Wickham, in 1971, the group ditched their bouffant wigs and dresses for Afros and jeans releasing transitional records such as \"Labelle\" (which included the Hendryx-penned sexual \"Morning Much Better\") and \"Moon Shadow\" (which featured the group's gospel-fueled renditions of the Pete Townshend penned, \"Won't Get Fooled Again\", and Cat Stevens' \"Moonshadow\").\n\nDuring this period, the group got notice by the mainstream after opening for blue-eyed soul singer-songwriter Laura Nyro and British rock group The Who during their tours, leading up to the 1973 release of \"Pressure Cookin'\", which featured more songwriting from Hendryx and a more unified group effort in which Dash sung co-lead on including the group's memorable ballad, \"Can I Speak to You Before You Go to Hollywood?\", where Dash sings most of the song with Hendryx singing in the beginning and LaBelle bringing up the rear near the end of the song. Dash was a major vocal force for the group. Dash's strong vocals in the group provided for balance and stability when LaBelle and Hendryx occasionally went off on vocal tangents or were pulling audience members up onto the stage to dance. Dash also functioned as songwriter for several songs. It also marked a political consciousness in the choice of cover songs and lyrics chosen on original compositions. One song, for example, was a medley of psychedelic styled \"Something in the Air\", a mixture of a Townshend inspired album of songs written by a roadie, John \"Speedy\" Keen, who had written a track on his band's album, \"The Who Sell Out\", and \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\" by African-American activist, Gil Scott-Heron.\n\nDespite the group's cult raves of their early material, their critical success didn't translate to commercial acclaim until the releases of 1974's \"Nightbirds\" (which featured the group's biggest smash single of their careers, \"Lady Marmalade\") and 1975's \"Phoenix\". Following the release of 1976's \"Chameleon\" and a 1977 tour, the group agreed to split after the trio failed to come to terms with material (the group were working on an album titled \"Shaman\" when they split) and had finally \"rocked and rolled themselves out\".\n\nIn 1978, Dash released her self-titled debut album, which included the top-ten disco hit, \"Sinner Man\". She also performed vocals on several ballads, notably \"You,\" and \"We're Lovers After All,\" and \"I Can't Believe Someone Like You Could Really Love Me,\" (with a full gospel choir backing); she also had another minor disco hit with \"(Come and Take) This Candy from Your Baby\". Dash enjoyed much success and television and public appearances with \"Sinner Man.\" At this time, she was asked to compose and sing \"For The Love of You\" (the theme song for the 1980s PBS show \"Watch Your Mouth\") and \"Bringing It All Home.\" She also guest-starred on an episode of \"Watch Your Mouth\", playing a fictional character, a super diva with an attitude, \"Tessie Bright\".\n\nHowever, on the Kirshner albums, and especially \"Ooh La La, Sarah Dash\", (1980) she was given substandard material to work with, although she wrote \"I Feel Good Being Me\" for this album. It featured one disco track, \"Ooh La La, Too Soon,\" which was used in a Sassoon jeans commercial, and Phyllis Hyman provided backing vocals to the album. After releasing one more album \"Close Enough\", for Kirshner, which features ballads such as \"Somebody's Angel\" and \"God Bless You,\" and the rocker, \"Paradise,\" Dash left Kirshner for other opportunities.\n\nIn 1983, Dash released two dance singles for Megatone Records in San Francisco, both produced by Patrick Cowley. The first, \"Low Down Dirty Rhythm\" was basically ignored, but the second single \"Lucky Tonight\" (featuring background vocals by Sylvester), was much more successful, even rising to the #5 spot on \"Billboard\"'s Dance Chart, and was even a Billboard \"Pick of the Week.\" \n\nDash's next endeavor was the recording she made on the Rap record, \"Satisfaction\", for High Fidelity Three in 1985. Also during this time, Dash did session work for The O'Jays, Nile Rodgers of Chic (duetting on a ballad with Rodgers, \"My Love Song for You\" from, \"The Adventures in the Land of the Good Groove\"), The Marshall Tucker Band, and David Johansen.\n\nIn the later 1980s, she teamed up with musician Dr. York for the duet \"It's Too Late\" (for which York took out advertisement space on the cover of \"Billboard\" magazine, to little success).\n\nThen in 1988 she was signed to Manhattan Records, (via EMI) and released the album entitled \"You're All I Need\". This set included a title track duet with Patti Labelle; a further duet \"Don't Make Me Wait\" with Ray, Goodman & Brown; and \"To Tell You The Truth\". It was met with only moderate success, and Dash has not recorded an album since. Subsequently, Dash released another unnoticed dance single in 1990, \"When You Talk to Me/ Manhandled,\" with Disc jockey Jellybean Benitez.\n\nA dance music single with gospel lyrics called \"Hold On (He'll Be Right There),\" produced by Jason King and Gavin Bradley, was released in 2012.\n\nIn 1988, Keith Richards invited Dash to accompany him on tour: her association with him led to another world tour, a tour with Richards' X-pensive Winos, appearances on two of his albums, and on The Rolling Stones' \"Steel Wheels\" album in 1989. With Richards, she guested on \"Live at the Hollywood Palladium\" in 1988, and \"Main Offender\", in 1992. In the early 1990s, Sarah developed her own one-woman show, \"Dash of Diva,\" performing at different club venues, as well as doing a more jazz-flavored set that resulted in various appearances. In 1995, she reunited with Patti Labelle and Nona Hendryx to record the track \"Turn It Out\" for the movie soundtrack, \"To Woo Fong: Thanks For Everything\" garnering a No. 1 dance music hit in the process. \nAlso in 1988, Dash was asked to add her backing vocals to the Rolling Stones' \"Steel Wheels\" album, which eventually led to a tour with her old friend Keith Richards. They became close when Dash was still performing with Patti Labelle and The Blue Bells, who opened for Stones in the early 1960s. She recorded the duet \"Make No Mistake\" with him, and she took the lead vocal on \"Time Is on My Side\", showcasing her powerful delivery and vocal range, which, Keith has said in his autobiography, is 'the best version of that song he's ever heard'. She also recorded as lead vocalist for \"Rock Awhile\". For his next album, Dash wrote and sang another track, \"Body Talk\". Another highlight during her tour with Richards was her singing the female vocal on \"Gimme Shelter.\" Dash starts the song with her silvery \"Oohs' and then cuts loose on her solo in the middle of the song. Another contribution is only available on the Keith Richards song \"Eileen\", a CD single from his album \"Main Offender\" on the Virgin Records label. In 1992, Dash added her background vocals on the collaboration between Bo Diddley and Ronnie Wood's \"Live at the Ritz\" album.\n\nLately, Dash has made a few guest appearances on albums, including Temptation and Persuasions' cut \"Greener.\" From time to time, she also does jazz/blues shows in small clubs on the east coast.\n\nSarah took a break to work on her autobiography, \"Dash of Diva\". She decided with her friend and confidante Pam Johnson scripted excerpts and wrote a musical with the same title debut at The Cross Roads Theater in New Brunswick.\n\nDash received a citation from the deputy Mayor of New York City, Ruth Messinger, for her work and efforts in the underprivileged New York City community, where she raised funds for homeless single women with children. With her generous time, Dash collected donations and funds she acquired for these mothers and their children which included clothing, toys, books, after-school activities, excursions to amusement parks, theater in the parks, and food.\n\nThe biggest news for Dash and her fans lately is that Labelle, having reunited for television a few times over the years and sporadic recordings, recorded in January 2006, a tribute to civil rights leader Rosa Parks tentatively titled, \"Dear Rosa.\" In 2008, the long-awaited new album from Labelle founders; Patti Labelle, Nona Hendryx & Sarah Dash, \"Back to Now\", was released to rave reviews. Dash sings Lead vocals in the group's political song, \"System\", which featured LaBelle and Hendryx singing side by side to Dash in autotone, resurrecting songs that didn't make the final cut from earlier recordings, including Cole Porter's composition, \"Miss Otis Regrets\" amongst other songs. Dash's voice had taken a while to return after an injury on the New York City Subway and hospitalization, but she recovered her voice by the time of the recording. Producers on the project included rock superstar Lenny Kravitz, hip hop icon Wyclef Jean, plus legendary classic Philadelphia soul writer/producers Kenny Gamble & Leon Huff.\n\nDash headlined for a month in the San Francisco Cirque du Soleil influenced Teatro Zinzanni and performed at the 2007 Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay, Transgender parade. She was also busy at work on a gospel album at the time.\n\nDash was honored by her hometown of Trenton, New Jersey, by being the grand marshal in the annual Thanksgiving Day Parade. The parade was held on Saturday November 22, 2008. The honor was presented to Dash during a time when her hometown of Trenton is at a point where morale is at an all-time low and violent crimes such as murder have reached an all-time high. The hope is that such honors will spark encouragement in the city and show that people from Trenton can reach a measure of success with hard work.\n\nIt was announced in 2012 that Dash plans to release a full-length gospel album. She released a ballad from the album called \"I'm Still Here\" in late 2011, and a dance music single \"Hold On (He'll Be Right There),\" in May 2012.\n\nIn 2016, Dash was honored with a Lifetime Achievement Award by The National R&B Music Society\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288340", "title": "Liver biopsy", "text": "Liver biopsy\n\nLiver biopsy is the biopsy (removal of a small sample of tissue) from the liver. It is a medical test that is done to aid diagnosis of liver disease, to assess the severity of known liver disease, and to monitor the progress of treatment.\n\nLiver biopsy is often required for the diagnosis of a liver problem (jaundice, abnormal blood tests) where blood tests, such as hepatitis A serology, have not been able to identify a cause. It is also required if hepatitis is possibly the result of medication, but the exact nature of the reaction is unclear. Alcoholic liver disease and tuberculosis of the liver may be diagnosed through biopsy. Direct biopsy of tumors of the liver may aid the diagnosis, although this may be avoided if the source is clear (e.g. spread from previously known colorectal cancer).\n\nIf the diagnosis is already clear, such as chronic hepatitis B or hepatitis C, liver biopsy is useful to assess the severity of the associated liver damage. The same is true for haemochromatosis (iron overload), although it is frequently omitted. Primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis may require biopsy, although other diagnostic modalities have made this less necessary.\n\nOccasionally, liver biopsy is required to monitor the progress of treatment, such as in chronic viral hepatitis. It is an effective way to measure changes in the Ishak fibrosis score.\n\nFor the last century liver biopsy has been considered as the gold standard for assessing the stage and the grade of chronic liver disease. Consensus conference statements recommended liver biopsy in the management of almost all patients with hepatitis C and B.\n\nLiver biopsy is generally a safe procedure, but it is invasive. Complications of liver biopsy are rare but potentially lethal. The majority of complications (60%) occur within two hours, and 96% occur within 24 hours following the procedure. Approximately 2–3% of patients undergoing liver biopsy require hospitalization for the management of an adverse event. Thirty percent of patients experience significant pain during the procedure. Significant bleeding after a liver biopsy occurs in 1–2 out of 100 patients who are biopsied. Bleeding usually becomes apparent within three to four hours. It often stops on its own, but if it persists, a blood transfusion may be needed. Surgery or angiography (a procedure in which the bleeding site is identified and treated) may be required if the bleeding is severe or does not stop on its own. Intraperitoneal hemorrhage is the most serious consequence of bleeding. Fatal complications have been reported in up to 0.01–0.3% of biopsied patients.\n\nBiopsy results show significant variability (up to 40% for fibrosis diagnosis) which can lead to a wrong diagnosis. The result depends on the representativity of the punctured sample.\nOnly 5% of patients at risk of fibrosis have liver biopsy. In 2002, the consensus conferences in France and in the USA raised the possibility of treating patients with chronic hepatitis without liver biopsy. These conferences also underlined the necessity of developing reliable non-invasive tests that might be an alternative to liver biopsy both in hepatitis B and C.\n\nLiver biopsy will likely remain particularly important in the diagnosis of unexplained liver disease. Non-invasive tests for liver fibrosis in alcoholic, nonalcoholic and viral liver diseases are likely to become more widely used.\n\nLiver biopsies may be taken percutaneously (via a needle through the skin), transvenously (through the blood vessels), endoscopically (through endoscopic ultrasound fine needle biopsy), or directly during abdominal surgery. The sample is examined by microscope, and may be processed further by immunohistochemistry, determination of iron and copper content, and microbiological culture if tuberculosis is suspected\n\nFor a percutaneous biopsy, it is recommended to use a Birmingham gauge 16 or wider cutting needle, and obtaining a length of 20–25 mm of liver tissue. The presence of 10–12 portal tracts within the specimen is considered sufficient for reliable analysis, ensuring that architectural relationships between structures are maintained.\n\nThe first liver aspirate was performed by the German physician Paul Ehrlich in 1883. Percutaneous liver biopsy was first reported in the 1920s. The transjugular approach was pioneered by radiologist Charles Dotter in the 1970s.\n\nNon-invasive alternatives to liver biopsy include both functional staging (quantitative liver function tests) and determination of fibrosis from non-invasive tests. These latter tests are described below and share the disadvantage of estimating fibrosis rather than function. Functional staging has the advantage of evaluating the whole liver and directly measuring hepatic function that determines many clinical outcomes. The ability to predict clinical outcomes is the best proof of the value of a clinical test. Quantitative hepatic function tests were better than combinations of routine blood tests and Ishak fibrosis score in predicting clinical outcomes. The best of these were the perfused hepatic mass (PHM) by quantitative liver spleen scan (QLSS) and oral Cholate clearance and shunt. The QLSS measurement of spleen volume per ideal body weight was nearly as good.\n\nFibroTest (FibroSure in the USA) and FibroMax are non-invasive tests using a blood sample and an algorithm. The test results correspond to stages F0-F4 and grades A0-A3 of the METAVIR scoring system. In 2007 FibroTest was validated by French Health Authorities as a first-line diagnosis of liver injury before biopsy. It was recommended to be a better predictor than biopsy staging for hepatitis C complications and death.\n\nFibroScan is a type of ultrasound machine that uses transient elastography to measure liver stiffness. Its diagnostic performance for fibrosis is similar to that of methods based on serologic markers. Combined use of Fibroscan and Fibrotest could avoid a liver biopsy in most patients with chronic hepatitis C. Other ultrasonic techniques used to characterize liver stiffness include Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) Imaging.\n\nHepascore is a blood test developed in Australia combining the following clinical and laboratory variables: age, gender, bilirubin, GGT, hyaluronic acid, alpha 2 macroglobin to create a score. The test has been validated for patients with hepatitis B, hepatitis C and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.\n\nAPRI is a quick serum biomarker for fibrosis assessment from Italy. This simple index is made up of routine laboratory tests. The test has not been validated by Health Authorities. 50% of the results are unclassifiable. APRI may be useful for excluding significant fibrosis in hepatitis C.\n"}
{"id": "2288348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288348", "title": "White box (computer hardware)", "text": "White box (computer hardware)\n\nIn computer hardware, a white box is a personal computer or server without a well-known brand name. For instance, the term applies to systems assembled by small system integrators and to home-built computer systems assembled by end users from parts purchased separately at retail. In this latter sense, building a white box system is part of the DIY movement. The term is also applied to high volume production of unbranded PCs that began in the mid-1980s with 8 MHz Turbo XT systems selling for just under $1000.\n\nBecause form factors like ATX and connectors such as IDE, SATA, PCI, and PCI Express are industry-wide standards, a whole range of cases, motherboards, CPUs, hard disk drives, RAM and other parts can be obtained individually at many computer shops and assembled at home with a minimum of tools and technical skill. Alternatively, the shop itself may assemble components into a complete machine at a modest additional cost. Similarly, the less-common term \"whitebook\" denotes a notebook computer assembled from off-the-shelf parts.\n\nComputer professionals and intensive computer users (especially game players) often prefer white box computers constructed with higher quality components that they specify, as opposed to lower cost generic components often found in general purpose PCs. For these users, performance, longevity, expansion capability, and compatibility with non-Windows operating systems take precedence over achieving the absolute lowest cost through the use of the cheapest possible components.\n\nIn 2002, around 30% of personal computers sold annually were white box systems. Although saving money is a common motivation for building one's own PC, today it is generally more expensive to build a low-end PC than to buy a pre-built equivalent.\n\nWhile PCs built by system manufacturers generally come with a pre-installed operating system, white boxes from both large and small system vendors and other VAR channels can be ordered with or without a pre-installed OS. Usually when ordered with an operating system, the system builder uses an OEM copy of the OS. Self-building white box PCs are still popular among users of the Linux operating system to ensure hardware support and avoid the Microsoft tax, though some manufacturers such as Asus, Lenovo, and Dell offer Ubuntu pre-installed.\n\nIntel Corporation defined form factor and interconnection standards for notebook computer components, including \"Barebones\" (chassis and motherboard), hard disk drive, optical disk drive, LCD, battery pack, keyboard, and AC/DC adapter. These building blocks are primarily marketed to computer building companies, rather than DIY users.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288351", "title": "Lucky Star (Madonna song)", "text": "Lucky Star (Madonna song)\n\n\"Lucky Star\" is a song written and recorded by American singer Madonna for her eponymous debut album \"Madonna\" (1983). Sire Records released it as the fourth single from the album on September 8, 1983. The song was produced by Reggie Lucas, but Madonna was not impressed by his final version. She called her then-boyfriend John \"Jellybean\" Benitez to remix the track according to her ideas. \"Lucky Star\" is a medium-paced dance track and combines the heavy beats of a drum with the sounds of a guitar played in a high riff. The lyrics juxtapose the male body with the heavenly stars in the sky.\n\nMusic critics praised the song, heralding it as the introduction to upbeat dance music. In the United States, \"Lucky Star\" was released after the success of \"Borderline\". It peaked at number four on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, becoming the first single in her record-breaking string of 16 consecutive top-five hits. It also topped the Dance Club Songs chart with \"Holiday\". Internationally, \"Lucky Star\" reached the top ten in Canada, and the top twenty in Ireland and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe music video portrayed Madonna dancing in front of a white background, accompanied by her dancers. After the video was released, Madonna's style and mannerisms became a fashion trend among the younger generation. Scholars noted that in the video, Madonna portrayed herself as narcissistic and an ambiguous character. She referred to herself as the lucky star, unlike the lyrical meaning of the song. Madonna has performed the song in a number of live appearances, most recently at the Rebel Heart Tour (2015–16). It has also been covered by a number of artists.\n\nIn 1983, Madonna was recording her first studio album with Warner Music producer Reggie Lucas. However, she did not have enough new material to ensure a full LP album. Lucas produced a number of songs for the album, namely \"Borderline\", \"Burning Up\", \"Physical Attraction\", \"I Know It\", \"Think of Me\" and lastly \"Lucky Star\". The song was written by Madonna for DJ Mark Kamins, who previously promised to play the track at his club Danceteria, where he worked as a DJ. However, the track was instead used by Madonna for her debut album, which she planned to call \"Lucky Star\". She believed that \"Lucky Star\" song, along with \"Borderline\", were the perfect foundation for her album. But problems arose after recording the song. Madonna was unhappy with the way the final version turned out. According to her, Lucas used too many instruments and did not consider her ideas for the songs. This led to a dispute between the two and after finishing the album, Lucas left the project without altering the songs to Madonna's specifications. Hence, Madonna brought her then boyfriend John \"Jellybean\" Benitez to remix \"Borderline\" and \"Lucky Star\", along with some of the other recorded tracks. In a later interview, Benitez reflected back on the recording sessions and commented,\n\n\"She was unhappy with the whole damn thing, so I went in and sweetened up a lot of music for her, adding some guitars to 'Lucky Star', some voices, some magic. [...] I just wanted to do the best job I could do for her. When we would play back 'Holiday' or 'Lucky Star', you could see that she was overwhelmed by how great it all sounded. You wanted to help her, you know? As much as she could be a bitch, when you were in groove with her, it was very cool, very creative.\"\n\n\"Lucky Star\" was initially decided to be released as the third single from the album, but \"Holiday\" had already become a dance-hit in the United States. Hence it was released as the fourth single from the album. Music executive Jeff Ayeroff, who was instrumental in green-lighting Madonna's career, recalled how Madonna initially didn't want to release \"Lucky Star\" as a single. He says that around that time Madonna was getting sued and needed money, so he told her \"Let me release 'Lucky Star', and I guarantee that you'll sell enough records to pay that off.\" According to Ayeroff, he was right because \"'Lucky Star' broke the first album wide open.\"\n\nMusically a medium-paced dance track, \"Lucky Star\" starts off with a sparkle of synth note and is followed by heavy beats of electronic drum and handclaps. A guitar is played in high riff and a bubbling bass synth is produced to accompany the guitar sound. The song revolves around the \"star light, star bright\" hook for more than a minute, before going to the chorus. According to author Rikky Rooksby, the lyrics are repetitive and inane and revolves around the transparent ambiguity of the stars and juxtaposition of the male character with being a heavenly body in the sky. \"Lucky Star\" is set in the time signature of common time with a moderate dance tempo of 108 beats per minute. It is set in the key of G major with Madonna's voice spanning from the tonal nodes of G to F. The song has a basic sequence of G–A–B–D–E–F as its basic chord progression.\n\nAuthor J. Randy Taraborrelli, in his , called the song as \"fluffy, dance-able, but forgettable.\" However he noted the song's ingenuity which he credited to come from its simplicity and dance-music nature. Author Rikky Rooksby noted that Madonna had a \"cutesy\" voice in the song and compared her vocals with those of Cyndi Lauper. Author Simon Gage of the book \"Queer\" noted that the song was a \"happy disco number\". The song was appreciated by authors Santiago Fouz-Hernández and Freya Jarman-Ivens, who complimented it in their book \"Madonna's Drowned Worlds.\" They noted that with songs like \"Lucky Star\" and \"Burning Up\" (1983), Madonna introduced a \"style of upbeat dance music that would prove particularly appealing to future gay audiences.\"\n\nEnglish tenor and academic John Potter, in his book \"The Cambridge companion to singing\", commented that \"Lucky Star\" is a soft-soul, disco-influenced style song but criticized the song's reverb and double tracking which he believed made the song \"de-personalized\". Sal Cinquemani from Slant Magazine commented that the track had \"unknowingly prefaced her recent foray into the glittery halls of electronic-pop.\" Bill Lamb from About.com described the song, along with \"Holiday\" and \"Borderline,\" as \"state of the art dance-pop.\" While reviewing Madonna's 1990 compilation \"The Immaculate Collection\", David Browne from \"Entertainment Weekly\" complimented the remixed version of the song. Rock critic Robert Christgau, while reviewing \"The Immaculate Collection\", called the song \"blessed\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine from Allmusic described the song as effervescent.\n\n\"Lucky Star\" was released as the album's final single in the United States after \"Borderline\" had become her first top-ten hit. It debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart at 49, on the week of August 25, 1984. It finally reached a peak of four, and was present for a total of 18 weeks. It was able to enter other \"Billboard\" charts, such as Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and Hot Adult Contemporary, where it peaked at 42 and 19 respectively. Prior to its release, the song had already reached the top of the Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart along with \"Holiday\". In Canada, the song debuted at number 89 of the \"RPM\" Singles chart, reaching a peak of number eight in November 1984, and it was present on the chart for 19 weeks. It placed at number 72 on the \"RPM\" year-end chart for 1984.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Lucky Star\" was originally released as the album's second single in September 1983, simultaneously with \"Holiday\" in the United States. However, like its predecessor, the single failed to chart in the country. In March 1984, it was re-issued and then debuted on the UK Singles Chart at number 47, and reached a peak of number 14 after three weeks. The song was present on the chart for nine weeks. According to the Official Charts Company, \"Lucky Star\" has sold 117,470 copies in the United Kingdom, as of August 2008. In Ireland, the song was able to reach 19 on the Irish official charts. In Australia, the song made the top 40 of the Kent Music Report chart and peaked at 36.\n\nThe music video was directed by Arthur Pierson, and was produced by Glenn Goodwin, while Wayne Isham was in charge of photography. At the time of the song's release, Madonna's style of dress was catching on as a fashion statement among club kids and her fans. The most prominent among her fashion accessories were the crucifixes she wore as earrings, necklaces and bangles. Madonna commented that wearing a rosary and a crucifix is \"kind of offbeat and interesting. I mean, everything I do is sort of tongue-in-cheeks. Besides, the crucifixes seem to go with my name.\" In reality, she was trying to find a separate image for herself, being inspired by then artists like Boy George, Cyndi Lauper and David Bowie, and their constantly shifting image and persona. Madonna realized the importance of her music videos and its popularity via MTV—launched in 1981—was instrumental in popularizing her image.\n\nThe sign for Madonna's fashion started with the music video for \"Lucky Star\". In the video, Madonna wore an all-black outfit with leggings, ankle boots, and bare midriff, with her messy hair tied in a floppy black ribbon. This was coupled with a shiny black miniskirt, an earring on her right ear, cut-off gloves and rubber bangles. Madonna's friend Erika Belle was credited with designing the outfit, although biographer Mary Cross noted that Madonna was after all wearing her day-to-day outfit. Mary Lambert, then a Rhode Island School of Design graduate, was decided for directing the video. However, Arthur Pierson replaced her as the director. Warner Bros. gave Pierson a small budget to make the video, shot in an afternoon. Madonna's real-life brother, Christopher Ciccone, is a backup dancer in the video. In his book \"Life with My Sister Madonna\" he says that although he was only paid $200 to dance in the video, at the time he was \"just happy to be part of it.\" The video starts with the close-up of Madonna's face, as she slides her sunglasses down her nose. This scene was a reference to the character of Lolita in Stanley Kubrick's 1962 film of the same name, and Audrey Hepburn in the movie \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\" (1961). The image then fades to white, denoting the celestial stars dazzle, and then resumes itself in color. Madonna is shown dancing against a plain white background, along with closeups of her mesmerized gaze. She is accompanied by Belle and brother Christopher, as backup dancers. The video ends with the initial black-and-white image repeated, but in retrograde, as Madonna puts back on the sunglasses. The taking down and putting up of those sunglasses provided a frame to contain the song, functioning like a curtain that marks the opening and closing of a stage performance.\n\nDance historian Sally Banes, in her book \"Before, between, and beyond: three decades of dance writing\", noted that the video portrayed Madonna as both the subject and the object of the song. She believed that in the video, Madonna taking off her sunglasses symbolized herself as a movie star, thus creating an ambiguous characterization of herself, and a narcissistic theme. Author Peter Goodwin, in his book \"Television under the Tories: Broadcasting Policy 1979–1997\", commented that although \"Lucky Star\" is not a narrative video, in the clip Madonna plays at least four characters:—the person in sunglasses looking; a break-dancing girl; an androgynous social dancer; and a seductress. The juxtaposition of all these characterizations portray Madonna as a narcissistic self-lover. Images of Madonna's body writhing against the white background generates the question whether she is addressing her lover or herself in the song. According to Goodman, Madonna created an eroticized woman for her own pleasure only. Cathy Smith from \"Time\" magazine noted that \"[s]he's sexy, but she doesn't need men [...] she's kind of there all by herself.\"\n\nMadonna's brother Christopher Ciccone wrote about the video shoot in his tell all book Life With My Sister Madonna. He added: \"At the beginning of February, Madonna asks us (Erika Belle) to dance in her “LuckyStar” video, to be shot in L.A., and Erika and I fly there together. This is my\nfirst trip out there since I was a teenager. I have never seen so many palm trees, so much sun, and so many tanned and perfectly stretched faces in my life. We shoot the video at the old Charlie Chaplin studio, which is pretty much the same as when it was originally built in the thirties. I get paid just $200 for dancing in the “Lucky Star” video and don’t get any royalties either. However, at the time, I am happy just to be a part of it. The camaraderie between Madonna, Erika, Martin, and me is enough for me. After we shoot the video, we all go to Studio One, above Rose Tattoo, and dance the night away.\"\n\n\"Lucky Star\" has been a setlist staple on four of Madonna's concert tours: The Virgin Tour (1985), the Who's That Girl World Tour (1987), the Confessions Tour (2006), and the Rebel Heart Tour (2015–16). On The Virgin Tour, Madonna performed the song wearing an entirely black costume, consisting of a crop top worn beneath a vest, fringed elbow length gloves, a fringed miniskirt, leggings, and low heel leather boots. She also wore a crucifix earring in one ear and a silver cross pattée was pinned to the right shoulder of her vest. Madonna sang the original version of the song, and pranced around the stage while showing her midriff. The performance was included in the \"\" VHS, released in 1985. At the Who's That Girl World Tour, \"Lucky Star\" was performed as the second song of the set list. Madonna wore a black bustier like the music video to her single \"Open Your Heart\" (1987). Her hair was platinum blond and in a big bushy shape. The performance of \"Lucky Star\" included a disco ball spinning above the stage, as Madonna and her dancers moved around it as the light from the ball flickered on them like a star. Two different performances are found in \"\" tour video filmed at Stadio Communale in Turin, Italy on September 4, 1987 and the \"Who's That Girl: Live in Japan\" tour video filmed at Korakuen Stadium in Tokyo, Japan on June 22, 1987.\n\nOn the Confessions Tour, \"Lucky Star\" was performed with Madonna dressed in a purple and white leotard, designed by Jean-Paul Gaultier. Following the performance of \"La Isla Bonita\" Madonna lies face-down on the stage. Her dancers wrap a cape around her that proclaim the word \"Dancing Queen\" at the back. The intro to \"Lucky Star\" is heard, Madonna gets up and faces the audience. The lights go off and Madonna opens the cape to reveal the inside of the cape to be lit. Her backup singers join her and together they move around the stage, while singing the song. Towards the end of the song, Madonna also sings the chorus of the next performance, \"Hung Up\". The performance was included on both the CD and the DVD version of \"The Confessions Tour\", released in 2007. Ed Gonzalez of \"Slant Magazine\" compared Madonna's performance of \"Lucky Star\" as \"a soul butterfly fluttering to the disco heavens during a remix of [the song] that actually makes [it] sound good.\" Thomas Inskeep from \"Stylus\" called the performance fresh. Christian John Wikane from PopMatters was not impressed with the performance; he felt that singing the song over the newly arranged chord progression, is cold and pairing the original arrangement with the ABBA sample is \"[a] match not made in heaven, though Madonna's skin-tight, ABBA-esque jump suit is an amusing intertextualization.\"\n\nOn the Rebel Heart Tour, \"Lucky Star\" was performed in a flamenco-style medley with \"Dress You Up\", \"Into the Groove\" and \"Everybody\". During the sequence the singer dressed by in a Latin and gypsy inspired dress, created by Alessandro Michele for Gucci consisting off a shawl, flamenco hat, lace, skirts and jacquard bodysuit.\n\nThe 2000 album \"Virgin Voices: A Tribute To Madonna, Vol. 2\" included a trip hop cover of the song by Switchblade Symphony. Heather Phares of Allmusic called it as one of the album's finest moments. A folk music cover of the song by Alexandra Hope was included on the 2007 Madonna tribute compilation \"Through the Wilderness\".\n\n\"Lucky Star\" was featured in the 1988 movie \"Running on Empty\" in the scene where River Phoenix's character is in music class. It was used in the 2000 British movie \"Snatch\", directed by Guy Ritchie who fathered a child with Madonna during the making of the film. The music video of \"Lucky Star\" was referenced in the 1994 film \"Pulp Fiction\" in the scene where Fabienne (played by Maria de Medeiros) tells her boyfriend (played by Bruce Willis) that she wants a pot belly \"like Madonna when she did 'Lucky Star'.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the \"Madonna\" album liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288352", "title": "Karuk language", "text": "Karuk language\n\nKaruk or Karok is an endangered American Indian language spoken in Northwestern California in the region surrounding the Klamath River. It is classified as severely endangered by UNESCO with only around 12 fluent native speakers of the language left. It is the traditional language of the Karuk people, most of whom now speak English. The name is derived from the word \"Káruk\", which means 'upriver'. Since 1949, there have been efforts to revitalize the language and increase the number of speakers by linguists such as Dr. William Bright and Susan Gehr as well as members of the Karuk community. Bright and Gehr published a Karuk dictionary in 2005, which is available online as a resource for learners.\n\nThe Karuk language originated around the Klamath River between Seiad Valley and Bluff Creek. Before European contact, it is estimated that there may have been up to 1,500 speakers. Linguist William Bright documented the Karuk language. When Bright began his studies in 1949, there were \"a couple of hundred fluent speakers,\" but by 2011, there were fewer than a dozen fluent elders. A standardized system for writing the languages was adopted in the 1980s.\n\nThe region where the Karuk tribe lived remained largely undisturbed until beaver trappers came through the area in 1827. In 1848, gold was discovered in California, and thousands of Europeans came to the Klamath River and its surrounding region to search for gold. The Karuk territory was soon filled with mining towns, manufacturing communities, and farms. The salmon that the tribe relied on for food became less plentiful because of contamination in the water from mining, and many members of the Karuk tribe died from either starvation or new diseases that the Europeans brought with them to the area. Many members of the Karuk tribe were also killed or sold into slavery by the Europeans. Karuk children were sent to boarding schools where they were Americanized and told not to use their native language. These combined factors caused the use of the Karuk language to steadily decline over the years until measures were taken to attempt to revitalize the language.\n\nKaruk is a language isolate, sharing few if any similarities with other nearby languages. Historically, the American linguist Edward Sapir proposed it be classified as part of the Hokan family he hypothesized although little evidence supports this proposal. As Bright wrote, \"The Karok language is not closely or obviously related to any other (in the area), but has been classified as a member of the northern group of Hokan languages, in a subgroup which includes Chimariko and the Shasta languages, spoken in the same general part of California as Karok itself.\"\n\nKaruk is spoken within the range of the original territory where the Karuk people lived prior to European contact. The ancestral territory is in Northwestern California in Siskiyou, Humboldt, and Del Norte counties. The language originated around the Klamath River between Seiad Valley and Bluff Creek. Most Karuk speakers now live in the towns of Somes Bar, which is near the Karuk Center of the World (in Karuk, \"Katimiin\"), Happy Camp (\"Athithufvuunupma\"), and Orleans (\"Panamniik\").\n\nThe Karuk people originally owned 1.04 million acres of land until it was claimed as public territory in 1905 under the Forest Reserve Act during the Roosevelt administration. In 1887, some members of the Karuk tribe were given small plots of land under the General Allotment Act. In the 1970's, elders from the Karuk tribe bought back two properties in Orleans and Happy Camp and have acquired 1,661 acres of land that the tribe can use for ceremonies, housing, and resource management.\n\nThere are only 5 vowels in Karuk, as shown by the chart, where \"a\", \"i\", and \"u\" have both long and short vowels, while \"e\" and \"o\" have only long vowels.\n\nKaruk only has 16 consonants, a small number compared to the relatively large consonant inventories of most California languages. Karuk also does not show any secondary articulation to its consonants such as glottalization or labialization, also unusual for a Californian language.\n\nWhen two high vowels are juxtaposed in a word, then the first vowel turns into a glide in the following examples.\n\n\"Note: Syllabification in these examples are from right-to-left.\"\n\nThe following example is a more rare case in Karuk where the syllabification is from left-to-right.\n\nKaruk consonants have been historically written using several different conventions. A comparison between these conventions follows:\n\nThe two consonant sequences are distinguished from the digraphs which represent the singular phonemes with the use of a dash .\n\nKaruk's stress system necessitates notation of tones in its orthography.\n\nAccents on long vowels are notated only on the first letter in the digraph. The stressed high-falling tone only appears with long vowels.\n\nKaruk is a polysynthetic language known for its method of arranging old and new information: \"... skilled Karuk speakers use separate words to communicate new, salient detail, or to underscore known detail; and they use affixes for background details so that a listener's attention is not diverted.\"\n\nKaruk is similar to many other American Indian Languages because \"verbs bear a complex person-marking system, where subject and object are marked in portmanteau prefixes.\" Depending on the subject and the object the speaker is referring to, there is a prefix for both positive and negative indicatives as well as a prefix for the potential mood. Through his research, William Bright found the language lacks words for cardinal directions, but uses suffixes on verbs to describe relevant direction. Many motion verbs have a singular and plural form. Through morphology, long-form vowels are used when \"a\" is next to \"i\" or \"u\". Karuk uses accents where vowels can sound different in each word, making the language difficult to learn. Although the structure may be similar, Karuk is considered to be much different than its neighboring languages, such as Yurok.\n\nKaruk uses prefixes and suffixes in a way William Bright relates to how English words \"snort\", \"sniff\", and \"sneeze\" all start with a \"sn-\". The following are examples of prefixes in Karuk.\n\n\"Note: More translations can be found online in the Dictionary section depicting Dr. Bright's research.\"\n\nDr. William Bright started studying the Karuk language in 1949 in pursuit of his doctorate in linguistics at U.C Berkeley. Bright was met with open arms by tribal elders and was taken in and called Uhyanapatánvaanich, or \"little word-asker\" in Karuk. A little under a decade later, Bright published \"The Karok Language\" (University of California), which was a highly informative piece on the Karuk language, its grammar, and syntax. Bright worked with Susan Gehr, a tribe member and fellow linguist, on a Karuk dictionary, which was published in 2005. Bright was a different type of linguist because he did not see language without cultural context. He would record everyday conversations, songs, stories, and poetry of fluent Karuk speakers to attempt to capture the language and what it meant to those speaking it. He spent over fifty years studying, researching, and documenting Karuk, and is the only non-Indian to be inducted as an honorary member of the tribe thanks to his contributions to the community. Bright was buried on Karuk land when he died in 2006.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Humboldt State University started the \"American Indian Bilingual Teacher Credential Program\", where they brought in teachers from four local tribes, the Hupa, Yurok, Karuk, and Tolowa. These teachers were bilingual in their tribe's native language as well as English, and would be employed in local public schools to teach American Indian children. The university developed this initiative to help local American Indian populations either further develop their English for higher education or develop their native language to preserve culture. Bilingual teachers in both Karuk and English would teach at Orleans and Happy Camp Elementary Schools, where children would learn how to live in America while keeping their identity.\n\nIn 1990, attempts were made to revive the language by the Karuk Language Restoration Committee. This committee, composed of eight volunteers, drafted a 5-year minimum plan in an attempt to preserve the Karuk language and help it grow in the future. The committee was also advised by Dr. William Bright and tribal member Julian Lang, a dedicated researcher of the language. Their studies showed that the decline of the language is caused by a combination of a lack of younger fluent speakers, a decline in the number of speakers, not being typically taught at home at young ages, a lack of flexibility preventing it from being modernized, and the inability of most tribal members to read the language.\n\nThe committee ultimately created a five-step plan:\n\nAn immersion method called the master-apprentice program was started in 1992 by Advocates for Indigenous California Language Survival to aid in Karuk revitalization efforts. In order to fully immerse a beginning speaker in Karuk, people who are interested in learning the language are paired with a fluent native speaker who they follow throughout the day. During this time spent with the native speaker, learners are only allowed to speak Karuk. The program is intensive, typically lasting 40 hours a week for 3 years. Around 20 groups had successfully gone through the entire program as of the year 2011.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288357", "title": "St Columb Minor", "text": "St Columb Minor\n\nSt Columb Minor () is a village on the north coast of Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. \"St. Columb\" alone by default refers to the nearby St. Columb Major.\n\nAt one time St Columb Minor used to be the main settlement in the area, but it has now been encroached upon by its larger neighbour Newquay. The National School in the Square was built in 1842. It is on the site of the Parsonage and is now used as a Men's Institute. While still an ecclesiastical parish St Columb Minor is no longer a civil parish, forming part of Newquay CP.\n\nThe western end of the church and yard is in view of the Trevelgue clifftop twin tumuli, known locally as The Barrows. It is sheltered from the strong winds of the Atlantic and looks down the Rialton Valley and across to Castle-an-Dinas on the summit of Castle Downs. Local legend has it that the Celtic missionaries, centuries before the Columba legend arose, drove away the evil spirits and replaced pagan magic by Christian worship, and erected a wooden sanctuary. The church-town lay to the west and south while the shelving ground to the north and east prevented building. Hence, as in the case of so many villages, development in the 20th century extended further from the parish church, in this case towards Porth Bean and Henver Roads, leading into Newquay.\n\nAs of 1896 there were a Cornish cross and four cross bases in the parish: the cross is at Cross Close and is unusual in being almost circular in section. This cross, known as Double Stiles or Three Stiles Cross was moved to a new position when a housing estate was built in 1954. A cross formerly at Lavethan, Blisland, was sold in 1991 and set up in a cottage garden in Newquay.\n\nIn Celtic and Anglo-Saxon times Rialton was the head manor of the Hundred of Pydar and belonged to the monks of St Petroc at Bodmin. The monastery remained in possession after the Norman Conquest and a manor house was built here by Prior Vivian (Thomas Vivian, titular Bishop of Megara) c. 1510. The manor passed to the Duchy of Cornwall in 1538 but some of the manor house remains.\n\nSt Columb Minor is served, at primary level, by St Columb Minor ACE Academy - part of the Atlantic Centre of Excellence Multi-Academy Trust.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288362", "title": "I'll Stick Around", "text": "I'll Stick Around\n\n\"I'll Stick Around\" is the second single released by the Foo Fighters from their 1995 self titled debut album \"Foo Fighters\". \n\nThe video for this song was the first Foo Fighters music video and was directed by Jerry Casale, who was a member of and directed videos for Devo. Casale said he was chosen due to Devo's well-known surreal music videos, which would fit Grohl's request for a \"non-video video\", done for just $60,000. The video shows the band performing the song in a room with a paper background while lights strobe and a giant spore floats around them (the spore, described by Casale as \"Foo Ball\", was inspired by the foo fighter phenomenon that named the band, and its original conception was a \"bloated, charred, inflated girl representing Courtney\", but as Grohl's management vetoed the idea, it was replaced by an \"3D HIV virus based on medical models from \"Scientific America\" \"(sic)\" magazine\"). This is interspersed with footage of Dave Grohl eating chess pieces (an idea by the singer itself, done with \"frame by frame stop-action animation\") and brushing his teeth with what appears to be a butter knife (although there is no blood).\n\n\nMusicians on the album\nMusicians in the music video\n\nUK promo CD/ US promo CD\n\n7\" Red Vinyl single / Cardsleeve CD Single\n\nUK CD single/12\" vinyl single\n\nJapanese CD Maxi-Single\n"}
{"id": "2288363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288363", "title": "Pueblo Memorial Airport", "text": "Pueblo Memorial Airport\n\nPueblo Memorial Airport is a public airport located six miles east of Pueblo, in Pueblo County, Colorado, United States. It is primarily used for general aviation.\n\nFederal Aviation Administration records say the airport had 4,345 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2008, 5,192 in 2009 and 11,641 in 2010. The National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2011–2015 called it a \"non-primary commercial service\" airport based on enplanements in 2008/2009 (between 2,500 and 10,000 per year).\n\nBuilt in 1941 as the Pueblo Army Air Base, it was used as an advanced flying school to train B-17 Flying Fortress and B-24 Liberator four engine heavy bomber crews. It was under the command of the United States Army Air Forces Second Air Force 360th Army Air Force Base Unit. Known bomb groups which trained or based at Pueblo were:\n\n\nThe history of the Air Base is preserved with the Pueblo Historical Aircraft Society and its Pueblo Weisbrod Aircraft Museum.\n\nIn 1948 it was handed over to the City of Pueblo. In the 1960s the main east-west runway (8/26) was extended from 6,000' to 10,000' to accommodate jet aircraft.\n\nToday, Pueblo Memorial Airport is home of the United States Air Force's Initial Flight Training (IFT) program under the cognizance of the 12th Flying Training Wing at Randolph AFB, Texas and the 306th Flying Training Group at the U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado. IFT began operations on October 1, 2006, replacing the former Pilot Indoctrination Program (PIP) for USAF Academy cadets, the Flight Instruction Program (FIP) for Air Force ROTC cadets, and the Initial Flight Screening (IFS) program previously operated at South Texas Regional Airport at Hondo, Texas for USAF officers commissioned via Officer Training School. Doss Aviation, under contract with the USAF, conducts flight training for between 1300 and 1700 USAF officer student pilot and student combat system officer trainees annually.\n\nPueblo Memorial Airport covers 3,872 acres (1,567 ha) at an elevation of 4,729 feet (1,441 m). It has three runways:\n\nRunways 8R/26L and 17/35 are asphalt with a porous friction course overlay to improve surface drainage and increase aircraft braking action. Runway 8L/26R has a 3-4 inch asphalt overlay on of Portland cement concrete.\n\nIn the year ending January 1, 2011 the airport had 182,119 aircraft operations, an average of 498 per day: 95% general aviation, 3% air taxi, <1% airline and 2% military. In March 2017, there were 128 aircraft based at this airport: 109 single-engine, 9 multi-engine, 8 jet, 1 helicopter and 1 glider.\n\nPueblo was initially a hub and crossroads for commercial airline traffic from the late 1920s through the 1970s. The first carrier to serve Pueblo was The Colorado Airways which operated a north-south route from Cheyenne, WY to Pueblo with stops in Denver and Colorado Springs from 1926 through 1927. Western Air Express (WAE) acquired the route in 1927 and in 1929 the route was extended southward to El Paso, TX with stops in Trinidad, Las Vegas (NM), Santa Fe, and Albuquerque. This southward extension was initially operated by Mid-Continent Air Express but acquired by WAE in 1931. WAE also operated a route from Pueblo to Amarillo, TX from 1929 through 1934. The first air carriers primarily focus was transporting mail and connecting with the transcontinental mainline routes of United Airlines at Cheyenne, with TWA at Albuquerque, and with American Airlines at El Paso. In 1934, the north-south route was divided between two new carriers, Wyoming Air Service, which operated the legs from Cheyenne to Pueblo, and Varney Speed Lines, which operated the legs from Pueblo to Albuquerque and El Paso. In 1937, Varney Speed Lines was changed to Continental Airlines and Continental then operated the route beginning in Denver and flying southward to El Paso. In 1939 Continental added an eastward extension from Pueblo to Wichita and later to Tulsa making stops in La Junta CO, Garden City, Dodge City, and Hutchinson, KS. Aircraft first used included the Lockheed Vega, Lockheed Model 12 Electra Junior, Lockheed Model 14 Super Electra, Lockheed Model 18 Lodestar, and the Douglas DC-3 by the mid-1940s. In the late 1940s Convair 240 aircraft were introduced followed by the Convair 340 and the Vickers Viscount in the 1950s. The eastbound route to Tulsa ended in 1961 and the north-south route ended in 1963 which ended all Continental service to Pueblo.\n\nBraniff Airways began service by 1945 on a route from Denver to Brownsville, TX with stops in Colorado Springs, Pueblo, Amarillo, Wichita Falls, Fort Worth, Dallas, Houston, and Corpus Christi. At times some flights operated from Pueblo to Amarillo, Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Little Rock, and Memphis. Douglas DC-3 aircraft were used and Braniff's service to Pueblo continued through 1952.\n\nMonarch Air Lines Began service on November 27, 1946 with a route from Denver to Durango making stops in Colorado Springs, Pueblo, Canon City, and Monte Vista, CO using DC-3 aircraft. Monarch was merged with two other carriers to become Frontier Airlines on June 1, 1950.\n\nFrontier Airlines continued serving Pueblo with DC-3s and extended the route from Durango westward to Phoenix with several more stops in New Mexico and Arizona. A new route from Denver to Grand Junction was also started with stops in Pueblo, Gunnison, and Montrose, CO. Convair 340 aircraft were introduced in the late 1950s and upgraded to the Convair 580 by the mid-1960s. Frontier acquired the original north-south route from Denver to El Paso in 1963 previously operated by Continental Airlines. The direct flights to Phoenix ended in 1971 and the southward legs from Pueblo to Albuquerque and El Paso ended in 1974. A route from Pueblo to Amarillo, Oklahoma City, and Tulsa was also operated from 1967 through 1977. These flights would then continue onto Kansas City or to Memphis. Boeing 727-200 and 737-200 jets were flown from Pueblo to Colorado Springs and Denver from 1971 through 1981. These flights typically continued onto Kansas City and St. Louis. 737 jets were also flown to Durango, CO briefly in the late 1970s. All Frontier service at Pueblo ended on March 14, 1982.\n\nCentral Airlines began serving Pueblo in 1961 with routes from Denver to Kansas City and Oklahoma City stopping in Pueblo and Amarillo as well as several more points in Colorado, Kansas, and Oklahoma. Douglas DC-3 aircraft were first used and upgraded to Convair 600s by the mid 1960s. Central Airlines was merged into Frontier Airlines in 1967 and Frontier continued operating these routes through the 1970s.\n\nAir Midwest operated a late night mail route from Pueblo to Garden City and Dodge City, KS from 1967 through 1977 in which they occasionally transported passengers. A Beechcraft 99 aircraft was used.\n\nTrans Central Airlines, a commuter airline, provided service along the north-south route from Denver to Albuquerque in 1968 through 1970. Stops were made at Pueblo, Trinidad, Raton, and Las Vegas (NM) and Cessna 402 aircraft were flown.\n\nPioneer Airlines took over service from Pueblo to Denver from 1982 through 1983 following the termination of service by Frontier. Swearingen Metroliner aircraft were used and service was also provided to Santa Fe, NM.\n\nRocky Mountain Airways then provided service to Denver from 1983 through 1986 using de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter aircraft.\n\nMesa Airlines briefly served Pueblo in late 1987 with flights to Albuquerque using Beechcraft 99 and Beechcraft 1900C commuter aircraft.\n\nAmerica West Airlines operated Boeing 737-200 jet service from Pueblo to Phoenix and Las Vegas from 1985 through 1991. Many flights would stop in Colorado Springs.\n\nTrans World Airlines, (TWA), provided service to St. Louis with a stop in Colorado Springs from 1988 through 1992 using Boeing 727-200 and McDonnell Douglas MD-80 jets.\n\nContinental Express, a feeder service for Continental Airlines reinstated Continental service to Pueblo in 1986 with flights to Denver. Rocky Mountain Airways first operated this service through 1991 then Britt Airways until 1994. In 1994 service was changed to Continental Connection operated by GP Express Airlines. GP Express also flew from Pueblo to Amarillo during this time. Most flights were flown with Beechcraft 1900C aircraft. All Continental service to Pueblo ended January 9, 1995.\n\nUnited Express, a feeder service for United Airlines began serving Pueblo in 1990 with flights to Denver. Mesa Airlines operated the service through 1998 then Great Lakes Airlines from 1998 until 2002. Both carriers used Beechcraft 1900D aircraft.\n\nGreat Lakes Airlines then continued serving the Pueblo-Denver route under their own identity through 2004 then returned from 2006 through early 2014 using Beechcraft 1900D aircraft. Great Lakes returned once more from late 2015 through 2017 with flights to Denver using an Embraer EMB-120 Brasilia aircraft.\n\nMesa Airlines also returned to Pueblo and filled in the service to Denver from late 2004 through 2005 while Great Lakes stopped operating the route. Mesa also flew to Albuquerque during this time and continued to use Beechcraft 1900D aircraft.\n\nAllegiant Air provided McDonnell Douglas MD-80 jet service to Las Vegas, Nevada from October, 2010 through April 8, 2012. Allegiant's flights operated twice per week.\n\nUnited Express returned to service the Pueblo-Denver route in 2014. This service was operated by SkyWest Airlines using Embraer EMB-120 Brasilias and this service ended in mid-2015. United Express service returned in December 2017 and continues operating today with CRJ-200 regional jets. An extension of one Denver-Pueblo flight continues to Liberal, KS.\n\nUp until the mid-1990s, Pueblo was served by multiple airlines and for much of the year 1991, four airlines were operating at Pueblo simultaneously, America West, TWA, Continental Express, and United Express. Pueblo has also seen mainline jet service (727s, 737s, and MD-80s) by four airlines. Since 1995 however, service has only been provided by one airline with commuter or regional jet flights to Denver with the exception of the Allegiant Air service in 2010-2012. Pueblo falls under the Essential Air Service program in which the U. S. Government subsidizes an airline to provide air service to a city. This subsidy comes up for bid every two years therefore Pueblo has seen its air service provider frequently change. There have also been times where there has been no commercial air service to Pueblo such as in the spring of 2014 and the summer and fall of 2015.\n\nThe service between Pueblo and Denver is operated by SkyWest on behalf of United Express.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288365", "title": "Camp Iguana", "text": "Camp Iguana\n\nCamp Iguana is a small compound in the detention camp complex on the US Naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Camp Iguana originally held three child detainees, who camp spokesmen then claimed were the only detainees under age 16 (the age at which DOD defined minors). It was closed in the winter of 2004 when the three were sent back to their native countries.\n\nWhen the Department of Defense was forced in 2005 by US District Court Judge Jed Rakoff's court order to release the identities of all the detainees, DOD acknowledged it had detained up to twenty minors (under the age of 18, the international coming of age) in the adult portion of the prison.\n\nIn 2005 Camp Iguana was re-opened to hold some of the 38 detainees classified in Combatant Status Review Tribunals as \"no longer enemy combatants.\" These included several Uyghurs, who could not return to China because of the high risk of persecution there. They were subject to delays in resettlement as diplomatic efforts tried to place them in countries other than their country of origin or the United States.\n\nBeginning in 2002, the US used Camp Iguana for juvenile detainees. Elaine Chao,then he U.S. Secretary of Labor has spoken about the responsibility to give child soldiers special treatment, to provide help for them to re-integrate into society.\n\nIf the Americans had applied the Geneva Conventions at the battlefield, its forces would have reviewed detainees more closely in Afghanistan and other areas of capture. The Geneva Conventions entitle persons captured during warfare to a \"prompt, open tribunal\" for a fair determination of their status—whether they should be considered civilians, POWs, or enemy combatants. Critics have said a more thorough review at the beginning would have meant the juveniles would never have been transported from Afghanistan.\n\nThe executive branch of the United States government claimed at the time that enemy combatants were beyond the jurisdiction of the US courts. The United States Supreme Court overruled executive efforts to keep the enemy combatants outside the US judicial system; in decisions in 2004, it ruled that both American and foreign detainees had the right to challenge their detentions before an impartial tribunal. The executive branch established Combatant Status Review Tribunals in 2004 to evaluate whether detainees were enemy combatants.\n\nIn a BBC interview in 2004, Naqibullah, a young Afghan teenager, described being treated humanely, and receiving an education, while in Camp Iguana.\n\nA 2 February 2004 memo summarized a meeting between General Geoffrey Miller, commander of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, and his staff and Vincent Cassard of the ICRC. Geoffrey Miller said:\n\nAlso, CDR Timby is in the process of finishing the report from the arrival and departure of the juveniles, they showed exceptional progress. 2 of the 3 came here with psychological problems and left here with none. They are looking forward to starting a life again. They were very excited to return home and were in good spirits.\"\n\nIn the spring of 2005, the media reported that other detainees were held at Guantanamo who had first been detained at ages lower than 18 (the international definition of a minor.) A \"New York Times\" article published on 13 June 2005, said there were at least six other teenagers, who were kept within the general population and treated as adults.\nMilitary officials explained this as saying they had to estimate detainee ages. :\"They don't come with birth certificates,\" said Col. Brad K. Blackner, the chief public affairs officer at the detention camp. Col. David McWilliams, the chief spokesman for the United States Southern Command in Miami, which runs the prison operation, said that the authorities were fairly confident of their estimates. \"We used bone scans in some cases and age was determined by medical evidence as best we could,\" he said.\"\nMilitary officials explained this as saying they had to estimate detainee ages.\n\nOmar Khadr was 15 when captured. United States intelligence officers were reported to know his age and identity because of the prominence of his father, Ahmed Khadr and because his older brother Abdurahman cooperated with the CIA as an undercover agent at Guantanamo. A \"Washington Post\" article from 29 October 2002 reported:\n\nOne particularly talkative prisoner there is Omar Khadr, who at sixteen is one of the youngest prisoners in U.S. custody. U.S. officials allege that on 27 July he killed a U.S. Special Forces medic, Sgt. Christopher Speer, during a four-hour, house-to-house battle in the village of Ayub Kheyl. The wounded youth was captured, taken to Bagram, treated for his wounds and interrogated.\n\nAbdul Salam Mureef Ghaithan Al Shehri, a Saudi citizen who was fifteen when he was captured, celebrated his eighteenth birthday in Guantanamo Bay, in late April 2005.\n\nIn an interview broadcast on the BBC on 9 September 2005, Clive Stafford Smith reported that the continued incarceration of juveniles between 16 and 18 at Guantanamo Bay was a catalyst for the protests of the hunger strikes, which took place during the summer of 2005. The United Nations determined that to forcefeed the strikers amounts to torture. At the time, Smith said that as many as twenty teenagers remained imprisoned at Guantanamo, some of whom were being kept in long-term, solitary confinement. The legal director of Reprieve and a prominent British human rights lawyer, he represents 37 Guantanamo detainees.\n\nIn May 2009 Afghan human rights workers challenged the American bone-scan estimate for the age of Mohammed Jawad, a former detainee. They assert he had been as young as 12 or 13 when he was captured in December 2002.\n\nOn 25 August 2005, the Associated Press reported that Camp Iguana was being reopened to hold detainees whose CSRTs had concluded that they were not \"enemy combatants\".\n\nOthers who were declassified as enemy combatants, including Sami Al Laithi, continued to be detained in Camp Delta.\n\nOn 5 May 2006 five Uighurs, who had been held in Camp Iguana, were transported to a refugee center in Albania prior to a review of their writs of \"habeas corpus.\" This was scheduled for the Monday after the weekend. These five were among a total of 15 Uighurs who were reported to have been determined not to have been \"enemy combatants.\" They were kept at Guantanamo as the US tried to place them; they feared return to China because of persecution.\n\nIn a telephone interview, Abu Baker Qassim, one of the Uighurs sent to Albania, said Camp Iguana had held nine innocent men before their departure. The other four innocent men had been a Russian, an Algerian, a Libyan, and a man who had been born in Saudi Arabia to Uighur exiles.\n\nOn 30 September 2008, Assistant Attorney General Gregory Katsas filed a \"notice of status\" on the seventeen remaining Uyghur detainees. He said they were no longer to be treated as enemy combatants. Their attorneys pointed out that several of their clients remained in solitary confinement, which is considered severe punishment. The DOD said that all the Uyghurs would be transferred to Camp Iguana for better conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288373", "title": "Adrano", "text": "Adrano\n\nAdrano (), ancient Adranon, is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Catania on the east coast of Sicily.\n\nIt is situated around northwest of Catania, which is also the capital of the province to which Adrano belongs. It lies near the foot of Mount Etna, at the confluence of the Simeto and Salso rivers. It is the commercial center for a region where olives and citrus fruit are grown. Neighbouring towns include: Biancavilla, Bronte, Paternò, Randazzo, Santa Maria di Licodia and Centuripe.\n\nThe settlement was founded by Dionysius the Elder around\n400 BC, intending to strengthen Syracusan power in the region. He named the town \"Adranon\" in honour of Adranus, a deity of Phoenician origin.\n\nIn 344 BC the troops of Timoleon fought the forces of the Syracusan commander Iketas of Leontini near Adrano. During the following years, Adrano was frequently harried by Campanian mercenaries, called the Mamertinians.\n\nThe Romans conquered the growing township in 263 BC and declared it a \"civitas stipendiaria\", obliging it to pay a costly tribute to Rome. The consul Valerius ravaged the town, enslaved the inhabitants and sold them as workers and slaves to the \"aratores\" (farmers) residing in the near city of Centuripe. In 137 BC, Eunus led an unsuccessful slave revolt against the Roman suppressors, and from then on, Adrano was nothing more than part of Centuripe.\n\nThe Romans referred to the city as Adranum or Hadranum.\n\nThe township was pillaged several times by Germanic tribes during the fall of the Western Roman Empire. Only through the reign of Theodoric the Great (495–526), the conditions improved due to the administration by Cassiodorus. In the mid-6th century it was conquered by the Eastern Roman Empire.\n\nAround 950, the Arab Musa occupied the city of Centuripe and its vicinity, and thenceforth Adrano became part of the emirate of Sicily. The ruined town of slaves meanwhile was little more than a settlement of various primitive shacks, but the Islamic occupants, who showed themselves very skillful farmers and quite tolerant towards the Sicilians, build up a functioning infrastructure around Adrano. Several of their buildings and structures, like the \"Ponte dei Saraceni\" (Bridge of the Saracens) can still be visited around the region.\n\nThe Arabs ruled the region until in 1075 the Normans, led by Hugo of Yersey, succeeded in conquering the region against the resistance of Caid Albucazar. Adrano became part of the Diocese of Catania, administered by the monk Ansgerius. The citizens of the prospering township continued the successful agricultural and economic work the Arabs had initiated. Therefore, the Norman era was enormously influenced by winegrowing, leather work and silk manufacturing.\n\nThe arrival of the Hohenstaufen around the end of the 12th century brought enduring difficulties and disputes over Sicily and its inhabitants. The remaining Arabs were vehemently pursued by the administration, which forced them to gather inside the fortresses of Troina, Entella and Centuripe, offering armed resistance. The insurrection was ended violently, and the survivors were massacred or kidnapped. Pope Clement IV made Charles of Anjou king of Sicily in 1265, which ended the Hohenstaufen rule of southern Italy. During that time, Adrano was rather a small settlement of hunters, and the number of inhabitants had decreased from 1,000 to 300.\n\nIn 1282, the Sicilian Vespers ended the French reign in Sicily, and Peter III of Aragon became king. The following years were characterized by constant conflicts between the residing farmers and the Bourgeoisie of the region. Adrano fell to the property of the Catalan landholder Garzia de Linguida, and eventually, in 1286, to the ownership of Luca Pellegrino. The estates and soils of the region were subject to immense disputes between several landowners and noblemen in the following time until the 15th century.\n\nFrom the 15th century on, Sicily was reigned by the so-called vice kings. Between 1412 and 1515, Adrano was under administration by the Moncada family. Giovan Tommaso Moncada (1466–1501) renovated the Norman castle and fortified it. He allowed a couple of refugees from the northern Greek region of Epirus to settle down in the vicinity of Adrano, which is how the town of Biancavilla was founded. The relatives of earl Moncada build many manors (so-called \"palazzi\") in the centre of the town, among which is the latter town hall, and the centre of the city, the \"piazza\", became popular meeting place for the residents, who meanwhile numbered around 6,000. Around the same time began the construction of the Monastero di Santa Lucia (Monastery of St Lucy). In 1693, a severe earthquake inflicted heavy damage to the town.\n\nSince the beginning of the 18th century and until around 1820, Adrano suffered from enduring riots and changes taking place in Italy and particularly Sicily, as was the Risorgimento. Adrano became the main administrative town of the vicinity in 1819 and hosted the local court.\n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi landed in Sicily in 1860 and many reforms took place. On July 1, 1860, a town council was installed in Adrano, and don Lorenzo Ciancio was made chairman. The famous \"Teatro Bellini\" (Bellini theatre) dates from that time and testifies to the various diversifications the city underwent in that very period. A hospital was instituted as well, and meanwhile Adrano was considered the wealthiest town in the region.\n\nIn the 1920s, the reformist preacher don Vincenzo Bascetta appeared in Adrano, and together with the young anti-fascist professor Carmelo Salanitro he passionately fought for the peasants' rights. Due to their initiative, large parts of the surrounding lava landscape were transformed into olive and almond plantations. Carmelo Salanitro died in Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp in 1945.\n\nAdrano was the scene of much fighting during the latter phases of Operation Husky, the Allied invasion of Sicily, during World War II. Nazi forces were driven from the island and in the course of their retreat they attempted to hold the northeastern corner of Sicily in the hopes that they would eventually be able to retake the entire island while using the northeastern portion of the island as a way to resupply their forces from the south of the Italian peninsula. The Nazis had to abandon this plan when the British 30th Corps forced their way into Adrano while at the same time the British 13th Corps battled the Nazis in the nearby town of Randazzo. Once Adrano and Randazzo fell to the British, the Nazis decided they had no choice but to retire to Messina and use it to evacuate the rest of their forces from Sicily.\n\nThe Romans changed the name of the township into Hadranum; during the occupation by the Arabs it was called Adarnu or sometimes Adarna, while the Normans referred to it as Adernio and Adriano. Until 1929 its official name was Adernò, until eventually it was changed into Adrano. Several elder inhabitants of the town still call it Adernò.\n\n\nDue to the prospering Catholic tradition of the region, Adrano has numerous antique chapels and small churches hidden in the backstreets. Moreover, Adrano is famous for its colourful carnival and the passionate celebration of San Nicola, in honour of its patron Saint Nicola Politi on August 3.\n\nAdrano is linked to the rapidway \"SS 121\" leading from Paternò to Catania. Near Bronte, a large mall named Etnapolis has been opened recently.\n\nAdrano is connected to the province capital Catania by a bus route which is operated by the FCE and leads through various towns to the central station of Catania and further to the communal beach. A rapid bus skips the smaller towns and leads to Catania directly over the highway. In the summer season, a bus connects Adrano, Bronte, Randazzo, Floresta and Naso in the province of Messina. Between the station of Catania-Borgo and Riposto operates the \"Littorina\", a nostalgic Diesel fuelled train which stops in Adrano, Paternò, Biancavilla, Santa Maria di Licodia and other towns. The extension of a route of the rapid transit railway of Catania to Paternò and Adrano has been planned and the constructions have begun. Adrano is not linked with the national train system of Trenitalia. Moreover, the FCE operates two bus routes (A and B) in Adrano.\n\nAdrano does not possess any hospital but only a so-called \"Guardia medica\", a paramedic station with emergency personnel, vehicles and equipment. The nearest hospital is the Maria SS. Addolorata in Biancavilla, which is on stand-by as well for emergencies in Adrano.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2288380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288380", "title": "Xenien", "text": "Xenien\n\nXenien is a Germanization of the Greek \"Xenia\" \"host gifts\", a title originally applied by the Roman poet Martial (1st century AD) to a collection of poems which were to accompany his presents.\n\nFollowing this precedent, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe named a collection of distichs, which he wrote together with Friedrich Schiller, \"Die Xenien\", in which the two friends avenged themselves on opposing critics. They were first published in the \"Musenalmanach\". The \"Xenien\" were prompted by the indifference and animosity of contemporary criticism, and its disregard for what the two poets regarded as the higher interests of German poetry. The \"Xenien\" succeeded as a retaliation on the critics, but the masterpieces which followed them proved in the long run much more effective weapons against the prevailing mediocrity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288382", "title": "Rescue at Rigel", "text": "Rescue at Rigel\n\nRescue at Rigel is a 1980 science fiction role-playing video game written and published by Automated Simulations (later known as Epyx). It is based on a modified version of their \"Temple of Apshai\" game engine, which was used for most of their releases in this era. The game was released for the Apple II, IBM PC (as a PC booter), TRS-80, Commodore PET, VIC-20, and Atari 8-bit family.\n\nThe game requires the player to search out a space fortress looking for ten hostages. Presented in a top-down view, the player can only see the area immediately around them, so the entire base has to be searched room by room. There is a 60-minute time limit on the mission.\n\n\"Rescue at Rigel\" was soon followed by \"Star Warrior\", and the two rebranded to be part of their \"Starquest\" series, although \"Star Warrior\" used a more heavily modified game engine than \"Rigel\".\n\nPlayers take on the role of adventurer Sudden Smith. Smith must try to rescue captives from the interior of an asteroid orbiting the star Rigel. Players have 60 minutes to rescue 10 human captives from the alien moon base. They must first find the captives before delivering them to the rescue ship (via a transport beam).\n\nPlayers must defeat or avoid the enemies wandering the base: the alien Tollahs, two types of armed robots, a six-legged \"cerbanth\", and a huge amoebic slug. As players forge deeper into the alien stronghold, they have the opportunity to acquire better weapons.\n\nThe playfield is presented as a top-down view of the current location of the hero. The game is turn-based, with the player given a certain number of \"points\" to spend on various actions, completing their turn when the points ran out. \"Rescue at Rigel\" is very similar to \"Temple of Apshai\", a popular dungeon crawl by Epyx, part of their \"Dunjonquest\" series. \"Rescue at Rigel\" had a timer similar to \"The Datestones of Ryn\", an earlier Dunjonquest game.\n\n\"Rescue at Rigel\" used the concept of providing room descriptions similar to those used in some \"Dunjonquest\" games, but instead of unique descriptions for numbered rooms, the game had multiple rooms labeled \"Sanctum\", for example, and a detailed description of what typical Sanctums contained was provided in the manual along with about a dozen other room types.\n\nBruce F. Webster reviewed \"Rescue at Rigel\" in \"The Space Gamer\" No. 34. Webster commented that \"if you've got the money and the interest, buy it. In fact, if you've only got either the money or the interest, buy it - you'll be glad you did.\"\n\nJerry Pournelle reported in \"BYTE\" in 1983 that \"Rescue at Rigel\" was one of several Epyx games his sons enjoyed playing.\n"}
{"id": "2288383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288383", "title": "David Alward", "text": "David Alward\n\nDavid Nathan Alward (born December 2, 1959) is a Canadian politician, who served as the 32nd Premier of New Brunswick, 2010 to 2014.\n\nAlward has been a member of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick since 1999 and has been the leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of New Brunswick. His party was defeated on September 22, 2014, and Alward resigned as Progressive Conservative Party of New Brunswick leader on September 23, 2014. On April 24, 2015 Alward was named Canadian consul general in Boston.\n\nAlward was born in Beverly, Massachusetts. The son of a minister, Alward moved to Atlantic Canada in his youth where he graduated from high school in Nackawic, New Brunswick. Alward received his post-secondary education in psychology in the United States at Bryan College in Dayton, Tennessee.\n\nAlward worked as a federal civil servant from 1982 to 1996 when he went into business on his own. He operates a hobby farm where he raises purebred Hereford cattle. He also volunteered as an emergency medical technician and lab instructor with the St. John Ambulance and as a firefighter with the Meductic Fire Department. He served on the board of directors of the Carleton Regional Development Commission and the New Brunswick Hereford Association. He served on the Centennial Elementary School Parent Advisory Committee, the School District 12 Stay-in-School Committee, and the local agricultural employment board. Alward is an active member of his Meductic Church, and a member of the Woodstock Rotary Club.\n\nHe was elected to the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick, as a Progressive Conservative for the riding of Woodstock, in the 1999 election and re-elected in 2003. Following the 2003 election, he joined the cabinet as Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Aquaculture.\n\nOn June 19, 2008, Alward became the first candidate in the 2008 Progressive Conservative leadership race. On October 18, 2008, he was elected leader of the party at the Progressive Conservative Party of New Brunswick leadership convention in Fredericton. Alward beat his only opponent, Robert MacLeod, by a margin of 2,269 votes to 1,760.\n\nOn 27 September 2010, Alward's Progressive Conservatives won 42 of 55 seats to form a majority government. He was sworn in as the premier on 12 October 2010. On 13 May 2011, his government passed the Ownership of Minerals Act.\n\nOn 3 December 2012, he and Local Government Minister Bruce Fitch announced a cut in property taxes for businesses, farms, rental properties and cottages.\n\nOn 12 March 2014, he and Natural Resources Minister Paul Robichaud unveiled a new forest management plan, entitled \"Putting our Resources to Work: A Strategy for Crown Lands Forest Management\". This plan increased the annual allowable cut by 20%, and was endorsed by mill owner Jim Irving.\n\nAlward was defeated in the 2014 New Brunswick general election and announced his resignation as party leader on 23 September 2014. He resigned from the legislature on 22 May 2015 after accepting a federal appointment as Canada's Consul General in Boston, and renounced U.S. citizenship to take up the position.\n"}
{"id": "2288391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288391", "title": "The Wallflower (Dance with Me, Henry)", "text": "The Wallflower (Dance with Me, Henry)\n\n\"The Wallflower\" (also known as \"Roll with Me, Henry\" and \"Dance with Me, Henry\") is a 1955 song by Etta James. It was one of several answer songs to \"Work with Me, Annie\" and has the same 12-bar blues melody.\n\nThe song was written by Johnny Otis, Hank Ballard, and Etta James. Etta James recorded it for Modern Records, with uncredited vocal responses from Richard Berry. It was popularly known as \"Roll with Me Henry.\" This original version was considered too risque to play on pop radio stations.\n\nThe song is a dialogue between \"Henry\" and the singer:\n\n\nThe context is the dance floor. The Midnighters also recorded an \"answer to the answer\": \"Henry's Got Flat Feet (Can't Dance No More)\".\n\nUnder the title \"The Wallflower,\" the single became a rhythm and blues hit, topping the U.S. R&B chart for 4 weeks. On \"Billboard\"'s Top R&B Records of 1955 list, the single ranked No. 6 according to retail sales, No. 3 according to disk jockey plays and No. 15 according to jukebox plays.\n\nThe song was reissued as \"Roll with Me, Henry\" on Kent Records in 1960.\n\nIn 2008, Etta James received a Grammy Hall of Fame Award for her 1955 recording.\n\nIn 1955, the song was covered for the pop market by Georgia Gibbs, with uncredited vocal responses from Thurl Ravenscroft, under the title \"Dance with Me Henry.\" That version charted, hitting the top five of several pop charts, including No. 1 on the Most Played In Juke Boxes chart on May 14, 1955, spending three weeks on top of that chart. In 1958, Etta James made her own cover version of \"Dance with Me Henry.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288392", "title": "White-crowned pigeon", "text": "White-crowned pigeon\n\nThe white-crowned pigeon (\"Patagioenas leucocephala\") is a species of bird in the dove and pigeon family Columbidae. It inhabits the northern and central Caribbean islands and some places on the North and Central American mainland. John James Audubon painted the pigeons, including the watercolour in his work \"Birds of America\", published in the early 19th century.\n\nIn the first half of the 18th century the white-crowned pigeon was described and illustrated by several naturalist including John Ray in 1713, Hans Sloane in 1725 and Mark Catesby in 1731. When in 1758 the Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus updated his \"Systema Naturae\" for the tenth edition, he placed the white-crowned pigeon with all the other pigeons in the genus \"Columba\". Linnaeus included a brief description, coined the binomial name \"Columba leucocephala\" and cited the earlier authors. The specific epithet combines the Ancient Greek \"leukos\" meaning \"white\" and \"-kephalos\" meaning \"-headed\". Although Linnaeus gave the location as North America, the type locality is taken to be the Bahamas following Catesby. The species is now placed in the genus \"Patagioenas\" that was introduced by the German naturalist Ludwig Reichenbach in 1853 with the white-crowned pigeon as the type species. The species is monotypic: no subspecies are recognised.\n\nThe white-crowned pigeon can measure in length, span across the wings, and weigh . It is around the same size as the common rock pigeon, but weighs a bit less since it is generally less chunky and has a relatively longer and more square tail. Adult birds' plumage varies from a slate gray to an almost-black color. Its iridescent collar-patch is notably only seen under good lighting, shining a barred white pattern with green. Their distinct crown-patch can vary in shade of color from a more bright white in males to a more gray-white in most females. Juveniles can have a grayish-brown color for They have a white iris and a pale-tipped red bill. Juveniles are a less dark shade of grey, lack the nape pattern and white iris, and show only a few pale feathers on the crown. Their call is a loud, deep \"coo-cura-coo\" or \"coo-croo\". This species is a member of a diverse clade of \"Patagioenas\" which vary much in appearance, but are united by their triple coos (except in the scaled pigeon).\n\nIt is a resident breeder mainly in the Bahamas, Cuba, Jamaica and Antigua. It breeds in smaller numbers in Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Anguilla and other Caribbean islands. It also breeds along the Caribbean coast of Central America. In the United States it is found only in the Florida Keys, Everglades, and the southern tip of mainland Florida. The white-crowned pigeon primarily live and breed in nest colonies around coastal mangrove forests, and will travel inland to feed on fruits. They will often spend the wintertime in the Caribbean islands.\n\nThe main threat to this species is hunting. In Florida a major cause of mortality is collision with man-made objects. \nAnother main threat to this species is loss of habitat. The white-crowned pigeon needs two distinct habitats, one for nesting and one for feeding. They typically breed in coastal red mangroves (\"Rhizophora mangle\"), which continue to be clear-cut for crops such as sugarcane. Agriculture and deforestation have become a problem for the species' feeding grounds, typically inland hardwood forests. The bird is very skittish, and is known to simply abandon its nest when it is encroached upon.\n\nLike the extinct passenger pigeon this species \"illustrates a very important principle of conservation biology: it is not always necessary to kill the last pair of a species to force it to extinction. These birds are \"threatened by the slaughter of nesting birds on its Caribbean breeding grounds.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2288403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288403", "title": "Jeremy Jones", "text": "Jeremy Jones\n\nJeremy Jones may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2288411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288411", "title": "For All the Cows", "text": "For All the Cows\n\n\"For All the Cows\" (1995) is the third major single released by the Foo Fighters from their self-titled debut album \"Foo Fighters\". It was only released in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.\n\nPromo Single\n\n7\" Blue Vinyl Single\n\nCD Single\n\n"}
{"id": "2288422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288422", "title": "Air Transport Command", "text": "Air Transport Command\n\nAir Transport Command (ATC) was a United States Air Force unit that was created during World War II as the strategic airlift component of the United States Army Air Forces.\n\nIt had two main missions, the first being the delivery of supplies and equipment between the United States and the overseas combat theaters; the second was the ferrying of aircraft from the manufacturing plants in the United States to where they were needed for training or for operational use in combat. ATC also operated a worldwide air transportation system for military personnel.\n\nInactivated on 1 June 1948, Air Transport Command was the precursor to what became the Military Air Transport Service in 1948 and was redesignated Military Airlift Command (MAC) in 1966. It was consolidated with MAC in 1982, providing a continuous history of long range airlift through 1992 when the mission was transferred to today's Air Mobility Command.\n\nBy no means least among the achievements of the Army Air Forces (AAF) in World War II was its development of a worldwide system of air transport. The development of transport aircraft in the 1920s and 1930s added a new dimension to the art of warfare, and around its varied capacities the AAF built an air transportation system such as had never before been envisaged. That system, and its functions, soon became synonymous with the organization which controlled it, the Air Transport Command.\n\nATC's origins begin during World War I with the need to transport aircraft supplies and materiel from the aircraft manufacturers to the maintenance facilities supporting the training bases in the United States. Railroads was used to move the equipment and aircraft from one base to another and to the Ports of Embarkation along the East Coast for subsequent sea shipment to the battlefields of France.\n\nIt wasn't until the 1920s that the development of cargo and personnel transport aircraft began with aircraft such as the Boeing Model 40. From 1926 until 1942, the Air Corps’ logistical responsibilities were vested in the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps Materiel Division, with headquarters at Wright Field, Ohio and with four major depots (at Sacramento, California; San Antonio, Texas; Fairfield, Ohio; and Middletown, Pennsylvania) distributed over the United States. In the early 1930s, the Air Corps began formally experimenting with the systematic use of air transport for the distribution of aviation supplies. The Materiel Division in 1932 established a provisional 1st Air Transport Group with four transport squadrons, each of them equipped with Bellanca Aircruisers and Douglas DC-2s, intended to serve one of the four major air depots in the distribution of spare parts to Army airbases. The group, redesignated the 10th Transport Group in 1937, also transported supplies from one depot to another.\n\nWith the outbreak of war in Europe in 1939, several European governments approached the United States for military equipment. They needed immediate help for the battles they might very soon have to fight on their own soil against invading German armies. The French ordered Douglas DB-7 (A-20) two-engine light bombers; Curtiss P-36 Hawks, and some Curtiss P-40D Warhawks, although the P-40s were never delivered. However, it was Britain's Royal Air Force which needed massive reinforcement, especially after the losses it incurred on the continent during the German invasion of the Low Countries and France during May 1940.\n\nThe idea of developing a regular military service for ferrying aircraft was the result of several factors. Production of aircraft by United States manufacturers was increasing for both the Army Air Corps and for purchase by the British. As produced and ready for delivery at the factory, these aircraft were flyable but also needed modifications before they were ready for combat service. It was advantageous to fly the aircraft to a separate modification center where changes could be made, rather than implementing these changes on the production line that would interrupt production.\n\nUnited States civilian pilots, contracted by the British, would pick up their aircraft at the production facility and fly them to designated transfer points in the Montreal area where the modifications could be made. From Montreal, a Canadian civilian agency under contract to the British government began ferrying US-built bombers across the North Atlantic from Newfoundland to Prestwick (near Glasgow) (Scotland / UK) under the auspices of a private British company, set up by the British Government for that purpose. By ferrying these bombers under their own power, vital shipping space was saved and factory-to-combat delivery time was cut from approximately three months to less than ten days.\n\nHowever, the British Government had limited funds, and was rapidly running out of resources for the purchase of war materiel of all types from the United States. In the spring of 1941, the Roosevelt Administration was committed to give all possible help, short of actual combat, to the United Kingdom and the remnants of her allies against Nazi Germany.\n\nWith the passage of the Lend-Lease Act in March 1941 the United States stated its intention to assist the British in its war efforts and was a statement of the desire of Congress and the people of the United States to that effect. With that clear intention, the doors were opened for larger numbers of aircraft to be sent to the Royal Air Force to defend Great Britain. It was also clear that the pioneering efforts of the British would have to be expanded to accommodate the increased number of aircraft. However, the United States was not a belligerent nation and it was also a period of extreme diplomatic delicacy, when aircraft purchased by the British had to be literally pushed across the US-Canada border in order to protect the neutrality of the United States.\n\nThese shipments to the British caused a shortage in the United States of multi-engine aircraft in particular. Air Corps units were in need of training in long-range navigation, weather and radio-flying that a coast-to-coast ferrying service would give them in the latest models of aircraft. On 12 May 1941 the Office of the Chief of Air Corps (OCAC) was notified by the War Department that he was authorized for training purposes to have military pilots conduct cross-country flights in aircraft destined for use by the British Government for training purposes.\n\nOn 12 April 1941 plans were presented to the OCAC for the construction of a landing field on the west coast of Greenland for the staging of aircraft via Newfoundland, Greenland and Iceland to the United Kingdom. This would make possible the ferrying of medium and light bombers across the North Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe British ferrying service was well under way when the Lend-Lease Act became law on 11 March 1941. With the North Atlantic sea lanes vulnerable to German U-boat attacks, Major General Henry H. Arnold established the Air Corps Ferrying Command on May 29, 1941, to deliver lend-lease aircraft overseas from the USA. Commanded and organized by Brig. Gen. Robert Olds, the mission of the new command was, first, \"to move aircraft by air from factories to such terminals as may be designated by the Chief of the Air Corps,\" and second, \"to maintain such special air ferry services [i.e., air transport services] as may be required to meet specific situations.\" These were broad powers, and working within them, the Ferrying Command eventually expanded far beyond the limits imagined by those responsible for its creation. The second assignment provided specific authority for the establishment of a military air transport service over the North Atlantic between the US and the United Kingdom, a project which had been under consideration for some months.\n\nFerrying Command relied initially on two-engine and single-engine pilots detailed from the Air Force Combat Command (formerly GHQ Air Force) for thirty- to ninety-day tours of temporary duty. More highly qualified four-engine pilots of the Combat Command, as well as navigators and other crew members, were borrowed to fly the trans-Atlantic transport shuttle. In the summer and fall of 1941, approximately 200 pilots were trained at Barksdale Field, Louisiana, especially for ferrying duty, although they were assigned to the Combat Command and served, as did the others, on temporary-duty status with the Ferrying Command.\n\nDuring the fall of 1941, Ferrying Command had assumed an additional responsibility for delivery of some AAF's own planes from factory to stations within the United States. After the Pearl Harbor attack, the ferry of aircraft within the United States quickly became a major function of the Command.\n\nTo ferry aircraft purchased by the Royal Air Force (RAF) from factories in the western and central United States to transfer points on the Atlantic seaboard required the establishment of routes over which the aircraft could be flown. Support stations were set up at civilian as well as military airports for the aircraft to be refueled and any necessary servicing performed. The aircraft factories, particularly the Boeing factory near Seattle and the Southern California plants of Lockheed, Consolidated, Douglas, North American and Vultee required a series of organizations to accept the aircraft from the manufacturer, and provide a ferrying crew to transport the aircraft.\n\nIn Southern California, the Long Beach Municipal Airport was leased by the War Department as a concentration point for all aircraft, except for B-24s to be ferried directly from the Consolidated plant. The manufacturers provided civilian pilots to deliver the aircraft from their facilities to Long Beach, where an Air Corps procurement representative inspected the aircraft and turned them over to Ferrying Command. This facility was designated as Headquarters, Western Division, Air Corps Ferrying Command.\n\nBoeing Field, Seattle, was the location of the second concentration center, for planes manufactured by Boeing. Other concentration centers used civilian airfields as they became available, as happened in Detroit and Nashville.\n\nFrom the West Coast, the ferrying routes (as initially laid down) and their corresponding transatlantic transport method were:\n\nAt the end of each route was the designated transfer point at which final inspections were accomplished and the aircraft transferred from Air Corps jurisdiction to representatives of the RAF Ferry Command or the British Air Commission.\n\nTo replace and supplement Montreal as a transfer point, Ferrying Command then initiated development of airfields in northern Maine, some 300 miles nearer the United Kingdom than the Canadian city, at Presque Isle, Houlton and Millinocket. Although Millinocket was abandoned during construction, the Presque Isle Army Airfield and Houlton Army Airfield were completed and opened for service early in 1942. Once the ferried aircraft reached the transfer point, the crew returned to either Seattle or Los Angeles by rail.\n\nAfter Pearl Harbor, the scope of Ferrying Command's mission within the United States expanded to the domestic ferrying of all multi-engine Army aircraft, all British and Lend-Lease aircraft, and with the air movement of troops by domestic airlines as well. On 3 January 1942, the wing was divided into six geographic sectors. The sectors and headquarters were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom the domestic ferrying assignment it was only a step to the Command taking over the responsibility for delivering or supervising the delivery of AAF and lend-lease aircraft to theaters of war scattered across the world.\n\nAfter the USA entered World War II, it became clear that the fastest and most economical method of moving combat aircraft from the factory to the front, which might be 10,000 to 15,000 miles away due to the worldwide nature of the conflict, was to ferry them under their own power. Also, to keep aircraft at their highest efficiency, an air transport system for the rapid delivery of spare engines and parts, auxiliary equipment of all kinds, flight crews, and ground personnel became an absolute necessity, and supplementary to the traditional and considerably slower method of surface transport.\n\nDuring 1941, four major air routes were developed. These were:\n\nSecondary routes between Australia and India, and between Australia and the Philippines were also developed. Later, a Mid-Atlantic route was developed via the Azores to link the US with Europe and North Africa. While this route was not opened until late 1943, the US and Britain were at all times prepared to occupy the Azores, had the security and future use of this route been threatened by the Axis Powers.\n\nBy early 1942, it had become clear that the Philippines could not be held, principally because the Japanese had cut the only sea and air lanes over which available reinforcements, such as they were, could reach General MacArthur. By the end of February 1942, the air connection between India and Australia was also cut due to the advance of Japanese forces into Southeast Asia, although some heavy bombers and other reinforcements from the USA were able to get through before the Japanese captured Singapore and overran the Netherlands East Indies. Fortunately for the Allies, the five remaining major routes were held.\n\nDuring 1942, the South Atlantic route to West Africa and beyond assumed an importance far surpassing that of any of the others. In contrast to the slowness of the North Atlantic, South Pacific and Alaskan routes, the South Atlantic airway immediately came to support a heavy volume of air traffic that, because only four former Pan American Clippers, two TWA Stratoliners, and 11 converted B-24 Liberators were capable of hauling cargo on the trans-Atlantic leg during the first six months of 1942, strained its facilities and personnel to the limit. Lend-lease aircraft and supplies were sent over the route to the British forces in Egypt and the Russians through Persia, with a smaller volume going via India into China. The earliest heavy bomber reinforcements sent to the US Air Forces in the Southwest Pacific following the Japanese attack traveled over the route, prepared, briefed, and supported by the Ferrying Command, as were most of the aircraft and crews that would form the Ninth Air Force in the Middle East and the Tenth Air Force in India. Fighter aircraft for the Ninth and Tenth Air Forces and for the American Volunteer Group in China were shipped by water to the west coast of Africa where they were assembled and flown overland to their destinations. And, while ferrying operations were increasing steadily, the air transport service in support of both ferrying and combat operations was enlarged and extended, albeit in piecemeal fashion.\nLater, a Mid-Atlantic route was developed via the Azores to link the US with Europe and North Africa. While this route was not opened until late 1943, the US and Britain were at all times prepared to occupy the Azores, had the security and future use of this route been threatened by the Axis Powers.\n\nDuring the thirteen months of its existence, Ferrying Command had grown from an original staff of two officers and a civilian secretary to a strength of over 11,000 officers and enlisted men, in addition to its civilian employees and those of the civil air carriers operating under its supervision. As the name implies, ferrying had been its main job, and during the period its pilots ferried 13,595 aircraft to final domestic destinations, while 632 planes were delivered to foreign destinations under the supervision of the command.\n\nAir transport services conducted by the Ferrying Command (before the Pearl Harbor attack), were first to Britain beginning July 1941 and later in October to Cairo. They were like courier services and were secondary to the major job for which the command was created, that of ferrying aircraft from US factories to Canada and onward to Britain or to US ports of embarkation. Probably no one then foresaw that a network of long-range transport routes, supporting the daily movement of hundreds of tons of supplies and thousands of passengers, would spread across the world and that daily flights to such remote areas as the Aleutians, Australia, the Philippines, India, and China would become commonplace.\n\nIndeed, a limited view of the role of long-range air transportation in World War II persisted for some months after the USA became an active belligerent. Not until the late spring and summer of 1942, when large backlogs of supplies awaiting air shipment to the front began to build up at ports of embarkation and when it became clear that almost unlimited demands would be made in future for the rapid movement of urgently needed materials and personnel, did the idea of air transport as a major instrument of logistics begin to take shape.\n\nIn order to operate a worldwide air logistics system, maximum use would have to be made of the planes, men, and facilities of the civil airlines. The Ferrying Command was in no position to expand its own military transport services. The Air Corps and the Air Transport Association of America (ATA), representing the domestic carriers, had developed a mobilization plan between 1936 and 1939 to provide this support through contract services. Roosevelt issued Executive Order 8974 on 13 December 1941, which gave the Secretary of War authority to nationalize the airlines, but except for several instances early in 1942 to meet specific emergencies, the order was not invoked. ATA president Edgar S. Gorrell, a colonel in the Air Service during World War I and the driving force behind pre-war creation of the mobilization plan, delivered immediate full cooperation of the airlines from the first day of the war and is credited with persuading Roosevelt not to nationalize the airlines.\n\nThe ferrying activity continued to increase as more aircraft were turned out by the factories, as new combat units became ready for deployment overseas, and as the need for battle replacements grew more and more emphasis came to be placed on the air transportation function. Air transport had passed beyond the stage of being primarily a courier service or an adjunct of ferrying; it was well on the way to becoming a major instrument of logistical support to combat operations on the ground and in the air.\n\nThe civil airlines, in addition to having the available flying personnel (most of whom had learned to fly in the Air Corps) and physical equipment, had another equally valuable though less tangible asset. They had the wealth of practical knowledge in conducting scheduled air transport operations, the administrative competence, and the mastery of techniques that came from long experience. The AAF, on the other hand, had no such expertise among its senior leadership nor experience from its nascent operations.\n\nIn January 1942, Arnold established the AAF Office of Civil Aviation and recalled the chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Administration, Donald H. Connolly, to military service, appointing him Military Director of Civil Aviation and directing him to use EO 8974 to transfer the CAA and its regulatory control of the airlines to the Army Air Forces. L. Welch Pogue, chairman of the safety agency for civil aviation, the Civil Aeronautics Board, then wrote to the White House advocating the establishment of a civilian air transportation service reporting directly to the President to operate airline contracts for the military, an idea that had been broached during the development period of ATA-Air Corps mobilization plan. In response, General Arnold proposed that the AAF instead control and direct such a service, primarily composed of pilots and aircraft contracted from U.S. civilian airlines.\n\nThe Air Service Command (before October 1941 known as the Air Corps Maintenance Command) had been operating a well-established air transport service within the continental united States for months before the Ferrying Command was established, using the 50th Transport Wing to move technical cargo between air depots and subdepots. In the first half of 1941 the ASC moved more cargo domestically than all the civilian carriers in the United States. Several months after the war began, demands for materiel forced ASC to use civilian carriers on a contract basis, creating a Contract Air Cargo Division managed by former airline executives, who established routes outside the United States to Alaska, the upper Atlantic, and Central America. Many of the routes and services duplicated those of the Ferrying Command. Expedient attempts by Headquarters AAF to establish a clear division of authority were unsuccessful, particularly after the 50th Transport Wing was transferred at the end of April 1942 to a newly created organization, the \"Air Transport Command\" (a combat organization). This left ASC with only its civilian carriers, of which considerable friction existed with Ferrying Command which had let conflicting contracts to different carriers.\nArnold saw the need for unified control of air transport and bolstered by Pogue's memorandum, which recommended that at the least all Army air transportation should be unified under one command, submitted the issue to a board of officers with instructions to consider the whole problem. Before the board could make an official report, however, Arnold made a decision on 20 June 1942 which embodied substantially Pogue's second recommendation. The Ferrying Command was renamed the Air Transport Command and the organization already bearing that name became the I Troop Carrier Command to reflect its mission of training crews and units for the combat lifts of parachute and airborne infantry.\n\nA change of command at AAF Ferrying Command took place in the meantime. In March 1942 General Olds was stricken with a heart attack, and was replaced by Colonel (eventually Lieutenant General) Harold L. George, who remained as ATC's wartime commander.\n\nEffective 1 July 1942, the new Air Transport Command was given what the official history of the AAF described as \"sweeping responsibilities\":\n\n\nIn addition, before the end of June plans by the Army's Services of Supply to create its own air transportation service were halted when the SOS agreed to transfer to the AAF all of its air transportation responsibilities and its responsibility for setting priorities for travel by military and commercial aircraft. The Contract Air Cargo Division was terminated by ASC and its personnel transferred to ATC to end the division of responsibility.\n\nThe new Air Transport Command was initially only a semi-military organization, with most of its leadership coming from the ranks of airline executives who accepted direct USAAF commissions, usually as colonels or majors. Until 1944, ATC also drew heavily on the airlines for manpower, using experienced civil airline pilots, radio operators, and other aircrew personnel from the airlines to crew transports that had been purchased by the Army from civilian sources. ATC's original mission was ferrying airplanes to overseas destinations, a mission that had been originally performed by the AAF Ferrying Command that preceded it and from which ATC headquarters military personnel were drawn. As the war progressed, ATC's air transport division became more and more involved in transporting military personnel and cargo overseas.\n\nAt the time, it was redesignated and given its enlarged mission, the command was already in the process of reorganization.\n\nThe newly designated Air Transport Command consisted of two main divisions, the Ferrying Division and the Air Transportation Division, corresponding roughly to the two primary responsibilities of the command. The ATC Ferrying Division was responsible for the transfer of combat aircraft to overseas bases, and their replacement. Thousands of bombers, transport aircraft and fighters flown by combat crews on their way overseas were under ATC control during these movements. Ferrying of combat aircraft by ATC personnel became a major ATC mission to the end of the war as vast numbers of replacement aircraft had to be transferred from factory to combat theaters. The command ferried 30,000 aircraft in 1942, 72,000 in 1943, 108,000 in 1944, and 57,000 in 1945, for a total of more than 267,000 in all.\n\nIn addition, five major field organizations, known as wings, were constituted on 12 June 1942 and activated at various dates during the latter part of the month. Initially, they were known as the 23d through the 27th AAF Ferrying wings, but the command quickly requested and secured a change to more descriptive geographical names. On 5 July, they were redesignated the North Atlantic, Caribbean, South Atlantic, Africa-Middle East, and South Pacific wings. Over the course of the war, additional wings and divisions were created as the scope and complexity of the command increased.\n\nMore than 130 two- and four-engine transport aircraft had become available to the command by 1 July 1942, of which 10 or 15 were being flown by military crews and the remainder by the contract carriers. Many of these had come from new production, some were acquired from Air Service Command, but others became available as the result of a presidential order of 6 May directing the Secretary of War to commandeer all transports of the DC-3 type operated by the domestic air carriers in excess of 200 and to refit them \"for such transport services as will most effectively serve the war purposes of the United Nations.\" The transfer of the aircraft from the airlines to the War Department made it possible for the former also to release additional crews for employment in military operations.\n\nIn the beginning of ATC operations, the Douglas C-47 Skytrain was the primary transport plane in use. At first, the C-47 was often fitted with long-range tanks for long flights, but as larger multi-engine aircraft became available, the C-47 was redeployed for use on shorter routes.\n\nIn 1942, the Consolidated C-87 Liberator Express, a transport version of the B-24 Liberator bomber, was adopted for service with the ATC. The C-87 had a much longer range and higher service ceiling, making it a better choice for over-water transport flights, but its hurried conversion from a dedicated bomber design resulted in inevitable compromises that affected its reliability in service.\n\nIn 1942, at the personal request of General 'Hap' Arnold, C. R. Smith, formerly president of American Airlines, was commissioned a colonel in ATC and made its executive officer, thereafter assuming the positions of Chief of Staff and Deputy Commander. During his tenure as Chief of Staff, Smith was largely responsible for ATC's considerable expansion in operations. In the same year, Smith proposed that ATC assume responsibility for the Hump airlift operation, as he believed that ATC would do a better job of transporting cargo to China. However, due to a lack of navigation aids, personnel, suitable airfields and maintenance facilities, and above all, sufficient multi-engine transport aircraft suited to the difficult flight conditions, tonnage levels flown to China over The Hump did not appreciably increase until late 1943.\n\nAs the war progressed, ATC received improved aircraft types for transport duty, including the Curtiss-Wright C-46 Commando and the Douglas C-54 Skymaster, a militarized transport version of the DC-4. The C-54 in particular took over the C-87's duties in long-distance, over-water transport flights. In the China-India theater, the C-54, with nearly five times the load capacity of the C-47 and twice that of the C-46, significantly increased cargo tonnage levels flown to China, becoming the primary lifter for Hump operations. Even though the C-54 had a service ceiling of only 12,000 feet, plans were made to replace all the C-87s in the Hump operation with Skymasters by October 1945, and have 540 assigned by April 1946 to bring load capability up to 86,000 tons monthly.\n\nATC transports were used primarily to deliver high value cargo and important personnel to overseas destinations. For example, ATC C-87s delivered new engines to Libya to replace those worn out on the B-24s used on the famous low-level mission against Ploiești. An emergency shipment of artillery fuzes helped win the battle of Tobruk. When the first B-29s were sent to China, advance party personnel and additional combat crew personnel proceeded the bombers aboard ATC C-87s. On return flights, C-87s and C-54s brought back combat crews who had finished their combat tours and were returning to the States. At the end of the war, ATC C-54s transported 11th Airborne Division personnel from Okinawa to Japan.\n\nWhile little known the Caribbean Division And South Atlantic Divisions of ATC also operated its own small navy for rescue of downed pilots comprising converted submarine chasers and Catalina seaplanes. While not limited to rescuing ATC pilots the main role was that of insuring a rescue of ATC pilots who were downed on the first leg of the southern trans-Atlantic route to Europe and SE Asia. In areas where ATC aircraft flew where there were a possibility of hostile aircraft or ships, other services provided air to sea rescue. ATC rescue services operated only in areas where there was nil chance of armed encounter.\n\nBy the end of World War II, Air Transport Command had developed into a huge military air carrier with a worldwide route pattern. From an organization of approximately 37,000 personnel (6,500 of them overseas) in December 1942, it numbered nearly 210,000 in August 1945, the bulk stationed overseas (150,000). By the end of the war the command had 3,090 major transports assigned. Although in the first half of 1944 the C-46 appeared to be headed for ascendancy as the predominant transport type of the command, and ATC more than tripled its inventory of C-54s in the final year of the war to 839 transports, the C-47 remained the workhorse transport of ATC throughout the conflict, never exceeded in total by any other type. Its numbers remained steady throughout 1942 and 1943, but increased dramatically in the last 18 months of the war, rising to a total of 1,341.\n\nRoutes had been established to places where aircraft had been unheard of before the war. Airline personnel who had never left the United States before joining the military had become veterans of long over-water flights to the remotest regions of earth. In its final full month of wartime operations (July 1945), ATC carried 275,000 passengers (50,000 domestically) and 100,000 tons of mail and cargo, 96.7% of it overseas.\n\nThe Air Transport Command fielded the \"Rockets\" football team with several notable former college and professional players, such as Vernon Martin of the Pittsburgh Steelers.\n\nWith the end of the war, the Air Transport Command found itself in limbo. Senior USAAF authorities considered ATC to be a wartime necessity that was no longer needed, and expected its civilian personnel, including former airline pilots, to return to their peacetime occupations. Senior ATC officers, on the other hand, thought that ATC should be developed into a national government operated airline, an idea that was soundly opposed by the airline industry. While the war had firmly established the necessity of a troop carrier mission, most military officers believed the role performed by ATC should be provided by contract carriers.\n\nWhen the United States Air Force was established as a separate service in 1947, the Air Transport Command was not established as one of its missions. The ATC commander and his staff took it upon themselves to convince the new civilian leadership of the newly created Department of Defense (DOD) (and Secretaries of the Army and Air Force) that ATC had a mission. They seized upon testimony by former Troop Carrier Command commander Major General Paul Williams that the Air Force should have a long-range troop deployment capability, and began advocating that ATC transports could be used to deploy troops. Williams had been pressing for the development of a long-range troop carrier airplane when he made his statement.\n\nThe DOD believed it should have its own air transport service and decided that ATC should become the Military Air Transport Service, supported by the USAF, even though not listed as a formal military mission. When the ATC commander wrote a mission statement for the proposed new command he inserted \"deployment of troops\" as a mission, although the change had never been formally requested, the Secretary of the Air Force either allowed it to remain or overlooked it when signing the mission statement.\n\n\n\n\nEstablished 1 July 1942, to replace the Domestic Wing, Army Air Forces Ferrying Command, established 28 December 1941 as the \"Domestic Division ACFC\" and redesignated \"Domestic Wing, AAFFC\" on 26 February 1942.\n\nInitially conducted aircraft ferrying operations within the United States (\"Zone of the Interior\") in six regions. The division was reorganized 22 October 1944 into three component ferrying wings (East, West, and Central). The Ferrying Division absorbed the Domestic Transportation Wing (created March 1943 for military passenger and cargo service within the ZI) on 27 November 1944.\n\nOperated primarily by civilian contract pilots, including the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP), the Ferrying Division moved aircraft and parts from manufacturing plants in the United States to and between various training bases within the US and to Ports of Embarkation for overseas shipment (Hamilton Field, California; Morrison Field, Florida; Presque Isle Field, Maine; and Anchorage-Elmendorf Field, Alaska). From the Ports of Embarkation, aircraft were flown to final overseas destinations primarily by contracted civil airline pilots or former airline pilots serving in the AAF. The ATC Ferrying Division was also responsible for the preparation for and movement of combat units overseas and for the movement of replacement aircraft and crews, who were temporarily assigned to the ATC Ferrying Division from the time they left the United States until they arrived at their assigned theater.\n\nEstablished 28 December 1941 as the \"Foreign Division, ACFC\"; redesignated \"Foreign Wing, AAFFC\" on 26 February 1942; redesignated \"Air Transportation Division\" 1 July 1942. The division was dissolved in March 1943 and its wings placed directly under command of Headquarters ATC.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFerrying Division found it necessary to provide transition instruction on many planes, so its pilots could qualify on all major U.S. models. A transition school was established at Long Beach Army Air Field ferrying base in California as early as July 1941; others were set up in the spring of 1942 at Boeing Field, Seattle, Berry Field, Nashville (568th Army Air Forces Base Unit), Romulus Army Airfield, Detroit, Baltimore Municipal Airport, Maryland, and at Hensley Field, Dallas.\n\nOverseas ATC stations are listed and described in the following articles:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288426", "title": "William Tranter", "text": "William Tranter\n\nWilliam Tranter (1816 – January 7, 1890) was a British gunmaker and gun designer famous for inventing the Tranter revolver.\n\nBorn in Oldbury in Worcestershire, William Tranter was the eldest son of a blacksmith. Birmingham was for many years the centre of arms manufacture in England and in 1830, at the age of 14, Tranter was apprenticed to the gunsmithing firm of Hollis Bros & Company. In 1839 a small legacy allowed him to buy out another Birmingham gunsmith.\n\nTranter went into partnership with his former employers, John and Isaac Hollis, in 1844. The partnership dissolved five years later, and Tranter is known to have had an extensive manufactory, together with sales offices, at 50 Loveday Street between 1854 and 1860.\n\nBy about the year 1853 Tranter had manufactured over 8000 Adams double-action revolvers under licence. Together with James Kerr, Tranter developed modifications to the Adams action and about 1853 he made the first of his double trigger, double-action revolvers. The first model was built on an Adams frame and featured a detachable rammer which fitted onto the frame. His next model featured a rammer secured by a keyed peg on the frame and a hook on the barrel. In 1855 he also manufactured his own version of the Beaumont–Adams revolver, known as the Tranter-Adams-Kerr. \n\nAfter 1856 he began production of his third model double trigger revolver, with a more streamlined frame and screw-secured rammer. At the same time he developed his fourth model, a single trigger, double-action revolver based on the same frame.\n\nAt the time the size of revolvers was typically described by the bore instead of the term calibre which is used today. The bore size equates to the number of lead balls of a particular diameter that can be cast from one pound (454 g) of lead. Tranter's most common bores were:\nWith the onset of the American Civil War, the Confederate States began buying British arms in quantity and Tranter's high-quality weapons were much esteemed. The New Orleans importers Messrs Hyde & Goodrich and A. B. Griswold & Co (who later manufactured his own pistols) distributed Tranters. Tranter also produced percussion rifles that used a revolver cylinder instead of a magazine. These rifles were produced in various configurations including both single and double trigger mechanisms.\n\nTwo Tranters were carried by the famous detective Allan Pinkerton, whose detective agency protected U.S. officials prior to the creation of the U.S. Secret Service. He is said to have armed his men with Tranter double trigger revolvers. An engraved and nickel-plated Tranter model 1879, marked \"Made for W.A. Pinkerton by Thos M. Tranter. 16 Weaman St., Birmingham\" is thought to have been presented to William A. Pinkerton, one of Allan’s sons.\n\nTranter continued to produce percussion revolvers well after the introduction of cartridge revolvers since many shooters were more comfortable with the old system, which was also cheaper. However, in 1863 Tranter secured patents for revolvers using the rimfire system, some of the first in Britain. Tranter's rim-fire revolvers ranged from small caliber single- and double-action revolvers to the large solid frame model 1863 revolver in .442 in (11.2 mm) caliber. Tranter began manufacturing center fire revolvers in 1868.\n\nIn late 1867 Tranter constructed a new, larger facility on Lichfield Road in Aston Cross, called \"The Tranter Gun and Pistol Factory\", although business continued to be conducted at the old location for some time. At that time Tranter's was the most extensive pistol-making business in the Midlands. Tranter produced over 20 different pistols of his own design, together with other designers' guns under contract. He had government contracts for the official British Snider Rifle, and in 1878 was granted a government contract for a solid frame .450 centre fire revolver for use by the British army. He supplied weapons of every kind to the gun trade in general, including overseas markets. \n\nBetween 1849 and 1888 Tranter made 24 patent applications. Nineteen of those were for cartridge weapons including bolt-action rifles and machine guns, as well as his famous revolvers. \"Tranter was certainly in the very forefront of rook rifle development and production.\"\nTranter was a substantial property owner and a founding member of the Birmingham Small Arms Company Ltd., of which he was a director in its early years. As a prominent member of the Birmingham small arms trade he was called as a witness before a parliamentary committee on small arms in 1854.\n\nTranter retired in 1885 and died on January 7, 1890. His factory was leased by his friend George Kynoch and was renamed The Kynoch Gun Factory. In 1888 the name was changed to the Aston Arms Factory, which had ceased by 1900 when the factory was occupied by the Clipper Automatic Tyre Co. The factory was ultimately demolished in 1961. \n\nWilliam Tranter's own son, William Grosvener Tranter, registered at least two firearms patents but appears to have been only slightly interested in the gun industry. However William's son-in-law, Thomas William Watson, was joined his by brother in 1884 to form the arms company of Watson Brothers. William's nephews, Walter Tranter and Alfred William Thompson and Thomas Musgrove Tranter formed an arms firm called Tranter Bros. Gunmakers in Birmingham in 1900. The firm, which also sold bicycles in the 1890s, closed in 1957.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288427", "title": "Uramustine", "text": "Uramustine\n\nUramustine (INN) or uracil mustard is a chemotherapy drug which belongs to the class of alkylating agents. It is used in lymphatic malignancies such as non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It works by damaging DNA, primarily in cancer cells that preferentially take up the uracil due to their need to make nucleic acids during their rapid cycles of cell division. The DNA damage leads to apoptosis of the affected cells. Bone marrow suppression and nausea are the main side effects.\n\nChemically it is a derivative of nitrogen mustard and uracil. \n"}
{"id": "2288428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288428", "title": "Ontario Khalsa Darbar", "text": "Ontario Khalsa Darbar\n\nThe Ontario Khalsa Darbar is a notable Sikh Gurudwara (place of worship) in Mississauga, Ontario. One of the largest Sikh Gurudwara in Canada, it attracts tens of thousands of celebrants for major religious festivals. A gurdwara (, ' or , '), meaning \"the doorway to the Guru\", is the Sikh place of worship and may be referred to as a Sikh temple.\n\nIt was officially started in 1978 in a small trailer. Steadily, more and more money was raised and land was purchased and a building was created in 1988. Its new location is at 7080 Dixie Road, Mississauga, Ontario. The opening ceremony in 1989 drew a crowd of 10,000.\n\nDuring the 1990s more land was bought and an outdoor stadium was built. Hardial Dhir Architect was chosen to reconstruct and design the community centre and additions to the Gurdwara. The Gurdwara is the central Gurdwara in the Greater Toronto Area.\n\nIn the mid to late 1990s the old building was getting overcrowded so a 6 million dollar project was announced to build a large extension. Much money was raised, however the building still gets overcrowded on special days like Bandhi Chhor (\"Release from Confinement\", held according to Nanakshahi calendar on same date as Diwali) and Vaisakhi and New Year (December 31). In 2001 the Nagar Kirtan (which celebrates Viasakhi) had a crowd of nearly 100,000 people.\n\nIn 2003 the Bandhi Chhor celebration drew in a crowd of over 40,000 people. This is when the Gurdwara got a lot of popularity. It has an atmosphere like if it is a major Gurdwara in India. A new plan in 2004 was announced to build a $3 million parking lot. This parking lot would be filled with many historical paintings and information boards.\n\nThe temple has been the subject of several controversies such as a donation to the African National Congress in 1990, a dispute over whether Sikh marriages can be performed in a hotel which serves alcohol and meat, and when a Sikh priest stayed at the temple, thus defying a deportation order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288437", "title": "American Inventors Protection Act", "text": "American Inventors Protection Act\n\nThe American Inventors Protection Act (AIPA) is a United States federal law enacted on November 29, 1999, as Public Law 106-113. In 2002, the Intellectual Property and High Technology Technical Amendments Act of 2002, Public Law 107-273, amended AIPA.\n\nAIPA contains significant changes to American Patent Law. AIPA added \n\nLarge corporations generally supported the bill. Independent inventors generally opposed the bill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288444", "title": "Wood Lake (British Columbia)", "text": "Wood Lake (British Columbia)\n\nWood Lake is a lake in a chain of five major lakes which occupies portions of the Okanagan Valley in the interior of British Columbia, Canada. \nThe lakes of the Okanagan Valley were formed by about 8900 BP.\nWood Lake is immediately south of Kalamalka Lake and in 1908 was connected to it by a dredged channel (the Oyama canal). \nSituated between Oyama and Winfield, it has a solid reputation for rainbow trout fishing. \nThe lake is named after Tom Wood, who settled on the south end of the lake around 1860.\n\nThe dry climate and suitable soil has encouraged development of a substantial tree fruit industry around the lake and throughout the valley. \nThe upper watershed is heavily forested and has been logged for several decades. \nThe lower elevation of the watershed is described as a Ponderosa pine/bunchgrass area.\n\nThere is also a Wood Lake in Fraser Valley, an area of British Columbia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288455", "title": "Northern Alliance", "text": "Northern Alliance\n\nThe Afghan Northern Alliance, officially known as the United Islamic Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan ( \"Jabha-yi Muttahid-i Islāmi-yi Millī barāyi Nijāt-i Afghānistān\"), was a united military front that came to formation in late 1996 after the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Taliban) took over Kabul. The United Front was assembled by key leaders of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, particularly president Burhanuddin Rabbani and former Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Massoud. Initially it included mostly Tajiks but by 2000, leaders of other ethnic groups had joined the Northern Alliance. This included Abdul Rashid Dostum, Mohammad Mohaqiq, Abdul Qadir, Asif Mohseni and others.\n\nThe Northern Alliance fought a defensive war against the Taliban government. They received support from Iran, Russia, Turkey, India, Tajikistan and others, while the Taliban were backed by Pakistan. By 2001 the Northern Alliance controlled less than 10% of the country, cornered in the north-east and based in Badakhshan province. The US invaded Afghanistan, providing support to Northern Alliance troops on the ground in a two-month war against the Taliban, which they won in December 2001. With the Taliban forced from control of the country, the Northern Alliance was dissolved as members and parties joined the new establishment of the Karzai administration.\n\nThe United Front was formed in late 1996 against the Taliban government by opposition factions. Since early 1999, Ahmad Shah Massoud was the only main leader able to defend his territory against the Taliban, and as such remained as the main de facto political and military leader of the United Front recognized by members of all the different ethnic groups. Massoud decided on the main political line and the general military strategy of the alliance. A part of the United Front military factions, such as Junbish-i Milli or Hezb-e Wahdat, however, did not fall under the direct control of Massoud but remained under their respective regional or ethnic leaders.\n\nMilitary commanders of the United Front were either independent or belonged to one of the following political parties:\n\n\nMilitary commanders and subcommanders of the United Front included\n\n\nThe two main political candidates in the 2009 Afghan presidential election both worked for the United Front:\n\n\nAfter the fall of the Soviet-backed communist Najibullah government in 1992, the Afghan political parties agreed on a peace and power-sharing agreement (the Peshawar Accords). The accords created the Islamic State of Afghanistan and appointed an interim government for a transitional period to be followed by general elections. According to Human Rights Watch:\n\nGulbuddin Hekmatyar received operational, financial and military support from Pakistan. Afghanistan expert Amin Saikal concludes in \"Modern Afghanistan: A History of Struggle and Survival\":\n\nIn addition, Saudi Arabia and Iran, as competitors for regional hegemony, supported Afghan militias hostile towards each other. According to Human Rights Watch, Iran was backing the Shia Hazara Hezb-e Wahdat forces of Abdul Ali Mazari in order to \"maximize Wahdat's military power and influence\". Saudi Arabia supported the Wahhabite Abdul Rasul Sayyaf and his Ittehad-e Islami faction. A publication by the George Washington University describes:\n\nConflict between the two militias soon escalated into a full-scale war.\n\nDue to the sudden initiation of the war, working government departments, police units or a system of justice and accountability for the newly created Islamic State of Afghanistan did not have time to form. Atrocities were committed by individuals of the different armed factions while Kabul descended into lawlessness and chaos as described in reports by Human Rights Watch and the Afghanistan Justice Project. Because of the chaos, some leaders increasingly had only nominal control over their (sub-)commanders. Human Rights Watch writes:\n\nMeanwhile, southern Afghanistan was under the control of local leaders not affiliated with the central government in Kabul. In 1994, the Taliban – a movement originating from Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam–run religious schools for Afghan refugees in Pakistan – also developed in Afghanistan as a politico-religious force. In November 1994 they took control of the southern city of Kandahar and subsequently expanded their control into several provinces in southern and central Afghanistan not under the central government's control.\n\nIn late 1994, most of the militia factions which had been fighting in the battle for control of Kabul were defeated militarily by forces of the Islamic State's Minister of Defense Ahmad Shah Massoud. Bombardment of the capital came to a halt. The Islamic State government took steps to restore law and order. Courts started to work again. Massoud tried to initiate a nationwide political process with the goal of national consolidation and democratic elections, also inviting the Taliban to join the process but they refused as they opposed a democratic system.\n\nThe Taliban started shelling Kabul in early 1995 but were defeated by forces of the Islamic State government under Ahmad Shah Massoud. Amnesty International, referring to the Taliban offensive, wrote in a 1995 report:\n\nThe Taliban's early victories in 1994 were followed by a series of defeats that resulted in heavy losses which led analysts to believe the Taliban movement had run its course. At that point Pakistan and Saudi Arabia drastically increased their support to the Taliban. Many analysts like Amin Saikal describe the Taliban as developing into a proxy force for Pakistan's regional interests.\nOn September 26, 1996, as the Taliban with military support by Pakistan and financial support by Saudi Arabia, prepared for another major offensive against the capital Kabul, Massoud ordered a full retreat from the city. The Taliban seized Kabul on September 27, 1996, and established the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan.\n\nAhmad Shah Massoud and Abdul Rashid Dostum, former enemies, created the United Front (Northern Alliance) against the Taliban that were preparing offensives against the remaining areas under the control of Massoud and those under the control of Dostum. The United Front included beside the dominantly Tajik forces of Massoud and the Uzbek forces of Dostum, Hazara troops led by Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq and Pashtun forces under the leadership of commanders such as Abdul Haq and Haji Abdul Qadir. Notable politicians and diplomats of the United Front included Abdul Rahim Ghafoorzai, Abdullah Abdullah and Masood Khalili. From the Taliban conquest of Kabul in September 1996 until November 2001 the United Front controlled roughly 30% of Afghanistan's population in provinces such as Badakhshan, Kapisa, Takhar and parts of Parwan, Kunar, Nuristan, Laghman, Samangan, Kunduz, Ghōr and Bamyan.\n\nDue to the involvement of Indian intelligence (RAW) in supporting the Northern Alliance, Pakistan looked to neutralise this threat by cultivating the Taliban. In 2001 alone, according to several international sources, 28,000–30,000 Afghans, which took refuge in Pakistan during Afghan jihad, 14,000–15,000 Afghan Taliban and 2,000–3,000 Al Qaeda militants were fighting against anti-Taliban forces in Afghanistan as a roughly 45,000 strong military force. Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf – then as Chief of Army Staff – was responsible for sending thousands of Pakistanis to fight alongside the Taliban and Bin Laden against the forces of Ahmad Shah Massoud. Of the estimated 28,000 Afghan refugees returned from Pakistan fighting in Afghanistan, 8,000 were militants recruited in madrassas filling regular Taliban ranks. A 1998 document by the U.S. State Department confirms that \"20–40 percent of [regular] Taliban soldiers are returned Afghans from Pakistani refugee camps\".\n\nHuman Rights Watch wrote in 2000:\n\nOn August 1, 1997 the Taliban launched an attack on Sheberghan, the main military base of Abdul Rashid Dostum. Dostum has said the reason the attack was successful was due to 1500 Pakistani commandos taking part and that the Pakistani air force also gave support.\n\nIn 1998, Iran accused Pakistan of sending its air force to bomb Mazar-i-Sharif in support of Taliban forces and directly accused Pakistani troops for \"war crimes at Bamiyan\". The same year Russia said that Pakistan was responsible for the military expansion of the Taliban in northern Afghanistan by sending large numbers of Pakistani troops, some of whom had subsequently been taken as prisoners by the anti-Taliban United Front.\n\nIn 2000, the UN Security Council imposed an arms embargo against military support to the Taliban, with UN officials explicitly singling out Pakistan. The UN secretary-general implicitly criticized Pakistan for its military support and the Security Council stated it was \"deeply distress[ed] over reports of involvement in the fighting, on the Taliban side, of thousands of non-Afghan nationals\". In July 2001, several countries including the United States, accused Pakistan of being \"in violation of U.N. sanctions because of its military aid to the Taliban\".\n\nIn 2000, British Intelligence reported that the ISI was taking an active role in several Al Qaeda training camps. The ISI helped with the construction of training camps for both the Taliban and Al Qaeda. From 1996 to 2001 the Al Qaeda of Osama Bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri became a state within the Taliban state. Bin Laden sent Arab and Central Asian Al-Qaeda militants to join the fight against the United Front among them his Brigade 055.\n\nWith the fall of Kabul to anti-Taliban forces in November 2001, ISI forces worked with and helped Taliban militias who were in full retreat. In November 2001, Taliban, Al-Qaeda combatants and ISI operatives were safely evacuated from Kunduz on Pakistan Air Force cargo aircraft to Pakistan Air Force bases in Chitral and Gilgit in Pakistan's Northern Areas in what has been dubbed the \"Airlift of Evil\".\n\nThe role of the Pakistani military has been described by international observers as well as by the anti-Taliban leader Ahmad Shah Massoud as a \"creeping invasion\". The \"creeping invasion\" proved unable to defeat the severely outnumbered anti-Taliban forces.\n\nAccording to a 55-page report by the United Nations, the Taliban, while trying to consolidate control over northern and western Afghanistan, committed systematic massacres against civilians. UN officials stated that there had been \"15 massacres\" between 1996 and 2001. They also said, that \"[t]hese have been highly systematic and they all lead back to the [Taliban] Ministry of Defense or to Mullah Omar himself\". Al Qaeda's so-called 055 Brigade was also responsible for mass-killings of Afghan civilians.<ref name=\"Ahmed Rashid/The Telegraph\"></ref> The report by the United Nations quotes eyewitnesses in many villages describing Arab fighters \"carrying long knives used for slitting throats and skinning people\".\n\nAfter longstanding battles especially for the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif, Abdul Rashid Dostum and his Junbish-i Milli forces alongside allied Hezb-e Wahdat forces were defeated by the Taliban and their allies in 1998. Dostum subsequently went into exile. Ahmad Shah Massoud remained the only major anti-Taliban leader inside Afghanistan who was able to defend vast parts of his territory against the Pakistan army, the Taliban and Al-Qaeda.\n\nThe Taliban repeatedly offered Massoud money and a position of power to make him stop his resistance. Massoud declined. He explained in one interview:\n\nThe Taliban say: \"Come and accept the post of prime minister and be with us\", and they would keep the highest office in the country, the presidentship. But for what price?! The difference between us concerns mainly our way of thinking about the very principles of the society and the state. We can not accept their conditions of compromise, or else we would have to give up the principles of modern democracy. We are fundamentally against the system called \"the Emirate of Afghanistan\".\n\nThere should be an Afghanistan where every Afghan finds himself or herself happy. And I think that can only be assured by democracy based on consensus.\n\nMassoud wanted to convince the Taliban to join a political process leading towards democratic elections in a foreseeable future. He also stated:\n\nThe Taliban are not a force to be considered invincible. They are distanced from the people now. They are weaker than in the past. There is only the assistance given by Pakistan, Osama bin Laden and other extremist groups that keep the Taliban on their feet. With a halt to that assistance, it is extremely difficult to survive.\n\nIn early 2001 the United Front employed a new strategy of local military pressure and global political appeals. Resentment was increasingly gathering against Taliban rule from the bottom of Afghan society including the Pashtun areas. In total, estimates range up to one million people fleeing the Taliban. Many civilians fled to the area of Ahmad Shah Massoud. National Geographic concluded in its documentary \"\"Inside the Taliban\"\": \"The only thing standing in the way of future Taliban massacres is Ahmad Shah Massoud\". In the areas under his control Massoud set up democratic institutions and signed the Women's Rights Declaration. At the same time he was very wary not to revive the failed Kabul government of the early 1990s. Already in 1999 the United Front leadership ordered the training of police forces specifically to keep order and protect the civilian population in case the United Front would be successful. In early 2001 Ahmad Shah Massoud addressed the European Parliament in Brussels asking the international community to provide humanitarian help to the people of Afghanistan. He stated that the Taliban and Al Qaeda had introduced \"a very wrong perception of Islam\" and that without the support of Pakistan and Bin Laden the Taliban would not be able to sustain their military campaign for up to a year. On this visit to Europe he also warned that his intelligence had gathered information about a large-scale attack on U.S. soil being imminent.\n\nOn September 9, 2001, two Arab suicide attackers, allegedly belonging to Al Qaeda, posing as journalists, detonated a bomb hidden in a video camera while interviewing Ahmed Shah Massoud in the Takhar province of Afghanistan. Commander Massoud died in a helicopter that was taking him to a hospital. He was buried in his home village of Bazarak in the Panjshir Valley. The funeral, although taking place in a rather rural area, was attended by hundreds of thousands of mourning people.\n\nThe assassination of Massoud is considered to have a strong connection to the attacks in the U.S. two days later, which killed nearly 3,000 people and which appeared to be the terrorist attack that Massoud had warned against in his speech to the European Parliament several months earlier. John P. O'Neill was a counter-terrorism expert and the Assistant Director of the FBI until late 2001. He retired from the FBI and was offered the position of director of security at the World Trade Center (WTC). He took the job at the WTC two weeks before 9/11. On September 10, 2001, John O'Neill told two of his friends,\n\nWe're due. And we're due for something big. ... Some things have happened in Afghanistan [referring to the assassination of Massoud]. I don't like the way things are lining up in Afghanistan. ... I sense a shift, and I think things are going to happen. ... soon.\nO'Neill died the following day, when the south tower collapsed.\n\nAfter the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, United Front troops ousted the Taliban from power in Kabul with American air support in Operation Enduring Freedom, using intelligence reports offered by Iran during the Six plus Two Group meetings at the United Nations Headquarters. In November and December 2001 the United Front gained control of much of the country and played a crucial role in establishing the post-Taliban interim government of Hamid Karzai in late 2001.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks in the United States in 2001, the United Front succeeded in retaking Kabul from the Taliban with air support from US-led forces during Operation Enduring Freedom.* In 2019, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Michael Mulroy remarked that the U.S. partnership with the Northern Alliance was a very successful model that was later followed in northern Iraq and Syria. Despite fears of a return to the chaos similar to that of the 1992–1996 civil war, all the Afghan leaders met in Germany to create a new government. Hamid Karzai was chosen to lead the country and most key positions were given to Tajik members of the Northern Alliance. This created a major international issue. While Pakistan has always favored Afghanistan's major ethnic group, the Pashtun, India saw an opportunity for increasing its regional power by jumping on board with the support of the Northern Alliance in the early days of the war. With both nations seeking to increase or maintain their regional power through opposing factions on the ground, the conflict in Afghanistan has increasingly been seen by observers as a proxy-war between these powers.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2004 Afghanistan witnessed relative calm. By 2006, however, with the support of Pakistan, a Taliban insurgency was increasingly gaining strength. In 2010, Afghan President Karzai decided that the only way to end the Taliban insurgency is to call for peace. This process became accepted and supported by all international partners of Afghanistan, except by several key figures of the Northern Alliance such as Abdullah Abdullah, Ahmad Zia Massoud, Mohammad Mohaqiq, and others. The opposition, by then splintered into several parties, warned that Karzai's appeasement policy could come at the cost of Afghanistan's political and economic development, and the progress made in areas such as education and women's rights. As the opposition leaders were excluded from secret talks with the Taliban by NATO and the Karzai administration and Karzai's political rhetoric was increasingly adjusted to Taliban demands, United Front leaders, in late 2011, regrouped to oppose a return of the Taliban to Afghanistan.\n\nBetween 1996 and 2001, the Northern Alliance blocked the Taliban and al-Qaeda from gaining control of the entirety of Afghanistan. Many internally displaced persons found shelter in areas controlled by Ahmad Shah Massoud. After the September 2001 attacks in the United States, U.S. air raids followed by ground troops of the United Front ousted the Taliban from power in Kabul. Between November and December 2001, the United Front gained control of most major Afghan cities. Had it not been for the United Front, the U.S. would have needed to deploy large number of ground troops, as was done in the Iraq War.\n\nThe United Front was influential in the transitional Afghan Government of Hamid Karzai from 2001 until 2004. Notably, Mohammed Fahim became the Vice President and Defense Minister, Yunus Qanuni became the Minister of Education and Security Advisor and Abdullah Abdullah became the Foreign Minister. Most foreign observers expected this dominance to continue and for Fahim or Qanuni to be selected as Karzai's Vice President in the 2004 elections. However, Karzai instead selected Ahmad Zia Massoud, younger brother of the former United Front leader Ahmad Shah Massoud. Karzai easily won the 2004 Presidential election with 55.4% of the vote, followed by three former leaders of the Northern Alliance, Quanuni (16.3%), Mohaqiq (11.7%) and Dostum (10%).\n\nSome of the military strength of the UIF has now been absorbed into the military of Afghanistan, while many of the remaining soldiers were disarmed through a nationwide disarmament program. The existence and strength of the Afghan National Army has significantly reduced the threat of the former UIF elements attempting to use military action against the new NATO-backed Afghan government. Most of the country's senior military personnel are former members of the UIF, including Defense Minister Bismillah Khan Mohammadi.\n\nSome members of the alliance are now part of the United National Front (Afghanistan) which is led by Rabbani and includes some former leaders of the UIF such as Yunus Qanuni, Mohammed Fahim, and Abdul Rashid Dostum. The United National Front has positioned itself as a \"loyal\" opposition to Hamid Karzai. Others like Abdul Rasul Sayyaf claim to be loyal to Hamid Karzai while, however, following their own agenda.\n\nAbdullah Abdullah, a doctor of medicine and one of Ahmad Shah Massoud's closest friends, ran as an independent candidate in the 2009 Afghan presidential election and came in second place. On November 1, 2009, Abdullah, however, quit the runoff election because of widespread allegations of election fraud. Some of his followers wanted to take to the streets but Abdullah called for calm. Massoud Khalili, another of Ahmad Shah Massoud's close friends, became ambassador to India and subsequently to Turkey, while the younger brother of Massoud, Ahmad Wali Massoud, serves as ambassador to the United Kingdom. Massoud's ex-commander Bismillah Khan Mohammadi was chief-of-staff of the Afghan National Army, then as Minister of the Interior followed by Minister of Defense. One of Massoud's close intelligence agents, Amrullah Saleh, became director of the National Directorate of Security (NDS) in 2004 but had to resign in 2010.\n\nThe National Front of Afghanistan, which was created by Ahmad Zia Massoud, Abdul Rashid Dostum and Mohammad Mohaqiq in late 2011 to oppose peace talks with Taliban, is generally considered as a reformation of the military wing of the United Front. Meanwhile, much of the political wing has reunited under the National Coalition of Afghanistan led by Abdullah Abdullah.\n\nFormer head of the National Directorate of Security (NDS), Amrullah Saleh, has created a new movement, Basej-i Milli, with support among the youth. It mobilized about 10,000 people in an anti-Taliban demonstration in the capital Kabul in May 2011. Former Northern Alliance strongman Mohammed Fahim, Vice President of Afghanistan, remained in an alliance with Hamid Karzai until Fahim's death in 2014.\n\nThe human rights situation during combat was heavily dependent on the specific commander and his troops. The situation for different leaders and their troops of the United Front thus shows sharp contrasts. Also, the quality of life of the Afghan population was heavily dependent on the specific leader that was directly controlling the area in which they lived. Sharp contrasts could also be witnessed regarding life and structures in those areas.\n\nAhmad Shah Massoud controlled the Panjshir area, some other parts of Parwan and Thakhar province. Some parts of Badakshan were under his influence while others were controlled by Burhanuddin Rabbani. Badakshan was the home region of Rabbani.\n\nMassoud created institutions which were structured into several committees: political, health, education and economic. In the area of Massoud women and girls were allowed to work and to go to school, and in at least two known instances Massoud personally intervened against cases of forced marriage. Women also did not have to wear the Afghan burqa. While it was Massoud's stated conviction that men and women are equal and should enjoy the same rights, he also had to deal with Afghan traditions which he said would need a generation or more to overcome. In his opinion that could only be achieved through education.\n\nHundreds of thousands of Afghans fled from the Taliban to the areas controlled by Massoud. There was a huge humanitarian problem as there was not enough to eat for both the existing population and the internally displaced Afghans. In 2001, Massoud and a French journalist described the bitter situation of the displaced people and asked for humanitarian help.\n\nUntil the conquest of Balkh by the Taliban in 1998, Abdul Rashid Dostum controlled the following provinces: Samangan, Balkh, Jowzjan, Faryab, and Baghlan provinces. According to Human Rights Watch many of the violations of international humanitarian law committed by the United Front forces date from 1996–1998 when Dostum controlled most of the north.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch in 1997, some 3,000 captured Taliban soldiers were summarily executed in and around Mazar-i Sharif by Dostum's Junbish-i Milli forces under the command of Abdul Malik Pahlawan. The killings followed Malik's withdrawal from a brief alliance with the Taliban and the capture of the Taliban forces who were trapped in the city. With the U.S. War on Terror, troops loyal to Dostum also returned to combat. In December 2001, during the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, between 250 and 3,000 (depending on sources) Taliban prisoners were shot and/or suffocated to death in metal truck containers. The prisoners were killed while being transferred from Kunduz to Sheberghan. This became known as the Dasht-i-Leili massacre In 2009, Dostum denied the accusations.\n\nDostum belonged to those commanders making their own, often draconian, laws. Human Rights Watch has released documents alleging widespread crimes targeted against the civilian population. Human Rights Watch asked to actively discourage and refuse support in any way to any group or coalition that includes commanders with a record of serious violations of international humanitarian law standards, specifically naming Abdul Rashid Dostum; Muhammad Mohaqiq, a senior commander of the Hezb-e Wahdat; Abdul Rasul Sayyaf, leader of the erstwhile Ittehad-e Islami; and Abdul Malik Pahlawan, a former senior Junbish-i Milli commander.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288458", "title": "Barry O'Meara", "text": "Barry O'Meara\n\nBarry Edward O'Meara (1786–1836) was an Irish surgeon and founding member of the Reform Club, who accompanied Napoleon to Saint Helena and became his physician, having been surgeon on board the Bellerophon when the emperor surrendered himself.\n\nO'Meara is remembered as the author of \"Napoleon in Exile, or A Voice From St. Helena\" (1822) a book which charged Sir Hudson Lowe with mistreating the former emperor and created no small sensation on its appearance. Less known are his secret letters he sent clandestinely from Saint Helena to a clerk at the Admiralty in London. These letters shed a unique light on Napoleon's state of mind as a captive and the causes of his complaints against Lowe and the British government.\n\nO'Meara was also the physician to have performed the very first medical operation on Napoleon: by extracting a wisdom tooth in the autumn of 1817.\n\nO'Meara's granddaughter, Kathleen O'Meara was a Catholic writer based in Paris.\n\nO'Meara was portrayed by Michael Williams in the 1972 Anglo-American historical drama film \"Eagle in a Cage\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288465", "title": "Borderline (Madonna song)", "text": "Borderline (Madonna song)\n\n\"Borderline\" is a song recorded by American singer Madonna for her eponymous debut album \"Madonna\" (1983). It was released on February 15, 1984 by Sire Records as the album's fifth single. Written and composed by its producer Reggie Lucas, the song was remixed by Madonna's then-boyfriend John \"Jellybean\" Benitez. The singer used refined and expressive vocals to deliver lyrics about an unfulfilled love.\n\nContemporary critics and authors applauded the song, calling it harmonically the most complex track from \"Madonna\" and praising its dance-pop nature. In the United States, \"Borderline\" became Madonna's first top-ten hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, peaking at number ten in June 1984. In the United Kingdom, it peaked at number two after it was re-released as a single in 1986. Elsewhere, the song reached the top 10 or 20 in numerous European nations, while topping the singles chart of Ireland. \"Borderline\" placed number 84 on \"Blender\" magazine's list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs Since You Were Born,\" while \"Time\" included it on their critics list of \"All-Time 100 Songs.\"\n\nThe accompanying music video portrayed Madonna with a Latin-American man as her boyfriend to whom she returns after being enticed to pose and model for a British photographer. The video generated academic interest for its use of power as symbolism. The video, in heavy rotation on MTV, was instrumental in establishing Madonna's early success, and she was credited for resisting the taboo of interracial relationships within it.\n\nMadonna performed the song on The Virgin Tour (1985) and the Sticky & Sweet Tour (2008), in which a punk-rock version of the song was performed. \"Borderline\" has been covered by artists including Duffy, Jody Watley, Counting Crows and The Flaming Lips.\n\nIn 1982, Madonna was working with producer Reggie Lucas on her debut album. She had already composed three songs when Lucas brought one of his own compositions to the project, calling it \"Borderline\". However, after recording the song, Madonna was unhappy with the final version, feeling that Lucas used too many instruments and did not consider her ideas for the song. This led to a dispute between the two. After finishing the album, Lucas left the project without altering the songs to Madonna's specifications. Hence, Madonna brought her then-boyfriend John \"Jellybean\" Benitez to remix \"Borderline\" and two other recorded tracks. On hearing the final version, Seymour Stein, head of Sire Records, declared, \"I dared to believe this was going to be huge beyond belief, the biggest thing I'd ever had, after I heard 'Borderline'... The passion that she put into that song, I thought, there's no stopping this girl.\"\n\n\"Borderline\" was recorded in February 1983 and presented a change in Madonna's normal vocal tone. A sentimental track, the song talks about a love that is never quite fulfilled. According to author Santiago Fouz-Hernández in his book \"Madonna's Drowned Worlds\", the song's lyrics like \"Something in way you love me won't let me be/I don't want to be your prisoner so baby won't you set me free\" depicted a rebellion against male chauvinism. Madonna used a refined and expressive singing voice, backed by Lucas's instrumentations. The song is considered to be the best example of the working relationship between Lucas and Madonna, as Lucas pushed the singer to find emotional depth in the song. Although sounding icy, the chorus is contemporary in style, and the song's vocal range was later used by Madonna as her own personal range through her whole music career. It opens with a keyboard-rich intro played on a Fender-Rhodes electric piano and a catchy synth melody provided by Fred Zarr. Bass player Anthony Jackson doubled Dean Gant's synth bass to provide a solid and more complex texture.\n\nThe chords in the song were inspired by the 1970s disco sound in Philadelphia, as well as Elton John's musical style. The chord sequences evoke Bachman-Turner Overdrive's song \"You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet\", while the synth phases display Madonna's typical musical style. The song is set in common time with a moderate tempo of 120 beats per minute. It is composed in the key of D major with Madonna's vocal range spanning from F to B. The song follows in the chord progression of D–C–G in the first verse to Bm–Em–A–F in the pre-chorus, and changes to A–F–Bm–A–E and G–D–A in the chorus.\n\nAuthor J. Randy Taraborrelli, in his biography of Madonna, called \"Borderline\", along with \"Holiday\", the two key recordings that helped establish Madonna's base in the music industry. He added that Madonna's sober voice made the track \"as close to an old Motown production as a hit could get in the dance-music-driven eighties.\" Author Maury Dean, in his book \"Rock 'n' Roll Gold Rush\", called the song \"echoey boogie\" with \"saucy-style and come-hither magnetism.\" Author Rikky Rooksby in his book, \"The Complete Guide to the Music of Madonna\", called it harmonically the most complex track of her debut album. Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic called the song effervescent. Sal Cinquemani of \"Slant Magazine\" called the song soulful. Commentator Dave Marsh in his book, \"The Heart of Rock & Soul\", said that the \"music's too damn good to be denied, no matter whose value system it disrupts.\" Journalist Roxanne Orgill in her book, \"Shout, Sister, Shout!\", commented that \"Borderline\" was the song that made Madonna the star that she is. Thom Duffy of \"Orlando Sentinel\" commented that \"Borderline\" was a song that \"introduced Madonna, the helium-induced pop star, and a siren kitten.\"\n\nThe song placed number 84 on \"Blender\" magazine's \"The 500 Greatest Songs Since You Were Born.\" \"Time\" also included it on the critic list \"All-Time 100 Songs\", stating that \"Madonna went on to sing more-clever songs ('Material Girl'), more-showy songs ('Like a Prayer'), more-sexy songs ('Justify My Love'). But 'Borderline,' her first top-10 hit, captures the essence of her pop appeal, its freshness, simplicity and vitality.\" Pitchfork Media considered the song the 106th-best of the 1980s, stating that \"'Borderline' is one of the first laid bricks in the cathedral of Madonna's mythology, four minutes of emotional helium that became her first Top 10 hit on the heels of an iconic music video.\"\n\nAt the 1984 \"Billboard\" Music Awards, \"Borderline\" received two nominations, in the categories of Best New Artist and Best Choreography in a Music Video, but did not win either. In September 2014, the song was placed at number two on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of \"100 Best Singles of 1984\". \"Rolling Stone\"'s Carrie Grant described the track as a \"melodic synth-a-palooza with the plunky low end\", also noting that Madonna's vocals were restrained on the song, but sounded emotional. \"The radio remix, which trims nearly three minutes from the tune, boasts one of Madge's most iconic fade-outs, standing by as she \"la la la\"s into the void.\"\n\nIn the United States, the song became Madonna's first top-ten hit when it reached number ten on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 list of June 16, 1984. It charted for 30 weeks, becoming Madonna's longest-charting single in the United States (tied with \"Take a Bow\" in 1995). The song reached number four on the Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart. It also became a crossover success by charting on the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart at number 23. On October 22, 1998, the song was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipment of one million copies. In Canada the song debuted at number 56 in the \"RPM\" issue dated August 4, 1984 and reached number 25 on September 15, 1984. The song was on the chart for 14 weeks.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, where the song was released on June 2, 1984, it was only able to reach number 56. However, upon the song's re-release on January 1, 1986, it spent nine weeks on the British chart, peaking at number two. The song was certified gold by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) in February 1986. According to the Official Charts Company, the song has sold 310,000 copies in the United Kingdom. Across Europe, the song topped the chart in Ireland and entered the top ten in Belgium and the Netherlands. It also peaked at number 23 in Switzerland and number 12 in Australia.\n\n\"Borderline\" was filmed on location in Los Angeles, California from January 30 to February 2, 1984 and was the first video that Madonna made with director Mary Lambert, who later also directed \"Like a Virgin\", \"Material Girl\", \"La Isla Bonita\" and \"Like a Prayer\". Author Allen Metz noted how the video portrayed Madonna's then-\"burgeoning star quality\". The video is regarded as one of Madonna's career-making moments and was shown regularly on MTV.\nIn the video, Madonna plays a young street denizen enticed by a British photographer, who publishes her picture on a magazine cover and makes romantic advances. The girl is emotionally torn between the photographer and her Latino boyfriend (Louie Louie), with whom her troubled relationship mirrors the struggle many Hispanic women faced with their men. The video narrative weaves the two relationship stories together in color and black-and-white. In the color sequences, Madonna sings, flirts and seduces her boyfriend, and in the black-and-white sequences she poses for the photographer, who also courts her.\n\nThe video shows Madonna in her usual style in those years, with her hair in a haystack and wearing lace gloves, high-heeled boots with thick socks and her trademark \"boy-toy\" belt. She changes clothing from one shot to another, in color as well as black and white, while wearing an unusual array of clothes including crop-tops, T-shirts, vests and sweaters coupled with cut-off pants and jeans, as well as a couple of evening gowns. Posing for the photographer, Madonna looks towards the camera with challenge in her eyes, depicting sexual aggression. At one point, she starts spraying graffiti over some lifeless classical statues, portraying herself as a transgressor who breaks rules and attempts innovation.\n\nLambert said that there was \"no formula\" used when making the \"Borderline\" video and that they were \"inventing it as we went along.\" In the January 1997 issue of \"Rolling Stone\", Lambert described the video and its plot as, \"Boy and girl enjoy simple pleasures of barrio love, girl is tempted by fame, boy gets huffy, girl gets famous, but her new beau's out-of-line reaction to a behavioral trifle (all she did was to spray-paint his expensive sports car) drives her back to her true love.\" The portrayal of the street life reflected Madonna's life in the gritty, multiracial streets and clubs that she had haunted while her career was beginning, while the depiction of high fashion reflected the popularity and success she was experiencing.\nWith the video, Madonna helped break the taboo of interracial relationships. Although at first it seems that Madonna denies her Hispanic boyfriend in favor of the photographer, later she rejects him, implying her desire to control her own sexual pleasures and to cross established pop borderlines with lyrics like \"You just keep on pushing my love, over the borderline\". The contrasting image of Madonna, first as a messy blonde in the street sequence and later as a glamorous high-fashion blonde, suggests that one can construct one's own image and identity. Madonna's \"street\" image depicted in the video allowed her to appeal to Hispanic and black youths.\n\nThe \"Borderline\" video attracted early attention from academics, who noted the symbolism of power in the two contrasting scenes. The photographer's studio is decorated with classical sculptures and nude statues holding spears, phallic symbols. In contrast, phallic symbols portrayed in the Hispanic neighborhood include a street lamp that Madonna embraces and a pool cue held erect by Madonna's boyfriend. Author Andrew Metz commented that with these scenes, Madonna displayed her sophisticated views on the fabrications of feminity as a supreme power rather than the normal views of oppression. Author Carol Clerk said that the videos of \"Borderline\" and \"Lucky Star\" established Madonna not as the girl next door, but as a sassy, smart and tough funny woman. Professor Douglas Kellner, in his book \"Media Culture: Cultural Studies, Identity, and Politics Between the Modern and the Postmodern\", commented that the video depicted motifs and strategies that helped Madonna in her journey to become a star. The clothes Madonna wore in the video were later used by designers like Karl Lagerfeld and Christian Lacroix.\n\nThe song was performed by Madonna on The Virgin Tour (1985) and the Sticky & Sweet Tour (2008). On the Virgin Tour, Madonna performed the song wearing a black, fringed micro-top and similar skirt, with her belly button exposed, and multiple crucifixes in various sizes hanging from different parts of her body. Madonna performed the song in its original version, appearing from behind a silhouette and descending steps while waving her hands and singing. The performance was not included on the \"\" VHS in 1985.\n\n\"Borderline\" was added to the set list of the first leg of Madonn'a Sticky & Sweet Tour in 2008 during the \"old school\" section of the performance, in which Madonna wore gym shorts, sneakers and long socks. The outfit was designed by Jeremy Scott and was a reference to Madonna's old days in New York. Madonna performed a punk-pop version while playing a purple electric guitar before a backdrop showing Keith Haring's cartoons and graphical imagery. Jon Pareles of \"The New York Times\" called the performance enthusiastic and punk-pop. Nekesa Mumbi Moody of \"USA Today\" called it a \"rocked out performance\". Caryn Ganz of \"Rolling Stone\" called it a \"Cheap Trick-style power pop song [performance].\" The song was not included in the 2009 leg of the tour and was replaced by a rock version of Madonn'a 1985 single \"Dress You Up\".\n\nIn June 2016, Madonna appeared on \"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon\" and closed the show by performing a slow, soul version of \"Borderline\", watched by then-President Barack Obama. An acoustic version of \"Borderline\" was performed on Madonna's one-off concert in Melbourne, \"\". The show started with Madonna riding a tricycle in a clown costume with a billowing dress and pink-and-yellow stockings. She began the performance by saying: \"I don’t have bipolar disorder but I am a little borderline\". Writing for \"The Guardian\", Monica Tan praised the singer for \"knowing her jokes were shit but using them as a segue into songs\".\n\nIn 2000, an electro-industrial cover of the song by Nivek Ogre of OhGr was included on the tribute compilation album \"Virgin Voices: A Tribute To Madonna, Vol. 2\". Heather Phares of AllMusic said that Ogre's version \"missed the mark.\" Chicago pop punk band Showoff recorded a cover for the 2002 compilation album \"Punk Goes Pop\". In 2006 singer Jody Watley covered the song for her album \"The Makeover\". Watley's downtempo version attained UK release as a single in October 2009. An acoustic folk cover of the song by The Chapin Sisters was included on the 2007 Madonna tribute album \"Through the Wilderness\". In 2008, singer Duffy performed \"Borderline\" at Radio 1's Big Weekend in Mote Park, Maidstone, Kent, England. The Flaming Lips and Stardeath and White Dwarfs recorded a cover of the song for the 2009 Warner Bros. Records compilation, \"Covered, A Revolution in Sound\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic described the cover recording as turning Madonna's version \"inside out\". Counting Crows performed the song at the Royal Albert Hall in 2003, and an MP3 version was released on the band's website on March 17, 2009. The performance was criticized by ABC News, calling it anticlimactic. In 2010, the TV show \"Glee\" covered the song in the episode \"The Power of Madonna\" in a mashup with the song \"Open Your Heart\", performed by Cory Monteith and Lea Michele. And in 2010, the song was covered live, in an acoustic version by Scottish singer Steve Mason.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the album liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288476", "title": "Skip Prosser", "text": "Skip Prosser\n\nGeorge Edward \"Skip\" Prosser (November 3, 1950 – July 26, 2007) was an American college basketball coach who was head men's basketball coach at Wake Forest University at the time of his death. He was the only coach in NCAA history to take three separate schools to the NCAA Tournament in his first year coaching the teams. In 21 years as a collegiate coach, he made 18 postseason appearances.\n\nPreviously, he coached Xavier University for seven seasons, where he achieved great success. He spent his first year of coaching at the collegiate level at Loyola College in Maryland, where he took the Greyhounds to the team's first modern-day NCAA Tournament appearance.\n\nProsser was the Atlantic Coast Conference Coach of the Year in 2003.\n\nProsser was born and raised in the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania suburb of Carnegie and graduated from Carnegie High School, where he played football and basketball. He played basketball and rugby union at the United States Merchant Marine Academy where he earned a degree in nautical science in 1972.\n\nProsser coached at Linsly Military Institute in Wheeling, West Virginia, where he achieved a 38–9 record. He then was hired as a history teacher at Wheeling Central Catholic High School, where he coached his teams to a state championship in 1982, five regional championships and three conference titles over a period of six years and a record of 104–48. Prosser would say later in his career that he would be happy if he were still teaching and coaching at Central Catholic High. One of the players on his championship team was Doug Wojcik, former head coach at the College of Charleston. Prosser earned his master's degree in secondary education from West Virginia University while he taught at Wheeling Central.\n\nProsser coached 15 seasons as head coach at the collegiate level. He began his college coaching career when he was hired by Coach Pete Gillen as an assistant coach for eight seasons at Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio, starting with the 1985–86 season, and he became Gillen's top assistant.\n\nHis collegiate head coaching career began at Loyola College in Maryland on April 1, 1993. Besides replacing Tom Schneider who had resigned in the midst of a then-school-worst 2–25 season, Prosser inherited a program that had completed its sixth straight losing campaign. In his only season at Loyola, the Greyhounds finished with a 17–13 overall record and won the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference Championship to earn its first-ever NCAA Division I Tournament berth. He returned to Xavier exactly one year later on April 1, 1994 to succeed Gillen who had accepted a similar position at Providence College two days prior. Prosser became the second-winningest coach in Xavier history after Gillen.\n\nProsser began his career at Wake Forest in 2001 and led the Demon Deacons to the NCAA tournament in each of his first four years there. Prosser is credited for sparking participation in the Wake Forest student Screamin' Demons and increasing attendance with game-time antics, like having the Demon Deacon mascot enter Lawrence Joel on a Harley Davidson and filling the coliseum with Zombie Nation's \"Kernkraft 400\" at tip-off and when the Deacons would go on a run. During Prosser's tenure as head coach, home season tickets sold out for the first time ever in 2004. During the 2004–05 season, the team was ranked #1 by the Associated Press for the first time in the school's history and won a school-record 27 games. At Wake Forest, Prosser won 100 games faster than all but two ACC coaches. In 2003, his Demon Deacons squad became the first from the ACC to ever lead the nation in rebounding. In the summer of 2007, Prosser had organized what was said to be a top-five recruiting class for the upcoming year.\n\nProsser was the collegiate coach of current or former NBA players Aaron Williams, James Posey, David West, Josh Howard, Darius Songaila and Chris Paul; he won national recruiting wars for Paul and Eric Williams. He amassed a career record of 291–146 (.666).\n\nEvery senior whom Prosser coached earned his degree in four years.\n\nHis teams were known for their fast tempo and offensive explosiveness.\n\nDuring his last two troubling seasons, he would quote Thomas Paine, Henry David Thoreau, Friedrich Nietzsche or William Shakespeare to his players to inspire them. The spring semester prior to summer exhibition tours, Prosser would require that every member of his team take a one-credit class on the history of the place they would be visiting. He would also attend the class and write the required term paper.\n\nProsser and his wife Nancy met in Cincinnati. He had two sons, Scott and Mark, who are from his first marriage to Ruth Charles. Mark was formerly the head coach at Division II Brevard College, served as an assistant coach at Winthrop University, and is now head coach at Western Carolina.\n\nAn avid sports fan, Prosser was a follower of the Pittsburgh Steelers since childhood and would often find sports bars to watch their games while on the road. He was at Three Rivers Stadium to witness the Immaculate Reception. He also saw Roberto Clemente's 3,000th and final hit, and the last game ever played at Three Rivers Stadium. He once hitchhiked across the country.\n\nProsser earned a reputation in college basketball for a keen intellect and sense of humor. He enjoyed reading the books of Robert Ludlum, along with biographies and books on history, philosophy and politics. The athletic director at Loyola, Joe Boylan, said that Prosser was a \"renaissance man coaching basketball.\" Former Xavier player Dwayne Wilson said, \"He always liked to read history books, so he was always quoting something—whether it be Winston Churchill or another great author—he was always quoting somebody on something.\"\n\nProsser stated, in an interview that aired just after his death, that his favorite quote was from Ralph Waldo Emerson: \"He was a transcendentalist in America in the 1830s who said 'Our chief want in life is someone who will make us do what we can.' I thought that was a powerful statement that we need to be around people who challenge us to be as good as we can be.\"\n\nSince 2009, Prosser's legacy has been celebrated in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, with the annual READ Challenge as part of the Skip Prosser Literacy Program. The READ Challenge, a collaboration between Wake Forest Athletics and the Wake Forest Department of Education with support from the Winston-Salem based literary nonprofit Bookmarks, encourages and supports reading among fourth-grade students in Winston-Salem/Forsyth County Schools. In the fall of 2019, a total of 1,441 fourth graders from 29 elementary schools participated in the READ Challenge. 903 fourth-graders read 1500 or more minutes before winter break, the highest participation total since 2014.\n\nOn July 26, 2007, Prosser collapsed in his office around noon after jogging at the Kentner Stadium track adjacent to his office in the Manchester Athletic Center on Wake Forest's campus. A staff member found him unresponsive around 12:45 pm; medical personnel performed CPR and used a defibrillator in efforts to revive Prosser. He was rushed to Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead at 1:41 pm from an apparent \"sudden massive heart attack\". He was 56 years old.\n\nThe announcement of Prosser's death was delayed until later in the day because his wife was traveling to Cincinnati and had not yet been reached. Players were gathered and taken to an off-campus location without their cell phones to guard them from reports of Prosser's death.\n\nProsser ate lunch the previous day with his predecessor as Wake Forest coach, then University of South Carolina coach Dave Odom. Prosser then ate dinner with his son Mark, who was also in Florida recruiting, before flying to North Carolina Thursday morning.\n\nTwo funeral masses were held for Prosser. The first was on July 31, 2007 at the Holy Family Catholic Church in Clemmons, North Carolina, near the Wake Forest campus (due to seating limitations, this service was televised by closed circuit television to Wait Chapel on campus). The second mass was held on August 4, 2007 at the Cintas Center on the campus of Xavier University in Cincinnati. Prosser was then buried at the Spring Grove Cemetery in Cincinnati.\n"}
{"id": "2288478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288478", "title": "Big Me", "text": "Big Me\n\n\"Big Me\" is the fourth single by the Foo Fighters from their self-titled debut album \"Foo Fighters\". Released in the spring of 1996, the song became a crossover hit for the band on pop radio, when it reached #13 on the Billboard Hot 100 Airplay.\n\nThe song became well known for its music video, which parodies Mentos advertisements, turning them into commercials for \"Footos,\" with the \"Freshmaker\" slogan being rendered as \"The Fresh Fighter\". The concept came from director Jesse Peretz, who had originally pitched the idea to another band, and the Foo Fighters accepted as according to Dave Grohl, \"We had some difficulty finding a treatment that would suit the song, which is this short, tongue-in-cheek, ridiculously candy-coated pop tune. We didn't want to make this big, pretentious portrait video. We wanted to make fun of ourselves and the song.\" The video made its MTV debut on February 14, 1996, and quickly became a Buzz Bin clip.\n\n\"Big Me\" was nominated for 5 MTV Video Music Awards at the 1996 MTV Video Music Awards, winning only \"Best Group Video\". The video, which parodies the Mentos ad campaign, was filmed on location in Sydney, Australia.\n\nThe video's success led to many fans throwing Mentos at the band whenever they played the song live. For an extended period of time, the band did not play the song live due to this, as Grohl cited: \"We did stop playing that song for a while because, honestly, it's like being stoned. Those little … things are like pebbles – they hurt.\" The band only started to change its mind after Weezer started performing \"Big Me\" during the Foozer tour both bands did together.\n\nThe \"Big Me\" single was re-released on a 3-inch vinyl for Record Store Day on April 13, 2019. The single is one of several 3-inch Record Store Day re-issues that is playable on special miniature record players.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288479", "title": "Joachim Menant", "text": "Joachim Menant\n\nJoachim Menant (16 April 1820 – 30 August 1899) was a French magistrate and orientalist.\n\nHe was born in Cherbourg. He studied law and became vice-president of the civil tribunal of Rouen in 1878, and a member of the appeals court three years later. But he became best known by his studies on cuneiform inscriptions.\n\nHe also collaborated with Julius Oppert. He was admitted to the Academy of Inscriptions in 1887, and died in Paris two years later.\n\nHis daughter Delphine (b. 1850) received a prize from the Académie française for her \"Les Parsis, histoire des communautés zoroastriennes de l'Inde\" (1898), and was sent in 1900–1901 to British India on a scientific mission, of which she published a report in 1903.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288480", "title": "Matt Wrack", "text": "Matt Wrack\n\nMatthew D. Wrack (born 23 May 1962) is a British trade unionist and former firefighter. He was elected General Secretary of the Fire Brigades Union (FBU) in May 2005.\n\nWrack joined the Labour Party Young Socialists in Salford in 1978 and was a member of Farnworth Constituency Labour Party during the period in which the local MP John Roper left Labour to join the Social Democratic Party. Wrack subsequently moved to London, working for a time in the DHSS before joining the fire service.\n\nWrack was active in the Labour Party Young Socialists before going on to join the Socialist Party, which he had left by the time he was elected to lead the FBU in 2005. His union disaffiliated from the Labour Party in 2004 but reaffiliated in November 2015. In March 2016, he rejoined Labour Party. In September 2017, he was listed at Number 87 in 'The 100 Most Influential People on the Left'.\n\nWrack joined the London Fire Brigade in 1983. He was initially posted to Silvertown Fire Station in the east London borough of Newham, which was closed during a round of cuts in 2014. in 1988 he transferred to Kingsland fire station in Hackney where he spent most of his fire service career on the green watch. Kingsland Fire Station was also closed during the cuts of 2014 and Wrack attended the protest at the closure. Wrack held various positions in the Fire Brigades Union at branch, area and regional level. He worked with Mick Shaw on the North East London Area Committee where both became at various stages secretary and chair. Shaw went on to become the FBU President.\n\nIn July 1991, whilst North East London Area Secretary of the FBU, Wrack attended the fatal fire at Gillender Street at which two firefighters, Terry Hunt and David Stokoe were killed. Wrack had previously worked with Hunt. Matt Wrack and the then FBU London Regional Secretary (later MP) Jim Fitzpatrick, investigated the incident and produced the FBU report. The London Fire Brigade was later served with two improvement notices by the Health and Safety Executive.\n\nWrack was involved in various rank and file and left wing groupings within the FBU, including the Fire Brigades Broad Left (FBBL) which also involved the then union president, Ronnie Scott. The FBBL emerged with the background of the 1984/85 miners strike and during campaigns against the abolition of metropolitan county councils by the then Conservative government. The FBBL produced the bulletin \"Guideline\" between 1984 and 1989. Between 1991 and 1995, Wrack helped produce and edit \"Flame\", a bulletin of Militant supporters within the fire service.\n\nIn early 2000, Wrack was closely involved in the campaign around the FBU Homerton 11, eleven members who were suspended from work and disciplined by the London Fire Brigade management. The campaign by the FBU involved representation at the disciplinary cases and a workplace campaign to organise opposition and prepare for industrial action. Wrack and Andy Dark (current FBU Assistant General Secretary) acted as the principal disciplinary representatives whilst also working to build the wider campaign. Despite initial threats of dismissal, none of the eleven was dismissed and the campaign proved a turning point for the FBU in London in advance of the 2002/3 pay dispute.\n\nWrack was the FBU London Regional Organiser during the 2002/3 industrial dispute over pay. He became a leading critic of the strategy followed by the FBU leadership at the time. After being elected London Regional Secretary in 2004, he was elected Assistant General Secretary in 2005. Wrack then defeated incumbent General Secretary Andy Gilchrist on 5 May 2005 after Gilchrist had served one five-year term. This followed widespread discontent over the settlement reached by Gilchrist with the government that ended the 2002-03 pay dispute. The election was marred by ill feeling arising from the recent strikes. Wrack won 63.9% (12,883 votes) of the vote.\n\nWrack stood for re-election in 2010 and was challenged by John McGhee, a longstanding ally of former general secretary Andy Gilchrist. Wrack was re-elected. He was elected to the General Council of the Trades Union Congress in 2006 and has been re-elected since. He was subsequently elected onto the TUC executive committee. He was returned unopposed for a third term as FBU general secretary in 2014.\n\nIn the years following Wrack's election the FBU saw an unprecedented number of local disputes as employers embarked on various ‘modernisation’ schemes which saw changes to shift systems and cuts to jobs number in local fire and rescue services. These included strikes in Suffolk, West Midlands, and Hertfordshire. The Hertfordshire dispute saw the decision of the Labour government to provide no military cover during industrial action, a decision which would have significant impact on future fire service industrial disputes. Strike action in Merseyside in 2006 led to an accusation from the Chief Fire Officers Association (CFOA) that the union was pursuing a political agenda in an attempt to disrupt ‘modernisation’.\n\nIn 2009 South Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service threatened to dismiss and re-employ the workforce in order to impose non-agreed shift arrangements. This led to a further strike. The same threat of dismissal and re-employment to impose shift changes also led to strikes in London in 2010. The campaign included some large-scale protests and confrontations with strike-breakers, including incidents in which two FBU members were injured. The dispute led to a number of press articles criticising Wrack and the FBU.\n\nThe general election of 2010 saw the creation of the coalition government. A central plank of its programme was the introduction of changes to public sector pensions. The FBU developed a campaign focused both on issues of fairness but also arguments around the needs of firefighting as an occupation and, in particular, the physical fitness standards which were required as a result. The FBU balloted members in 2013 and a 78% Yes vote was returned for strike action. The subsequent dispute was the longest in the history of the FBU. The campaign resulted in Parliamentary debate in December 2014, after the Labour front bench agreed to support a challenge to the new firefighter pension regulations.\n\nFollowing the loss of the vote in Parliament, the FBU called a further strike in February 2015. This was accompanied by a mass rally which saw Parliament Square and Downing Street taken over by the protesters. The FBU held a recall Conference to debate options. No further strike action was called. After the election of the Conservative government in May 2015 the FBU launched a legal challenge over the changes, alleging age discrimination in the way ‘transitional protection’ arrangements were introduced.\n\nIn 2008, Wrack launched a new report for the FBU on firefighter deaths in the line of duty. This was accompanied by a lobby of Parliament. This was followed by a series of reports addressing challenges facing the fire and rescue service. These included reports into attacks on firefighters, floods (2007 and 2015), and on the fire service role in relation to climate change. The FBU also challenged what it claimed to be a simplistic cost base approach of the Audit Commission to fire service matters.\n\nThe FBU also challenged the drift toward increasing emergency response times across UK fire and rescue services. Through these, Wrack and the FBU argued that the shift towards ‘localism’ and the ending of national standards and inspection were creating an increasingly fragmented fire and rescue service. This was an issue Wrack had addressed in a 2008 lecture to the Centre for Research in Employment Studies at the University of Hertfordshire.\nIn December 2006 an explosion and fire took place at a fireworks storage facility at Marlie Farm in East Sussex. Two employees of East Sussex Fire and Rescue Service were killed and a number injured. The FBU launched cases for compensation on behalf of the family of one of the deceased, Brian Wembridge, and on behalf of the injured firefighters. Despite losing the case in court, East Sussex Fire and Rescue Service continued to refuse payment of compensation and appealed against the decision. Wrack condemned this move and the FBU launched a campaign for the appeal to be dropped and compensation paid in relation to those killed or injured at the incident.\n\nWrack has participated in the various campaigns against austerity since the election of the coalition government at the 2010 general election. While much of the left has focused on tax avoidance, Wrack has argued for an approach which also addresses issues of ownership of the economy. The FBU published pamphlets on public ownership of the banks and public ownership of the energy companies. Wrack successfully moved a motion at the TUC in 2012 calling for public ownership of the banks and financial services sector, the first time such a motion had been carried by the TUC in its history.\n\nWrack spoke at the 2008 Campaign for Climate Change trade union conference and at the Time to Act demonstration on climate change in March 2015. Wrack led the FBUs response to the 2007 and 2013-14 floods, calling for a statutory duty on the FRS in England and Wales on flooding. Wrack commissioned two FBU reports on flooding in 2008 (for the Pitt Review) and in 2014 as well as the union's own climate change report in 2010.\n\nWrack pledged prior to election to take a salary \"based on average earnings of FBU members\". The salary of the FBU general secretary is set by the union's executive council and endorsed by the union's conference. It is based on a direct link to an Area Manager within the fire and rescue service, so that any pay rises reflect those agreed on behalf of FBU members. In order to meet his election pledge, Wrack has set aside a portion of his salary and placed it into a separate fund which is used to support trade union and labour movement campaigns, hardship funds, initiatives in the UK and around the world. Wrack was interviewed about his stance on his salary for a BBC Radio 4 documentary in 2015.\n\nWrack was born in Manchester but has lived in east London since 1981. He lives in Leytonstone, East London with his wife, Sheila Wrack. They have four grown up children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288484", "title": "Holiday (Madonna song)", "text": "Holiday (Madonna song)\n\n\"Holiday\" is a song recorded by American singer Madonna for her eponymous debut album \"Madonna\" (1983). Sire Records released it as the album's third single on September 7, 1983. \"Holiday\" later appeared remixed on the remix compilation \"You Can Dance\" (1987) and the greatest hits compilation \"The Immaculate Collection\" (1990), and in its original form on the greatest hits album \"Celebration\" (2009).\n\nWritten by Curtis Hudson and Lisa Stevens of Pure Energy, the track was offered to Madonna by her producer John \"Jellybean\" Benitez when she was looking for a potential hit track to include on her debut album. After accepting the song, she and Benitez worked on it and altered its composition by the addition of a piano solo performed by their friend, Fred Zarr.\n\n\"Holiday\" features instrumentation from guitars, electronic handclaps, a cowbell, and a synthesized string arrangement, while its lyrics speak about the universal sentiment of taking a holiday. Universally acclaimed by critics, the song became Madonna's first mainstream hit single in the United States, peaking at number 16 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It also became her first top-ten single in several countries, including Australia, Belgium, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Madonna has performed \"Holiday\" on most of her tours and it is generally included as a part of the encore. Different performances of the song are included in the recorded releases of her tours. \"Holiday\" has been covered by several artists and appeared in multiple television shows. In 2003, \"Q Magazine\" ranked \"Holiday\" at number 88 in their list of the \"1001 Best Songs Ever\".\n\nIn 1983, 25-year-old Madonna was recording her eponymous debut album with Warner Bros. Records producer Reggie Lucas, after Sire Records green-lit it when her first single \"Everybody\" became a club hit. However, she did not have enough material for the album. Lucas brought two new songs to the project and John \"Jellybean\" Benitez, a DJ at Funhouse disco was called to remix the available tracks. In the meantime due to a conflict of interest, Madonna's collaborator on \"Everybody\", Stephen Bray had sold a song \"Ain't No Big Deal\" to an act called Barracuda on another label, rendering it unavailable for Madonna's album. It was Benitez who discovered a new song written by Curtis Hudson and Lisa Stevens of the pop group Pure Energy. The song, titled \"Holiday\", had been turned down by singers Phyllis Hyman and Mary Wilson, formerly of The Supremes. Hudson and Stevens were asked by Benitez if they had any song for then-unknown Madonna and since their record label Prism did not want to release \"Holiday\", they gave it to Benitez. Pure Energy recalled in an interview with Blogcritics:\n\nWe knew that the song had that magic to it. Since we weren't going to be able to record [\"Holiday\"] ourselves, we were really hoping it would fall into the hands of someone who was going to do it justice. Jellybean was shopping it, and I think he pitched it to Phyllis Hyman and a couple of other artists. We didn't pitch the songs that much. I was still hoping we could come around to Pure Energy recording it.\n\nStevens remembered that she had started playing the beginning chords of \"Holiday\" on a keyboard but could not progress further. Hudson, who felt that the music could lead to something constructive, urged Stevens to experiment with it for a week and ultimately came up with the hook \"Holiday, Celebrate!\", while going back-and-forth between them. Inspired by the opening chords and hearing depressing news on the radio, Hudson started penning down the song and within 30 minutes was able to complete it, with the whole composition and arrangement in his mind. Most of the song was written by him with Stevens suggesting few alterations like the line \"It would be so nice\".\n\nBenitez and Madonna sent the demo to their friend, Fred Zarr so he could change the arrangement and program it differently. After the vocals were added by Madonna, Benitez spent four days and tried to enhance the commercial appeal of the track before the April 1983 deadline set by Madonna's record label. Benitez had not produced any song at that time but was aware of how to reconstruct the different musical pieces in a studio. He composed the sound, assembled the musicians and hummed the tune to them for recording. He also asked Madonna to sing in a \"soulful\" manner on the track. Just before it was completed, Madonna and Benitez met Zarr at Sigma Sound Studios in Manhattan where the track was recorded. The singer suggested Zarr to add a piano solo towards the end of the track, as well as asked Hudson to change a part of the funk in the guitar rhythm.\nPure Energy, who were also present at the recording studio during February 1983, recalled that the rhythm track was finished in a single day because they did not want to venture further from the demo track. Minor changes were included, like substituting Hudson's LinnDrum with Zarr's Oberheim DMX. Other changes were in the vocal delivery from the soul, gospel like singing on the demo to Madonna's \"poppier\" belting; she still remained true to the original melody of the track. The group was not given a production credit on \"Holiday\" since Benitez had presented the track to Sire Records, and he had an existing relationship with Madonna. Although Hudson pressed for a credit, they ultimately let it go since they felt that the song would be their chance to get recognized as efficient songwriters.\n\nMusically, \"Holiday\" is a dance-pop and post-disco song devoid of any particular structure. It begins with a chord sequence reminiscent of Cyndi Lauper's \"Time After Time\" (1984). Set in the time signature of common time with a medium tempo of 116 beats per minute, the song is composed in the key of D major and is six minutes seven seconds in length. Madonna's vocal range spans from B to C. The track follows in the chord progression of G–A–Bm in the first line, when Madonna sings \"Holiday!\" and changes to G–A–Fm–G in the second line, when Madonna sings \"Celebrate!\".\n\nThe four bar sequence of the progression continues throughout the song and features instrumentation from guitars flicking in the background, electronic handclaps, cowbell played by Madonna, and a synthesized string arrangement. A side-by-side repetitive progression is achieved by making use of the chorus. Towards the end of the song, a change in the arrangement happens, where a piano break is heard. Lyrically the song expresses the universal sentiment that everybody needs a holiday from their daily lives. Along with Benitez's production and Zarr's instrumentation, other personnel working on \"Holiday\" included Raymond Hudson on bass, Bashiri Johnson on percussion and Tina B. and Norma Jean Wright who provided background vocals.\n\nInitially it was decided that \"Lucky Star\" would be released as a single; instead \"Holiday\" was released in the United States when the latter was picked up by radios for airplay and became a dance hit. Warner Bros. Records were not prepared for the song to take off like that and hence no music video was released for it. The original British cover art for \"Holiday\" did not carry Madonna's picture since Sire did not want the British people to find out that she was not a R&B artist. Instead it carried the picture of a train station and an engine. \"Holiday\" was later remixed in dub and groove versions for the 1987 remix album \"You Can Dance\". It also appeared in her first greatest hits compilation, \"The Immaculate Collection\", in a remixed and shortened form.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Holiday\" has been released three times as a single: in January 1984, reaching number six; reissued in August 1985, reaching number 2 (only being kept from number one by her own \"Into the Groove\" single); and re-released with new artwork in 1991 to promote \"The Immaculate Collection\" with a limited edition EP titled \"The Holiday Collection\", which contained tracks omitted from the compilation; this version reached number five. Although the song was released to promote the greatest hits collection, it did not include the shorter remix from the album, instead it included the original album version from \"Madonna\" (1983). The photography used for the 1991 release was by Steven Meisel and had previously been used for the February 1991 cover for \"Vogue\" Italia.\nIt has been featured in Wii dance video game \"Just Dance 2\" .\n\nAuthor Rikky Rooksby in his book \"The Complete Guide to the Music of Madonna\" commented that \"'Holiday' was as infectious as the plague. One listen and you could not get the damn hook out of your mind.\" He also likened the track as getting on a carousel and enjoying the ride, or get really bothered by the song going \"on-and-on\" for six minutes. Jim Farber of \"Entertainment Weekly\" commented that \"Holiday\" satisfied the musical ear of both the sides of the Atlantic. While reviewing \"The Immaculate Collection\" album, David Browne from \"Entertainment Weekly\" commented that \"Holiday\" was a \"spunky dance-beat trifle\". He also complimented the song's expert production.\n\nMary Cross in her biography of Madonna, described \"Holiday\" as \"a simple song with a fresh appeal and a good mood.\" According to author Lucy O'Brien, who wrote in the biography \"\", the track was an example of Madonna's early musical endeavors being about the \"power of dance\". She believed that the song cemented her style of music with its \"bubbling Latin undertow, crunchy bass and strings and Fred Zarr's elegant closing piano riff\". O'Brien declared \"Holiday\" as Madonna's \"most\" persuasive dance song with its \"tension, release, resolution and celebratory\" nature enhanced by Madonna's \"playful commands and exhortations\". Sal Cinquemani of \"Slant Magazine\" described the song as airy. Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic called it effervescent and one of the great songs of the \"Madonna\" album. While reviewing \"The Immaculate Collection\", he called it one of her greatest hits. Don Shewey of \"Rolling Stone\" commented that the simple lyrics of the song sound clever.\n\n\"Holiday\" was released on September 7, 1983, and became Madonna's first hit single in the United States and remained on the charts from Thanksgiving to Christmas 1983. It was Madonna's first song to enter the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, at 88 on the issue dated October 29, 1983. and reached a peak of 16 on January 28, 1984 and was on the chart for 21 weeks. The song debuted at eight on the Hot Dance Club Play chart on the issue dated November 2, 1983 and was Madonna's first number one single on the Hot Dance Club Play chart remaining at the top for five weeks. The song also made an entry in the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart and peaked at 25, remaining on the chart for 20 weeks. In Canada, the song debuted at number 48 position of the \"RPM\" singles chart on January 21, 1984 and peaked at number 39. The song again entered the chart at number 45 in March 1984, and peaked at number 32 in April 1984. It was present on the chart for a total of 12 weeks.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Holiday\" was released in 1984 whence it charted and reached a peak of six on the chart. However, a rerelease in 1985 with \"Think of Me\" on the B-side, saw the song enter the charts at number 32 and reached a new peak of two on the chart, being held off the number one spot by Madonna's own \"Into the Groove\", while being present for ten weeks. Another re-release in 1991 saw the song reach a peak of five on the chart. The song was certified gold by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) in August 1985, and according to the Official Charts Company, \"Holiday\" has sold 718,000 copies there as of August 2017. Across Europe, the song reached the top ten of Belgium, Netherlands, Germany and Ireland while reaching the top 40 in France, Sweden and Switzerland. According to \"Music & Media\" magazine the song had sold around 1.5 million copies in Europe by September 1985. \"Holiday\" reached top five on the Kent Music Report chart of Australia. The song debuted at number 37 on the New Zealand Singles Chart, making it Madonna's debut chart appearance in the country. It peaked at number seven.\n\nDuring a 2005 interview with Harry Smith of CBS News, Madonna singled out \"Holiday\" as a favorite amongst her top-ten charting singles, though Smith corrected that it had peaked at a much lower position. Pure Energy remembered that the success of \"Holiday\" also helped them financially, the royalties helping them move out of the boarding house they had been living. Hudson confirmed that the song still generated money for them, saying that \"Can you live off of one hit? Yes, you can if you get the right hit. It can last you a lifetime. We've been living proof of that\". However, the band were not able to replicate their songwriting success of \"Holiday\" with later releases, since the music business still expected them to concoct something like the track.\n\nMadonna has performed \"Holiday\" on almost all of her tours, namely The Virgin Tour, Who's That Girl, Blond Ambition, The Girlie Show, Drowned World, Re-Invention, Sticky & Sweet Tour and Rebel Heart Tour. In 1984, Madonna performed Holiday on the hit dance show \"American Bandstand\" with Dick Clark. Madonna then added it to the set list of her 1985 Virgin Tour. It was performed as the second song of the tour. The same year she performed the song at the Live Aid benefit concert in Philadelphia in July.\nThe Who's That Girl World Tour in 1987 had Madonna performing \"Holiday\" as the last song of the tour. Madonna performed an energetic version of the song, signalling the celebratory and wholesome nature of the song's theme. She sang the final chorus twice, and on some dates asked the audience for a comb so that she could fix her hair and finished the performance. Two different performances are found in \"\" tour video filmed at Stadio Communale in Turin, Italy on September 4, 1987 and the \"Who's That Girl: Live in Japan\" tour video filmed at Korakuen Stadium in Tokyo, Japan on June 22, 1987.\n\nFor the Blond Ambition World Tour in 1990, Madonna said, \"I wanted to throw an old song for fun, and 'Holiday' seemed to be a universal favourite. In addition to that it's one of the only old songs I've done that I can still sing and not feel I've totally outgrown it.\" Performing it as a part of the encore, Madonna appeared on the stage in a polka-dotted blouse with matching flounces at the bottom of white trousers and hair in a top knot with a ponytail. The costume was adopted from a \"My Fair Lady\" dress and was designed by Jean-Paul Gaultier. Three different performances are found in the \"Blond Ambition: Japan Tour 90\" VHS, the \"Blond Ambition World Tour Live\" VHS and the \"\" documentary. The performance included in the documentary was used as a music video to promote it. The performance received four nominations at the 1992 MTV Video Music Awards, including Best Female Video, Best Dance Video, Best Choreography in Video and Best Cinematography in Video, but did not win any of the categories.\n\nIn The Girlie Show in 1993, the song was performed in an alternate version as the second-to-last song of the tour. It had a military theme to it. Halfway through the performance Madonna paused the song for a military drill with the dancers and the audience. The performance met with strong reaction in Puerto Rico, when Madonna rubbed the Puerto Rican national flag between her legs in between the performance. For the Drowned World Tour in 2001 Madonna wore a fur coat, velvet fedora and a customised Dolce & Gabbana T-shirt which proclaimed 'Mother' in the front and 'F*cker' in the back painted in silver. This demonstrated her ghetto-girl appearance adopted for the song's performance.\nIn the Re-Invention Tour in 2004, the song was again performed as the ending song of the tour. The song was given a tribal feeling with Madonna wearing Scottish kilts during the performance. The performance started with Madonna and her dancers doing a dance routine in front of the stage, then Madonna going on the revolving tiers of the stage to sing the song as confetti fell from above. The performance was included in the \"I'm Going to Tell You a Secret\" live album and documentary. Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic commented that the performance \"feels like they could fit the Eurotrash, campy retro-disco feel of Confessions.\"\n\nThe song was added to the 2009 leg of her Sticky & Sweet Tour. It replaced the song \"Heartbeat\" from \"Hard Candy\" and was used as a tribute to singer Michael Jackson who died a week prior to the start of the second leg of the tour. As Madonna sang the song, a picture of a young Jackson appeared on stage, followed by a Jackson impersonator wearing garments in Jackson style. The music then switched to a medley of his songs, like \"Billie Jean\" and \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", and the impersonator worked through his moves, including the moonwalk as well as the spinning and gyrating. Madonna clapped her hands, swayed from side to side and jumped up and down while images of Jackson over the years flashed on a big screen. After the performance, Madonna told the crowd, \"Let's give it up for one of the greatest artists the world has ever known,\" and the crowd applauded.\n\nIn 2012, Madonna performed \"Holiday\" on some shows of The MDNA Tour. The song was the closing number to Madonna's Rebel Heart Tour in 2015–2016, it included an excerpt from Bob James' cover of \"Take Me to the Mardi Gras\". She performed the song while she's wrapped with the country's flag. She exits from stage while she's levitated by a harness and rope. The performance was included in the live album \"Rebel Heart Tour\" recorded in Sydney, Australia, and released in September 2017.\nBritish synthpop band Heaven 17 recorded a cover for the 1999 compilation \"Virgin Voices Vol. 1: A Tribute To Madonna\". In 2002, Mad'House recorded a Club cover of the song for their album \"Absolutely Mad\". Girl Authority covered the song in 2007 for their album, \"Road Trip\". In 1986, Dutch rap duo MC Miker G & DJ Sven released \"Holiday Rap\", a song which sampled the tune and chorus of Madonna's \"Holiday\". It achieved commercial success by peaking the charts in countries like France, Netherlands and Switzerland and going the top ten of Austria, Norway, Britain and Sweden. The bassline of the song was sampled by The Avalanches for their 2000 album \"Since I Left You\". It was used on the songs \"Stay Another Season\" and \"Little Journey\".\n\nThe song was redone by the \"Will & Grace\" cast as \"He's Hot\" for the sitcom's soundtrack in 2004 and even includes vocal samples from Madonna herself. Almost all of the instrumental part of the song \"He's Hot!\" uses samples from the original song. The Canadian teen drama \"\", which is known for naming each episode after an 80s hit song, named a two-part episode after \"Holiday\". In 2006, critics noted strong similarity between \"Holiday\" and American singer Jessica Simpson's single \"A Public Affair\". When criticized for its unoriginality, Simpson told MTV: \"I think people are ready to hear something that Madonna used to do. We all need to hear that every now and again. It wasn't a sample or something I meant to do, but she did influence me and still does today.\" In 2008, \"Holiday\" appeared on the video game \"Karaoke Revolution Presents: American Idol Encore\". Kelis often performs a mashup of her own hit \"Milkshake\" with \"Holiday\" live. In 2003, a snippet of the song appeared in the film \"Rugrats Go Wild\", when the families went on their cruise.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the album liner notes.\n\n!scope=\"row\"|South Africa (RISA)\n\n"}
{"id": "2288487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288487", "title": "Xesibeland", "text": "Xesibeland\n\nXesibeland was a region in South Africa lying between Griqualand East and Pondoland the area around Mount Ayliff. Xesibeland was the traditional region of the Xesibe people \"(AmaXesibe)\", closely related to the Mpondo people and the Mpondomise.\n\nXesibeland had been formerly part of Mpondoland. On 20 October 1886 armed Mpondo people invaded Xesibeland, burning kraals and causing much disorder. They resented the loss of Xesibeland, an area that was not so crowded as other parts of Mpondoland and thus could have supported a greater population. About 10,000 more Mpondos concentrated on the border after the invasion, but after occasional battles and retreats by the Mpondo, order was eventually restored in December that same year. At that time the leader of the Mpondos was Umquieka. Xesibeland was annexed by the British to Cape Colony in 1886.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288504", "title": "Contraflow lane reversal", "text": "Contraflow lane reversal\n\nContraflow lane reversal is the altering of the normal flow of traffic, typically on a controlled-access highway (such as a freeway or motorway), to either aid in an emergency evacuation (the most common usage of the term in the United States) or, as part of routine maintenance activities, to facilitate widening or reconstruction of one of the highway's carriageways (the most common usage in the United Kingdom).\n\nUsually, the term is used to refer to reversal of lanes which are normally configured for travel in one direction; routinely changing the configuration of reversible lanes (such as during rush hour) is not normally considered contraflow lane reversal.\n\nIn an emergency evacuation, contraflow lane reversal roughly doubles the number of lanes available for evacuation traffic. Crossover sections are used to move outgoing traffic to these lanes. All incoming traffic is blocked until the end of the evacuation.\n\nContraflow lane reversal is usually done on freeways and other controlled-access roadways; however, some examples listed below (particularly in South Carolina) are divided and undivided roadways. Use of contraflow lane reversal is generally considered to be an emergency measure, as the contraflow lanes (and any associated ramps at interchanges) lack proper signage, signals, and other traffic control devices needed to orderly conduct traffic in the opposite direction.\n\nGenerally, a significant number of police officers or other officials are needed to manually direct traffic during a lane reversal (especially at interchanges, where ramp traffic in the wrong direction must intersect with other roadways that are operating normally).\n\nFrom the 1990s, many states in the Southeastern United States adopted hurricane evacuation routes from coastal areas using contraflow lane reversals on Interstate Highways. State highway departments have coordinated on plans for traffic direction with state highway patrol agencies, constructed highway median crossovers, and installed signage for drivers and barriers and swing arms to inhibit wrong-way collisions.\n\nMost evacuation plans involve only a single state; however, the states of Louisiana and Mississippi have developed coordinated plans to evacuate the New Orleans metropolitan area by using Interstate 55 and Interstate 59.\n\nCurrent contraflow evacuation plans exist for:\n\n\n\nWhen roads are undergoing construction amid heavy traffic, one lane of traffic may be blocked and another lane reversed.\n\nSingle track roads are often closed during reconstruction.\n\nA construction worker or police officer directs traffic with a \"Stop/Slow Paddle\", which is a sign displaying \"STOP\" on one side and \"SLOW\" on the other. The sign is turned, and the other side proceeds. Traffic signals are also sometimes used, especially during bridge construction or any situation in which a lane must be closed during times when construction crews are not at work. Other cases include treating the street as a temporary one-way street in areas in which several nearby parallel streets are available as a detour for the opposing side.\n\nIf road construction necessitates the complete closure of one half of a road with four or more lanes, two lanes of traffic may be shifted to the other roadway. If the road being constructed is a highway, the used half is called a semi-highway.\n\nWhen controlled-access highways undergo reconstruction, both sides are often reduced to one lane. In some cases, traffic may be shifted onto one half, making it a temporary two-lane freeway corridor. An example of this is Interstate 10 in Arizona, in which eastbound traffic is reduced to one lane and shifted onto the westbound half of the road. Another technique is to treat the rightmost hard shoulder as a travel lane. On a six-lane freeway (i.e., one containing three lanes in each direction), a third lane may be kept open for the busier direction, or the shoulder may be opened to allow for four lanes of traffic but with little or no shoulder space; emergency breakdown areas may be added. In these situations, temporary \"YIELD\" or \"STOP\" signs are usually posted on merge ramps on freeways, expressways, and uncontrolled roads with interchanges. In such cases, opposing directions are separated by jersey barriers, or in rare circumstances, traffic cones.\n\nAt the beginning and end of major sporting events, the center turn lanes of roads around a stadium or arena may be used to accommodate event traffic. Because these lanes are typically not subject to lane control, this can be considered a limited form of contraflow reversal.\nOnce a year, upon completion of NASCAR races at New Hampshire Motor Speedway in Loudon, New Hampshire, a form of contraflow lane reversal, referred to as \"borrow a lane\" is conducted on Interstate 93 in Concord, New Hampshire. In this case, the left lane of northbound Interstate 93 is temporarily \"borrowed\" to use as a third southbound lane. Southbound traffic has the option of transferring to the \"borrowed\" lane north of the Interstate 393 interchange and can travel southbound in the left northbound lane to allow a bypass of heavy race traffic entering I-93 southbound from I-393 at Exit 15. The two lanes of traffic in the normal southbound lanes, and traffic in the bypass \"borrowed\" lane rejoin on the southbound side of the interstate just south of the Interstate 89 interchange in Bow.\n\nContraflow lane reversal is also used for Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series and IndyCar Series races at Pocono Raceway in Long Pond, Pennsylvania. For these races, two-lane Pennsylvania Route 115 becomes one-way southbound between Interstate 80 and the track the morning of the race until everyone has arrived at the track. After the race concludes, PA 115 becomes one-way northbound between Pocono Raceway and I-80 until everyone has left the track.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288507", "title": "Burning Up (Madonna song)", "text": "Burning Up (Madonna song)\n\n\"Burning Up\" is a song by American singer Madonna from her 1983 eponymous debut album. It was initially released as a single on March 9, 1983. The song was presented as an early recorded demo by Madonna to Sire Records who green-lighted the recording of the single after the first single \"Everybody\" became a dance hit. Madonna collaborated with Reggie Lucas, who produced the single while John Benitez provided the guitar riffs and backing vocals. Musically, the song incorporates instrumentation from bass guitar, synthesizers and drums, and the lyrics talk of the singer's lack of shame in declaring her passion for her lover.\n\nReleased with a B side of \"Physical Attraction,\" which would also appear on the debut album, the song was given mixed reviews from contemporary critics and authors, who noted the song's darker, urgent composition while praising its dance beats. The single failed to do well commercially anywhere, except the dance chart in the United States, where it peaked at three, and the Australian charts, where it was a top 20 hit. After a number of live appearances in clubs to promote the single, it was added to the set-list of the 1985 Virgin Tour. An electric guitar version was performed on the 2004 Re-Invention World Tour and the 2015–2016 Rebel Heart Tour.\n\nThe accompanying music video of the song portrayed Madonna in the classic submissive female positions, while writhing in passion on an empty road, for her lover who appeared to come from her behind on a car. The video ended showing Madonna driving the car instead, thereby concluding that she was always in charge. Many authors noted that the \"Burning Up\" music video was a beginning of Madonna's depiction of her taking control of a destabilized male sexuality.\n\nIn 1982, Madonna was living in New York and trying to launch her musical career. Her Detroit boyfriend, Steve Bray, became the drummer for her band. Abandoning hard rock, they were signed by a music management company, Gotham records, and decided to pursue music in the funk genre. They soon dropped those plans. Madonna carried rough tapes of three songs with her: \"Everybody\", \"Ain't No Big Deal\" and \"Burning Up\". Madonna presented \"Everybody\" to the DJ Mark Kamins who, after hearing the song, took her to Sire Records, where she was signed for a single deal. When \"Everybody\" became a dance hit, Sire Records decided to follow up with an album for her. However, Madonna chose not to work with either Bray or Kamins, opting instead for Warner Brothers producer Reggie Lucas. Michael Rosenblatt, the A&R director of Sire Records, explained to Kamins that they wanted a producer who had more experience in directing singers; hence they appointed Lucas. He pushed Madonna in a more pop direction and produced \"Burning Up\" and \"Physical Attraction\" for her.\n\nWhile producing the tracks, Lucas radically changed their structure from the original demo versions. Madonna did not accept the changes, so John \"Jellybean\" Benitez, a DJ at the Funhouse Disco, was called in to remix the tracks. He added some extra guitar riffs and vocals to \"Burning Up\". Sire Records backed up the single by sending Madonna on a series of personal appearances in clubs around New York, where she performed the single. They also hired a stylist and jewelry designer called Maripol, who helped Madonna with the single cover. The cover for the 12-inch dance single for \"Burning Up\" was designed by Martin Burgoyne.\n\nMusically, \"Burning Up\" has a starker arrangement brought about by bass, single guitar and drum machine. The guitar riffs in the songs were not characteristics of Madonna's later records. The tom-tom drum beats used in the song were reminiscent of the records of singer Phil Collins. It also incorporated electric guitars and the most state-of-the-art synthesizers of that time. The chorus is a repetition of the same three lines of the lyrics, while the bridge consists of a series of double entendres in regards to the lyrics of the song which describes what she is prepared to do for her lover and that she is individualistic and shameless.\n\nAccording to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Publishing, \"Burning Up\" is written in the time signature of common time with a dance beat tempo of 138 beats per minute. The song is composed in the key of B minor, with Madonna's vocals ranging from the tonal nodes of A to B. \"Burning Up\" follows a basic sequence of Bm–Bm–A–E as its chord progression.\n\n\"Burning Up\" was released on March 9, 1983. Like its predecessor \"Everybody\", the song failed to enter the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, and \"Burning Up\" also did not chart in the Bubbling Under Hot 100 chart. It did manage to peak at number three on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Play, staying on the chart for 16 weeks. The song was a top 20 hit in Australia in June 1984, peaking at number 13, after having originally charted in the lower reaches of the top 100 in November 1983. The song was also used as background music for a scene in the 1984 film \"The Wild Life\".\n\nAuthor Rikky Rooksby, in his book \"The Complete Guide to the Music of Madonna\", commented that the song was noticeably weaker compared to other singles like \"Lucky Star\" and \"Borderline\". Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine denoted the track as edgy and punk-infused. Stephen Thomas Erlewine from Allmusic commented that \"Burning Up\" and B side \"Physical Attraction\" had a darker, carnal urgency in their composition. Don Shewey from \"Rolling Stone\" called the song \"simple stuff\" while complimenting the B side, saying: \"'Physical Attraction' is practically a capsule history of high-school proms, with its sly references to The Association's \"Cherish\" and Olivia Newton-John's \"Physical.\" Robert Christgau called the 12-inch pair of \"Burning Up\" and \"Physical Attraction\" electroporn. Santiago Fouz-Hernández in his book \"Madonna's drowned worlds\" complimented the song for having upbeat dance music. Jim Farber from \"Entertainment Weekly\" commented that \"Burning Up\" proved that Madonna could rock also.\n\nSire Records commissioned a music video for the song to be directed by Steve Barron. Madonna's friend Debi Mazar was hired as the make-up artist for the video while Maripol was the stylist with Madonna's then boyfriend Ken Compton appearing as her onscreen lover. By the time the video was released, MTV had begun to show dance music videos. Hence the music video of \"Burning Up\" became a minor hit on the channel. The narrative of the video shows Madonna in a white dress, as she sings the song proclaiming her helpless passion for her lover. She wore her famous rubber bracelets which were actually typewriter belts. Her love for the boy portrayed her as a helpless victim like the stereotyped female portrayed in many silent movies. At one point in the video Madonna is shown being hit by a car driven by a young man, played by Compton. By the end of the song Madonna is shown driving the car, with a knowing, defiant smile on her lips and has ditched the man, thereby giving the message that she was in charge, a theme recurrent throughout her career. Barron explained the development process behind the video:\n\nI went to New York to meet (Madonna), begrudgingly, and showed up at an address at SoHo, which turned out to be a squat basically. Madonna was scantily clad, working out to a massive disco track. She was charismatic. She kept putting her head down on the table and talking to me, very flirtatious, and that gave me the idea for the scene in \"burning up\", where her face is on the road, and the camera's really low and close.\n\nThough the lyrics of the song like \"Do you want to see me down on my knees?\" portray female helplessness, the video performance acts as a counter-text to it. When this line is sung, Madonna is shown kneeling on the road in front of the advancing car, then turns her head back while exposing her throat back in a posture of submission. However, her voice tone and her look at the camera portray a hardness and defiance that contradict the submissiveness of her body posture and turn the question of the line into a challenge for her lover.\n\nAuthor Andrew Morton, in his biography on Madonna, commented that the video was America's first introduction to Madonna's sexual politics. Author Robert Clyde Allen in his book \"Channels of Discourse\" compared the video with that of \"Material Girl\". According to him both the videos have an undermining ending, while employing a consistent series of puns and exhibiting a parodic amount of excess associated with Madonna's style. The discourses included in the video are those of sexuality and religion. Allen wrote that Madonna's image of kneeling and singing about 'burning in love' performed the traditional ideological work of using the subordination and powerlessness of women in Christianity to naturalize their equally submissive position in patriarchy. Author Georges-Claude Guilbert in his book \"Madonna as postmodern myth\" commented that the representation of the male character becomes irrelevant as Madonna destabilizes the fixing and categorization of male sexuality in the video. Her utterance of having \"no shame\" was interpreted by author James B. Twitchell, in his book \"For Shame\", as an attempt to separate herself from contemporary female artists of that era.\n\nBefore its release, Madonna promoted the single by performing at different clubs around New York. Madonna was a professional performer by that time and was assisted by dancers Erika Belle and Bags Rilez to promote it. After promoting in New York in numerous nightclubs and pubs, she traveled to London to promote it in clubs like Heaven, Camden Palace, Beatroot Club as well as The Haçienda in Manchester. However, those performances were not well received by the British audience. The song was performed on The Virgin Tour in 1985 but was omitted from the \"\" VHS released by Warner Home Video. Jon Pareles from \"The New York Times\" felt that Madonna posed like Marilyn Monroe during the performance of the song. Mikel Longoria from \"The Dallas Morning News\" called the performance as \"crisp and energetic\".\n\nMadonna included the song on the set-list of her 2004 Re-Invention World Tour in the military segment. She was dressed in military garments and played the electric guitar for the performance. As she sang the song, the backdrops displayed scenes of war and sex which were scrambled to appear as if they have been shot with a camcorder. Kelefa Sanneh from \"The New York Times\" described the performance and the video backdrops as being reminiscent of the prisons in Abu Ghraib. Sal Cinquemani from \"Slant Magazine\" commented that \"it was a hoot to see her [Madonna] strap on an electric guitar and sing classics like 'Burning Up'.\" Madonna also included a remixed version of the song on the Rebel Heart Tour (2015–2016). Similar to the Re-Invention World Tour, the singer played the electric guitar during the performance, dressed in a black short nun's outfit. The performance of the song at the March 19–20, 2016 shows in Sydney's Allphones Arena was recorded and released in Madonna's fifth live album, \"Rebel Heart Tour\".\n\nDuring Madonna's induction at the 2008 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, \"Burning Up\" was performed by Iggy Pop and the punk rock band The Stooges, along with \"Ray of Light\". In 2010, Jonathan Groff covered the song for American television show \"Glee\". His version was included in the extended play titled \"\", and it was also released as a bonus track to the iTunes Store. Singer Britney Spears covered \"Burning Up\" in 2011 during select shows, for her Femme Fatale Tour. The performance featured her straddling a giant, glittering guitar, ten feet high and twice as long. However, Barry Walters from \"Rolling Stone\" felt that the cover she sang on the tour, \"lacked Madge's [Madonna's] authority.\" Studio recording of the cover, described by Sarah Maloy of \"Billboard\" as \"glammed-up without a hint of the '80s to be found\", leaked on June 10, 2011. Singer Isadar included a cover of \"Burning Up\" as a bonus track on his 2006 compilation album, \"Scratching The Surface: Vol 2 Electro-Voice Sampler\".\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the album and the single liner notes.\n"}
{"id": "2288517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288517", "title": "Ilse De Meulemeester", "text": "Ilse De Meulemeester\n\nIlse De Meulemeester (born Asse, 19 May 1971) is a Belgian actress, TV Host, model and beauty pageant titleholder who was Miss Belgium 1994. In the pageant she represented the province of Flemish Brabant. She was only the 2nd Miss Belgium to make it to the finals at the Miss World 1994 contest in South Africa. She obtained the 6th position. She was the first blond, first European in the Miss World contest in 1995.\n\nBesides modelling and being a television presenter for the Belgian television station VT4, she used to have an interior shop in Brussels, Antwerp and Bruges.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288521", "title": "Honda HA-420 HondaJet", "text": "Honda HA-420 HondaJet\n\nThe Honda HA-420 HondaJet is the first aircraft developed by the Honda Aircraft Company. It is a twin-engine, seven-seat light business jet, and is also considered as a very light jet. It was designed in Japan in the late 1990s then developed and manufactured in Greensboro, North Carolina, United States. Its first flight took place in 2003 and deliveries commenced in December 2015.\n\nHonda began to study small sized business jets in the late 1980s, using engines from other manufacturers. The Honda SHM-1/MH01 turboprop tested laminar flow wings, and the Honda MH02 was fabricated and assembled at Mississippi State University's Raspet Flight Research Laboratory in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The MH02 was a prototype using carbon fiber/epoxy composite materials and was the first all-composite light business jet to fly. Flight testing on the MH02 continued through 1996, after which the aircraft was shipped to Japan.\n\nDesigner and company founder Michimasa Fujino sketched the HondaJet in 1997, and the concept was locked in 1999. According to Fujino, design of the HondaJet nose was inspired by Salvatore Ferragamo shoes. Testing in the Boeing windtunnel indicated a valid concept in 1999.\n\nA proof-of-concept (but not production-ready) version of the HondaJet first flew on December 3, 2003, at Piedmont Triad International Airport in Greensboro, North Carolina. Honda approved commercial development of the HondaJet in 2004. The HondaJet made its world debut on July 28, 2005, at the annual EAA AirVenture Oshkosh airshow. At the following year's Airventure, Honda announced that it would commercialize the HondaJet.\n\nAfter the commercialization of the HondaJet HA-420 was announced by Honda in 2006, the first delivery was planned for 2010. In Spring 2009, it was delayed by a year. In May 2010, the projected certification date was late 2012. The program was incrementally delayed several more times.\n\nThe first FAA-conforming (built to Federal Aviation Administration rules) HondaJet achieved its first flight on 20 December 2010. The first flight of the first production HondaJet occurred on June 27, 2014, and it was displayed at that year's AirVenture on 28 July. Four HondaJets had test-flown 2,500 hours .\n\nThe HondaJet was awarded a \"Provisional Type Certificate“ from the FAA in March 2015. This enabled continued production and demonstration flights, including a HondaJet tour in Japan and Europe in 2015. The aircraft received its FAA type certificate in December 2015 and received its European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) type certificate in May 2016 The HondaJet was also certified in Japan in December 2018.\n\nThe production aircraft are built at Piedmont Triad International Airport. Construction of the factory began in 2007 and was completed in late 2011. In early 2015, there were 12 aircraft in final assembly and five more in earlier stages of production. Twenty aircraft were in production by May 2015. Honda estimated it would produce 40 aircraft in the first full year and up to 60 each year after that. The engine factory achieved certification in March 2015.\n\nHonda delivered the first customer aircraft on December 23, 2015, at its world headquarters in Greensboro, North Carolina. The first delivery of a HondaJet to a European aircraft dealer took place in April 2016. About 20% of the approximately 100 aircraft on order are destined for European customers as reported in April 2016.\n\nHonda plans to ramp up production to 80 units per year after March 2019. Sixteen aircraft were delivered in the first three quarters of 2016, reaching a 36 per year production rate. In 2017, 15 were produced in the first quarter, and the annual target is between 55 and 60 aircraft. The HondaJet finished 2017 as the year's most-delivered very light jet, and in 2018 was the second-most delivered VLJ, behind the Cirrus Vision SF50.\n\nIn May 2019, Honda Aircraft announced to invest $15.5 million to add an 82,000-square-foot wing assembly centre and the new facility is expected to open in July 2020. The new assembly centre would enhance production efficiency by allowing more wings to be assembled at the same time and additional storage for service parts to support the growing fleet in service around the world.\n\nAfter the jet was certified in December 2015, Honda engineers started to work on the improved HondaJet Elite, with an expanded performance envelope, improved interior and updated flight deck. Range is increased by with an auxiliary fuel tank and aerodynamic improvements. The horizontal stabilizer tips are extended slightly and hinge gaps tightened up, allowing energized flow over the stabilizer without its vortex generators. The type certificate was amended by the FAA on 2 May 2018, and soon followed by EASA.\n\nIn May 2018, 30 months after the introduction, the $5.2 million (as of 2018) HondaJet Elite was revealed before delivery began in August. Its elevator authority is increased to reduce its takeoff roll by , reducing the Cessna Citation M2's range and take-off advantages. A new engine inlet reduces vibration and cabin noise, the lavatory receives a belted seat allowing a fifth passenger even with a galley and the Garmin G3000-based flight deck gets computed take-off distance and stability/angle of attack protection.\n\nIts payload is increased by over : from the empty weight reduction and from an increased maximum takeoff weight while more of fuel tank fill unused space in the aft fuselage. Honda began deliveries on August 7, 2018.\nThe upgrades are retrofitable for $250,000, including software updates and a 45 kg (100 lb) MTOW increase and take-off run reduction by 135 m (443 ft) to 1,064m thanks to a few inches span extension of the horizontal tailplane, removal of wing fences and vortex generators.\nAt a weight of and ISA+3 °C, the HondaJet Elite cruises at Mach 0.676 or TAS, while burning per hour, better than book predictions.\n\nIn 2020, EASA certified HondaJet Elite for steep approaches (descent angles of up to 5.5°), and for up to 8 occupants.\n\nThe HondaJet is a low-wing monoplane, it has a mainly composite fuselage and an aluminium wing.\nEngines are mounted on pylons above the wing, a configuration designed to maximize cabin space, and achieve lower wave drag at a high Mach number. The nose and wing are designed for laminar flow, and the main fuselage has a constant profile, making an eventual stretch easier. The combination of engine placement, wing and fuselage was achieved using computer simulations and wind tunnels.\nIt has a retractable tricycle landing gear with both main and nose landing gear single-wheeled.\nThe aircraft is powered by two GE Honda HF120 turbofans, developed with GE Aviation under the GE-Honda partnership.\nHonda began developing its own small turbofan engine, the HF118, in 1999, leading to the HF120. The HF120 was test-flown on a Cessna Citation CJ1. The engine features a single fan, a two-stage compressor and a two-stage turbine. The GE Honda HF120 received FAA type certification on 13 December 2013, and production certification in 2015.\nHonda claims that the combination of lightweight materials, aerodynamics and efficient engines gives the HondaJet up to 20% better fuel efficiency than similar aircraft. The jet consumes 339 litres (89.5 gallons) of fuel per hour when cruising at 43,000 feet.\n\nThe interior dimensions are 5.43 m (17.80 ft) long, 1.52 m (5.00 ft) wide, and 1.47 m (4.83 ft) high, while the cabin is long besides the enclosed lavatory. Total interior volume is , and luggage capacity is . \nThe aircraft is equipped with a touchscreen 3-display Garmin G3000 glass cockpit system. Most of the cockpit readouts are presented on flat-panel displays.\nMichimasa Fujino received the Business & Commercial Aviation - Vision Award (2008),\nthe AIAA - Aircraft Design Award (2012),\nthe SAE International - Clarence L. (Kelly) Johnson Aerospace Vehicle Design and Development Award (2013),\nthe 2014 ICAS award for Innovation in Aeronautics for leading the design, as well as a Living Legends of Aviation Industry Leader of the Year award.\n\nThe HondaJet was included in the Robb Report - Best of the Best : Business Jets (2007),\nin the Aviation Week & Space Technology - Techs To Watch (2010),\nand in the 2014 'Best of What's New' by \"Popular Science\" magazine.\nand the Flying Magazine - Flying Innovation Award in 2017.\nThe Honda Aircraft Company received the AIAA Foundation Award for Excellence in 2018.\n\nBy October 2019, the 140 aircraft in service had logged 40,000 hours with a 99.7% dispatch reliability.\n\nOn March 29, 2018 FAA has published an Airworthiness Directive that requires a revision to the HondaJet's flight manual, with pilot brake checks and replacing faulty brake valves when detected. It was caused “by reports of unannunciated asymmetric braking during ground operations and landing deceleration.”\nOn April 15 2018, a HondaJet veered off the runway and into the grass while landing at Atlanta DeKalb–Peachtree Airport (PDK). Two days later, on April 17, another HondaJet veered off the runway while landing at Iowa’s Harlan Municipal Airport.\nIn HondaJet Elite which started deliveries in August 2018, changes were made to brakes, which were reported to improve control of the airplane on the ground.\n\nThe HA-420 was involved in one Hull-loss accident causing no fatalities.\n\nDeliveries dropped in 2018 because of a combination of the transition to the HondaJet Elite, timing of fleet deliveries and customers' schedules.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288523", "title": "Everybody (Madonna song)", "text": "Everybody (Madonna song)\n\n\"Everybody\" is the debut single by American singer Madonna, released on October 6, 1982, under the label Sire Records. The single was featured on her eponymous debut studio album \"Madonna\" (1983). Madonna had recorded a demo of the song with Steve Bray. She urged DJ Mark Kamins, who played at her dance club, to play it. He was impressed by the song and took her to Sire Records, who signed her for a two-song deal. However, after the recording of the two singles was over, Sire executive Michael Rosenblatt was not interested in the other song produced and decided to release only \"Everybody\".\n\nBy incorporating R&B infused beats in the music and not including her image on the cover artwork, marketing for the song gave the impression that Madonna was a black artist. That impression did not last long as Madonna would later convince Sire executives to shoot a music video for the song. The low-budget video directed by Ed Steinberg showed Madonna and her friends in a club singing and dancing to the song. The video helped to further promote the song and Madonna as an artist.\n\nCritically, \"Everybody\" did not receive any acclaim and failed to enter the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. It did, however, appear on the dance charts. The song helped Madonna achieve her first appearance in a dance magazine. She has performed \"Everybody\" live a number of times. It was first performed during The Virgin Tour, then as the final song of The Girlie Show World Tour, later on The MDNA Tour and most recently on the Rebel Heart Tour. She also performed it in her Coachella appearance in 2006. The song was included in a remixed form on Madonna's 1987 remix album, \"You Can Dance\", and on the deluxe edition of her 2009 compilation album, \"Celebration\".\n\nIn 1982, the 23-year-old Madonna was living in New York and trying to set up her music career. She was joined by her boyfriend from Detroit, Steve Bray, who became the drummer of her band, The Breakfast Club, which generally played hard-rock music. After that, however, they abandoned playing songs in the hard-rock genre and got signed by a music management company called Gotham Records with the plan of pursuing a new musical direction. They decided to pursue the funk genre but the record company was not happy with their musical abilities, hence they were dropped, and Madonna and Bray left the band. Meanwhile, Madonna had written and developed some songs on her own. She carried rough tapes of three of the songs, namely \"Everybody\", \"Ain't No Big Deal\" and \"Burning Up\". At that time, she frequented the Danceteria nightclub in New York. It was there that Madonna convinced the DJ Mark Kamins to play \"Everybody\" for the crowd, and the song received a positive reaction. Kamins offered to get her a record deal with the understanding that he would produce the single. Kamins presented Madonna to his boss, Chris Blackwell who was the owner of Island Records, but Blackwell rejected her. Madonna finally went to Sire Records in 1982. Michael Rosenblatt, who worked at the artists and repertoire department of Sire, commented that,\n\n\"Madonna is great. She will do anything to be a star, and that's exactly what I look for in an artist: total co-operation... With Madonna, I knew I had someone hot and co-operative, so I planned to build her career with singles, rather than just put an album right away and run the risk of disaster.\"\n\nRosenblatt offered Madonna $5,000 in advance plus $1,000 in royalties for each song she wrote. Madonna was ultimately signed for two 12 inch singles by the President of Sire, Seymour Stein, who was impressed by her singing, after listening to \"Everybody\" at a hospital in Lenox Hill where he was admitted. The 12 inch version of \"Everybody\" was produced by Mark Kamins at Bob Blank's Blank Tapes Studio in NYC. Kamins was romantically involved with Madonna at that time. He took over the production work from Steve Bray. The new recording ran 5:56 on one side and 9:23 for the dub version on the flipside. Madonna and Kamins had to record the single at their own cost. Arthur Baker, friend of Mark Kamins, guided him through the role of a music producer and provided him with studio musician Fred Zarr who performed keyboard on the track. Zarr became one of the common musical threads on the album by eventually performing on every track. Due to the restrained budget, the recording was a hefty affair as Madonna could not understand Kamins' directions and Kamins himself faced problems directing. Hence the A-side \"Ain't No Big Deal\" did not become as successful as everyone expected. Rosenblatt wanted to release \"Everybody\" with \"Ain't No Big Deal\" on the other side, but later changed his mind and put \"Everybody\" on both sides of the vinyl record after hearing the recorded version of \"Ain't No Big Deal\".\n\n\"Everybody\" was commercially released as Madonna's first single in October 6, 1982, and came with a Lou Beach-designed sleeve depicting a hip hop–style NYC street scene. Because of the ambiguous nature of the record sleeve and the R&B groove of the song, Madonna was widely believed to be a black artist when the single was released. According to Matthew Lindsay of \"The Quietus\", it was ironic that the record sleeve did not depict Madonna on the cover, as she would become \"the face of the 80s.\"\n\n\"Everybody\" was recorded at Sigma Sound Studios in New York City. The track starts with a heavily synthesized and spoken introduction with Madonna taking a loud intake of breath. She also displayed her bubblegum pop voice in the song, which was doubletracked. The song is written in the key of A minor with the melody of the song beginning in G and rising to the second scale degree on the syllable 'bo' of 'everybody', thus highlighting the chorus which follows in the chord progression of G–A–B–A. Sonically, it is a post-disco and dance song which incorporates R&B-infused beats. Sire Records marketed the soulful nature of the dance song for the black audience and Madonna was promoted as an African-American artist, thereby fitting the record into a radio playlist where the song might chart. In New York, the song was played on 92 KTU which had an African-American audience. For the cover of the single, Sire Records portrayed a hip-hop collage of downtown New York, rather than a portrait shot of Madonna, further perpetuating the notion that Madonna was African-American.\n\nAuthor Rikky Rooksby, in his book \"The Complete Guide to the Music of Madonna\", noted that the song closed the \"Madonna\" album on a flat note. He called the music artificial, repetitive and uninspired. Don Shewey from \"Rolling Stone\" commented that \"At first, it [\"Everybody\"] doesn't sound like much at all. Then you notice its one distinguishing feature, a girlish hiccup that the singer uses over and over until it's irritating as hell. Finally, you get hooked, and you start looking forward to that silly little catch in her voice.\" Author J. Randy Taraborrelli in his commented that the song was a rhythmic call to party.\n\nAuthor Santiago Fouz-Hernández in his book \"Madonna's Drowned Worlds\", complimented the chorus of the song, saying that \"Everybody\" and \"Music\" are the two Madonna singles which define her artistic credo – that music has the power to overcome divisions of race, gender, and sexuality. Matthew Lindsay of \"The Quietus\" praised the song, calling it \"spectacular\" and \"hard to resist.\" Lindsay added \"with its breathy spoken word passages and invitation to dance, Madonna's debut single was a template that would be revisited throughout her career.\" In 2012 Louis Virtel of The Backlot listed \"Everybody\" at number two on his list of \"100 Greatest Madonna Songs,\" commenting that the song is an example of Madonna's undeniable talents. Virtel goes on to say through the song Madonna shows she is \"a commander, the Baryshnikov of pop chutzpah, and a rightful disco empress.\"\n\nThe 12-inch single of \"Everybody\" failed to chart on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the United States. It peaked at number 107 on \"Billboard\"s Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart on January 22, 1983. However the song moved quickly up the dance charts, and was Madonna's first single to chart on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance/Club Play Chart, peaking at number three. One of the first radio stations to embrace the song was WKTU, which reported it as a new \"Playlist Top Add On\" in the December 11, 1982, issue of \"Billboard\", reflecting their station's playlist for the week ending November 30, 1982. Since its release, the single has sold around 250,000 copies. The song helped Madonna achieve a first magazine cover photograph. In the December 1982 issue of \"Dance Music Report\" magazine, Madonna and another band Jekyll and Hyde were nominated for awards in the sales category of a reader's poll. It was Madonna's picture that appeared on the cover.\n\nSire Records had marketed the \"Everybody\" single as if Madonna was a black artist. This misconception was cleared by the release of the music video for the song. Regarding the importance of shooting a music video for the song, Madonna commented that, \"If I didn't have a video, I don't think all the kids in the Midwest would know about me. It takes the place of touring. Everybody sees them everywhere. That really has a lot to do with the success of my album.\" She invited Sire Records executives, including Stein and Rosenblatt, to the New York nightclub Danceteria. She performed \"Everybody\" on the dancefloor, wearing a top hat and tails. On the night of the performance, Madonna's friend Haoui Montaug introduced her to the 300 strong audience. Cheered by them, Madonna and her dancers performed their choreographed dance moves, later described as a 'disco act backed by avant-garde dancers.' Seeing the performance, they also realised that Madonna appeared visually stunning. They ordered an in-house video of \"Everybody\" to be sent to the clubs around the country which used dance videos.\n\nRosenblatt contacted Ed Steinberg, who ran the Rock America video company and asked him if he could spare a few hours to make a music video for \"Everybody\" with Madonna on stage at her next performance in Danceteria. The idea was to play the video as promotion across the United States so that people will come to recognize an image of Madonna and her performance. Rosenblatt offered Steinberg $1,000 for the in-house production video, when artists like Duran Duran and Michael Jackson were spending six figure sums on videos. They finally agreed on $1,500. With the low-budget the video was directed by Steinberg, who suggested filming on location at the Paradise Garage, a downtown gay disco, instead of recording a live performance. Madonna's friend Debi Mazar did the makeup and joined her other backup dancers, namely Erika Belle and Bags Rilez. Mazar brought a few of her friends to act as a disco crowd in the video, including African-American artist Michael Stewart. Steinberg was impressed by Madonna's professionalism on the set and he helped to send copies of the tape to nightclubs across America which used to dance music videos for their entertainment. This promotion helped the song to grow from being a dance hit in New York to a nationwide hit.\n\nThe video starts with Madonna and her two backup dancers dancing in a club while lights blink in the background. The shots continue while interspersing close-up shots of Madonna dancing while wearing a coat and junk jewelry. Author Douglas Kellner in his book \"Media Culture: Cultural Studies, Identity, and Politics Between the Modern and the Postmodern\" noted that already with her first video, Madonna was deploying fashion, sexuality and the construction of an individual image to present herself both as an alluring sex object and as a transgressor of established norms. The band Fab Five Freddy reminisce that with the video Madonna \"is attracting those who were more street, more savvy, more flavorful.\"\n\nIn order to promote \"Everybody,\" Madonna performed the track with backup dancers at Haoui Montaug's \"No Entiendes\" – a roving cabaret revue. In The Virgin Tour of 1985, Madonna wore a blue see-through crop-top which revealed her black bra, a purple skirt, lacy leggings and a brightly patterned jacket. She also wore crucifixes in her hair, and on her ears and neck. As the performance of \"Into the Groove\" ended, Madonna took the microphone and danced around the stage while singing \"Everybody\". The performance was included in the home video release titled \"\". Madonna sampled \"Everybody\"'s line, \"Dance and sing, get up and do your thing\" during the opening bars of \"Express Yourself\" for the Blond Ambition World Tour.\n\nFor The Girlie Show World Tour (1993), \"Everybody\" was performed as the closing song of the tour. Madonna wore pale shorts and a simple yellow and green V-necked shirt, which she hitched up into a bra revealing top. The performance started off after \"Justify My Love\". The beginning contained the chorus from \"Everybody Is a Star\" originally by Sly & The Family Stone. As the song progressed, musical excerpts of \"Dance to the Music\", \"After the Dance\" and \"It Takes Two\" were included. Jon Pareles from \"The New York Times\" complimented the performance, saying \"the show's finale is downright wholesome, with the troupe in denim and white tops, inviting the audience to dance to 'Everybody'. It's just a good-time song-and-dance revue, not a provocation.\"\n\nMadonna played the song during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival while promoting her tenth studio album \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" (2005). She performed the song wearing a tank top and high boots, with a silver glitter band around her hair. It was also performed at London's Koko Club where the singer was dressed in an all-purple ensemble of jacket, velvet pedal pushers and knee-high boots. Before performing \"Everybody\", she announced that, \"I feel like I'm really out of shape right now, I don't like falling off horses, so I'm going to do one more song.\"\n\nOn October 6, 2012, Madonna performed \"Everybody\" during The MDNA Tour in San Jose to celebrate the single's 30th anniversary. She said, \"Today is a very special day for me. It is the 30th anniversary of the release of my first-ever single. I remember the amazing feeling I had when I heard the song on the radio the first time.\" Aidin Vaziri from \"San Francisco Chronicle\" commented that \"Three decades later, the simple synth-pop lift and naive R&B melody still felt amazing. It was an off-script moment that inadvertently became the highlight of the show.\"\n\nIn 2015, \"Everybody\" was included in the set list of the first few dates of the Rebel Heart Tour, performed in a flamenco-style medley with \"Dress You Up\", \"Into the Groove\" and \"Lucky Star\". During the sequence the singer dressed by in a Latin and gypsy inspired dress, created by Alessandro Michele for Gucci consisting off a shawl, flamenco hat, lace, skirts and jacquard bodysuit.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes: Releases with the dub version listed at 9:23 are all misprints and do in fact feature the widely available 8:58 dub version. \nUK 7\" and 12\" versions included a remix by Rusty Egan and Steve Short at Trident Studios Reduction Suite, which was only ever released in the UK.\n\nCredits adapted from the 7-inch single liner notes.\n"}
{"id": "2288524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288524", "title": "List of Power Rangers episodes", "text": "List of Power Rangers episodes\n\nThis is a list of \"Power Rangers\" episodes. \"Power Rangers\" is adapted from the 40-year-long line of Japanese \"tokusatsu\" television series known as \"Super Sentai\". Over 900 episodes have aired since \"Mighty Morphin Power Rangers\" premiered in 1993, with the 898th episode being the premiere of the 27th season, \"Power Rangers Beast Morphers (Season 2)\", on February 22, 2020.\n\n\nThis section indexes the official specials that aren't considered part of the normal episode count.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n"}
{"id": "2288526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288526", "title": "Dann Gallucci", "text": "Dann Gallucci\n\nDann Gallucci (born March 31, 1975) is an American songwriter, producer, musician and audio engineer best known for his work with Modest Mouse, The Murder City Devils, and Cold War Kids. Born and raised in the Pacific Northwest, Gallucci met Modest Mouse’s Isaac Brock in Seattle, Washington in 1993, playing guitar with the band intermittently before joining full-time to record several singles that would eventually appear on the album Sad Sappy Sucker, released by independent record label K Records in 2001.\n\nWhile in Modest Mouse, Gallucci co-founded the punk bands Area 51 and Death Wish Kids, featuring members that would go on to form The Murder City Devils. Area 51 recorded one single with Nation of Ulysses’ Tim Green, and Death Wish Kids would record two singles before disbanding.\n\nThe Murder City Devils formed in 1996, consisting of members Spencer Moody, Dann Gallucci, Derek Fudesco, Coady Willis and Nate Manny. That year, the band released two singles, Three Natural Sixes (Hopscotch Records #5) and Dance Hall Music (Empty Records MTR-354), and signed with the Die Young Stay Pretty label, a subsidiary of Sub Pop. Their self-titled debut album was released in 1997.\n\nIn 1996, Gallucci co-wrote and played guitar on the Modest Mouse songs “Trailer Trash” and “Bankrupt on Selling,” which appeared on the album The Lonesome Crowded West, released by Up Records in 1997. Pitchfork Media ranked \"Trailer Trash\" #63 in their list “The Top 200 Tracks of the 1990s.”\n\nIn 1998, The Murder City Devils released their second full-length album, Empty Bottles, Broken Hearts. The album saw an increased use of electric organ, and that same year they recruited Leslie Hardy as their full-time keyboard player. To support the record, the band embarked on a yearlong North American tour, playing with At the Drive-In, Pearl Jam, and Built to Spill. After a short break, the band released their third full-length album In Name and Blood in 2000 followed by the Thelema EP in 2001. Keyboardist Leslie Hardy left the band mid-tour and was replaced by Nick Dewitt for their final concerts. The band's farewell concert on October 31, 2001 at Seattle's Showbox Theater was recorded and released by Sub Pop in 2003, titled R.I.P. and included two previously unrecorded songs. It was also released on DVD in 2005.\n\nAfter the breakup of The Murder City Devils, Gallucci returned to Modest Mouse full-time from 2001 to 2005, co-writing and playing on the band’s fourth full-length album, Good News for People Who Love Bad News, released by Epic April 6, 2004. In addition to guitar, Gallucci played Mellotron, keyboards, piano, Glockenspiel, drum loops, timpani, and percussion. The first two singles from the album were \"Float On\" and \"Ocean Breathes Salty,\" both of which debuted on American radio stations in the first half of 2004.\n\nThe album was released to widespread acclaim from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 83, indicating \"universal acclaim\". Tiny Mix Tapes gave the album five out of five stars, saying, \"Ultimately, what makes Good News so successful is that it retains the melancholy mood of past works, while at the same time adding depth and maturity.\" Spin gave it an A and said it was \"Half expansive, burnished radio-rock, half swampy Delta hoodoo-hollerin' that reeks of Brock's Southern sojourn.\" Filter gave it a score of 92% and said that it would soon be \"one of the best albums of 2004\". Billboard' gave it a favorable review and called it \"a daring yet accessible disc\". The New York Times also gave it a favorable review and called it \"the best Modest Mouse album yet.\" It was Planet Sound's #1 Album of 2004. It was also nominated for a Grammy in 2005 for Best Alternative Album. The album was certified Platinum by the RIAA in August 2004. As of March 19, 2007, it had sold 1,509,675 copies in the United States.\n\nIn 2003, Gallucci formed the band A Gun Called Tension with Sean Reveron of The Beta Band, Exodus 77, and The Free Association. A mix of dancehall, hip hop, reggae and punk, the band released a self-titled album on Cold Crush in 2003.\n\nGallucci left Modest Mouse in 2005 to pursue a career in audio engineering and production. Graduating from The Conservatory of Recording Arts and Sciences in Phoenix, AZ in 2007, he spent a year and a half working at Seattle’s Avast! Studios, where he assisted producer Phil Ek on several records. In addition, he worked on releases by the bands Triumph of Lethargy and Past Lives. In order to round out his audio engineering skills, Gallucci began touring as a live sound engineer. In 2008, he worked as monitor engineer for M.I.A., and from 2009 to 2011 he worked as front of house engineer for Cold War Kids, Miike Snow, The xx, and Warpaint.\n\nIn 2011, Gallucci recorded the single “Fashionable” for Cold War Kids, joining the band later that year to play guitar and produce their next record. In preparation, Gallucci and the band decided to build their San Pedro rehearsal space into a studio. Gallucci produced, engineered, and played on the album, while sharing mixing duties with Lars Stalfors. Dear Miss Lonely Hearts was released April 2, 2013 on Downtown Records, debuting at number 51 on the Billboard 200. The single \"Miracle Mile\" reached #22 on the Billboard Alternative Songs chart, giving Cold War Kids at that point the highest charting single of their career. Critics saw the album as a return to form for the band. Heather Phares of AllMusic felt the record played to the group's strengths: \"Dear Miss Lonelyhearts is more about what the band does best rather than breaking new ground, and the result is some of Cold War Kids' most promising and satisfying music since their debut.\"\n\nOn October 21, 2014, Cold War Kids released their fifth full-length album, Hold My Home on Downtown Records. Again, Gallucci produced, engineered, and played on the record and co-mixed with Lars Stalfors. Hold My Home spawned two singles: \"All This Could Be Yours\" and \"First\", which became the band’s new highest charting single, spending two months at number one on the Billboard Alternative Songs chart, over six months in the top five, and over eight months in the top ten. AllMusic's Heather Phares praised the production throughout the album, calling it the band's best work since Robbers & Cowards, concluding that, \"with 'Hold My Home', they emerge as a more straightforward band, and also a more confident and engaging one.\" Philip Cosores of Paste credited new members Gallucci and Plummer for raising the album's taste level over the previous two records and giving the band a whole new identity.\n\nBefore leaving Cold War Kids in 2016, Gallucci produced, engineered, mixed (with Lars Stalfors), and played on the albums Dear Miss Lonelyhearts and Hold My Home, as well as the EPs Tuxedos, Five Quick Cuts, and A Million Eyes.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2014, Gallucci would return to Modest Mouse on an intermittent basis, eventually co-writing three songs on their album Strangers to Ourselves. Additionally, Gallucci played on recording sessions with Modest Mouse and OutKast’s Big Boi at the rapper’s Stankonia Studios in Atlanta, GA.\n\nIn 2016, Gallucci became the producer of the public radio show Bullseye with Jesse Thorn.\n\nNotable awards and achievements:\n"}
{"id": "2288534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288534", "title": "Beer riots in Bavaria", "text": "Beer riots in Bavaria\n\nThe beer riots in Bavaria happened between 1 May and 5 May 1844, beginning after King Ludwig I of Bavaria decreed a tax on beer. Crowds of urban workers beat up police while the Bavarian army showed reluctance to get involved. Civil order was restored only after the King decreed a ten percent reduction in the price of beer. Following the Revolutions of 1848, Ludwig I abdicated in favour of his son, Maximilian II.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288536", "title": "CBAF-FM", "text": "CBAF-FM\n\nCBAF-FM (88.5 MHz) is a French-language public Canadian radio station located in Moncton, New Brunswick. The station has a commercial-free news/talk radio format and is the flagship station of the Ici Radio-Canada Première network for Atlantic Canada. CBAF is owned and operated by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nCBAF was launched in 1954, the first French-language radio station for the Moncton area at 1300 kHz. In 1980, the station was granted a rebroadcaster on FM at 88.5 MHz, to offset AM radio reception problems in the Moncton area. The CBC operated both transmitters until 1988, when the AM transmitter signed off and the FM transmitter became the station's primary frequency.\n\nThe construction of a new CBC station in Moncton was started in 1953 at an expected cost of $450,000.\n\nCBAF went on the air on February 20, 1954. Studios and offices were then located at St. George Street in the former Assomption Building, a four-storey structure built in 1955 by the Société l'Assomption (the former Assomption Building is not the current Place Assomption on Main Street in Moncton). Today known as the Maison Commerce House, it overlooks St. George and Archibald Streets. The premiere French-language radio station for the Atlantic region, CBAF offered programming from the CBC's French-language network headquarters in Montreal, Quebec.\n\nIn 1957, CBAF had a radiated power of 5,000 watts and used a single directional antenna pattern. The transmitter was located in the nearby village of Saint Anselme. In 1968, a regional French-language production centre was set up at the Moncton studios.\n\nIn 1970, CBAF with its Radio-Canada television station CBAFT, and the CBC English-language counterpart CBA relocated to their new studios and offices on Archibald Street (today known as University Avenue) beside the Hôtel-Dieu de l'Assomption Hospital, which was renamed the Dr. Georges-L. Dumont Regional Hospital by the Government of New Brunswick in 1967.\n\nApril 10, 1980 saw an FM rebroadcaster at Moncton (CBAF-26-FM) on 88.5 MHz to duplicate the programming of CBAF. The duplicate channel was needed in order to offset severe night-time coverage deficiencies of the AM signal and to improve the reception of the station in outlying areas. CBAF was to have gone silent by November 1, 1985 but the CBC kept it going until the plug was finally pulled in 1988. In the end, CBAF operated on 1300 kHz with a power of 5,000 watts (single directional pattern). CBAF-26-FM operated on 88.5 MHz with an effective radiated power of 50,000 watts. The FM repeater became CBAF-FM, following the closure of the AM signal.\n\nThe Radio-Canada network was renamed \"Première Chaîne\" on September 1, 1997, later becoming \"Ici Radio-Canada Première\" in August 2013.\n\n On July 25, 2013, the CBC filed and application to the CRTC to convert CBAF-21 1230 to 91.1 FM; this was approved January 10, 2014.\n\nOn August 15, 2013, the CBC filed and application to the CRTC to convert CBAF-20 990 to 98.1 FM. this was approved January 10, 2014.\n\nCBAF-FM-5 in Halifax and CBAF-FM-15 in Charlottetown were once satellites of CBAF, but are now stations in their own right despite retaining rebroadcaster-like callsigns. CBAF-FM-5 and CBAF-FM-15 officially became separately licensed in 1987 and 1994 respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288540", "title": "Mount Deception (Washington)", "text": "Mount Deception (Washington)\n\nMount Deception is a peak in the Olympic Mountains of Cascadia. It is in Olympic National Park on the Olympic Peninsula in the U.S. state of Washington.\n\nAt high Mount Deception is the second highest peak of the Olympic Mountains, after Mount Olympus. It is the highest peak of the eastern Olympics. Mount Deception's prominence is , making it the 17th most prominent peak in Washington. Its nearest higher peak is Mount Olympus at to the west.\n\nMount Deception is located in the northeast portion of the Olympics Mountains just northeast of Mount Mystery between Deception Creek and Royal Creek. The region is known as Royal Basin and includes the upper reaches of Royal Creek. Mount Deception lies at the head of Royal Basin. This location puts it in the rain shadow of the Olympics, resulting in far less precipitation than Mount Olympus and the western Olympics receive. Although Mount Deception is the highest peak in the eastern Olympics, it is not visible from Seattle.\n\nRadiating northward from the shoulders of Mount Deception are Gilhooley Tower, The Needles, Mount Clark (), Mount Walkinshaw (), and the northeasterly running spur known as Gray Wolf Ridge. To the east and south are Mount Fricaba, Hal Foss Peak, Mount Mystery, and Little Mystery. Two small glaciers hug the mountain's north-facing basalt slopes.\n\nMount Deception sits on the boundary between the drainage basins of the Dungeness River, to the north, and the Dosewallips River, to the south and east. Deception Creek, a tributary of the Dosewallips River, drains the southern slope of Mount Deception. Gray Wolf Pass is located about west of Mount Deception. The pass connects the Dungeness and Dosewallips drainage basins.\n\nMount Deception had been given the name Mount Holmes by the Seattle Press Expedition in honor of John H. Holmes of the \"Boston Herald\". Later, G.A. Whitehead of the U.S. Forest Service renamed it Mount Deception due to the difficulty mountaineers had in locating climbing routes on the often cloud-covered peak.\n\nUnlike the peaks of Gray Wolf Ridge, which are scalable for fit and determined day hikers, mountaineering skills are necessary for Mount Deception itself. While not a particularly technical climb, it is steep and exposed. If a climber falls and does not arrest immediately, loose rock and rotten snow may make it difficult to stop falling for some distance. Fatalities have occurred on Mount Deception and the National Park Service recommends climbers be experienced in self-arrest skills, rock climbing, and route-finding.\n\nThe adjacent Needles are typically regarded as providing better, and somewhat more difficult, mountaineering objectives in the Royal Basin area.\n\nBased on the Köppen climate classification, Mount Deception is located in the marine west coast climate zone of western North America. Most weather fronts originate in the Pacific Ocean, and travel northeast toward the Olympic Mountains. As fronts approach, they are forced upward by the peaks of the Olympic Range, causing them to drop their moisture in the form of rain or snowfall (Orographic lift). As a result, the Olympics experience high precipitation, especially during the winter months. During winter months, weather is usually cloudy, but, due to high pressure systems over the Pacific Ocean that intensify during summer months, there is often little or no cloud cover during the summer. In terms of favorable weather, the best months for climbing are June through September.\n\nThe Olympic Mountains are composed of obducted clastic wedge material and oceanic crust, primarily Eocene sandstone, turbidite, and basaltic oceanic crust. The mountains were sculpted during the Pleistocene era by erosion caused by glaciers advancing and retreating multiple times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288547", "title": "Footprints (poem)", "text": "Footprints (poem)\n\n\"Footprints,\" also known as \"Footprints in the Sand,\" is a popular allegorical religious poem. It describes a person who sees two pairs of footprints in the sand, one of which belonged to God and another to him or herself. At some points the two pairs of footprints dwindle to one; it is explained that this is where God carried the protagonist.\n\nThis popular text is based in Christian beliefs and describes an experience in which a person is walking on a beach with God. They leave two sets of footprints in the sand. The tracks represent stages of the speaker's life. The two trails dwindle to one, especially at the lowest and most hopeless moments of the person's life. When questioning God, believing that the Lord must have abandoned his love during those times, God gives the explanation, \"During your times of trial and suffering, when you see only one set of footprints, it was then that I carried you.\"\n\nThe authorship of the poem is disputed, with a number of people claiming to have written it. In 2008, Rachel Aviv in a Poetry Foundation article discusses the claims of Burrell Webb, Mary Stevenson, Margaret Fishback Powers, and Carolyn Joyce Carty. Later that year, \"The Washington Post\", covering a lawsuit between the claims of Stevenson, Powers and Carty, said that \"At least a dozen people\" had claimed credit for the poem.\n\nThe three authors who have most strenuously promoted their authorship are Margaret Powers (née Fishback), Carolyn Carty, and Mary Stevenson. Powers says she wrote the poem on Canadian Thanksgiving weekend, in mid-October, 1964. Powers is among the contenders who have resorted to litigation in hopes of establishing a claim. She is occasionally confused with American writer Margaret Fishback. Powers published an autobiography in 1993.\n\nCarolyn Carty also claims to have written the poem in 1963 when she was six years old based on an earlier work by her great-great aunt, a Sunday school teacher. She is known to be a hostile contender of the \"Footprints\" poem and declines to be interviewed about it, although she writes letters to those who write about the poem online.A collection of poetry by Carty with a claim to authorship of \"Footprints\" was published in 2004.\n\nMary Stevenson is also a purported author of the poem circa 1936. A Stevenson biography was published in 1995.\nBefore its appearance in the 1970s, the phrase \"footprints in the sand\" occurred in other works. The most dominant usage in prose is in the context of fictional or nonfiction adventure or mystery stories or articles. Prominent fiction includes Daniel Defoe's 1719 novel \"Robinson Crusoe\" and Nathaniel Hawthorne's short story \"Foot-prints on the Sea-shore\" published in the \"Democratic Review\". Hawthorne published the story again in \"Twice-Told Tales\" and it has been reprinted many times since. A line in the story reads, \"Thus, by tracking our foot-prints in the sand, we track our own nature in its wayward course, and steal a glance upon it, when it never dreams of being so observed. Such glances always make us wiser.\" Non-fiction includes the 1926 post-kidnapping discovery of Aimee Semple McPherson in the northern Mexican desert.\n\nIn the two centuries before 1980, when \"Footprints\" entered popular American culture, many books, articles, and sermons appeared with \"Fooprints in the Sand\" as a title. Some of them concerned the lives of Christian missionaries. \"Footprints and Living Songs\" is an 1883 biography of hymn-writer Frances Ridley Havergal. In 1839, \"A Psalm of Life\" by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow contained the lines:\n\nWithin a decade, the last phrase of the poem was being used in public discourse without attribution, apparently on the assumption that any literate reader would know its origin. In some usages \"of time\" disappeared; later, \"on\" seems to become \"in\". \"The Object of a Life\" (1876) by George Whyte-Melville includes the lines:\n\nwas published in the widely read (and plagiarized) \"Temple Bar\". The lines here are strikingly similar in many respects to those seen in contemporaneous hymn lyrics and later poetry.\n\nDeuteronomy 1:31 presents the concept of \"God bearing you\". The 1609 Douay-Rheims Bible Old Testament translation from Latin into English uses the wording, \"And in the wilderness (as thou hast seen) the Lord thy God hath carried thee, as a man is wont to carry his little son, all the way that you have come, until you came to this place.\" In 1971, the New American Standard Bible used the language \"and in the wilderness where you saw how the LORD your God carried you\". Nearly identical wording is used in other late 20th century translations, including the New International Version of 1978.\n\nMay Riley Smith's poem \"If\", published without attribution in the \"Indianapolis Journal\" in 1869, includes a stanza that describes God's footprints in the sand next to a boy's:\n\nJune Hadden Hobbs suggested that the origin of the modern \"Footprints\" is in Mary B. C. Slade's 1871 hymn \"Footsteps of Jesus\" as \"almost surely the source of the notion that Jesus's footprints have narrative significance that influences the way believers conduct their life stories...it allows Jesus and a believer to inhabit the same space at the same time...Jesus travels the path of the believer, instead of the other way around.\"\n\nA similar argument could be made for \"Footprints of Jesus\" by L. B. Thorpe as published in the 1878 \"The International Lesson Hymnal\".\n\nAviv suggests that the source of the modern \"Footprints\" allegory is the opening paragraph of Charles Haddon Spurgeon's 1880 sermon \"The Education of the Sons of God\". He wrote:\n\n\"And did you ever walk out upon that lonely desert island upon which you were wrecked, and say, 'I am alone, — alone, — alone, — nobody was ever here before me'? And did you suddenly pull up short as you noticed, in the sand, the footprints of a man? I remember right well passing through that experience; and when I looked, lo! it was not merely the footprints of a man that I saw, but I thought I knew whose feet had left those imprints; they were the marks of One who had been crucified, for there was the print of the nails. So I thought to myself, 'If he has been here, it is a desert island no longer.'\"\n\nIn 1883, an American encyclopedia of hymns by female writers included Jetty Vogel, an English poet. Vogel's \"At the Portal\" follows someone looking at their footprints as they deviate from the proper path. Vogel's hymn has an angel's footsteps but lacks the \"I carried you\" of the modern \"Footprints\".\n\nIn 1892, the \"Evening Star\" ran a short story \"Footprints in the Sand\" written by Flora Haines Loughead for the \"Star\". The work uses a metaphor for Christ, of a father following footprints in the sand of another's child headed for danger, as he wonders, \"Why was it that there was nowhere any sign of a larger footprint to guide the little babyish feet?\"\n\nIn 1918, Mormon publication \"The Children's Friend\" re-published the Loughead piece (credited, but misspelled \"Laughead\"), ensuring a wider distribution in the western states. Chicago area poet Lucille Veneklasen frequently submitted poems to the \"Chicago Tribune\" in the 1940s and 1950s; one entitled \"Footprints\" was published in the \"Tribune\" in late 1958:\n\nVeneklasen's poem appeared occasionally in newspaper obituaries, commonly lacking attribution, and often with the decease substituted for \"I\".\n\nIn 1963 and 1964, the \"Aiken Standard and Review\" in South Carolina ran a poem by frequent contributor M. L. Sullivan titled \"Footprints\". This was a bit of romantic verse that moves from sadness at \"lone footprints in the sand\" to close with \"our footprints in the sand\".\n\nThe earliest known formally dated publications of any variants of the poem are from 1978, with three different descriptions of the person and also the setting. The first to appear in July, 1978, in a small Iowa town newspaper, is a very concise (six-sentence) version featuring an \"elderly man\" and \"rocky roads\". There is no attribution for this piece, and this version does not seem to have appeared in any other publication.\n\nThe second and most complete early appearance was in a September 1978 issue of \"Evangel\", a semi-monthly Church of God publication. This version is similar to the \"Carty\" version but is credited to \"Author Unknown--(Submitted by Billy Walker)\". A third version appeared in October, 1978, in two California papers, first in Oakland and twelve days later in Shafter, with a \"young woman\" and a \"sandy pathway\" in a \"desert wilderness\". This version does not appear to have re-emerged later.\n\nIn 1979, additional appearances occurred: two in small Louisiana and Mississippi newspapers, one in a Catholic journal, two in widely syndicated newspapers columns, one on a nationwide radio program and reprinted by two small papers, and one in a prominent evangelist's biography. In January, 1979, the Opelousas, Louisiana, Daily World published a near exact Carty version but with a \"My dear child\" mutation at the end, and no attribution.\n\nIn March, the \"Winona Times\" presented a Powers-like version with \"a certain elderly man ... walking along a sea shore\" where \"Out of the waves shot rays of light, mystic and wonderful that played across the sky illuminating scenes from his life\". He was \"sorely troubled and his life had been at its saddest and lowest ebb.\"\n\nThe March, 1979 issue of \"Liguorian\", a monthly publication of the Catholic Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, published a complete, nearly unmodified first-person version following Carty, but attributed to \"Author Unknown\".\nChristian televangelist and columnist Robert Schuller noted in his column that a reader had sent him a story; it is unclear whether the version presented in the column—which casts a \"pilgrim\" as the human character—was used verbatim or was rewritten by Schuller: this particular version has not been re-published after the column's original nationwide publication during March–August, 1979.\n\nIn April, 1979, the \"Havre Daily News\" in Montana published a variant of the Carty version told in first person with slightly different punctuation and a \"never, never\" alteration to match the \"precious, precious child\" of the previous sentence. The author of the local weekly column noted that it had been supplied by a friend who had \"first heard [it] when Paul Harvey quoted it on his radio program.\" It is unknown whether the listener had copied it down from memory or received a written version from Mr. Harvey or elsewhere. No recordings or transcriptions of Mr. Harvey's daily radio news and commentary broadcasts are known to have survived. A verbatim copy of the Havre instance ran in a small, inmate-produced newsletter published by the Napa State Hospital, in July, 1979.\n\nAdvice columnist Ann Landers published an exact copy of the Stevenson version in July, 1979. The column indicates that the correspondent who provided the work, claims to have carried a tattered copy around \"for years\" with no further explanation of its publication source. She printed the piece again in late February 1982 in response to reader demand and noted that it had also appeared in \"Reader's Digest\". The 1982 republication added a novel phrase \"I would never desert you\".\n\nChristian televangelist Jerry Falwell's 1979 biography, \"Jerry Falwell: Aflame for God\", opens a chapter with an expanded \"a man dreamed\" version.\n\nHumorist and columnist Erma Bombeck published a condensed version of Stevenson's variant in July 1980.\n\nDuring the 1980 United States presidential campaign, Ronald Reagan used a variant of \"Footprints\", with himself as the human, as the closing lines in an August speech to evangelical leaders in Dallas, Texas. President Reagan used \"Footprints\" again in a speech at the annual National Prayer Breakfast on February 5, 1981. These versions appear to be Stevenson paraphrases.\n\nAdvice columnist \"Dear Abby\" ran a Carty version attributed to \"Author Unknown\" in late 1981.\n\nIn 1983, Cristy Lane released country gospel version of the song called \"Footprints in the Sand\". The song peaked at No. 64 on the \"Billboard\" Country chart and No. 30 on the U.S. Christian chart.\n\nThe 1983 television movie \"Choices of the Heart\" closes with lead character Jean Donovan reciting a condensed version of Powers/Carty.\n\nIn 1984, Ken Brown published a version of the poem in rhyme and rhythm as opposed to the more commonly known free form versions popular today.\n\nIn 1994, English singer Chris de Burgh included a summary of the poem as the fourth stanza in his song \"Snows of New York\" in the album This Way Up: \"In my dream we walked, you and I to the shore / Leaving footprints by the sea / And when there was just one set of prints in the sand / That was when you carried me.\"\n\nPer Magnusson, David Kreuger, Richard Page, and Simon Cowell wrote a song based on the poem, called \"Footprints in the Sand\", which was recorded by Leona Lewis. It appears on Lewis's debut album \"Spirit\". Another song inspired by the poem called \"Footprints\" was recorded by Dancehall/Reggae group T.O.K.\n\nThe poem is parodied in the Half Man Half Biscuit song \"Footprints\", off the 1993 album \"This Leaden Pall\". In the song, the Lord explains the fact that there is only one set of footprints this way: \"During your times of trial and suffering, when you see only one set of footprints, that must have been when I was appearing on . . . \"Junior Kick Start\"!\"\n\nThe poem was also the inspiration and chorus for the G-Unit song \"Footprints\", from their 2003 debut album \"Beg For Mercy\". \n\nThe poem was used in the memorial service for Air France Flight 447 on 3 June 2009.\n\nIn 2016, a larger-than-life sculpture inspired by the poem was installed at Pippen Memorial Park in Carthage, Texas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288549", "title": "Momentum operator", "text": "Momentum operator\n\nIn quantum mechanics, the momentum operator is the operator associated with the linear momentum. The momentum operator is, in the position representation, an example of a differential operator. For the case of one particle in one dimension, the definition is:\n\nwhere is Planck's reduced constant, the imaginary unit, and partial derivatives (denoted by formula_2) are used instead of a total derivative () since the wave function is also a function of time. The \"hat\" indicates an operator. The \"application\" of the operator on a differentiable wave function is as follows:\n\nIn a basis of Hilbert space consisting of momentum eigenstates expressed in the momentum representation, the action of the operator is simply multiplication by , i.e. it is a multiplication operator, just as the position operator is a multiplication operator in the position representation. Note that the definition above is the canonical momentum, which is not gauge invariant and not a measurable physical quantity for charged particles in an electromagnetic field. In that case, the canonical momentum is not equal to the kinetic momentum.\n\nAt the time quantum mechanics was developed in the 1920s, the momentum operator was found by many theoretical physicists, including Niels Bohr, Arnold Sommerfeld, Erwin Schrödinger, and Eugene Wigner. Its existence and form is sometimes taken as one of the foundational postulates of quantum mechanics.\n\nThe momentum and energy operators can be constructed in the following way.\n\nStarting in one dimension, using the plane wave solution to Schrödinger's equation of a single free particle,\n\nwhere is interpreted as momentum in the -direction and is the particle energy. The first order partial derivative with respect to space is\n\nThis suggests the operator equivalence\n\nso the momentum of the particle and the value that is measured when a particle is in a plane wave state is the eigenvalue of the above operator.\n\nSince the partial derivative is a linear operator, the momentum operator is also linear, and because any wave function can be expressed as a superposition of other states, when this momentum operator acts on the entire superimposed wave, it yields the momentum eigenvalues for each plane wave component. These new components then superimpose to form the new state, in general not a multiple of the old wave function.\n\nThe derivation in three dimensions is the same, except the gradient operator del is used instead of one partial derivative. In three dimensions, the plane wave solution to Schrödinger's equation is:\n\nand the gradient is\n\nwhere and are the unit vectors for the three spatial dimensions, hence\n\nThis momentum operator is in position space because the partial derivatives were taken with respect to the spatial variables.\n\nFor a single particle with no electric charge and no spin, the momentum operator can be written in the position basis as:\n\nwhere is the gradient operator, is the reduced Planck constant, and is the imaginary unit.\n\nIn one spatial dimension this becomes:\n\nThis is the expression for the canonical momentum. For a charged particle in an electromagnetic field, during a Gauge Transformation, the position space wave function undergoes a local U(1) group transformation, and formula_3 will change its value. Therefore, the canonical momentum is not gauge invariant, and hence not a measurable physical quantity.\n\nThe kinetic momentum, a gauge invariant physical quantity, can be expressed in terms of the canonical momentum, the scalar potential  and vector potential :\n\nThe expression above is called minimal coupling. For electrically neutral particles, the canonical momentum is equal to the kinetic momentum.\n\nThe momentum operator is always a Hermitian operator (more technically, in math terminology a \"self-adjoint operator\") when it acts on physical (in particular, normalizable) quantum states.\n\nOne can easily show that by appropriately using the momentum basis and the position basis:\n\nThe Heisenberg uncertainty principle defines limits on how accurately the momentum and position of a single observable system can be known at once. In quantum mechanics, position and momentum are conjugate variables.\n\nOne can show that the Fourier transform of the momentum in quantum mechanics is the position operator. The Fourier transform turns the momentum-basis into the position-basis. The following discussion uses the bra–ket notation:\n\nLet formula_15 be a wave packet formula_16 = 1, formula_17 the Fourier transform of formula_18:\n\nSo momentum = h x spatial frequency, which is similar to energy = h x temporal frequency. \n\nThe same applies for the position operator in the momentum basis:\n\nand other useful relations:\n\nwhere stands for Dirac's delta function.\n\nThe translation operator is denoted , where represents the length of the translation. It satisfies the following identity:\n\nthat becomes\n\nAssuming the function to be analytic (i.e. differentiable in some domain of the complex plane), one may expand in a Taylor series about :\n\nso for infinitesimal values of :\n\nAs it is known from classical mechanics, the momentum is the generator of translation, so the relation between translation and momentum operators is:\n\nthus\n\nInserting the 3d momentum operator above and the energy operator into the 4-momentum (as a 1-form with metric signature):\n\nobtains the 4-momentum operator;\n\nwhere is the 4-gradient, and the becomes preceding the 3-momentum operator. This operator occurs in relativistic quantum field theory, such as the Dirac equation and other relativistic wave equations, since energy and momentum combine into the 4-momentum vector above, momentum and energy operators correspond to space and time derivatives, and they need to be first order partial derivatives for Lorentz covariance.\n\nThe Dirac operator and Dirac slash of the 4-momentum is given by contracting with the gamma matrices:\n\nIf the signature was , the operator would be\n\ninstead.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288552", "title": "Popolarismo", "text": "Popolarismo\n\nPopolarismo () is a political doctrine conceived by Don Luigi Sturzo which was the ideological basis for the Italian People's Party and later Christian Democracy. It is a Christian democratic and centrist school of thought distinct from the Christian left and from more social conservative currents in Christian democracy distant from Christian right.\n\nThe French Popular Democratic Party formed in 1924 was ideologically inspired by the popularism of Sturzo and his Italian People's Party.\n\nWithin Christian democracy, the use of the name People's Party is widespread, so much so that the European Christian Democrats decided to name European People's Party their party in 1976. \"Popular\" or \"people's\" in this context consists of two meanings. The first is the idea that the Christian democratic parties should try to work towards a policy that is for the good of all the members of society as opposed to parties that promote the good of a specific group (i.e. class). The second refers to a society where the people live in a kind of harmony and where people and groups are interested in and care about each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288555", "title": "Émile-Justin Menier", "text": "Émile-Justin Menier\n\nÉmile-Justin Menier (18 May 182617 February 1881), French pharmaceutical manufacturer, chocolatier, and politician, was born in Paris. In 1853, on the death of his father, Antoine, Émile-Justin Menier inherited a large and successful Parisian company that manufactured a range of medicinal powders.\n\nHis father's company also manufactured chocolate as part of its business and Émile-Justin Menier would eventually devote himself to the making of chocolate. His Menier Chocolate company purchased cocoa-growing estates in Nicaragua and sugar beet fields in France, erected a processing mill, and equipped itself in other ways for the production of chocolate on a large scale. In 1864 he sold his interest in the drug-manufacturing business, and thenceforth confined himself to chocolate, building up an immense trade. He built a factory in London in 1870 and the next year he hired architect Jules Saulnier to design a new chocolate factory to replace their existing facility in Noisiel.\n\nÉmile-Justin Menier was also a keen politician, serving as mayor of Noisiel from 1871-1881. Members of the family would be the commune's mayor until 1959. From 1876 until his death he had a seat in the French National Assembly, his general views being strongly Republican, while he consistently opposed protectionist trade policies. Menier was the author of several works on fiscal and economic questions, notably \"L'impôt sur le capital\" (1872), \"La Réforme fiscale\" (1872), \"Economie rurale\" (1875), \"L'Avenir économique\" (1875–1878), \"Atlas de la production de la richesse\" (1878) and, published in the English language by G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York City in 1878, \"France And The United States: Their Present Commercial Relations Considered With Reference to a Treaty of Reciprocity\" (\"downloadable\")\n\nÉmile-Justin Menier was made an Officer of the Legion of Honor in 1878. He died at Noisiel-sur-Marne in 1881 and was interred in the Père-Lachaise Cemetery in Paris. His sons Henri and Gaston succeeded him in the business. Members of the Menier family would run the chocolate company until 1959.\n\nIn 1898, a statue of Émile-Justin Menier was erected in the town square in Noisiel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288558", "title": "20th Engineer Brigade (United States)", "text": "20th Engineer Brigade (United States)\n\nThe 20th Engineer Brigade is a combat engineer brigade assigned to the XVIII Airborne Corps of the United States Army stationed at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Although the brigade was identified as an airborne unit, not all of its subordinate units were airborne qualified—despite the airborne tab as part of the unit patch. Soldiers of the 20th Engineer Brigade provide various supportive duties to other Army units, including construction, engineering, and mechanical work on other Army projects.\n\nThough its predecessor units have lineage that dates back before the American Civil War, the formation was not formally designated as the 20th Engineer Brigade until its activation on 16 August 1950, at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. Deploying overseas in November 1952, it supported construction projects in southwestern France until its return to the US on 10 September 1954. From then until its inactivation on 12 December 1958, it provided support to XVIII Airborne Corps.\n\nReactivated on 1 May 1967, at Fort Bragg, the brigade deployed to Vietnam where it supported American forces for several years and a dozen campaigns. The brigade was deactivated on 20 September 1971, as American forces withdrew from the country.\n\nReactivated as an airborne brigade on 21 June 1974 at Fort Bragg, NC, the unit has since seen numerous overseas tours, including to Kuwait during the Gulf war, Kosovo, Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom, and Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom and . It has also independently conducted various humanitarian missions in the United States and in other nations throughout the world.\n\nThe 20th Engineer Brigade currently consists of five engineer battalions headquartered throughout the eastern United States. The Brigade Headquarters and Headquarters Company (HHC) as well as the 27th Engineer Battalion are headquartered at Fort Bragg, North Carolina while the 19th Engineer Battalion (Construction Effects) is located at Fort Knox, Kentucky. The 46th Engineer Battalion is located at Fort Polk, LA and the 92nd Engineer Battalion is located at Fort Stewart, Georgia.\n\nThe 307th Engineer Battalion, formerly assigned to the 82d Airborne Division, was reactivated effective 16 September 2010 by reflagging the existing 37th Engineer Battalion. In 2014 the 307th was transferred to the 3d Brigade Combat Team of the 82nd Airborne Division.\n\nThe insignia was originally authorized on 30 June 1967. It was amended on 14 January 1975 to add the blue and white \"Airborne\" tab. The tab is part of the unit insignia and does not indicate whether an individual soldier is Airborne-qualified. Parachute wings on an individual soldier indicate Airborne-qualification. While the brigade headquarters was on jump status, some subordinate elements were not.\n\nOn 16 September 2009, the brigade's Airborne status was terminated and the \"Airborne\" tab on the brigade's shoulder sleeve insignia was removed.\n\nThe lineage and honors of the 20th Engineer Brigade date back to the American Civil War. First designated as the Battalion of Engineers on 3 August 1861, the battalion participated in 10 campaigns during the Civil War. Since that time, unit designations have changed many times as predecessors of the 20th Engineer Brigade have served in the Spanish–American War, the Philippine–American War, the Mexican Expedition, World War I and World War II. Though it was not officially designated as the 20th Engineer Brigade during all of these wars, the Brigade received campaign participation credit for all of these campaigns, and has numerous campaign streamers for what its previous incarnations did during these conflicts.\n\nOn 16 August 1950 the brigade was first designated as the 20th Engineer Brigade and activated at Camp Leonard Wood, Missouri. It deployed overseas to France in November 1952 and established headquarters in Croix Chapeau. Comprising two battalions and six separate companies, the brigade provided engineer construction support to the Base Section of the European COMMZ in southwestern France. In August 1954, it redeployed back to the United States and was activated at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, on 10 September 1954. From that time until its inactivation on 12 December 1958, the brigade provided engineer support to the XVIII Airborne Corps.\n\nIn response to the buildup of U.S. forces in the Republic of Vietnam, the brigade headquarters was reactivated 1 May 1967, at Fort Bragg and deployed to Vietnam in August 1967. During the Vietnam War, the brigade numbered over 13,000 officers and enlisted men organized into three engineer groups, with 14 battalions and 31 separate companies and detachments. One of these soldiers, Al Gore, would later become Vice President of the United States.\nThe brigade provided all non-divisional engineer support in Military Regions III and IV during eleven campaigns. Units cleared more than one-half million acres (2,000 km²) of jungle, paved 500 kilometers of highway, and constructed bridges totaling more than six miles (10 km) in length. As American forces were withdrawing from Vietnam, the brigade was inactivated 20 September 1971.\n\nAs the organization of the Army changed following Vietnam, the 20th Engineer Brigade was again reactivated at Fort Bragg, North Carolina as an airborne brigade on 21 June 1974. Assigned as a subordinate command of the XVIII Airborne Corps, which comprised one airborne combat engineer battalion, a heavy construction battalion and four separate companies. Additionally, the 283rd Engineer Detachment (Terrain Analysis) provided terrain intelligence needs of the brigade's mission. Since that time the brigade and its subordinate units supported the XVIII Airborne Corps, fulfilling critical combat engineer, construction, topographic, and bridging missions.\nIn the wake of Feb.1976 Guatemala Earthquake, the brigade participated in humanitarian aid and rebuilding efforts of a major highway, CA-9.\nThe brigade participated in the recovery efforts following the Great Lakes Blizzard of 1977. Over 300 members of the unit were dispatched to New York State to help with recovery efforts. As requirements and the engineer force structure changed, the brigade inactivated the 548th combat heavy battalion in 1987 and activated the 37th combat airborne battalion. In 1989, the 30th Engineer Battalion (Topographic) was added to the brigade. Over the years, the brigade has provided engineer support to XVIII Airborne Corps and other Army commands. In addition to training, it has deployed in support of operations across the entire spectrum of conflict from disaster relief to combat operations.\n\nThe brigade was called to support the multinational response to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on 2 August 1990. The brigade grew to a 7,700 soldier force composed of three groups, ten battalions, four separate companies, and eight detachments in support of XVIII Airborne Corps during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. The brigade completed 1,500 combat heavy battalions equivalent days of work constructing roads, airfields, heliports, ammunition/fuel/water storage points, life support areas and forward landing strips, distributed over ten million maps, trained over 5,000 coalition engineers, and supported the French attack on Assalman airfield. During follow-on missions the brigade destroyed over 6,000 enemy bunkers and one million tons of munitions.\n\nAfter the Gulf War, elements of the brigade were dispatched to Haiti on a humanitarian mission. The 20th Engineer Brigade was assigned to construct base camps, improve the Haitian infrastructure, participate in humanitarian service projects, and assist with the reestablishment of public services, with a goal of improving overall quality of life within the country.\n\nSince 11 September 2001, it has participated in repeated operations in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq.\n\nIn November 2004 the brigade headquarters deployed to Camp Victory, Iraq in support of OIF 04-06. The brigade grew to a size of 6,100 personnel in of three brigade headquarters companies, seven battalions, six separate companies and nine detachments. The brigade served as the Multi-National Corps – Iraq corps-level engineer headquarters for all echelon-above-division engineers in Iraq, providing command and control for general support combat and construction engineer missions across the country. During its deployment, the 20th Engineer Brigade patrolled 57,950 kilometers of roads for Improvised Explosive Devices, expanded 14 bases in support of the MNC-I basing plan; emplaced or maintained 16 bridges; expanded detention capacity for 6,000 detainees; trained over 53,000 coalition soldiers on explosives hazards awareness; reduced over 11,000 caches and over 80,000 tons of explosive munitions. Other missions included repair of an airfield known as \"Key West\" by light equipment elements, support of the Long Range Surveillance Detachment, 313th Military Intelligence Battalion, 82nd Airborne Division based in Zakhu, located in Iraqi Kurdistan. Another task for the Brigade was to assist British engineers in a systematic mapping of the entire nation and creating an Iraqi Geospatial Reference System, in order to make national reconstruction easier and more organized. The 20th Brigade suffered at least one casualty during its tour in Iraq, with a soldier killed by an enemy Improvised Explosive Device on 22 August 2005 in Ad Dwar when an explosive device destroyed his vehicle. During its deployment to Iraq, the Unit assumed command of several additional battalions from the Army National Guard, forcing existing formations of the unit to cope with additional responsibilities. Seemingly elements of the 107th and 507th Engineer Battalions of the Michigan Army National Guard, the 30th Engineer Brigade (TA) of the North Carolina Army National Guard and the 194th Engineer Brigade of the Tennessee National Guard were part of the brigade.\n\nThe brigade again deployed to Iraq for the OIF 07-09 rotation. This time, the brigade was headquartered in Balad, Iraq. The brigade was given Husky Mine Detection vehicles and Buffalo mine protected carrier vehicles for the deployment. The brigade was responsible for providing combat, geospatial and general engineering and reconstruction operations in partnership with Provincial Reconstruction Teams, Civil Service Corps, Sons of Iraq and Iraqi Army engineers, as well as training and assisting the Iraqi Army and provincial engineers in the rebuilding of the infrastructure of Iraq. As of May 2008, the brigade had constructed 10 major bridges and destroyed or captured IED cells in nine of the country's provinces. During the deployment it was visited by Lieutenant General Lloyd J. Austin III, the commanding general of Multi-National Corps Iraq. The brigade was scheduled to return to Fort Bragg in the fall of 2008, to be replaced by the 555th Engineer Brigade. This was completed during a transfer of authority ceremony on 29 September 2008. The brigade then began redeploying to Fort Bragg, completing its return by November 2008. A year later, in August 2009, the brigade held a ceremony promoting dozens of its soldiers to the rank of Sergeant.\n\nNumerous soldiers who have served in the 20th Engineer Brigade have later achieved fame for various reasons, most of them having served the 20th in Vietnam. Former 20th Engineer Brigade soldiers and engineers include Chief of Engineers Robert B. Flowers, Governor of the Panama Canal Zone Harold Parfitt, Vice President of the United States and Nobel Peace Prize winner Al Gore, Sergeant Major of the Army Leon L. Van Autreve, and West Virginian state Senator Richard Ojeda.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288559", "title": "William J. Kossler Award", "text": "William J. Kossler Award\n\nThe Captain William J. Kossler, USCG Award is given by the American Helicopter Society (AHS) International for \"the greatest achievement in practical application or operation of rotary wing aircraft, the value of which has been demonstrated by actual service during the preceding calendar year.\" The award consists of one certificate for the selected individual or crew and honors the memory of William J. Kossler, a U.S. Coast Guard airman, aeronautical engineer and early advocate of helicopters in USCG operations. \n\nThe annual award was first given in 1951, to Col. Richard T. Knight, U.S. Air Force. Other individual recipients have included Don R. Berlin, James M. Gavin, Keith B. McCutcheon and Paul A. Yost, Jr. \n\nGroup or crew recipients have included \"USSR Military and Civilian Helicopter Pilots Flying Initial Operations at Site of Chernobyl Nuclear Disaster, April-May, 1986\", \"Army National Guard Aviation, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita (2006)\", \"Australian Search and Rescue Helicopters/Sydney-Hobart Yacht Race (1999)\" and \"Canadian Air Force Flight Crew of Labrador 303, 413 Squadron (1997)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2288568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288568", "title": "Singapore Civil Defence Force", "text": "Singapore Civil Defence Force\n\nThe Singapore Civil Defence Force (abbreviation: SCDF; ; Chinese: 新加坡民防部队; Tamil: சிங்கப்பூர் குடிமைத் தற்காப்புப் படை) is an emergency service in Singapore under the Ministry of Home Affairs. The role of the SCDF is to provide firefighting and emergency medical services within Singapore and coordinate national civil defence.\n\nAs early as 1855, Singapore's first Fire Committee was formed after a fire in Kling Street destroyed S$13,000 worth of property on 7 November 1855. Prior to this, fires were attended to by uniformed groups which included the police, sepoys, marine soldiers and even convicts. On 7 September 1869, the Governor Major-General Sir Harry St. George Ord enacted the Fire Ordinance and appointed the Colonial Engineer as Chairman of the Fire Commission for Singapore. In 1888, the Singapore Fire Brigade was established and with sufficient funding, gained recognition as a fully equipped professional brigade. By 1909, there were a total of three built stations servicing Singapore, namely Central Fire Station at Hill Street, Cross Street and Kallang Fire Stations.\n\nOver the early years of independence, the Singapore Fire Brigade faced several major incidents, such as the Bukit Ho Swee Fire of 1961, the Robinson Fire of 1972, and the Spyros explosion and fire of 1978. In 1980, the Singapore Fire Service (SFS) became the official name for the brigade. In 1982, the National Civil Defence Plan was launched which spearheaded the emergency preparedness for the nation. With the enactment of the Civil Defence Act in 1986, the SCDF was established as an independent organisation under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). In the same year, the Hotel New World disaster paved the way for joint operations between the SCDF and Singapore Fire Service (SFS). Due to the similarity in roles and functions, the SCDF and SFS were formally integrated on 15 April 1989.\n\nThe newly integrated SCDF mainly used facilities which were handed over from the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) or the Singapore Police Force (SPF). Since the early 2000s, its headquarters and territorial divisions have all moved into purpose-built facilities. SCDF's involvement in regional disaster relief operations has also raised its profile significantly.\n\nOn 18 January 2009, SCDF was classified by INSARAG as a heavy urban search and rescue team, the highest level of urban search and rescue service.\n\nSCDF is led by the Commissioner of the SCDF and three deputy commissioners, each in charge of Strategy & Corporate Services, Operations & Resilience and Future Technology & Public Safety. The SCDF is organised with one headquarter element commanding seven divisions. Of the latter, four (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Divisions) are territorial divisions; another two are training divisions, namely the Civil Defence Academy (CDA) and National Service Training Institute (NSTI), and can be activated as the 5th and 6th Divisions respectively in times of emergency; the seventh is the Marine Division, which was set up on 1 April 2012 with the capability and capacity to respond to marine fire and rescue incidents.\n\nThe headquarters complex of SCDF contains the command centre for all operations nationwide. It is co-located with the Disaster Assistance and Rescue Team Base, Central Supply Base and Paya Lebar Fire Station in a single compound on Ubi Avenue 4. The headquarters consists of numerous staff departments:\n\n\nEach territorial division is given territorial responsibility of a region of Singapore, and possesses its own command centre, hazmat capabilities, and international administration.\nThe Civil Defence Academy (CDA) conducts training for the various vocations and specialisations within the SCDF, including the Section Commander Course (SCC) and Rota Commander Course (RCC).\n\nThe National Service Training Institute (NSTI) conducts training for national servicemen. It consists of the Basic Rescue Training Centre (BRTC), which conducts basic training for new enlistees in basic rescue skills and fitness, and the In-Camp Training Centre (ICTC), which trains Operationally Ready NSmen. The NSTI also controls the detention barracks and functions as the centre for the SCDF Provost Unit.\n\nBoth the CDA and NSTI complexes are co-located in Choa Chu Kang, along Jalan Bahar.\n\nThe SCDF maintains a large fleet of custom-made vehicles (referred to as appliances) that are capable of mitigating a variety of incidents. Many of the appliances were designed and commissioned by the SCDF rather than ready-made designs.\n\nThe ambulance forms the backbone of Singapore's medical emergency response capability and is the most widely deployed appliance. Each ambulance is staffed by an ambulance driver, a paramedic, and an emergency medical technician. Occasionally, a Fire & Rescue Specialist (FRS) or ERS trainee may also be attached to an ambulance unit.\n\nThe Medical Support Vehicle (MSV) is a truck that is designed to provide on-site treatment capabilities for mass casualty incidents. On reaching the incident site, it is able to fold out and expand to form a mobile aid station to perform on-site stabilisation and critical invasive medical treatment.\n\nThe Fire Bike is a three-wheeled Piaggio MP3 that carries a single firefighter. They are able to navigate traffic to provide a faster initial response to emergencies. The Fire Bike carries a compressed air foam backpack which can extinguish handle smaller conflagrations such as household and vehicle fires. It is also equipped with an automated external defibrillator to respond to medical emergencies in concert with an ambulance.\n\nThe Light Fire Attack Vehicle (LFAV), also known as the Red Rhino, was first introduced in 2000. It is designed to be more compact than a traditional fire engine, allowing it to be stationed at a larger variety of locations.\n\nThe most recent iteration is the 6th generation, unveiled in 2018 at the SCDF Workplan Seminar. Instead of the traditional 4-man crew in the previous LFAV generations, the 6th generation carries a robot named the Red Rhino Robot (3R) which fits in the rear passenger compartment. The 3R conducts reconnaissance operations to locate the seat of fire through the use of thermal imaging and relay the information to the operator, who can then direct firefighting operations. The robot is able to mitigate a fire within confines of approximately 15m.\n\nThe Pump Ladder (PL) is the workhorse fire engine of the SCDF. It carries 2,400 litres of water and 1,200 litres of foam, along with other rescue and firefighting equipment. The PL is also equipped to set up hasty decontamination facilities for a chemical incident. The decontamination lanes can be set up within four minutes, and each lane is able to decontaminate up to 36 walking casualties or six lying casualties per hour. The Generation E of the PL features a compress air foam pump.\n\nThe Combined Platform-Ladder (CPL) is a hydraulic ladder-platform truck which is used to conduct external firefighting and rescue operations involving high-rise buildings. There are several variants of CPL in SCDF, the largest being the CPL60 which can extend its platform ladder up to a maximum height of 60 metres, the equivalent of a 20-storey building. Its platform is equipped with a water monitor capable of discharging water at the rate of 3,800 litres per minute, and a rescue cage that can hold up to 500 kg.\n\nThe Aerial Ladder (AL) is a ladder truck used in the SCDF for aerial firefighting and rescue. It has an operational height of 56 metres.\n\nThe Breathing Appartus Tender (BAT) is a support appliance deployed in major incidents to provide firefighters with self-contained breathing apparatus to manage prolonged operations. It is also equipped with thermal image cameras and gas detectors to facilitate rescue operations during smoke-logged conditions.\n\nThe Damage Control Tender (DCT) is a support appliance deployed in major incidents to support firefighters with smoke and water extraction operations.\n\nThe Fire and Rescue Operations Support Tender (FROST) is a support appliance that combines the functions of the BAT and the DCT, halving the total manpower needed for these functions from eight to four.\n\nThe Tracked Firefighting Vehicle (TFV) is a Bandvagn 206 that is used in forested areas where wheeled vehicles may have difficulty navigating. These vehicles were transferred from the Singapore Armed Forces to the SCDF and subsequently repainted and fitted with firefighting equipment and capabilities.\n\nThe Modular Oil Tank Fire-Fighting System (MOTFS) is a oil tank fire fighting system capable of discharging large volumes of foam for large-scale fires, up to 100,000 litres per minute. It is also capable of drafting water supply directly from open sources such as the sea or marine vessels. It is also designed in a modular form to speed up deployment to match the scale of the incident. \n\nThe Unmanned Firefighting Machine (UFM) is a remote controlled fire-fighting unit built to operate in extreme heat and hazardous environments, by using high velocity airflow to create ventilation in smoke-logged areas, and intense water mist, jet or foam to put out fires. It was first launched in April 2014. In 2015, the UFM added a rail kit to enable the unit to manoeuvre in Mass Rapid Transit tunnels at up to 40 km/h to put out fires and conduct ventilation operations. \n\nThe custom-built Pumper Firefighting Machine can traverse up and down a staircase, fit into passenger lifts and penetrate through premises with a maximum temperature of 250-degree Celsius for up to 10 minutes. Other unique features include a rotating nozzle that can project water mist in 360-degree angles to quickly lower room temperatures and a high pressure hose reel with a built-in water tank that can allow firefighters to quickly initiate firefighting operations at incidents. Its resistance to heat also means that firefighters will be less exposed to risk during firefighting operations.\n\nThe Hazmat Mitigation Vehicle (HMV) transports Hazmat crew and their equipment to an incident insight. The HMV carries a Hazmat Utility Buggy (HUB) in the rear of the appliance, where it can be unloaded to assess incident developments, transport equipment and convey casualties out of the hazard area.\nThe Hazmat Decon Pod sucks in contaminated air and purifies it at a high rate to remove atmospheric toxic material and render an area more hospitable for work following a chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear incident.\n\nThe Mass Decontamination Vehicle (MDV) is a large bus that is able to transport personnel and equipment, perform the decontamination of a large number casualties, and convey the casualties to the hospital. \n\nThe HazMat Control Vehicle carries a chemical detector to detect and monitor chemical release from up to 5 km away. It is also fitted with a launchpad for unmanned aerial vehicles to extend the range and altitude of its chemical detection capabilities.\n\nThe Forward Command Vehicle (FCV) is a mobile communications and control centre and is deployed during major incidents requiring division-level advanced command capabilities.\n\nThe Command Vehicle (CV) functions as a mobile headquarters command and control centre. The vehicles are the size of a large bus, and when deployed, the body of the vehicle stretches to thrice its size on the road, allowing ample space inside the vehicle for personnel and essential computer and communications equipment. CVs are deployed to strategic locations to provide forward tactical headquarters capability in major incidents or high-risk events.\n\nThe Hazmat Command Vehicle (HCV) is a command post specifically designed for command and control during a CBR incident. It is equipped for this task with a wide array of instruments and sensors which can, for example, monitor and help predict toxic material presence and dispersion in the wind.\n\nThe DART Rescue Vehicle (DRV) is a specialised appliance of the Disaster Assistance and Rescue Team designed for urban search and rescue. It carries a personnel cabin and can accommodate up to eight DART officers with their equipment. The DRV is equipped with a crane with a load capacity of 7.9 tonnes. It is primarily used to load other rescue vehicles like the DART skid loader, which is used to access confined spaces in collapsed buildings.\n\nIn 2012, the Singapore Civil Defence Force took over responsibility from the Maritime Port Authority for fighting maritime fires. By 2019, the SCDF Marine Division had retired some old fireboats, and added six new modern vessels, bringing the size of the firefighting fleet to eight vessels. One of the new vessels, the \"Red Sailfish\", is the most powerful fireboat in the world so far. \nSCDF maintains a rescue contingent on 24-hour standby under the codename Operation Lionheart to provide rescue and humanitarian assistance and support to countries stricken by major disasters. Since its formation in 1990, the Operation Lionheart contingent had responded to 16 overseas missions.\n\nBelow is the breakdown of the missions:\n\nThese ranks feature the following charges:\n\nThe ranks are displayed here in descending order from highest seniority at the top to lowest at the bottom.\n\nCommissioners\n\nSenior Officers\n\nJunior Officers\n\n\nCadets/ Trainees\n\n\nAll epaulettes and shoulder boards bear the title \"CIVIL DEFENCE\" underneath all rank insignia.\n\nFictional television programs:\n\nOn 13 May 2018, full-time national serviceman CPL Kok Yuen Chin died after falling into a fire station's pump well while celebrating his impending operationally ready date with his squad mates. Two SCDF personnel were arrested for the incident which reportedly arose from ragging.\n\nIn October 2015, former director Jeganathan Ramasamy was sentenced to 10 weeks' jail for misappropriating two iPads in September 2011. He had allegedly assumed the two iPads obtained from SCDF vendors were for personal use, and had given one to his daughter and sold the other to another senior director Eric Yap Wee Teck who was to later became Commissioner of the SCDF.\n\nOn 19 December 2011, former commissioner Peter Lim Sin Pang was arrested on graft charges in connection with an IT contract. Lim was dismissed from service on August 2013. He was sentenced to jail for six months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288569", "title": "Charles Joseph Sainte-Claire Deville", "text": "Charles Joseph Sainte-Claire Deville\n\nCharles Joseph Sainte-Claire Deville (26 February 1814 – 10 October 1876) was a geologist and meteorologist. \n\nBorn in St. Thomas, he was the brother of chemist Henri Etienne Sainte-Claire Deville.\n\nHaving attended at the École des Mines in Paris, he assisted Élie de Beaumont in the chair of geology at the Collège de France from 1855 until he succeeded him in 1874. He made researches on volcanic phenomena, especially on the gaseous emanations. He investigated also the variations of temperature in the atmosphere and ocean. In 1857, he is elected member of the French Academy of Sciences in replacement of Armand Dufrénoy.\n\nIn 1852 he was one of the founders of the \"Société Météorologique de France\", of which, he served as its first secretary. In 1859 he was the first to achieve a complete ascent of Grand Combin (4314 meters) in the Pennine Alps. He is promoted \"Officier de la Légion d'honneur\" in 1862. He died in Paris.\n\nThe Promontorium Deville, a lunar headland, was named after him.\nHis published works include: \n\n"}
{"id": "2288570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288570", "title": "John Kaizan Neptune", "text": "John Kaizan Neptune\n\nJohn Kaizan Neptune (born November 13, 1951 in Oakland, California, United States) is an American player and builder of the shakuhachi (Japanese bamboo flute). He is known particularly for his use of the instrument in non-traditional contexts, such as jazz and cross-cultural music.\n\nNeptune studied ethnomusicology at the University of Hawaii, where he began to study the shakuhachi with a Japanese Buddhist priest in 1971. In 1973, he continued his shakuhachi studies in Kyoto, Japan, returning after one year to Honolulu to complete a degree in ethnomusicology. Following his graduation, he traveled again to Kyoto for several more years of intensive study, and in March 1977 he received the \"shi-han,\" or master's certificate, in the Tozan School of Shakuhachi. At that time he was awarded the honorary name \"Kaizan,\" which means Sea Mountain. He lives in Japan.\n\nNeptune has performed in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia and recorded more than 20 albums with a variety of musicians. As a non-Japanese playing a Japanese traditional instrument, Neptune has attracted much interest from the Japanese public. His third recording, entitled \"Bamboo\", was named Outstanding Album of the Year for 1980 by the Cultural Affairs Agency of the Japanese Ministry of Education, the first time a jazz recording or foreign artist had been so honored.\n\nHe also makes shakuhachi and other bamboo instruments at his home workshop in the Japanese countryside.\n\nJohn Kaizan Neptune has recorded 21 records since 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288575", "title": "John Neptune", "text": "John Neptune\n\nJohn Neptune may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2288581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288581", "title": "Jack jumper ant", "text": "Jack jumper ant\n\nThe jack jumper ant (\"Myrmecia pilosula\"), also known as the jack jumper, jumping jack, hopper ant, or jumper ant, is a species of venomous ant native to Australia. Most frequently found in Tasmania and southeast mainland Australia, it is a member of the genus \"Myrmecia\", subfamily Myrmeciinae, and was formally described and named by British entomologist Frederick Smith in 1858. This species is known for its ability to jump long distances. These ants are large; workers and males are about the same size: for workers, and for males. The queen measures roughly long and is similar in appearance to workers, whereas males are identifiable by their perceptibly smaller mandibles.\n\nJack jumper ants are primarily active during the day and live in open habitats, nesting in bushland, woodlands, and dry open forests, surrounded by gravel and sandy soil, which can be found in rural areas and are less common in urban areas. They prey on small insects and use their barbless stingers to kill other insects by injecting venom. Other ants and predatory invertebrates prey on the jack jumper ant. The average worker has a life expectancy over one year. Workers are gamergates, allowing them to reproduce with drones, whether or not a queen is present in the colony. The ant is a part of the \"Myrmecia pilosula\" species complex; this ant and other members of the complex are known to have a single pair of chromosomes.\n\nTheir sting generally only causes a mild local reaction in humans; however, it is one of the few ant species that can be dangerous to humans, along with other ants in the genus \"Myrmecia\". The ant venom is particularly immunogenic for an insect venom; the venom causes about 90% of Australian ant allergies. In endemic areas, up to 3% of the human population has developed an allergy to the venom and about half of these allergic people can suffer from anaphylactic reactions (increased heart rate, falling blood pressure, and other symptoms), which can lead to death on rare occasions. Between 1980 and 2000, four deaths were due to anaphylaxis from jack jumper stings, all of them in Tasmania. Individuals prone to severe allergic reactions caused by the ant's sting can be treated with allergen immunotherapy (desensitisation).\n\nThe specific name derives from the Latin word \"pilosa\", meaning 'covered with soft hair'. The ant was first identified in 1858 by British entomologist Frederick Smith in his \"Catalogue of hymenopterous insects in the collection of the British Museum part VI\", under the binomial name \"Myrmecia pilosula\" from specimens he collected in Hobart in Tasmania. There, Smith described the specimens of a worker, queen, and male. The type specimen is located in the British Museum in London. In 1922, American entomologist William Morton Wheeler established the subgenus \"Halmamyrmecia\" characterised by its jumping behaviour, of which the jack jumper ant was designated as the type species. However, John Clark later synonymised \"Halmamyrmecia\" under the subgenus \"Promyrmecia\" in 1927 and placed the ant in the subgenus in 1943. William Brown synonymised \"Promyrmecia\" due to the lack of morphological evidence that would make it distinct from \"Myrmecia\" and later placed the jack jumper ant in the genus in 1953.\n\nOne synonym for the species has been published – \"Ponera ruginoda\" (also titled \"Myrmecia ruginoda\"), described by Smith in the same work, and a male holotype specimen was originally described for this synonym. \"P. ruginoda\" was initially placed into the genera \"Ectatomma\" and \"Rhytidoponera\", but it was later classified as a junior synonym of the jack jumper ant, after specimens of each were compared. The \"M. pilosula\" species complex was first defined by Italian entomologist Carlo Emery. The species complex is a monophyletic group, where the species are closely related to each other, but their actual genetic relationship is distant. Members of this group include \"M. apicalis\", \"M. chasei\", \"M. chrysogaster\", \"M. croslandi\", \"M. cydista\", \"M. dispar\", \"M. elegans\", \"M. harderi\", \"M. ludlowi\", \"M. michaelseni\", \"M. occidentalis\" \"M. queenslandica\", \"M. rugosa\", and \"M. varians\". Additional species that were described in this group in 2015 include \"M. banksi\", \"M. haskinsorum\", \"M. imaii\", and \"M. impaternata\".\n\nTheir characteristic jumping motion when agitated or foraging inspires the common name \"jack jumper\", a behaviour also shared with other \"Myrmecia\" ants, such as \"M. nigrocincta\". This is the most common name for the ant, along with \"black jumper,\" \"hopper ant\", \"jumper ant\", \"jumping ant\", \"jumping jack\" and \"skipper ant\". It is also named after the jumping-jack firecracker. The species is a member of the genus \"Myrmecia\", a part of the subfamily Myrmeciinae.\n\nLike its relatives, the ant possesses a powerful sting and large mandibles. These ants can be black or blackish-red in colour, and may have yellow or orange legs. The ant is medium-sized in comparison to other \"Myrmecia\" species, where workers are typically long. Excluding mandibles, jack jumpers measure in length. The ant's antennae, tibiae, tarsi, and mandibles are also yellow or orange. Pubescence (hair) on the ant is greyish, short and erect, and is longer and more abundant on their gaster, absent on their antennae, and short and suberect on their legs. The pubescence on the male is grey and long, and abundant throughout the ant's body, but it shortens on the legs. The mandibles are long and slender (measuring ), and concave around the outer border.\n\nThe queen has a similar appearance to the workers, but her middle body is more irregular and coarser. The queen is also the largest, measuring in length. Males are either smaller or around the same size as workers, measuring . Males also have much smaller, triangular mandibles than workers and queens. The mandibles on the male contain a large tooth at the centre, among the apex and the base of the inner border. Punctures (tiny dots) are noticeable on the head, which are large and shallow, and the thorax and node are also irregularly punctuated. The pubescence on the male's gaster is white and yellowish.\n\nJack jumper ants are abundant in most of Australia, being among the most common bull ant to be encountered. The ants can be found in the south-western tip of Western Australia, where it has been seen in the sand hills around Albany, Mundaring, Denmark and Esperance. The ant is rarely sighted in the northern regions of Western Australia. In South Australia, it is commonly found in the south-east regions of the state, frequently encountered in Mount Lofty (particularly the Adelaide Hills), Normanville, Hallett Cove and Aldgate, but it is not found in north-western regions. There are dense populations on the western seaboard of Kangaroo Island. Jack jumpers are widespread throughout the whole of Victoria, but the species is uncommon in Melbourne. However, populations have been collected from the suburb of Elsternwick, and they are commonly found in the Great Otway Ranges, with many nests observed around Gellibrand. In New South Wales, nests are found throughout the entire state (with the exception of north-western New South Wales), but dense populations are mostly found in the Snowy Mountains, Blue Mountains and coastal regions. The ants are widespread in the Australian Capital Territory. In Queensland, the ants are only found along the south-eastern coastlines of the state, where populations are frequently encountered in the Bunya Mountains, Fletcher, Stanthorpe, Sunshine Coast, Tamborine Mountain and Millmerran, and have been found as far north as Rockhampton. The ant also resides in all of Tasmania, and their presence in the Northern Territory has not been verified.\n\nJack jumper ants live in open habitats, such as damp areas, forests, pastures, gardens, and lawns, preferring fine gravel and sandy soil. Colonies can also be spotted around light bushland. Their preferred natural habitats include woodlands, dry open forests, grasslands, and rural areas, and less common in urban areas. Their nests are mounds built from finely granular gravel, soil, and pebbles, measuring in diameter and can be as tall as 0.5 m (20 in) in height. Two types of nests for this species have been described, one being a simple nest with a noticeable shaft inside, the other being a complex structure surrounded by a mound. These ants use the sun's warmth by decorating their nests with dry materials that heat in a quick duration, providing the nest with solar energy traps. They decorate their nests with seeds, soil, charcoal, stones, sticks, and even small invertebrate corpses. They also camouflage their nests by covering them with leaf litter, debris, and long grass. Nests can be found hidden under rocks, where queens most likely form their colonies, or around small piles of gravel, instead. Their range in southern Australia, like other regional ant species, appears like that of a relict ant. Jack jumpers have been found in dry sclerophyll forests, at elevations ranging from , averaging . Rove beetles in the genus \"Heterothops\" generally thrive in jack jumper nests and raise their brood within their chambers, and skinks have been found in some nests.\nPopulations are dense in the higher mountain regions of Tasmania. Widespread throughout the state, their presence is known on King Island, located north-west from Tasmania. The ant prefers rural areas, found in warm, dry, open eucalypt woodlands; the climate provides the ant with isolation and warmth. This environment also produces the ant's food, which includes nectar and invertebrate prey. In suburban areas, this ant is found in native vegetation, and uses rockeries, cracks in concrete walls, dry soil, and grass to build nests. One study found suburbs with voluminous vegetation cover such as Mount Nelson, Fern Tree and West Hobart host jack jumper populations, while the heavily urbanised suburbs of North Hobart and Battery Point, do not.\n\nPest control of the jack jumper ant is successful in maintaining their populations around suburban habitats. Chemicals such as bendiocarb, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and permethrin are effective against them. Spraying of Solfac into nests is an effective way of controlling nests if they are in a close range of areas with considerable amounts of congestion and human activity. Pouring carbon disulfide into nest holes and covering entrances up with soil is another method of removing colonies. The Australian National Botanic Gardens have an effective strategy of marking and maintaining jack jumper nests.\n\nPrimarily diurnal, workers search for food during the day until dusk. They are active during warmer months, but are dormant during winter. Fights between these ants within the same colony is not uncommon. They are known for their aggression towards humans, attraction to movement, and well developed vision, being able to observe and follow intruders from 1 m (1.1 yd) away. This species is an accomplished jumper, with leaps ranging from . William Morton Wheeler compared jack jumper ants to \"Lilliputian cavalry galloping to battle\" when disturbed, due to their jumping behaviour. He further wrote that they also made a ludicrous appearance as they emerge from their nests, in a series of short hops.\n\nWhile no studies have established whether or not these ants contain alarm pheromones, their relative \"Myrmecia gulosa\" is capable of inducing territorial alarm using pheromones. If proven, this would explain their ability to attack \"en masse\". Foraging workers are regularly observed on the inflorescences of \"Prasophyllum alpinum\" (mostly pollinated by wasps of the subfamily Ichneumonidae). Although pollinia are often seen in the ants' jaws, they have a habit of cleaning their mandibles on the leaves and stems of nectar-rich plants before moving on, preventing pollen exchange. Whether jack jumper ants contribute to pollination is unknown.\n\nUnlike many other ants that use scent to forage for food, jack jumpers use their sight to target their prey, using rapid movements of the head and body to focus on their prey with their enlarged eyes. Like other bull ants, they are solitary when they forage, but only workers perform this role. These ants are omnivores and scavengers, typically foraging in warmer temperatures. They deliver painful stings, which are effective in both killing prey and deterring predators. Jack jumpers have smooth stingers, thus can sting indefinitely. Jack jumper ants are skilled hunters, partially due to their excellent vision; they can even kill and devour wasps and bees. They also kill and eat other ants, such as carpenter ants (\"Camponotus\") and feed on sweet floral secretions and other sugar solutions. They often hunt for spiders, and sometimes follow their prey for a short distance, usually with small insects and small arthropods. Jack jumper ants, alongside \"M. simillima\", have been given frozen houseflies (\"Musca domestica\") and blowflies (Calliphoridae) as food under testing conditions. The ants have been observed to run and leap energetically at flies when they land, particularly on \"Acacia\" shrubs, plants, or trees. Jack jumpers and other \"Myrmecia\" ants prey on insects such as cockroaches and crickets.\n\nMature adult ants of this species mostly eat sweet substances, so dead insects they find are given to their larvae. However, larvae are only fed insects when they have reached a particular size. Workers mostly collect small insects, sap-sucking insects along with the honeydew, which is taken to their nests to feed their young. Observations have been made of fly predation by jack jumper ants; they only attack the smaller fly species and ignore larger ones.\n\nBlindsnakes of the family Typhlopidae are known to consume \"Myrmecia\" broods, although smaller blindsnakes avoid them since they are vulnerable to their stings. Predatory invertebrates such as assassin bugs and redback spiders prey on jack jumpers and other \"Myrmecia\" ants, and echidnas, particularly the short-beaked echidna (\"Tachyglossus aculeatus\") hunt jack jumper ants, eating their larvae and eggs. Nymphs of the assassin bug species \"Ptilocnemus lemur\" lure these ants by trying to make the ant sting them. The jack jumper ant is a host to the parasite gregarines (Gregarinasina). Ants that host this parasite change colour from their typical black appearance to brown. This was discovered when brown jack jumpers were dissected and found to have \"Gregarinasina\" spores, while black jack jumpers showed no spores. If it is present in large numbers, the parasite interferes with the normal darkening of the cuticles while the ant is in its pupal stage. The cuticle softens due to the gregarine parasite.\n\nLike every ant, the life of a jack jumper ant starts from an egg. If the egg is fertilised, the ant will be a female (diploid); if not, it will become a male (haploid). They develop through complete metamorphosis, meaning that they pass through larval and pupal stages before emerging as an adult. Cocoons that are isolated from the colony are able to shed their pupal skin before hatching, allowing themselves to advance to full pigmentation. Pupae can also eclose (emerge from their pupal stage) without assistance from other ants. Once born, jack jumper ants can identify distinct tasks, an obvious primitive trait \"Myrmecia\" ants are known for.\n\nBased on observations of six worker ants, the average life expectancy of the jack jumper is around 1.3 years, but workers were shown to live as little as 1.12 years or as long as 1.6, with the queen living much longer than the workers at 10 years or more. These data give a life expectancy of 401–584 days, with an average of 474 days. Egg clumping is common, as observed in laboratory colonies. These clumps are often carried by worker ants, and these clumps would contain two to 30 eggs, without any larvae to hold them together. This confirms that eggs from jack jumper colonies do not always lie singly apart. George C. Wheeler and Jeanette Wheeler (1971) studied and described larvae collected from New South Wales and South Australia. They noted that very young larvae of the jack jumper were in length, with two types of body hair. They also described young larvae (matured from very young larvae) at , but with similar body characteristics to mature larvae, at .\n\nQueens are polyandrous, meaning that queens can mate more than once; queens mate with one to nine males during a nuptial flight, and the effective number of mates per queen ranges from 1.0 to 11.4. Most queen ants only mate with one or two males. If the number of available male mates increases, the number of effective matings per queen decreases. Colonies are polygynous, meaning that a colony may house multiple queens; one to four queens typically inhabit a colony, and in multiple-queen colonies, the egg-laying queens are unrelated to one another. Based on a study, 11 of the 14 colonies tested were polygynous (78.57%), showing that this is common in jack jumper colonies. When the queen establishes a nest after mating, she will hunt for food to feed her young, making her semiclaustral. Nests can hold as few as 500 ants or as many as 800 to 1,000. Excavated nests typically have populations ranging from 34 to 344 individuals. Jack jumper ant workers are gamergates, having the ability to reproduce in colonies with or without queens.\n\nColonies are mainly polygynous with polyandrous queens, but polyandry in jack jumper colonies is low in comparison to other \"Myrmecia\" ants, but it is comparable to \"M. pyriformis\" ants. In 1979, Craig and Crozier investigated the genetic structure of jack jumper ant colonies, and although queens are unrelated to each other, the occurrence of related queens in a single colony was possible. During colony foundation, suggestions exist of dependent colony foundation in jack jumper queens, although independent colony foundations can occur, as the queens do have fully developed wings and can fly. Isolation by distance patterns have been recorded, specifically where nests that tend to be closer to each other were more genetically similar in comparison to other nests farther away.\n\nAs colonies closer to each other are more genetically similar, independent colony foundation is most likely associated with nuptial flight if they disperse far from genetically similar colonies they originate from. Inseminated queens could even seek adoption into alien colonies if a suitable nest site area for independent colony foundation is restricted or cannot be carried out, known as the nest-site limitation hypothesis. Some queens could even try to return to their nests that they came from after nuptial flight, but end in another nest, in association that nests nearby will be similar to the queen's birth nest.\n\nThe jack jumper ant genome is contained on a single pair of chromosomes (males have just one chromosome, as they are haploid). This is the lowest number known (indeed possible) for any animal, a number shared with the parasitic roundworm \"Parascaris equorum univalens\". Jack jumper ants are taxonomically discussed as a single biological species in the \"Myrmecia pilosula\" species complex. The ant has nine polymorphic loci, which yielded 67 alleles.\n\nThe earliest known account of ant sting fatalities in Australia was first recorded in 1931; two adults and an infant girl from New South Wales died from ant stings, possibly from the jack jumper ant or \"M. pyriformis\". Thirty years later, another fatality was reported in 1963 in Tasmania. Historical and IgE results have suggested these two species or perhaps another species were responsible for all recorded deaths.\n\nBetween 1980 and 2000, four deaths have been recorded, all in Tasmania and all due to anaphylactic shock. All known patients who died from jack jumper stings were at least 40 years old and had cardiopulmonary comorbidities. Severe laryngeal oedema and coronary atherosclerosis were detected in most of the autopsies of those who died. Most of the victims died within 20 minutes after being stung. Prior to any desensitisation program being established, the fatality rate was one person every four years from the sting.\n\nBefore venom immunotherapy, whole body extract immunotherapy was widely used due to its apparent effectiveness, and it was the only immunotherapy used on ants. However, fatal failures were reported and this led to scientists researching for alternative methods of desensitisation. Whole body extract immunotherapy was later proven to be ineffective, and venom immunotherapy was found to be safe and effective to use. Paul Clarke first drew medical attention to the jack jumper ant in 1986, and before this, there had been no history of records of allergic reactions or study on their sting venom. The identification of venom allergens began in the early 1990s in preparation for therapeutic use. Whole body extracts were first used to desensitize patients, but it was found to be ineffective and later withdrawn. Venom immunotherapy was shown to reduce the risk of systemic reactions, demonstrating that immunotherapy can be provided for ant-sting allergies.\n\nIn 2003, Professor Simon Brown established the jack jumper desensitisation program, although the program is at risk of closure. Since the establishment of the program, no death has been recorded since 2003. However, the ant may be responsible for the death of a Bunbury man in 2011.\n\nThe extent of the jack jumper sting problem differs among areas. Allergy prevalence rates are significantly lower in highly urbanised areas and much higher in rural areas. These ants represent a hazard towards people in the southern states of Australia, due to a high proportion of the population having significant allergies to the ant's sting. The ant is a significant cause of major insect allergies, responsible for most anaphylaxis cases in Australia, and rates of anaphylaxis are twice those of honeybee stings. One in three million annually die of general anaphalaxis in Australia alone. Over 90% of Australian ant venom allergies have been caused by the jack jumper.\n\nThe ant is notorious in Tasmania, where most fatalities have been recorded. In 2005, over a quarter of all jack jumper sting incidents were sustained in Tasmania; excessive in comparison to its 2006 population of only 476,000 people. Jack jumper stings are the single most common cause of anaphylaxis in patients at the Royal Hobart Hospital. The ant has also been a major cause of anaphylaxis outside Tasmania, notably around Adelaide and the outskirts of Melbourne, while cases in New South Wales and Western Australia have been more distributed. One in 50 adults have been reported to suffer anaphylaxis due to the jack jumper or other \"Myrmecia\" ants.\n\nThe jack jumper ant and its relatives in the genus \"Myrmecia\" are among the most dangerous ant genera and have fearsome reputations for their extreme aggression; \"Guinness World Records\" certifies the ant \"Myrmecia pyriformis\" as the world's most dangerous ant. The jack jumper have been compared to other highly aggressive ant species, such as \"Brachyponera chinensis\", \"Brachyponera sennaarensis\", and the red imported fire ant (\"Solenopsis invicta\"). The retractable sting is located in their abdomen, attached to a single venom gland connected by the venom sac, which is where the venom is accumulated. Exocrine glands are known in jack jumpers, which produce the venom compounds later used to inject into their victims. Their venom contains haemolytic and eicosanoid elements and histamines. It contains a range of active ingredients and enzymatic activity, which includes phospholipase A2 and B, hyaluronidase, acid and alkaline phosphatase. The venom of the ant also contains several peptides; one being pilosulin 1, which causes cytotoxic effects, pilosulin 2, which has antihypertensive properties and pilosulin 3, which is known to be a major allergen. Other pilosulins include pilosulin 4 and pilosulin 5. The peptides have known molecular weights. The LD (lethal dose) occurs at a lower concentration than for melittin, a peptide found in bee venom. Its LD value is 3.6 mg/kg (injected intravenously in mice).\n\nLoss of cell viability in the jack jumper's venom was researched through cytometry, which measures the proportions of cells that glow in the presence of fluorescent dye and 7-Aminoactinomycin D. Examinations of the rapidly reproducing Epstein–Barr B-cells showed that the cells lost viability within minutes when exposed to pilosulin 1. Normal white blood cells were also found to alter easily when exposed to pilosulin 1. However, partial peptides of pilosulin 1 were less efficient at lowering cell viability; the residue 22 N-terminal plays a critical role in the cytotoxic activity of pilosulin 1.\n\n20 percent of jack jumper ants have an empty venom sac, so failure to display a sting reaction should not be interpreted as a loss of sensitivity. Substantial amounts of ant venom have been analysed to characterise venom components, and the jack jumper has been a main subject in these studies. An East Carolina University study which summarised the knowledge about ant stings and their venom showed that only the fire ant and jack jumper had the allergenic components of their venom extensively investigated. These allergenic components include peptides found as heterodimers, homodimers and pilosulin 3. Only six \"Myrmecia\" ants, including the jack jumper, are capable of inducing IgE antibodies. Due to the vast differentiation of venom produced in each \"Myrmecia\" species, and other species sharing similar characteristics to the jack jumper ant, diagnosing which ant is responsible for an anaphylactic reaction is difficult. A review of a patients history with allergies while identifying a positive result of venom specific IgE levels helps to identify the species of ant that caused a reaction.\n\nReactions to the ants sting show similar symptoms to fire ant stings; namely local swelling which lasts for several days, and swelling of the lips, face and eyes may occur from a minor allergic reaction. Other common symptoms include watering of the eyes and nose, and hives or welts will begin to develop. Headaches, anxiety and flushing may also occur. Jack jumpers, bees and wasps are the most common causes of anaphylaxis from insect stings. People most commonly feel a sharp pain after these stings, similar to that from an electric shock. Some patients develop a systemic skin reaction after being stung. Localised envenomation occurs with every sting, but severe envenoming only occurs if someone has been stung many times (as many as 50 to 300 stings in adults). The heart rate increases, and blood pressure falls rapidly. Most people will only experience mild skin irritation after being stung. Those who suffer from a severe allergic reaction will show a wide variety of symptoms. This includes difficulty breathing and talking, the tongue and throat will swell up, and coughing, chest tightness, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting may occur. Others may lose consciousness and collapse (sometimes people may not collapse), and confusion. Children who get stung will show symptoms such as floppiness and paleness if a severe allergic reaction occurs.\n\nIn individuals allergic to the venom (about 2–3% of the population), a sting sometimes causes anaphylactic shock. In comparison to other insects such as the western honeybee (\"Apis mellifera\") and the European wasp (\"Vespula germanica\"), their rates are only 1.4% and 0.6%. The annual sting exposure rates for the jack jumper ant, Western honeybee and European wasp are 12%, 7% and 2%. The median time from sting to cardiac arrest is 15 minutes, but the maximum period is around three hours. The ant allergy does not disappear; people with jack jumper allergies will most likely suffer from another allergic reaction if re-stung. Approximately 70 percent of patients with a history of systemic reaction to the ant's sting have another reaction when stung again. In comparison, systemic reaction figures for \"Apis mellifera\" and \"Vespula germanica\" after being stung show a rate of 50% and 25%. About half of these reactions were life-threatening and occurred predominantly in people who had had previous incidents with the sting. Anaphylaxis in jack jumper ant stings are not rare; 2.9% of 600 residents from semi-rural Victoria had allergic reactions to the ant's sting, according to a questionnaire. The sensitivity to stings is persistent for many years.\n\nIn 2011, an Australian ant allergy venom study was conducted, with the goal of determining which native Australian ants were associated with ant sting anaphylaxis. It showed that the jack jumper ant was responsible for the majority of patients' reactions to stings from ants of genus \"Myrmecia\". Of the 265 patients who reacted to such a sting, 176 were from the jack jumper, 15 from \"M. nigrocincta\" and three from \"M. ludlowi\", while 56 patients had reacted to other \"Myrmecia\" ants. The study concluded that four native species of Australian ants caused anaphylaxis. Apart from \"Myrmecia\" species, the green-head ant (\"Rhytidoponera metallica\") was also responsible for several systemic reactions.\n\nMost people recover uneventfully following a mild local reaction and up to about 3% of individuals suffer a severe localised reaction. Most individuals who suffer from severe localised reactions will most likely encounter another reaction if stung again. Fatalities are rare, and venom immunotherapy can prevent fatalities.\n\nIf no signs of an allergic reaction are present, an ice pack or commercially available sprays are used to relieve the pain. Stingose is also recommended to treat a jack jumper sting. Other treatments include washing the stung area with soap and water, and if continuous pain remains for several days, antihistamine tablets are taken for one to three days.\n\nEmergency treatment is needed in a case of a severe allergic reaction. Before calling for help, laying a person down and elevating the legs is suggested. Depending on a patients needs, they will be given an EpiPen or an Anapen to use in case they are stung. In a scenario of experiencing anaphylaxis, further doses of adrenaline and intravenous infusions may be required. Some with severe anaphylaxis may suffer cardiac arrest and will need resuscitation. Inhalers may additionally be used in case a victim has asthma and experiences a reaction from a sting. The use of ACE inhibitors is not recommended, as it is known to increase the risk of anaphylaxis. Medications like antihistamines, H2 blockers, corticosteroids and anti-leukotrienes have no effect on anaphylaxis.\n\nThere are several bush remedies used to treat jack jumper stings (and any other \"Myrmecia\" sting). The young tips of a bracken fern provide a useful bush remedy to treat jack jumper stings, discovered and currently used by indigenous Australians. The tips are rubbed on the stung area, and may relieve the local pain after getting stung. Another plant used as a bush remedy is \"Carpobrotus glaucescens\" (known as angular sea-fig or pigface).\n\nDesensitisation (also called allergy immunotherapy) to the jack jumper sting venom has shown effectiveness in preventing anaphylaxis, but the standardisation of jack jumper venom is yet to be validated. Unlike bee and wasp sting immunotherapy, jack jumper immunotherapy lacks funding and no government rebate is available. Venom is available; however, no commercial venom extract is available that can be used for skin testing. Venom extract is only available through the Therapeutic Goods Administration Special Access Scheme.\n\nThe Royal Hobart Hospital offers a desensitisation program for patients who have had a severe allergic reaction to a jack jumper sting. However, the program may face closure due to budget cuts. Professor Simon Brown, who founded the program, commented, \"Closing the program will leave 300 patients hanging in the lurch\". There is a campaign to make the program available in Victoria. The Royal Adelaide Hospital runs a small-scale program that desensitises patients to the ants venom.\n\nPatients are given an injection of venom under the skin in small amounts. During immunotherapy, the first dose is small, but will gradually increase per injection. This sort of immunotherapy is designed to change how the immune system reacts to increased doses of venom entering the body.\n\nFollow-ups of untreated people over thirty with a history of severe allergic reactions would greatly benefit from venom immunotherapy. Both rapid and slow doses can be done safely during immunotherapy. The efficacy (capacity to induce a therapeutic effect) of ant venom immunotherapy is effective in reducing systemic reactions in comparison to placebo and whole body extract immunotherapy, where patients were more likely to suffer from a systemic reaction. Ultrarush initiation of insect immunotherapy may be used, but results show higher risks of allergic reactions. Despite immunotherapy being successful, only ten percent of patients do not have any response to desensitisation.\n\nIt is suggested that people should avoid jack jumpers, but this is difficult to do. Closed footwear (boots and shoes) along with socks reduce the chances of encountering a sting, but wearing thongs or sandals will put the person at risk. With this said, they are still capable of stinging through fabric, and can find their way through gaps in clothing. Most stings occur when people are gardening, so taking extra caution or avoiding gardening altogether is recommended. People can also avoid encountering jack jumpers by moving to locations where jack jumper populations are either low or absent, or eliminate nearby nests. Since \"Myrmecia\" ants have different venoms, people who are allergic to them are advised to stay away from all \"Myrmecia\" ants, especially to ones they have not encountered before.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288585", "title": "Croftfoot", "text": "Croftfoot\n\nCroftfoot (, ) is a residential area on the southeastern side of the Scottish city of Glasgow. It is bordered by Castlemilk to the south and King's Park (both the public park and the residential neighbourhood) to the west within Glasgow, and by the Rutherglen areas of Spittal to the east and Bankhead to the north (across the Cathcart Circle Lines railway). Historically within the civil parish of Cathcart in Renfrewshire, it is within the Linn ward of Glasgow City Council.\n\nNamed after an old steading which was situated at the eastern end of the present day Croftfoot Road, where the Castlemilk Burn now enters a culvert downstream from the site of Castlemilk House, Croftfoot's housing stock almost entirely comprises grey-roughcast cottage flats, constructed in the 1930s by MacTaggart & Mickel and rented out by the Western Heritable Investment Company. The homes went up for sale from the mid-1950s and many have since been upgraded internally and externally. In 2007, hundreds of householders in the area received substantial council tax refunds after it was found that their homes had been incorrectly placed in too high a 'band' for the size and standard of property since the system was introduced 14 years earlier. Among the few exceptions to the predominant housing style are a pair of sandstone workers' cottages located at the southern edge of the King's Park on Croftpark Avenue, dating from the mid-19th century when it was a rural estate. \n\nThere is a large Church of Scotland church in the centre of the neighbourhood; built in 1936 and with historic links to congregations in the inner city Gorbals district, it is directly across the road from the local eponymous primary school, a feeder for Kings Park Secondary School. The closest Roman Catholic churches and schools are in the north of Castlemilk (St Bartholomew's) and in Simshill (St Mirins Primary / Christ The King Church). The boundary with Simshill at Carmunnock Road also includes a cluster of shops, a United Free church and Croftfoot Bowling Club (founded in 1954). There is one further church, of the Baptist denomination, on Castlemilk Road near Spittal, sited next to a petrol station and another group of shops, as well as \"The Croft\", the only public house (and restaurant) in the area.\n\nIn 2016, the area's recreation fields, which had been bequeathed to the community 'in perpituity' in the 1930s but had been allowed to fall into disrepair over a number of years, were subject to planning applications for new housing. However, vehicular access to the \"Croftfield Park\" development, completed in 2019, is via Spittal, and the homes fall under Rutherglen's administration.\nOther than King's Park itself, the other green space locally is the former 9-hole golf course (a sector of the public park but actually located separately in Croftfoot) which was notable for being dug into a hillside 20-35° steep in some places. Donated to the city by the Western Heritable Investment Company and established in 1934, it is now closed and used as an area of common ground, with plans to enhance its woodland aspects by planting more trees in conjunction with the completion of flood prevention work in the area (however, local residents noted with concern that a number of older trees of high aesthetic value were felled in the course of this work).\n\nThe area is served by Croftfoot railway station with two trains per hour, and by the \"5\" (via Carmunnock Road, Croftfoot Road) and \"75\" (via Menock Road, Castlemilk Road) First Glasgow bus routes from the city centre. These wide primary routes were designed to accommodate the city tram network of the era, but the side streets are generally narrow, and with multiple cars in 21st century households and limited off-road driveways, traffic issues are commonplace, exacerbated by commuters parking their vehicles near the station, which has no formal car park.\n\nCroftfoot's location bordering the existing railway but with the only direct access across the tracks being footpaths (Castlemilk Road is a continuation of the road of the same name running through Bankhead / King's Park with an almost identical appearance of housing style, but does not connect other than by a pedestrian underpass) means all vehicles approaching from the north must either travel around Spittal - a detour of from Bankhead Road at Croftfoot station - or via Menock Road - a detour of from Castlemilk Road at King's Park Avenue - to enter the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288590", "title": "Crystal earpiece", "text": "Crystal earpiece\n\nA crystal earpiece is a type of piezoelectric earphone, producing sound by using a piezoelectric crystal, a material that changes its shape when electricity is applied to it. It is usually designed to plug into the ear canal of the user.\n\nA crystal earpiece typically consists of a piezoelectric crystal with metal electrodes attached to either side, glued to a conical plastic or metal foil diaphragm, enclosed in a plastic case. The piezoelectric material used in early crystal earphones was Rochelle salt, but modern earphones use barium titanate, or less often quartz. When the audio signal is applied to the electrodes, the crystal bends back and forth a little with the signal, vibrating the diaphragm. The diaphragm pushes on the air, creating sound waves. The plastic earpiece casing confines the sound waves and conducts them efficiently into the ear canal, to the eardrum. The diaphragm is generally fixed at its outer edge, relying on bending to operate. The air path in the earpiece is generally a horn shape, with a narrowing column of air which increases the air displacement at the eardrum, increasing the volume.\n\nCrystal earpieces are usually monaural devices with very low sound fidelity, but high sensitivity and impedance. Their peak use was probably with 1960s era transistor radios and hearing aids. They are not used with modern portable media players due to unacceptable sound quality. The main causes of poor performance with these earpieces are low diaphragm excursion, nonlinearity, in-band resonance and the very short horn shape of the earpiece casing. The resulting sound is very tinny and lacking in bass. Modern headphones use electromagnetic drivers that work similarly to speakers, with moving coils or moving iron cores in a magnetic field.\n\nOne remaining use for crystal earpieces is in crystal radios. Their very high sensitivity enables them to use the very weak signals produced by crystal radios, and their high impedance (on the order of 20 kilohms) is a good match for the typical crystal radio. They have also been used as microphones, with their high output requiring less amplification.\n"}
{"id": "2288592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288592", "title": "Elizabeth, Lady Wardlaw", "text": "Elizabeth, Lady Wardlaw\n\nElizabeth, Lady Wardlaw (1677–1727) was a Scottish poet and the reputed author of the ballad \"Hardyknute\".\n\nElizabeth was born on 15 April 1677, the second daughter of Sir Charles Halket, baronet, of Pitfirran, Fife, and his wife Janet, daughter of Sir Patrick Murray. In 1696 she married Sir Henry Wardlaw, 4th Baronet, of Pitreavie and together they had three daughters and a son. \n\nThe ballad of \"Hardyknute\", published in 1719 as an old poem, was supposed to have been discovered by her in a vault at Dunfermline, but no manuscript was ever produced. In 1724 Allan Ramsay included the poem in \"The Ever Green\", his anthology of Scottish poetry. In the 1767 edition of Percy's \"Reliques\" the poem was ascribed to Lady Wardlaw. The ballad of \"Sir Patrick Spens\" (F. J. Child, \"English and Scottish Popular Ballads\", ii. 17) has also been asserted to be her work, one of the supporters of the theory being Robert Chambers (\"Remarks on Scottish Ballads\", 1859). The level of accomplishment in \"Hardyknute\", however, gives no reason for supposing that Lady Wardlaw was capable of producing \"Sir Patrick Spens\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2288594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288594", "title": "Golden Ears Bridge", "text": "Golden Ears Bridge\n\nThe Golden Ears Bridge is a six-lane extradosed bridge in Metro Vancouver, British Columbia. It spans the Fraser River, connecting Langley on the south side with Pitt Meadows and Maple Ridge on the north side. The bridge opened to traffic on June 16, 2009. The bridge replaced a previous ferry service several kilometers upstream and will be run by a private consortium, the Golden Crossing General Partnership, until June 2041.\n\nThe bridge, owned by TransLink, has a clearance of , and a total length of including approaches. The extradosed bridge incorporates three main spans, each long and two shoreline spans, each long for total length of which makes it the longest extradosed bridge in North America. Eight pylons are situated in the river, 4 of which are high.\n\nThe bridge features bike-pedestrian protected lanes on each side. It boasts two golden metal eagle sculptures at the top of the bridge that were fashioned by a German company – after the initial sculptural design by a U.S. firm was abandoned for structural weakness.\n\nThe project was named through a community process and reflects the well-known lower Fraser Valley landmark, the Golden Ears peaks, which crown Mount Blanshard in Golden Ears Provincial Park. The successful submission to name the bridge was that of George Tabert, a local pastor.\n\n The bridge was constructed by a joint venture of CH2M Hill and Bilfinger Berger called Golden Crossing Constructors Joint Venture, at a final cost of $808 million. The construction project, officially launched in June 2006, created 14 kilometres of new road. Golden Ears Way has direct connections to Lougheed Highway, Maple Meadows Way, 113B Avenue, 200th Street, 176th Street (Highway 15) and the Trans-Canada Highway (Highway 1). The completed bridge opened at 2:00AM on June 16, 2009.\n\nThe project was planned to permit archaeological teams to comb through a part of First Nations land that the bridge passed through. The team, led by a Simon Fraser University archaeology professor, discovered pottery shards, metal implements and 3,600-year-old wapato, or potatoes, evidence that the aboriginal peoples in the area engaged in farming. Some members of the Coast Salish Katzie Nation decried the way that the bridge affected what they described as a \"3000 year old burial ground\".\n\nBilfinger Berger applied to the federal government to bring in foreigners to work on the bridge, arguing that there was a shortage of qualified construction workers in Canada. The BC Federation of Labour disagreed, arguing that Bilfinger Berger was simply unprepared to pay market rates for skilled workers and wanted to exploit foreigners.\n\nThe Golden Ears Bridge had a fixed total construction cost of $808 million (CAD), well over the initial budget of $600 million. The project was financed as a Public Private Partnership (P3) through which TransLink is leasing back the bridge over a 35-year timeframe. The P3 was administered by the provincial government organization Partnerships BC. This aspect of the project was controversial and it led Vancouver city councillor David Cadman to vote against the project when it was presented to the TransLink board for approval.\n\nAfter the opening of the bridge TransLink ceased operation of the Albion Ferry on July 31, 2009, a passenger/vehicle ferry that had been operational since June 7, 1957. The Albion Ferry employed 59 full-time and 18 auxiliary employees for its run between Maple Ridge and Langley. In 2003, annual traffic on the free ferry amounted to 1.5 million vehicles and 4 million passengers. After the bridge opened, the ferries ceased to be used and the two ferries were sold in 2011 for $400,000 to a local marine transportation company.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring an initial toll-free introductory period in 2009, traffic averaged 37,000 crossings per day. Once tolls took effect, daily traffic dropped. In January 2010, daily traffic amounted to 21,000 trips. In April 2011 daily traffic had increased to 23,000 trips. This number rose with the bridge serving 30,000 trips each weekday by September 2011. The current 10 million trips annually far exceeds the previous ferry traffic on the route of 1.5 million vehicles and 4 million passengers.\n\nThe new bridge used an electronic tolling system to track vehicles that cross to recover construction costs. Tolls had not been used in the Lower Mainland since the 1960s when they were removed from all bridges. This was also the first electronic toll bridge in Western Canada.\n\nDrivers had the option of opening a tolling account. This includes an electronic tolling device, or transponder, to be mounted on the vehicle's windshield. It detects usage of the bridge, allowing toll charges to be automatically billed to the driver's account, streamlining the tolling process.\n\nVehicles without an electronic tolling device have their license plates identified through an automated video recognition system, and will be billed accordingly. Drivers of such vehicles also have the option to pay for their trip in advance by establishing a temporary account with a credit card, and pay a lower toll rate than if they did not establish such an account. The video recognition system costs more for Translink to run over the long term because it requires that humans identify plates that the system is misreading and because of the need to respond to misreads in which people are wrongly billed.\n\nThere have been numerous media stories of fraud and people being charged by the automated system for crossing the bridge when they never had done so, including one story in which a local resident was charged for crossing the bridge more than 90 times, when he had never driven across it at all.\nOn July 15, 2016 tolls on the Golden Ears Bridge increased to cover the rise in the Consumer Price Index. The increases range between 5-15 cents, depending on the size of the vehicle and type of account.\n\nOn August 25, 2017, B.C. Premier John Horgan announced that all tolls on the Golden Ears bridge will be removed starting September 1, 2017.\n\nRates effective up until August 31, 2017. Tolls were removed after September 1, 2017.\n\nAbove rates are current as of January 2013. \nTransLink has also experimented with reduced tolls during low-use times such as evenings, weekends, and statutory holidays. They commenced a six-week trial project in April 2011 which reduced tolls by 30% in such times.\n\nThe Passenger Transportation Board, which regulates taxi services in the Lower Mainland has created a regulation whereby taxis are to charge passengers a $6.90 surcharge for crossing the bridge, something that must be explained to the passenger in advance of starting the meter.\n\nBicycles, pedestrians, emergency vehicles and TransLink buses are exempt from the toll.\n\nTransLink acknowledged that in the early years of the bridge's operation, revenues have been lower than had been forecasted. The agency has indicated that they expect revenues to increase once drivers can no longer use the nearby Port Mann Bridge for free, as it will be tolled starting in 2013.\n\nFrom 2013 Year-End Financial and Performance Report\n\nToll revenues will rise to track inflation over the thirty-two-year payback period for the bridge which runs until 2040; the toll increase in 2011 was 3.5% on average. The difference between the toll revenue and TransLink's costs which it is obligated to pay the bridge’s builder each year will come out of TransLink's general operating budget; in 2011 this shortfall was estimated at $33 million.\n\nUnder its contract, TransLink has agreed to pay the private consortium which built, operates, and maintains the bridge a monthly fee of $500,000 per month in 2009 which rose to $4 million per month in 2011, and will top out at $4.8 million per month in 2015 - a monthly fee that will stay steady until the contract ends in 2041.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288596", "title": "Muzzy Izzet", "text": "Muzzy Izzet\n\nMustafa Kemal \"Muzzy\" Izzet (; ; born 31 October 1974) is a former footballer who played for Chelsea, Leicester City, Birmingham City and the Turkish national team. His father is a Turkish Cypriot who came to England as a small boy, and his mother is English. His younger brother, Kemal, also became a professional footballer.\n\nIzzet signed as a schoolboy for Chelsea, but never made a first team appearance during three years at the London club. He moved to Leicester City in March 1996 on loan for the rest of the season. He became a regular in the side, scoring one goal. When Leicester beat Crystal Palace in the play-offs, Izzet was able to make his move permanent for a fee of £800,000. He kept his place in the side for their Premier League season, which was successful for City. They came 9th in the Premier League, and won the League Cup. Izzet formed a partnership in midfield with Neil Lennon, which proved vital for Leicester. \n\nIn the 1998–99 season, Leicester came 10th in league, and reaching the League Cup final again, but lost out to Tottenham Hotspur. The following season, Leicester came 8th, and again got to the League Cup Final, this time coming up against Tranmere Rovers, of Division One. This year they won 2–1, with Matt Elliott getting both goals. Izzet had been a regular in the side through all of this time. After Martin O'Neill left, Izzet remained a Leicester player. His time at Leicester drew interest from West Ham and Middlesbrough, but he did not leave the club.\n\nThe following season started with a 5–0 home defeat to newly promoted Bolton Wanderers. Despite pledging to stay at Leicester during pre-season, Izzet handed in a transfer request in autumn of 2001, prior to the club's relegation, but he rejected a move to Middlesbrough as he did not want to be seen to be \"jumping ship\". He did issue a plea to O'Neill, who was now manager of Scottish Premier League side Celtic, to sign him in May 2002, remarking that \"only an idiot wouldn't consider joining Celtic.\" Following their relegation at the end of the 2001–02 season, Izzet was again strongly touted for a move to Boro. However, Leicester insisted they would not accept a reduced offer from Middlesbrough for Izzet, who was priced at £6 million, and no deal came to fruition. He withdrew his transfer request in March 2003, after the club achieved automatic promotion by finishing in second place. In January 2004, Leicester rejected £500,000 bids from Aston Villa and Blackburn Rovers for Izzet. At the end of the 2003–04 season, Leicester were again relegated. Unable to afford Izzet's £30,000 per week wages, the club admitted he was leaving.\n\nIzzet joined Birmingham City in June 2004 on a free transfer, signing a three-year deal. Injury plagued his first season, with him making only a handful of appearances, though he did score his first league goal for Birmingham, an equaliser against Bolton Wanderers. His second season was worse, with a knee injury keeping him out for a long period of time. Izzet announced his retirement from football on 27 June 2006.\n\nOn 28 November 2009, Izzet made a shock last minute return to Saturday football with Leicestershire Senior League side Thurmaston Town. However, he admitted days later that his knee was still very sore and was quoted saying \"whether I can turn out for Thurmaston every week is another thing.\" He never played for them again.\n\nIzzet now runs a football academy with fellow former professional footballer and former Leicester teammate Steve Walsh.\nIn September 2015 Izzet's autobiography was published, titled \"Muzzy: My Story\". The autobiography was co-written with Leicester Mercury writer Lee Marlow.\n\nIzzet is an ambassador for Dorothy Goodman School, a Special Educational Needs school in Hinckley, Leicestershire.\n\nLeicester City\n\nTurkey\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2288605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288605", "title": "Communion and the developmentally disabled", "text": "Communion and the developmentally disabled\n\nWhen and how any particular Christian participates in the Christian sacrament of Eucharist, regardless of intellectual disability or cognitive capacity, depends on the way the administering Christian community understands the sacrament. Because there is a plurality of Christian accounts of Eucharist, there is a plurality of practices and traditions concerning the norms for participation in that case of a Christian who has an intellectual disability. Some Christian traditions maintain that a theological understanding of the sacrament is necessary to receive Eucharist and, therefore, do not administer the sacrament to intellectually disabled persons. Other Christian traditions maintain that spiritual devotion to the real presence of Jesus Christ is necessary to receive the Eucharist and, therefore, administer the sacrament to intellectually disabled persons under particular conditions—presuming the benefit of the sacrament can be received even if the Eucharist is not consumed. Still other Christian traditions understand the practice of Eucharist principally as a communal expression of community solidarity or unity and, therefore, administer the sacrament indiscriminately during the liturgy.\n\nBoth the theological and material history of how intellectually disabled persons have participated in the sacrament of Eucharist is available to researchers. Unfortunately, due to the limitations of printed text and challenges of translation, that theological and material history is generally unfamiliar to non-specialists. Nevertheless, advances in the digitization of rare texts has allowed for an unprecedented rediscovery of Ancient, Medieval, and Early Modern Christian practices and teaching on how persons who \"lack the full use of reason\" participate in the Christian sacraments. There is a well documented contemporary prejudice against premodern accounts of intellectual disability / mental illness, which supposes that premodern philosophers and theologians took those forms of impairment to be instances of demon possession. Although that contemporary prejudice has been wholly discredited by historians, the association has lingered in the popular imagination of western Christians—such that many contemporary Christian traditions and communities do not administer the sacrament of Eucharist to intellectually disabled and/or mentally ill persons.\n\nThomas Aquinas maintained that all cognitively impaired Christians have a right to the Eucharist and that the sacrament should not be withheld from such persons, except in the most extreme of circumstances (STh III.80.9). According to Aquinas, the extreme circumstance that warrants withholding the Eucharist from a cognitively impaired Christian is if the Christian is entirely incapable of expressing their desire to receive the Eucharist. The worry of Aquinas is that the Eucharist would be forced upon someone who does not want to participate in the sacrament.\n\nThe Code of Canon Law of the Roman Catholic Church (and those bodies in full communion with it) has official policy about how the sacraments should be administered in the case of adult Christians who lack the use of reason. The rationale is developed on the understanding that persons who lack the use of reason, like infants, need the assistance of others to participate in the sacraments of the Church. See Canons 96-99. Thus, ecclesial care for infants provides the principles for the ecclesial care of intellectually disabled persons. Regarding the administration of Eucharist to children and other persons who lack the use of reason, Canon 913 states\n\nThis policy is reflected in the positions published by many Roman Catholic dioceses in the United States. For example, in the section regarding preparation for First Communion:\n\nAdditionally, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops stated in its \"Guidelines for the Celebration of the Sacraments with Persons with Disabilities\" (approved 1995):\n\nIn an effort to better reach marginalized populations, such as those struggling with autism and other developmental disabilities, while at the same time providing for their religious education, organizations have emerged offering online alternatives to traditional Faith Formation in keeping with the USCCB's Guidelines.\n\nSimilar to the Roman Catholic view, Eastern Catholic Churches which practice infant communion, favor the right of intellectually disabled Christians to receive the Eucharist.\n\nOrthodox Christianity makes Communion available to all baptized and chrismated church members who wish to receive it, regardless of developmental or other disabilities. The theory is that the soul of the recipient understands what is being received even if the conscious mind is incapable of doing so, and that the grace imparted by Communion \"for the healing of soul and body\" is a benefit that most especially should not be denied in such cases. This is consistent with the practice of Infant Communion in Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nOrthodox Christians typically receive the Sacrament of Confession before receiving the Eucharist (see Eucharistic discipline). However, for those who are either mentally incapable of recognizing or recalling their sins, or who are mentally or physically incapable of communicating their sins to a priest, this requirement is dispensed with, just as it is for very young children.\n\nThe Church of Scotland says this regarding those with learning difficulties:\n\nIn most evangelical Christian churches, the only requirement for any individual to participate in Communion is that the person professes to have a personal relationship with God and to have accepted Jesus Christ as his or her Savior. Before Communion in these churches, the policy is usually verbally outlined and the decision is left up to the individual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288609", "title": "Ryan Riddle", "text": "Ryan Riddle\n\nRyan Riddle (born July 5, 1981) is a former professional American, Canadian and Arena football defensive end. He was drafted by the Oakland Raiders as a linebacker in the sixth round, with the 38th pick (212th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played college football at University of California, Berkeley.\n\nRiddle has also been a member of the New York Jets, Atlanta Falcons, Baltimore Ravens, Los Angeles Avengers and Calgary Stampeders.\n\nRyan Riddle is the grandson of former USC Trojan fullback John RIddle and Helen Wheeler. John Riddle was the first Trojan to score four touchdowns in one game, and in 1924 he and Bryce Taylor of USC were the first African Americans to play against a southern college team. Helen Wheeler graduated from USC Law School in 1927, making her the school's first African American woman to do so. \n\nRyan Riddle attended Culver City High School in Culver City, California, California. As a junior, he was Culver City's Most Improved Player, an All-Area second team honoree, and led the Bay League with 17 sacks. As a senior, he was the team Most Valuable Player, and an All-Bay League first team honoree and he finished his senior season with seven sacks, three blocked field goals, and 125 tackles. Ryan Riddle graduated from Culver City High School in 1999. He decided to go on to El Camino College after a two-year hiatus from football and turning down scholarship opportunities from several colleges.\n\n Ended up as El Camino's team MVP his sophomore year on his way to receiving a scholarship from the University of California. While at El Camino he earned third-team JC All-American when he racked up 12 sacks, three blocked field goals, two blocked punts, three fumble recoveries, two caused fumbles, one interception and two touchdowns scored. He was also named to the 2002 All-Region IV Team by the California Community College Coaches Association/JC Athletic Bureau and tabbed first-team All-Northern Division. \n\nRyan Riddle attended California and was a two-year letterman in football. As a senior, he posted a single season school record 14.5 sacks, and 49 tackles. Following the 2004 season, Riddle was voted Defensive MVP by teammates and selected as a second team All-American by the Associated Press. \n\nRiddle was selected in the sixth round (212th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft by the Oakland Raiders. In September 2006, Riddle was cut by the Raiders. He signed with the New York Jets' active roster on September 27, 2006. He was released on December 16, 2006, and later signed on with the Atlanta Falcons. In August 2007, Riddle signed with the Baltimore Ravens, but was waived prior to the beginning of the 2007 regular season, despite a 2 sack performance against the Falcons.\n\nAfter being waived by the Ravens, Riddle signed with the Los Angeles Avengers of the Arena Football League on a two-year contract. In his first and only season with the Avengers he set a franchise rookie sack record with 3.5. The next year the arena league opted to cancel their season. \n\nRiddle was signed by the Calgary Stampeders on February 27, 2009, but was released shortly after.\n\nRiddle wrote for the sports website Bleacher Report. He continues to evaluate NFL draft classes at the website he founded, draftmetric.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288617", "title": "Moynihan Commission on Government Secrecy", "text": "Moynihan Commission on Government Secrecy\n\nThe Commission on Protecting and Reducing Government Secrecy, also called the Moynihan Commission, after its chairman, U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, was a bipartisan statutory commission in the United States. It was created under Title IX of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (P.L. 103-236 SEC. 900) to conduct \"an investigation into all matters in any way related to any legislation, executive order, regulation, practice, or procedure relating to classified information or granting security clearances\" and to submit a final report with recommendations. The Commission's investigation of government secrecy was the first authorized by statute since the Wright Commission on Government Security issued its report in 1957.\n\nThe Commission issued its unanimous final report on March 3, 1997.\n\nThe Commission's key findings were:\n\n\nSenator Moynihan reported that approximately 400,000 new secrets are created annually at the highest level, Top Secret. That level is defined by law as applying to any secret that, were it to become public, would cause \"exceptionally grave damage to the national security.\" In 1994, it was estimated that the United States government had over 1.5 billion pages of classified material that were at least 25 years old.\n\nIn 1995 President Bill Clinton's Executive Order 12958 updated the national security classification and declassification system. This Executive Order established a system to automatically declassify information more than 25 years old, unless the government took discrete steps to continue the classification of a particular document or group of documents.\n\n\nThe Commission findings regarding government secrecy in the early Cold War period have led to a reevaluation of many public perceptions regarding the period. By 1950, the United States government was in possession of information which the American public did not know: proof of a serious attack on American security by the Soviet Union, with considerable assistance from an enemy within. Soviet authorities knew the U.S. government knew. Only the American people were denied this information.\n\nOne revelation of the Venona project intercepts is that many Americans who spied for the Soviet Union were never prosecuted. To do so the government would have to reveal what it knew. On 29 May 1946, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director J. Edgar Hoover sent a high administration official a memorandum reporting \"an enormous Soviet espionage ring in Washington.\" Undersecretary of State Dean Acheson was (falsely) at the top of the list. Truman distrusted Hoover and suspected Hoover of playing political games. Acheson's inclusion at the top of the list automatically discredited other accusations which were on target, Alger Hiss and Nathan Gregory Silvermaster. In late August or early September 1947, the Army Security Agency informed the FBI it had begun to break into Soviet espionage messages. Truman had never been told of the existence of the Venona project, and always insisted Republicans had trumped up the loyalty issue for political gain.\n\nThe prosecutors in the internal-security cases of the 1940s did not know they had not been given all, or even the best government evidence, against the Rosenbergs, and others. The Venona project materials would have been conclusive in establishing the cast of characters in the Soviet spy networks. Government secrecy allowed critics of the Rosenberg and Hiss cases to construct elaborate theories about frame-ups and cover-ups. For years the Rosenbergs' defenders demanded that the government reveal its secrets about the case. When Secrecy Commission forced the disclosure of documents, the secrets revealed the government's case was even stronger. \"Over the years,\" said Ronald Radosh, \"the Rosenbergs' defenders have loudly demanded the release of government documents on the case, only to deny the documents' significance once they are made public.\" As archives of the Cold War are opened, the original case made against Soviet espionage in the United States has received ever more conclusive corroboration.\n\nThere is much information within a bureaucracy which could be used to injure the Government, or the national interest if revealed by disloyal persons to hostile nations or, for that matter, to hostile internal elements. It appears that the three-tiered gradation of today, Confidential/ Secret/Top Secret was adopted by the U.S. military from British forces in France in 1917, and was institutionalized with the Espionage Act of 1917. The U.S. Civil Service Commission, established by the Pendleton Act in 1883, was debarring persons relating to \"loyalty\" as late as 1921.\n\nThe Commission Report quotes Max Weber, Every bureaucracy seeks to increase the superiority of the professionally informed by keeping their knowledge and intentions secret ... Bureaucracy naturally welcomes a poorly informed and hence a powerless parliament—at least insofar as ignorance somehow agrees with the bureaucracy's interests.\n\nIn March 1947 President Truman issued Executive Order 9835, establishing the Federal Employee Loyalty Program, providing uniform investigation standards and procedures, and authorizing the creation of Loyalty Review Boards across the Government. The Truman Order—based on the findings of an interdepartmental committee established in 1946—was superseded by President Dwight D. Eisenhower's issuance of Executive Order 10450 in April 1953, which provided that \"[t]he appointment of each civilian officer or employee in any department or agency of the Government shall be made subject to an investigation,\" and made each agency head responsible for ensuring that \"the employment and retention in employment of any civilian officer or employee within the department or agency is clearly consistent with the interests of the national security.\" While abolishing the Truman Order program, including the Loyalty Review Boards within the Civil Service Commission, the new Order also made clear that \"the interests of national security require that all persons privileged to be employed in the departments and agencies of the Government, shall be reliable, trustworthy, of good conduct and character, and of complete and unswerving loyalty to the United States.\"\n\nIn this manner, a broader \"security\" program was established across the Government. The political pressure had increased with the passage of legislation in 1950 \"[t]o protect the national security of the United States by permitting the summary suspension of employment of civilian officers and employees of various departments and agencies. ... \" In addition, beginning in March 1948, the Attorney General's List was published on a regular basis—with members of organizations included on such a list to be denied employment in the federal government or defense industries as well as the right to a U.S. passport. During the 1952 presidential campaign, Dwight D. Eisenhower promised to root out Communists and other security risks from government and defense industry employment— suggesting that their presence had been tolerated too easily by the Truman administration despite the existence of rules to address \"loyalty\" concerns. In his first State of the Union address Eisenhower promised a new system \"for keeping out the disloyal and the dangerous.\" Executive Order 10450 soon followed. Senator Joseph McCarthy praised the new Executive Order. The \"New York Times\" reported, \"The new program will require a new investigation of many thousands of employees previously investigated, as well as many more thousands who have had no security check.\"\n\nIn November 1953, Attorney General Herbert Brownell would allege in a speech that Truman had nominated a Soviet spy—senior Treasury Department official Harry Dexter White—to serve as the U.S. Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund, despite what Brownell said was the President's awareness of White's involvement in Soviet espionage. And on December 3, 1953, President Eisenhower directed that a \"blank wall be placed between Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer and secret data\"—marking the beginning of the process that led to the Atomic Energy Commission's suspension of Oppenheimer's security clearance later in December and its 4-to-1 decision on June 28, 1954, against restoring the clearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288636", "title": "Icemaiden", "text": "Icemaiden\n\nIcemaiden (Sigrid Nansen) is a fictional comic book superheroine in the DC Comics universe. She was the first heroine to use the name, and for a time was replaced by Ice. She is also one of the few ice themed superheroines in the DC Universe. She first appeared in \"Super Friends\" #9 (Dec 1977).\n\nSigrid Nansen received her powers as the result of an experiment funded by the Norwegian government. In an attempt to please both her overbearing scientist mother (who constantly belittled her for not having a boyfriend and not being a top scientist) and the Norwegian government, Sigrid reluctantly agreed to the experiments. The goal was to duplicate the abilities of what at the time were a legendary tribe of Ice-people; the experiment was a success, though as a side-effect Sigrid's skin was permanently turned blue. Taking the name Icemaiden, she joined the Global Guardians as her country's representative to that international super-team.\n\nDuring the DC miniseries \"Legends\" (1986) the people of the United States were turned against all heroes, superheroes, and metahumans; the President even decreed that no costumed hero could operate legally. This did not affect the Global Guardians, however, who worked outside of the US. During this time, what Sylvester Pemberton referred to as the \"Great Super-Hero Scare\" Doctor Mist sent Icemaiden, along with Rising Sun, the Tasmanian Devil, and the Green Flame to Canada to run security for the international Trade Conference. Icemaiden fell victim, however, to the group calling itself Injustice Unlimited, and was hypnotized into serving the villains. This resulted in her traveling to Greenland with Jade and the new Icicle on a mission to find and free Solomon Grundy. In the end the villains were defeated and Icemaiden regained her free will.\n\nUpon the discovery of a real tribe of Ice-people, their princess Tora Olafsdotter (Ice) joined the Global Guardians. This led Sigrid to quit the team.\n\nYears later, after Ice had left the Global Guardians, joined the Justice League International, and was killed by the Overmaster, Sigrid re-emerged. She chose to honor the fallen heroine by serving as her replacement in the Justice League.\nThere were hints of a romantic relationship with her teammate Fire, but this was all part of a plan hatched by Sigrid. Realizing Fire was not coping with Ice's death (and Fire was attempting to control her, much like her mother had done growing up), she physically remade herself resemble Ice and showed romantic feelings toward Fire. The shock made Fire realize that Ice was gone, and she could not recreate the past. During her time in the JLA, she was disliked and criticized by Guy Gardner, who had also not come to terms with Ice's death.\n\nShe left active duty with the League after she and several others were heavily wounded during the attack of the Hyperclan (White Martians). Later recovered, Sigrid resumed her super-hero career and is assumed to have eventually joined an unofficial branch of Justice League Europe. That League chapter was, however, infiltrated by the Mist, who apparently lured Icemaiden away and subsequently disguised herself as the blue-skinned heroine before killing three League members: Crimson Fox, Amazing Man, and Blue Devil.\n\nIn the same story, it was revealed that Mist covertly contacted Icemaiden and informed her of a supposed threat facing her homeland of Norway, and she must defeat the threat without informing anyone until afterwards. Icemaiden left during the middle of the night, and Mist replaced her within the JLE by the next morning. The JLE did not know that Mist replaced Icemaiden until Mist began her attacks against them. Mist informed Crimson Fox that the threat she informed Icemaiden about was not real, and that she had sent Icemaiden on an ultimately fruitless search so that she could disguise herself as Icemaiden and replace her on the team.\n\nAfter the \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline, it was revealed that Icemaiden had at some point been abducted by the supervillain Warp, a capture paid for by a mysterious \"organ-napper\" who turned out to be former film actress Delores Winters. Winters—believed to have been killed decades earlier by the Ultra-Humanite—longed for new flesh to replace her own aging skin and had her personal physician surgically flay the Icemaiden in order to harvest her superpowered skin. Icemaiden did not die, however, and eventually was placed, comatose, into a hydration womb within a facility of S.T.A.R. Labs. Later, in the same story, the hydration womb is cracked. It is unknown if Icemaiden survived.\n\nIt is mentioned in this story that Icemaiden has alabaster skin, although she had blue skin in all of her prior appearances save for her appearance in \"Extreme Justice\".\n\nDelores was recently killed in a battle with Batwoman, and her corpse was taken by the Justice League. It is unknown if they will be able to remove the skin.\n\nSigrid is one of the few bisexual superheroines operating in the DC Universe. She was flirtatious with Nuklon during their time together in the JLA, and then later became involved with Olivia Reynolds, the ex-girlfriend of Hal Jordan.\n\nShe also showed interest in Judaism during her conversations with Nuklon.\n\nIcemaiden possesses abilities surrounding ice, snow and cold. Sigrid's powers are not natural as they are the result of scientific experiments, imitating the Nordic mythical Ice-people. Whether it was a success because she had a dormant gene is unknown.\n\nIcemaiden can control small quantities of snow and ice, and project ice shields and icicles from her body, but her greatest ability is to become very cold and create ice armor in times of great stress. Her powers are closely linked to her mental state.\n"}
{"id": "2288638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288638", "title": "Nasalis muscle", "text": "Nasalis muscle\n\nThe nasalis is a sphincter-like muscle of the nose whose function is to compress the nasal cartilages. It is the muscle responsible for \"flaring\" of the nostrils. Some people can use it to close the nostrils to prevent entry of water when underwater.\n\nIt consists of two parts, \"transverse\" and \"alar\":\nLike all the other muscles of facial expression, nasalis muscle is innervated by the seventh cranial nerve: the facial nerve.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288639", "title": "Cheap Trick (1977 album)", "text": "Cheap Trick (1977 album)\n\nCheap Trick is the debut studio album by the American rock band Cheap Trick, released in 1977. It was released under Epic Records and produced by Jack Douglas, a frequent collaborator of the band. The album did not reach the Billboard 200 chart but did \"bubble under\" at number 207 for one week in April 1977.\n\nMost of the songs have a more raw sound akin to hard rock bands of the period compared to the group's later more polished power pop style, and the song lyrics deal with more extreme subject matter than later albums. For instance, \"The Ballad of T.V. Violence\" is about serial killer Richard Speck, \"Daddy Should Have Stayed in High School\" is about an ephebophile, and \"Oh, Candy\" is about a photographer friend of the band, Marshall Mintz, who committed suicide.\n\nThe album was generally well-received by critics with favorable comparisons to the Beatles and the Who, with critics likening Robin Zander's vocals to John Lennon's. Charles M. Young, writing for \"Rolling Stone\", said the album had a \"heavy emphasis on basics with a strain of demented violence\" and that the lyrics \"run the gamut of lust, confusion and misogyny, growing out of rejection and antiauthoritarian sentiments about school—all with an element of wit.\" Ira Robbins of \"Trouser Press\" noted the album's \"wall-of-guitar sound\" and said the band was \"sarcastic, smart, nasty, powerful, tight, casual, and destined for something great.\"\n\nAll songs written by Rick Nielsen except where noted.\n\nNote: The original vinyl record had \"Side A\" printed on the label on one side and \"Side 1\" printed on the other, a humorous touch reflecting the band's conviction that they didn't have any \"B material\". The placement of the track listing on the jacket seemed to indicate \"Hot Love\" was the first track on the album. When the album was released on CD in the mid-1980s, it followed the same sequence. However, when the album was re-issued in 1998, the band's preferred sequence was used, placing \"Side 1\" before \"Side A\" and included five bonus tracks:\n\n\n\nIn the documentary \"\", Johnny Ramone stated that the guitar riff in \"The KKK Took My Baby Away\" was inspired by the riff in \"He's a Whore\".\n\nBig Black released a cover of \"He's a Whore\" as a single with a picture sleeve in the style of Cheap Trick's album cover. The back of the sleeve was a similar take on the German band Kraftwerk and their song, \"The Model\". Big Black's version was included as a bonus track on the CD release of their second album, \"Songs About Fucking\".\n\nThe Methadones covered \"He's a Whore\" on \"21st Century Power Pop Riot\", an album of covers released in 2006. Concrete Blonde covered \"Mandocello\" on \"Still in Hollywood\".\n"}
{"id": "2288644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288644", "title": "Concrete security", "text": "Concrete security\n\nIn cryptography, concrete security or exact security is a practice-oriented approach that aims to give more precise estimates of the computational complexities of adversarial tasks than polynomial equivalence would allow.\n\nTraditionally, provable security is asymptotic: it classifies the hardness of computational problems using polynomial-time reducibility. Secure schemes are defined to be those in which the advantage of any computationally bounded adversary is negligible. While such a theoretical guarantee is important, in practice one needs to know exactly how efficient a reduction is because of the need to instantiate the security parameter - it is not enough to know that \"sufficiently large\" security parameters will do. An inefficient reduction results either in the success probability for the adversary or the resource requirement of the scheme being greater than desired.\n\nConcrete security parametrizes all the resources available to the adversary, such as running time and memory, and other resources specific to the system in question, such as the number of plaintexts it can obtain or the number of queries it can make to any oracles available. Then the advantage of the adversary is upper bounded as a function of these resources and of the problem size. It is often possible to give a lower bound (i.e. an adversarial strategy) matching the upper bound, hence the name exact security.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288647", "title": "Islamic and National Revolution Movement of Afghanistan", "text": "Islamic and National Revolution Movement of Afghanistan\n\nThe Islamic Revolution Movement (Harakat-i-Inqilab-i-Islami, ) was a traditionalist Islamist (as opposed to revolutionary Islamist) Afghan mujahedeen group fighting against Soviet forces during the Soviet–Afghan War. Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi was the leader of the group. It operated in Southern & Eastern Afghan Provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Uruzgan, Ghazni, Paktika, and Wardak. It was not as strong a group as Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-i-Islami or Ahmed Shah Massoud's forces. The movement was part of the 'Peshawar Seven' coalition of mujahedeen forces.\n\nDuring the 1990s the group fell into decay. Most of its cadres later defected to the Taliban, including the spiritual leader of the Taliban Mohammed Omar. The movement was also weakened by the founding of the breakaway National and Islamic Prosperity Party of Afghanistan, formed by Maulawi Muhammad Osman Salekzada, which captured much of the HIIs following in northern Afghanistan.\n\nAfter the death of its leader, Mohammed Nabi Mohamadi, in Pakistan in 2001, the leadership of the movement was taken over by his son Ahmad Nabi Muhammadi. Under its new leadership the name of the movement was changed to Islamic and National Revolution Movement of Afghanistan (\"Harakat-e Inqilab-e Islami wa Melli-ye Afghanistan\"). In April 2005, it joined the National Understanding Front of Afghanistan, a coalition of 12 opposition parties. The front did however not last long.\n\nIn 2015, the group named a new leader: Mawlawi Qalam U Din Mohmand.\n"}
{"id": "2288651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288651", "title": "Craigton, Glasgow", "text": "Craigton, Glasgow\n\nCraigton () is a residential suburb in the southwest of the city of Glasgow, Scotland. Located approximately from the city centre, it is bordered by Bellahouston Park to the south and Halfway to the west, with Cardonald beyond.\n\nThe area was historically farming land for Govan, which is nearby to the north across the M8 motorway and Inverclyde Line railway tracks. A pedestrian underpass, previously a road on which city trams operated, leads north from Craigton under the motorway onto Craigton Road, which is within the Drumoyne neighbourhood. Historically the Craigton Road area was occupied by Craigton Farm, while the estate of Craigton House was acquired to build the Craigton neighbourhood (developed for housing between the World Wars, as were Drumoyne and other nearby developments like the contrasting Moorepark and Mosspark projects).\n\nThe area has an eponymous primary school opened in 1910 (once attended by artist George Wyllie), a small industrial estate and a number of shops lining Paisley Road West. Craigton Cemetery is immediately to the west of Craigton and was opened in 1873. The cemetery grounds contain a crematorium, which opened in 1957. To the east is Helen Street police station (a modern replacement for Govan's previous offices in Orkney Street) built on the site of the White City Stadium, used for greyhound racing and motorcycle speedway; Ibrox railway station was slightly further east, also within walking distance of Craigton until its closure in the late 1960s, about the same time as the stadium.\n\nThe triangular parcel of land between Paisley Road West and Mosspark Boulevard and west of Bellahouston Park has been occupied by housing since the 1920s. It was originally fields belonging to a farm called Wearieston so was occasionally known as such in the years following its construction, but the name has since fallen out of use.\n\nSince 2017, Craigton has fallen within the Pollokshields ward under Glasgow City Council, having been in the Govan ward for the decade prior. There was also a ward named Craigton, but the neighbourhood of that name was never part of it, and in 2017 it was re-named to the more accurate title of Cardonald.\n"}
{"id": "2288657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288657", "title": "Bartizan", "text": "Bartizan\n\nA bartizan (an alteration of \"bratticing\"), also called a guerite or échauguette, or spelled bartisan, is an overhanging, wall-mounted turret projecting from the walls of late medieval and early-modern fortifications from the early 14th century up to the 18th century. Most frequently found at corners, they protected a warder and enabled him to see his surroundings. Bartizans generally are furnished with oillets or arrow slits. The turret was usually supported by stepped masonry corbels and could be round, polygonal or square.\n\nBartizans were incorporated into many notable examples of Scots Baronial Style architecture in Scotland. In the architecture of Aberdeen, the new Town House, built in 1868–74, incorporates bartizans in the West Tower.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288661", "title": "Zeke Moreno", "text": "Zeke Moreno\n\nEzekiel Aaron Moreno (born October 8, 1978) is a former professional American football linebacker.\n\nMoreno, who is of Mexican American descent, attended Castle Park High School in Chula Vista and was a letterman in football and baseball. In football, as a senior, he led his team to a state championship in 1996. It was actually a \"mythical\" state championship, because the state of California did not have a state championship at the time.\n\nMoreno played college football for the University of Southern California's defense from 1998-2000. Known as \"Zeke And Destroy\" by many USC-faithful, Moreno was a force in the middle of the USC defense.\n\nMoreno was drafted by the San Diego Chargers in the fifth round (139th pick overall) of the 2001 NFL Draft. He played for the Chargers for four years (2001–2004). Moreno was released by the Chargers following the 2004 season and was hampered by injuries while trying to find a home with another team in 2005. He signed with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League in 2007. He was selected as a CFL All-Star in 2007 and 2008.\n\nOn September 9, 2008, Moreno was traded to the Winnipeg Blue Bombers.\n\nOn February 19, 2009, Moreno was traded to the Toronto Argonauts in exchange for defensive end Riall Johnson.\n\nOn February 21, 2010, Moreno was released by the Argonauts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288662", "title": "Monkey Wrench (song)", "text": "Monkey Wrench (song)\n\n\"Monkey Wrench\" is the lead single from the second Foo Fighters album, \"The Colour and the Shape\". The lyrics chronicle the 1997 disintegration of singer/songwriter Dave Grohl's four-year marriage to Jennifer Youngblood. The song peaked at number 9 on the \"Billboard\" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart, and at number 12 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\n\"Monkey Wrench\" is an up-tempo rock song, written in the key of B major in 4/4 time signature with a tempo of 174 bpm. It is performed with distorted guitars in Drop-D tuning. The song opens with a four bar phrase of a descending guitar line over a chordal riff of B5/F#5/E5 repeated twice. After a single bar of 3/4 time, the main verse enters with vocals and a choppier, palm-muted version of the intro riff. A pre-chorus using an E5 power chord then gives way to a chord-based chorus of B5/G#5/F#5/E5/F#5/E5/C5/B5.\n\nLyrically, Grohl has said that the song is \"about realising that you are the source of all of the problems in a relationship and you love the other person so much, you want to free them of the problem, which is actually yourself.\"\n\nThe music video was directed by the band's lead singer/songwriter, Dave Grohl. In the video, Grohl arrives at his apartment with groceries in hand, but finds the door secured from inside by the chain latch when he tries to open it. Looking through the peephole, he finds black-clad duplicates of the band members playing the song. The rest of the band soon joins him at the door, peeking in through its mail slot, and eventually start trying to force their way in as the duplicate Grohl taunts them and spits on the peephole. He holds the door shut against the band's efforts for a while, but they eventually break in only to find the apartment suddenly empty. They look out the window and see the duplicates fleeing on foot through a courtyard, then close the door and finish the song using the abandoned instruments. As the video ends, a third set of bandmates is listening at the door outside, creating a recursive situation.\n\nWhen Grohl is in the elevator heading up to his apartment, a muzak version of the Foo Fighters song \"Big Me,\" performed by The Moog Cookbook, can be heard.\n\nThe music video for the song was the first to feature Taylor Hawkins on drums, although the actual drum track is performed by Grohl.\n\n\n\n\nPromo:\n\nEuropean CD, Japan CD, Australian CD and UK CD1:\n\nUK CD2:\n\nNetherlands CD and UK 7\" Vinyl:\n"}
{"id": "2288665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288665", "title": "Takeo Fukui", "text": "Takeo Fukui\n\nFukui worked on the CVCC (Compound Vortex Controlled Combustion) engine as his first project at Honda to reduce toxic exhaust emissions. The CVCC, which became the base for the Honda Civic car, became the first vehicle to comply with the 1975 U.S. Clean Air Act without a catalytic converter. A motorsports fan, he joined Honda for its participation in the Formula One races.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288676", "title": "USS Detroit (AOE-4)", "text": "USS Detroit (AOE-4)\n\nUSS \"Detroit\" (AOE-4) was the fourth and last built for the United States Navy. She was laid down on 29 November 1966 by Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremerton, Washington; launched 21 June 1969; and commissioned on 28 March 1970. She is the fifth United States Navy ship named after Detroit, Michigan, the largest city in the state of Michigan, and the river of the same name.\n\n\"Detroit\" served for 35 years operating primarily with the U.S. 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean Sea and Persian Gulf regions.\n\nAfter her initial shakedown cruise, \"Detroit\" departed Bremerton for her first operational home port, Newport, Rhode Island, rounding the horn of South America en route. In March 1971, she was involved in a minor collision with a US Navy oiler off the coast of South Carolina. Shortly thereafter, \"Detroit\" deployed for six months of extended operations with the 6th Fleet, returning to Newport in December 1971. In April 1972 the Detroit escorted USS Saratoga CV-60 to the southern tip of Africa on her way to support the war in Vietnam. Detroit refueled Saratoga then returned to home port. \"Detroit\" made her second deployment with 6th Fleet to the Mediterranean on 1 December 1972, returning to Newport in July of the following year. On 12 December 1973, while the ship was undergoing repairs and upkeep in Newport, \"Detroit\" suffered an explosion in her after engine room exhaust stack which caused extensive material damage.\n\nA shore establishment realignment led to \"Detroit's\" home port shift to Norfolk, Virginia in January 1974. \"Detroit\" sailed from Norfolk 14 July 1974, en route to her third Mediterranean deployment in support of 6th Fleet operations. In addition to her normal taskings, she participated in contingency operations related to the Cyprus crisis, completing this task in December 1974 before returning to Norfolk.\n\n\"Detroit\" sailed for her fourth Mediterranean deployment on 19 August 1975 and completed over 200 replenishments before returning to Norfolk on 28 January 1976.\n\nOn 13 July 1976, \"Detroit\" sailed north to commence her first shipyard overhaul at Bath Iron Works in Maine. The NATO Sea Sparrow missile system and new communications capabilities were added prior to her return to Norfolk in July 1977. \"Detroit\" sailed from Norfolk on her fifth Mediterranean deployment on 4 April 1978, returning on 26 October 1978. She and her CH-46 helicopter detachment conducted 232 underway and vertical replenishments during this deployment, serving in a Task Group led by USS Forrestal(CV-59). After another five-month Mediterranean deployment in 1979, \"Detroit\" returned to Norfolk for a short six-month turn-around in preparation for her seventh Mediterranean deployment, commencing on 14 July 1980. A Suez Canal transit followed National Week exercises, and the new routine became the support of U.S. 7th Fleet’s Indian Ocean Battle Group operating in the vicinity of the Persian Gulf. Returning through the Suez, \"Detroit\" proceeded to service 6th Fleet units prior to visiting Lisbon, Portugal, in late November. \"Detroit\" returned to Norfolk on 11 December 1980.\n\nOn 10 June 1981 \"Detroit\" ran aground when she veered from the dredged channel and ran aground in shallow water in Hampton Roads while the ship was entering port. She was refloated four days later after fuel and weapons were removed. There was no apparent damage to ship or injuries to the crew, but the commanding officer was relieved of command for the incident. \"Detroit\" departed Norfolk on 25 June 1981 for her eighth Mediterranean deployment. She serviced 6th Fleet and NATO units and participated in the missile exercises in the Gulf of Sidra, when two Libyan aircraft were shot down by F-14 Tomcats from USS Nimitz (CVN-68). \"Detroit\" returned to Norfolk on 8 November 1981.\n\nIn January 1982, \"Detroit\" began her second shipyard overhaul at Norfolk Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company’s Berkeley Yard in Chesapeake, Virginia. The focus of this overhaul was on the engineering plant and the crew’s living quarters. Her defensive capability was also upgraded by the addition of two 20 mm Phalanx CIWS Mark 15 guns. \"Detroit\" left the yard in January 1983.\n\nOn 20 October 1983, \"Detroit\" departed for deployment with the 6th Fleet. While in the Mediterranean, \"Detroit\" was the principal combat logistics force ship supporting U.S. and Allied units of the Multi-National Peacekeeping Force, in Beirut, Lebanon. Throughout the height of the crisis, \"Detroit\" provided logistical support to two carrier battle groups, the battle group and the deployed Marine Amphibious Ready Group. On 9 January 1984 \"Detroit\" suffered a fuel fire in her forced-draft blower while moored at Souda Bay, Crete. Some crew members were treated for smoke inhalation. When she returned to Norfolk on 2 May 1984, \"Detroit\" had completed 301 replenishments, a new ship’s record.\n\nIn February 1985, \"Detroit\" completed an extensive three-month repair availability. From July through October 1985, she participated in fleet exercises in the Caribbean Sea, as well as in \"Ocean Safari 85\" operating above the Arctic Circle in Norway's Vestfjord. During these operations, \"Detroit\" encountered a severe storm consisting of extreme cold and heavy seas. As a result, \"Detroit\" suffered the loss of a large section of main deck railing, several deck fixtures and the ship’s solid brass bell. \"Detroit\" put in for repairs in Dunoon, Scotland before continuing operations. In August 1985, \"Detroit\" successfully completed the first Operational Propulsion Plant Examination given to an AOE by the Commander-in-Chief, Atlantic Fleet (CINCLANTFLT) Propulsion Examination Board.\n\nIn March 1986, \"Detroit\" departed Norfolk for her tenth deployment with the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean. She supported three carrier operations off the coast of Libya in March and April 1986. In September 1986, she returned to Norfolk. Beginning in the fall of 1986 the Detroit was once again sent in for an overhaul following her deployment. Starting in Virginia at Norfolk shipbuilding, she went through what was supposed to be a rapid turn around, with primary work on her engines. Following the departure, with numerous delays, she headed for Guantanamo Bay, Cuba for exercises and crew training. While there she suffered a major malfunction to her engines that would hamper her from 1987 - 1990. She was sent to Philadelphia for more work on her engines that lasted from 1987 -1988. Upon her return to Norfolk her suffered a fatality in her engine room with a sailor being scalded with live steam. The summer of 1988 found \"Detroit\" back in the European theater, participating in Exercise Teamwork 88 replenishing U.S. and NATO allies in the Norwegian fjords.\n\nAfter officially changing homeports in October 1989, \"Detroit\" was underway in support of law enforcement operations in the Caribbean Sea.\n\nIn May 1990, \"Detroit\" arrived at Naval Weapons Station Earle, Leonardo, New Jersey where she was homeported until decommissioning in 2005.\n\nIn August 1990, \"Detroit\" deployed to the Mediterranean for the 11th time since commissioning, but was diverted to the Red Sea in response to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. She remained on station in the Red Sea through the remainder of the year.\n\nOn 17 January 1991, Operation Desert Storm commenced with \"Detroit\" as one of two fast combat support ships on station. \"Detroit's\" crew worked non-stop for the remaining three months of what ultimately became a nine-month deployment. \"Detroit\" commenced a six-month dry docked phased maintenance availability in May 1991 at Philadelphia Naval Shipyard.\n\nIn May 1992, \"Detroit\" returned to 6th Fleet in support of MED 2-92. This deployment proved to be remarkably successful for \"Detroit\" and her crew. \"Detroit\" participated in the insertion and retrieval of United States Army and Navy Special Forces during the Exercise Ellipse Bravo, and rescue efforts to the TCG \"Muavenet\", a Turkish warship, after it was struck by a missile from the USS Saratoga.\n\n\"Detroit\" returned to Philadelphia Naval Shipyard for a dry docked phased maintenance availability in July 1993. Shipyard repairs were completed in January 1994 and the ship immediately commenced work-ups for her next deployment.\n\nOn 20 October 1994, \"Detroit\" was underway for her 13th Mediterranean deployment. Prior to arriving in the Mediterranean, the ship was tasked to take station in the Arabian Sea in support of U.S. Naval Forces. \"Detroit\" returned to the 6th Fleet in December 1994. She remained in the Mediterranean and Adriatic Seas, providing logistics support for the remainder of the deployment.\n\nOn 22 November 1996, \"Detroit\" deployed with the battle group for her 14th Mediterranean deployment. \"Detroit\" performed operations in the Adriatic Sea, as well as transiting the Suez Canal, joining the U.S. 5th Fleet in support of Operation Southern Watch. Additionally, she participated in exercise \"Inspired Siren 2-97\" and a variety of other multi-national exercises. \"Detroit\" returned to Earle, New Jersey on 22 May 1997. She was awarded a Navy Unit Commendation during this deployment.\n\nFrom July through November 1997, \"Detroit\" underwent a four-month phased maintenance availability, which extended the life of her propulsion plant at least another ten years. \"Detroit\" earned the Commander, Naval Surface Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet 1997 Battle Efficiency Award and the 1997 Chief of Naval Operations Ship-Helo Safety Award.\n\nUpon completion of the basic phase of training in preparation for her next deployment in support of the battle group \"Detroit\" then known as the \"Dirty D\" deployed for her 15th Mediterranean/Persian Gulf Deployment in November 1998. Responding to a national crisis, she sped her way from Earle, New Jersey to the Persian Gulf to complete the fastest transit in combat logistics force history. \"Detroit\" was key in Operation Desert Fox by providing ammunition, combat stores, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fuel to battle group units participating in the operation. On Thanksgiving Day, \"Detroit\" had the pleasure of hosting the Chief of Naval Operations for a brief visit while import Jebel Ali. During the deployment, \"Detroit\" was notified that she was awarded four individual \"E’s\" for excellence during 1998 in supply and logistics, mission area excellence, engineering and damage control, and operations and communications - a clean sweep in all mission areas. In May 1999, \"Detroit\" returned to her homeport.\n\nOn 8 November 1999, \"Detroit\" began a four-month docking phased availability at Philadelphia Naval Shipyard.\n\nOn 27 August 2000, \"Detroit\" was involved in a collision with approximately 100 miles off the Virginia Capes. Damage to both ships was minor.\n\n\"Detroit\" deployed with the \"Enterprise\" battle group to the Persian Gulf 2 October 2003 and returned to her homeport 1 March 2004. The USS Detroit was proclaimed as the Grand Champion of Fleet Week 2004 in New York City, New York on May 30, 2004. The Culinary Competition was held on board the USS Intrepid at the Sea, Air and Space Museum – Technology Hall. On Memorial Day, 2004, NBC Studios invited the, “Fighting Tiger,” for a - first ever in history - worldwide showing on television during the TODAY Show. The hosts were Ms. Anne Curry and Ms. Katie Couric. \nTEAM MEMBERS for USS DETROIT (AOE-4), CAPTAIN – CS1 (SW) Nimely, SOUS - CS2 (SW) Augustin, MAITRE’ DI - CS3 (SW) McAloon, TOURNANT - MM3 Davis, CREW – PCSN Stanbery, Mrs. Stanbery and EXECUTIVE CHEF – CSCS (SW/SS) Mongiello. Executive Chef JUDGES from Manhattan restaurants\nCraig Agans & William Gallagher of Becco, Salvatore Calisi of Osteria Stella, Cesare Casella of Beppe, Silverio Chavez of Bice, Junnajet Hurapan of Hue, Reginald Leveque of Mirelles, Giancarlo Quadalti of Celeste and Bianca, Claude Solliard of Seppis and Cyrille Wendling of L’Avenue.\nSPECIAL Judges were Michael Stern – President and CEO of the Fisher Center, Ralph Slane – V.P. of the NY Navy League, RADM Jeffrey Cassias of COMSUBGRU 10 and Colonel Thomas Cariker of SPAMGTF-10.\n\n\"Detroit\" was decommissioned on 17 February 2005 and berthed at the inactive ships maintenance facility at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\n\"Detroit\" was brought to Port of Brownsville, Texas for final disposal in October 2005. The remains of the ship were sent to a scrap heap in Mexico.\n\n\"Detroit's\" emblem was constructed by a member of the ship's pre-commissioning crew. This was the rationale:\n\n1. A profile of the first \"Detroit\"2. A flaming mine to symbolize ordnance3. A wheat-filled cornucopia to symbolize provisions4. A fuel valve to symbolize petroleum products5. Electron paths to symbolize the nuclear era6. Five stars to represent the five ships named \"Detroit\" named in honor of the City of Detroit, Michigan7. The ship's motto, \"Superare Optimum\"; \"To Surpass the Finest.\"\n\nThe first \"Detroit\" was a 19-gun sloop captured from the British in the Battle of Lake Erie during the War of 1812. Her black hull and white sails are set against a background of light blue sky and deep blue sea. The symbols for ordnance, provisions, and petroleum products are set along the electron paths that symbolize the modern nuclear age. These symbols reflect the mission of the fast combat support ship: to support naval forces at sea in the theater of operations.\n\n\"Detroit\" was awarded the following awards during her career:\n\n"}
{"id": "2288681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288681", "title": "Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi", "text": "Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi\n\nMaulana Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi ( was an Afghan politician Afghan Mujahideen leader who was the founder and leader of the Harakat-i-Inqilab-i-Islami political party and paramilitary group. He served as Vice President of Afghanistan under the Mujahideen from January 1993 to 1996.\n\nMuhammad Nabi Muhammadi was born in 1920 in Baraki Barak district of the Logar Province. His grand father who migrated to Logar, was originally from the central Ghazni province. Mohammadi received his initial Islamic education from his religious father while he received secondary and high Islamic education from various, well-known scholars in the Logar Province in Afghanistan. In 1946 when he was 26, he finished all Islamic education and began to teach. Soon he got famous for his profound classical knowledge, intellectual enlightenment, practical wisdom and pure spirituality. Students from all around Afghanistan gathered around him and it were these students most of which later became a part of his Islamic Revolutionary Movement or Harakat-i-Inqilab-i-Islami and The Taliban Movement.\n\nThis was during a time when Afghanistan had lost many of its Islamic traditions and communism was slowly beginning to spread throughout the country. He eventually contacted several Ulema and created a strong union of religious scholars with which to oppose Soviet propaganda and to attempt to inform the general population on the problems of communism.\n\nIn 1958, some of the other scholars were already carrying out anti-communist activities Molvi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi Mojadidi family, began preaching against communism to people who would listen, traveling far and wide to many of the provinces in Afghanistan.\n\nIn 1965, he was elected to the Afghan parliament from his home district of Barak-i-Barak in Logar Province representing the traditional religious scholars. As one of only a handful of religious scholars in the parliament, he took it upon himself to be a first line of defense against the Marxist deputies such as Babrak Karmal, Hafizullah Amin, Noor Ahad and Anahita Ratebzad and strongly opposed the Marxist movement in Afghanistan.\n\nNabi's most famous experience in the parliament was the altercation with Babrak Karmal that led to Karmal being hospitalized. He is also known for a comprehensive speech in a parliament session that was played across Afghanistan via radio stations.\nDaud Khan came to power at the end of the parliament session in a 1973 coup. When the parliament was dissolved by President Daud, Nabi Muhammadi returned to teaching in madrasas, first in Logar and then in Helmand. Another coup known as The Saur Revolution in 1978 brought Noor Mohammad Taraki to power. Saur Revolution (, ) (also written Sawr Revolution) is the name given to the communist People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) takeover of political power from the government of Afghanistan on 28 April 1978. The coup was soon followed by imprisonment and mass killing of the prominent Afghan religious scholars, tribal leaders and reformers.\n\nAfter his brother Mullah Jan got captured, and who was later martyred by the Taraki Government, Muhamamd Nabi Muhammadi fled and migrated to Quetta city of neighboring Pakistan. There he proceeded to gather a large number of religious scholars in order to make qualified political and military activities inside Afghanistan against the Soviet occupation.\n\nThe coup resulted in a massive disgorgement of Afghan religious leaders over the border to Pakistan. Most of these leaders congregated in Peshawar and tried to make contact with the leadership of two already established organization Hezb-e Islami and Jamiat-e Islami Afghanistan which they had heard of prior to their arrival because of their declaration of jihad and clandestine distribution of publications critical of President Daud. Newly arrived members of the ulema urged the principals to reunify, but Rabbani and Hekmatyar each refused to accept the other's party as the umbrella. The compromise that was arrived at this time was the creation of a new alliance that was to be called Harakat-i-Inqilab-i-Islami Afghanistan (The Islamic Revolutionary Movement of Afghanistan). After various candidates were proposed and rejected for the position of amir, the assembled members of the ulama decided in early September 1978 on Maulavi Muhammad Nabi Muhammadi as the leader of the new alliance.\n\nAfter nearly four months, engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Burhanuddin Rabbani separated from Harakat e Inqilab e Islami and founded their own parties by the name of Hizb-e-islami and Jamiat-e-islami. Molvi Mohammad Nabi carried the leadership of Harakat. Harakat e inqilabi islami was one of the seven parties that were officially recognized by the Pakistani government and was funded by the US and Arab countries through the Pakistani government.\n\nMohammadi was among Afghan leaders who met President Reagan at the White House during the war. Reagan called the rebel leaders \"freedom fighters.\" Through continuous struggle the Afghan Mujahideen succeeded in their mission, and the Russian forces withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989 after the loss of tens of thousands of its soldiers. In 1992 the pro-Moscow government in Kabul collapsed, and the Mujahideen took power.\n\nMohammad Nabi Mohammadi became the Vice President of Afghanistan in the Mujahideen government. However, when the Mujahideen leaders opened their weapons at each other and the civil war in Afghanistan started, he resigned from his post and forbade the troops loyal to him from taking part in the war. He remained in Pakistan and tried his best to stop the war between Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Burhanuddin Rabbani and Abdul Rasul Sayyaf. In 1996, the Taliban took control of Afghanistan. Most of the Taliban leaders were the students of Molvi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi. Mohammadi, however, maintained a good relationship with the Taliban.\n\nMohammad Nabi Mohammadi died in Pakistani hospital on 21 April 2002. He had been suffering from tuberculosis. His body was brought to Logar, Afghanistan and was given a guard of honour by the government of Afghanistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288688", "title": "Shakey the robot", "text": "Shakey the robot\n\nShakey the Robot was the first general-purpose mobile robot to be able to reason about its own actions. While other robots would have to be instructed on each individual step of completing a larger task, Shakey could analyze commands and break them down into basic chunks by itself.\n\nDue to its nature, the project combined research in robotics, computer vision, and natural language processing. Because of this, it was the first project that melded logical reasoning and physical action. Shakey was developed at the Artificial Intelligence Center of Stanford Research Institute (now called SRI International).\n\nSome of the most notable results of the project include the A* search algorithm, the Hough transform, and the visibility graph method.\n\nShakey was developed from approximately 1966 through 1972 with Charles Rosen as project manager. Other major contributors included Nils Nilsson, Alfred Brain, Sven Wahlstrom, Bertram Raphael, Richard Duda, Peter Hart, Richard Fikes, Richard Waldinger, Thomas Garvey, Jay Tenenbaum, Helen Chan Wolf and Michael Wilber. The project was funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).\n\nNow retired from active duty, Shakey is currently on view in a glass display case at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California. The project inspired numerous other robotics projects, most notably the Centibots.\n\nThe robot's programming was primarily done in LISP. The Stanford Research Institute Problem Solver (STRIPS) planner it used was conceived as the main planning component for the software it utilized. As the first robot that was a logical, goal-based agent, Shakey experienced a limited world. A version of Shakey's world could contain a number of rooms connected by corridors, with doors and light switches available for the robot to interact with.\n\nShakey had a short list of available actions within its planner. These actions involved traveling from one location to another, turning the light switches on and off, opening and closing the doors, climbing up and down from rigid objects, and pushing movable objects around. The STRIPS automated planner could devise a plan to enact all the available actions, even though Shakey himself did not have the capability to execute all the actions within the plan personally.\n\nAn example mission for Shakey might be something like:\n\n\"An operator types the command \"push the block off the platform\" at a computer console. Shakey looks around, identifies a platform with a block on it, and locates a ramp in order to reach the platform. Shakey then pushes the ramp over to the platform, rolls up the ramp onto the platform, and pushes the block off the platform. Mission accomplished.\"\n\nPhysically, the robot was particularly tall, and had an antenna for a radio link, sonar range finders, a television camera, on-board processors, and collision detection sensors (\"bump detectors\"). The robot's tall stature and tendency to shake resulted in its name:\n\nThe development of Shakey resulted in several results that have had far-reaching impact on the fields robotics and artificial intelligence, as well as computer science in general. Some of the more notable results include the development of the A* search algorithm, which is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal, the process of plotting an efficiently traversable path between points; the Hough transform, which is a feature extraction technique used in image analysis, computer vision, and digital image processing; and the visibility graph method for finding Euclidean shortest paths among obstacles in the plane.\n\nAfter SRI published a 24-minute video in 1969 entitled \"SHAKEY: Experimentation in Robot Learning and Planning\", the project received significant media attention. This included an April 10, 1969 article in the \"New York Times\"; In 1970, Life referred to Shakey as the \"first electronic person\"; and in November 1970 National Geographic Magazine covered Shakey and the future of computers. The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence's AI Video Competition's awards are named \"Shakeys\" because of the significant impact of the 1969 video.\n\nShakey was inducted into Carnegie Mellon University's Robot Hall of Fame in 2004 alongside such notables as ASIMO and C-3PO.\n\nShakey has been honored with a prestigious IEEE Milestone in Electrical Engineering and Computing.\n\nShakey was showcased in the BBC – Towards Tomorrow: Robot (1967) documentary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288693", "title": "Yamata no Orochi no Gyakushū", "text": "Yamata no Orochi no Gyakushū\n\nThis film was Daicon's epic parody of the many classic daikaiju (giant monster) films, and featured a more biomechanical-looking version of the mythical eight-headed serpent, the Orochi. This one was created by aliens, which had invaded Earth in ancient times. 2000 years later, they dispatch the Orochi again to destroy Japan and the rest of the world. Only a team of the Japan Self-Defense Forces and a scientist (two other staples in the daikaiju genre), can destroy it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288699", "title": "Buses (magazine)", "text": "Buses (magazine)\n\nBuses is a United Kingdom magazine, focusing mainly on the British public bus industry. It was originally published by Ian Allan Publishing, and from March 2012, it was published by Key Publishing.\n\n\"Buses\" was published as \"Buses Illustrated\" from 1949 until 1968. The current editor is Alan Millar, based in Scotland. It also produces a yearbook, published in August every year for the next year. \"Buses\" is published on the third Thursday of each month. Sam Clark has been working on the title since 2013. He has been responsible for the growth of the \"Buses\" brand through advertising and marketing. \n\nA sister magazine, \"Buses Focus\", featured more in depth articles, although this dual format was dropped after a rationalisation of the bus industry and for publishing cost reasons, in favour of larger main magazine issues. \n\nDue to the continued success of \"Buses\" magazine, they launched a show in 2014 called \"Buses Festival\" which takes place at the British Motor Museum in Gaydon, Warwickshire every August and has recently held its third show at said venue. \n\n\"Buses\" Festival is one of the biggest shows for bus enthusiasts to visit a huge variety of modern and classic vehicles on display as well as a wide range of traders who sell bus models, literature, photos and bus accessories.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288703", "title": "Joseph H. Silverman", "text": "Joseph H. Silverman\n\nJoseph Hillel Silverman (born March 27, 1955, New York City) is a professor of mathematics at Brown University working in arithmetic geometry, arithmetic dynamics, and cryptography.\n\nJoseph Silverman received an Sc.B. from Brown University in 1977 and a Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1982 under the direction of John Tate. He taught at M.I.T. (1982–1986) and at Boston University (1986–1988) before taking a position at Brown in 1988.\n\nSilverman has published more than 100 research articles, written or coauthored six books, and edited three conference proceedings; his work has been cited more than 5000 times, by over 2000 distinct authors. He currently serves on the editorial boards of Algebra and Number Theory and New York Journal of Mathematics.\n\nIn 1996, Silverman, along with Jeffrey Hoffstein, Jill Pipher and Daniel Lieman, founded NTRU Cryptosystems, Inc. to market their cryptographic algorithms, NTRUEncrypt and NTRUSign.\n\nIn 2012 he became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society.\n\nSilverman has written two graduate texts on elliptic curves, \"The Arithmetic of Elliptic Curves\" (1986) and \"Advanced Topics in the Arithmetic of Elliptic Curves\" (1994). For these two books he received a Steele Prize for Mathematical Exposition from the American Mathematical Society, which cited them by saying that “Silverman's volumes have become standard references on one of the most exciting areas of algebraic geometry and number theory.” Silverman has also written three undergraduate texts: \"Rational Points on Elliptic Curves\" (1992, co-authored with John Tate), \"A Friendly Introduction to Number Theory\" (3rd ed. 2005), and \"An Introduction to Mathematical Cryptography\" (2008, co-authored with Jeffrey Hoffstein and Jill Pipher). Additional graduate-level texts authored by Silverman are \"Diophantine Geometry: An Introduction\" (2000, co-authored with Marc Hindry) and \"The Arithmetic of Dynamical Systems\" (2007).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288704", "title": "Bellahouston", "text": "Bellahouston\n\nBellahouston (, ) is a district in the southwest of the Scottish city of Glasgow. It is bordered by Dumbreck, Ibrox, Pollokshields, Craigton and Mosspark.\n\nBellahouston Estate in the parish of Govan was purchased in 1726 by James Rowan of Marylands and his family resided there until 1824. Upon the death of Thomas Rowan in that year, the estate passed to a relative by marriage, one Moses Steven of Polmadie. During his lifetime he increased the size of the estate, buying land at Weariston and a house and land at Dumbreck. The whole became known as Bellahouston. Upon the death of Moses in 1871, the Estate passed to his sisters who, according to his wishes, established a trust which would dedicate the estate for 'charitable, religious and educational purposes' within greater Glasgow. The trust became operative when Elizabeth Steven died in 1892.\n\nThe Empire Exhibition, Scotland 1938 was held in Bellahouston Park and attracted over 13 million people.\n\nThe park has been the focal point of the visits by two popes to the city of Glasgow: On 1 June 1982 Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass attended by around 250,000 worshippers (reputedly the largest crowd ever assembled in Scotland). Twenty eight years later on 16 September 2010 Pope Benedict XVI celebrated Mass close to the same spot as his predecessor.\n\nBellahouston Park contains several sports facilities, including the Palace of Art, Sports for Excellence Centre, Bellahouston Sports Centre and the Glasgow Ski Centre (which is also home to Bellahouston Road Runners). The park also contains \"House for an Art Lover\" based on designs by architect, Charles Rennie Mackintosh, on which construction was completed in 1996. It was also the site of the futuristic Art Deco skyscraper, the Tait Tower, which was completed in 1938, but was subsequently demolished. Bellahouston is also home to the Bellahouston Sport Centre which has been renovated twice following two accidental fires. The latest revamp finished in 2001 means the centre now contains : Health Suite • Fitness Suite • Dance Studio • Main Pool • Leisure Pool • Flume • Outdoor Pool • Baby Pool • 2 x 5-court Sports Halls • Function Room • Gymnastics Centre • Crëche & Soft Play • Cafeteria • 2 Squash Courts. The swimming pools being the most notable new addition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288707", "title": "Ian Allan Publishing", "text": "Ian Allan Publishing\n\nIan Allan Publishing is a UK publisher, established in 1942, which specialised in transport books. It was founded by Ian Allan (1922–2015).\nIn 1942 Ian Allan, then working in the public relations department for the Southern Railway at Waterloo station, decided he could deal with many of the requests he received about rolling stock by collecting the information into a book. The result was his first book, \"ABC of Southern Locomotives\". This proved to be a success, contributing to the emergence of trainspotting as a popular hobby in the UK, and leading to the formation of the company.\n\nThe company has grown from a small producer of books for train enthusiasts and spotters to a large transport publisher. Each year it publishes books covering subjects such as military and civil aviation, naval and maritime topics, buses, trams, trolleybuses and steam railways, including history, preservation and modern operations. The headquarters is at the western end of Shepperton railway station in Surrey.\n\nAt the end of 2016, the company announced that they were withdrawing from railway publishing. Crécy Publishing acquired these titles, including the Oxford and abc imprints, but would no longer publish these under the Ian Allan name.\n\nIan Allan Publishing has acquired several companies and imprints.\nIan Allan Publishing's trade representation is provided by Amalgamated Book Services for its own imprints and a growing list of associated publishers. Midland Counties Publications, acquired by Ian Allan Publishing at the same time as Midland Publishing, was established in the 1970s with the objective of selling books at aviation events and by mail order to a growing number of enthusiasts who could not always find the publications they wanted to read on the shelves of their local High Street bookshop.\n\nIn addition to the above, Ian Allan also owns the imprint Lewis Masonic. Lewis Masonic produces the ritual books used by lodges and chapters under the United Grand Lodge of England. Ian Allan Publishing also published an extensive catalogue of general Masonic publications, but from the 1990s these were also transferred to the Lewis Masonic imprint, alongside the ritual books.\n\n\nIan Allan Publishing was well known for its range of enthusiast-based magazines, including the following titles:\n\nA history of the company and of its publications down to 1967 appeared in the November 1967 edition of their magazine \"Railway World\".\n\nThose magazines still in print were acquired by Key Publishing in March 2012.\n\nThrough the Lewis Masonic imprint, the company also publishes the quarterly masonic magazine \"The Square\", the longest running masonic periodical in the United Kingdom.\n\nFrom 1962 to 2007 Ian Allan also published, jointly with the Light Rail Transit Association, the monthly magazine \"Modern Tramway\"—known later as \"Light Rail and Modern Tramway\" and currently as \"Tramways & Urban Transit\"—and continues to handle printing and some distribution of \"TAUT\", as well as printing of the LRTA's quarterly historical journal, \"Tramway Review\".\n"}
{"id": "2288713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288713", "title": "Benjamin Sheares Bridge", "text": "Benjamin Sheares Bridge\n\nThe Benjamin Sheares Bridge (Chinese: 薛尔思桥, Pinyin: \"Xūeěrsī Qíao\"; ) is the longest bridge in Singapore, spanning 1.8 km, and the tallest, at . \nIt is named after Dr Benjamin Henry Sheares, the second president of the Republic, who died four months before the bridge was opened to the public on 26 September 1981.. The bridge is part of the East Coast Parkway (ECP), at the western end of the expressway. The cost of construction was S$110 million.\n\nThe Benjamin Sheares Bridge crosses over the Marina Reservoir, along the southern coast of mainland Singapore. It passes through the planning areas of Kallang, Marina East, Marina South and Downtown Core.\n\nBuilt over reclaimed land by construction company Sato Kogyo, the bridge is made of pre-stressed concrete and links East Coast Parkway on the east coast to Marina Bay on the west coast.\n\nBenjamin Sheares Bridge is the setting for the annual SAFRA Singapore Bay Run & Army Half Marathon (formerly the Sheares Bridge Run).\n\nIt is also pictured on the rear panel of the Ship Series S$50 banknote.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288723", "title": "List of armed groups in the Algerian Civil War", "text": "List of armed groups in the Algerian Civil War\n\nSeveral non-governmental armed terrorist groups were involved in the Algerian Civil War, most against the government:\n\nGovernment Loyalists :\n"}
{"id": "2288732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288732", "title": "Hey (band)", "text": "Hey (band)\n\nHey is a Polish rock band founded in Szczecin in 1991 by guitarist Piotr Banach and lead singer Kasia Nosowska. It is one of the most popular Polish music acts of the 1990s.\n\nAlthough Hey sometimes described themselves as the first Polish grunge band, their melodic, guitar-driven rock and eclectic appearance owed more to new wave and heavy metal influences; their first three albums contained songs in both Polish and English. During the band's mid-1990s heyday, they sold out stadiums throughout Poland, and attempted to break into the English-language market with a series of concerts overseas and an English version of their 1995 album \"?\". When this failed to arouse interest, the band began to write in Polish only, and gradually adopted a harder-edged, more industrial-influenced sound. Overall, the band has sold over 2.2 million album copies.\n\nIn addition, Nosowska has also enjoyed a successful career as a solo artist. She has released six solo albums that derive more from an electronica style.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288735", "title": "Norden, Lower Saxony", "text": "Norden, Lower Saxony\n\nNorden (East Frisian Low Saxon: \"Nörden\") is a town in the district of Aurich, in Lower Saxony, Germany. It is situated on the North Sea shore, in East Frisia.\n\nNorden consists of the town itself and ten official subdistricts. In addition to the old town centre, the main town includes the former municipality of Sandbauerschaft and the subdistricts Ekel, Lintel and Westgaste. They are divided into various quarters and residential areas such as Neustadt, Westlintel, Ostlintel, Ekelergaste, In der Wirde, Vierzig Diemat, Martensdorf, or \"millionaire quarter\". They have in common that they do not have any administrative function, but are places referred to in everyday local language.\n\nThe other subdistricts are Bargebur, Leybuchtpolder, Norddeich (which bore the name \"Lintelermarsch\" until 1972), Westermarsch I, Westermarsch II, Southderneuland I, Southderneuland II and Tidofeld.\n\nThe main town and the villages of Bargebur, Norddeich, Süderneneuland I and Süderneuland II, as well as parts of Westermarsch II, have largely grown together, and with the exception of Norddeich and Westermarsch II, form extensive residential and commercial areas in the south and east of the borough. About 92.5% of the total urban population live in this \"metropolitan area\". The remaining subdistricts continue to be very rural and mostly sparsely populated, but they occupy by far the largest share of the total area of the borough.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288736", "title": "May Arkwright Hutton", "text": "May Arkwright Hutton\n\nMay Arkwright Hutton (July 21, 1860 – October 6, 1915) was a suffrage leader and labor rights advocate in the early history of the Pacific Northwest of the United States.\n\nMay Arkwright Hutton, who has been described as an orphan by some sources, is now often believed to have been illegitimate. She was raised by her paternal grandfather, Aza, in Ohio. Aza, who was blind, enjoyed political meetings and May often accompanied him.\n\nIn 1883, she moved to Idaho, where she owned and operated a boarding house in Kellogg. In 1887, she married Levi \"Al\" Hutton, one of her customers. They moved to Wallace, Idaho where she oversaw the dining hall of the Wallace Hotel and her husband worked for the Northern Pacific Railroad. May and Al were part of a group of miners that struck it rich when discovering a vast silver mine. When miners dynamited the Bunker Hill and Sullivan's mine concentrator in Wardner, Idaho, Al was the engineer of the train used to deliver the dynamite.\n\nIn 1897, the Huttons, invested in the successful Hercules silver mine\nHutton was a candidate for the Idaho State Senate in 1904, but was defeated.\n\nThe last year of her life, she was ill with Bright's disease. She was known to travel in her chauffeured Thomas Flyer to farm communities, meeting farmers and trying to make matches to keep single mothers and their children together. \n\nIn her memory, Al started the Hutton Settlement orphanage in the Spokane Valley.\n\nBoth Hutton and her husband were active in the associated labor movements. She wrote a book about the horrible treatment of the miners at the hands of the mine owners, and the treatment of her husband at the hands of the sheriff/mine owners in her book \"The Coeur d'Alenes: or, A tale of the modern inquisition in Idaho\". In later life, she bought all of the copies she could back. Hutton also supported an eight-hour work day and six-day workweek for women.\n\nShe was a supporter of the women's suffrage movement in Idaho.\n\nIn 1906, the Huttons moved to Spokane, Washington. She became a member of the Spokane Equal Suffrage Club and first vice-president of the Washington Equal Suffrage Association, which was then led by Emma Smith DeVoe. She became a well-known suffrage leader, but her outspoken style and unconventional behavior contrasted sharply with that of the more moderate Emma Smith DeVoe, a national suffrage organizer who was active in Tacoma, Olympia and Seattle. There was a great deal of conflict between the two, but they achieved their goal in 1910. \n\nHutton attended the Democratic National Convention in 1912.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288755", "title": "List of Houston highways", "text": "List of Houston highways\n\nThis is a list of highways in the Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288758", "title": "Steve James (film producer)", "text": "Steve James (film producer)\n\nSteve James (born March 8, 1954) is an American film producer and director of several documentaries, including \"Hoop Dreams\" (1994), \"Stevie\" (2002), and \"\" (2016).\n\nJames was born in Hampton, Virginia. He directed the 1997 feature film \"Prefontaine\" and the TV movies \"Passing Glory\" and \"Joe and Max\". One of his more recent films, \"The Interrupters\", a portrayal of a year inside the lives of former gang members in Chicago who now intervene in violent conflicts, was released in January 2011, after premiering at the Sundance Film Festival. The film is his sixth feature length collaboration with his long-time filmmaking home, the non-profit Chicago production studio Kartemquin Films, and is also his fifth feature to be accepted into the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nWhile working with Kartemquin Films, James has produced many films that pursue social inquiry and change. Their collaborations include the 1994 hit \"Hoop Dreams\", which is one of James' best known works. Kartemquin films, a non-profit group that produces films promoting \"social inquiry\", is based in Chicago. Much of James' work is based in the area, predominately the inner cities and impoverished areas. Their collaborations often touch on the topics of sports and race, including the ESPN 30 for 30 film \"\". On September 7, 2012, it was announced via social networking site Twitter that James would be involved in the making of a documentary on the life of film critic Roger Ebert which eventually became the 2014 effort \"Life Itself\".\n\nHe directed the documentary film \"Head Games\" which follows football player and wrestler Chris Nowinski's quest to uncover the truth about the consequences of sports related head injuries.\n\nHe is a graduate of James Madison University. His work, he tells journalist Robert K. Elder in an interview for \"The Film That Changed My Life\", was strongly influenced by the Oscar-winning film \"Harlan County, USA\":\n\nThere've been many documentaries over the years that have powerfully impacted me. I think this one came along at the time when I was more interested in being a feature filmmaker than a documentary filmmaker. So it came along at the beginning of a process of moving from an interest in feature film to documentaries, and that’s where my career has taken me. It came along at the right time for me. It helped me see, \"Ah, this is more what I want to do.\"\n\nJames also pulls influence from the original definition of the term cinéma vérité as it applies to the Rouch/Morin method of filmmaking. Just as with Rouch and Morin, the \"people on camera and we in the audience are continually reminded that a film is being made, that we are watching a film.\" We are reminded of this through James' presence on screen as well as his cinematic editing techniques, in order to obtain, what he believes is a more accurate depiction of truth.\n\nHe also was influenced by Robert Altman's 1975 film \"Nashville\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288762", "title": "Magenta (film)", "text": "Magenta (film)\n\nMagenta is a 1996 film by Gregory Haynes.\n\nMichael Walsh, a husband and father, falls for a girl named Magenta. The difficulty is that Magenta is his wife's underaged sister. Magenta is persistent in pursuing Michael, though, and this provides the drama in the story.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288768", "title": "List of colleges and universities in Houston", "text": "List of colleges and universities in Houston\n\nThe following is a list of colleges and universities in Houston, located within the city limits.\n\nFour separate and distinct state universities are located in Houston.\n\nThe University of Houston is the flagship institution of the University of Houston System. The University of Houston–Clear Lake and the University of Houston–Downtown are universities; they are not branch campuses of the University of Houston. Admission into each institution is separate, and each institution has distinct admission criteria and requirements.\n\nTexas Southern University is the only independent state university in Houston and is the largest historically black university in Texas.\n\nColleges in or nearby Houston\nOther Community Colleges around Houston\n\nNonsectarian\n\nSectarian\n\nPublic\n\nPrivate\n\nPublic\n\n\nPrivate\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288771", "title": "Robert Harvey", "text": "Robert Harvey\n\nRobert Harvey or Rob Harvey may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288777", "title": "Dunning–Kruger effect", "text": "Dunning–Kruger effect\n\nIn the field of psychology, the Dunning–Kruger effect is a cognitive bias in which people with low ability at a task overestimate their ability. It is related to the cognitive bias of illusory superiority and comes from the inability of people to recognize their lack of ability. Without the self-awareness of metacognition, people cannot objectively evaluate their competence or incompetence.\n\nAs described by social psychologists David Dunning and Justin Kruger, the bias results from an internal illusion in people of low ability and from an external misperception in people of high ability; that is, \"the miscalibration of the incompetent stems from an error about the self, whereas the miscalibration of the highly competent stems from an error about others.\"\n\nThe psychological phenomenon of illusory superiority was identified as a form of cognitive bias in Kruger and Dunning's 1999 study, \"Unskilled and Unaware of It: How Difficulties in Recognizing One's Own Incompetence Lead to Inflated Self-Assessments\". The identification derived from the cognitive bias evident in the criminal case of McArthur Wheeler, who robbed banks while his face was covered with lemon juice, which he believed would make it invisible to the surveillance cameras. This belief was based on his misunderstanding of the chemical properties of lemon juice as an invisible ink.\n\nOther investigations of the phenomenon, such as \"Why People Fail to Recognize Their Own Incompetence\" (2003), indicate that much incorrect self-assessment of competence derives from the person's ignorance of a given activity's standards of performance. Dunning and Kruger's research also indicates that training in a task, such as solving a logic puzzle, increases people's ability to accurately evaluate how good they are at it.\n\nIn \"Self-insight: Roadblocks and Detours on the Path to Knowing Thyself\" (2005), Dunning described the Dunning–Kruger effect as \"the anosognosia of everyday life\", referring to a neurological condition in which a disabled person either denies or seems unaware of his or her disability. He stated: \"If you're incompetent, you can't know you're incompetent ... The skills you need to produce a right answer are exactly the skills you need to recognize what a right answer is.\"\n\nIn 2011, David Dunning wrote about his observations that people with substantial, measurable deficits in their knowledge or expertise lack the ability to recognize those deficits and, therefore, despite potentially making error after error, tend to think they are performing competently when they are not: \"In short, those who are incompetent, for lack of a better term, should have little insight into their incompetence—an assertion that has come to be known as the Dunning–Kruger effect\". In 2014, Dunning and Helzer described how the Dunning–Kruger effect \"suggests that poor performers are not in a position to recognize the shortcomings in their performance\".\n\nDunning and Kruger tested the hypotheses of the cognitive bias of illusory superiority on undergraduate students of introductory courses in psychology by examining the students' self-assessments of their intellectual skills in logical reasoning (inductive, deductive, abductive), English grammar, and personal sense of humor. After learning their self-assessment scores, the students were asked to estimate their ranks in the psychology class. The competent students underestimated their class rank, and the incompetent students overestimated theirs, but the incompetent students did not estimate their class rank as higher than the ranks estimated by the competent group. Across four studies, the research indicated that the study participants who scored in the bottom quartile on tests of their sense of humor, knowledge of grammar, and logical reasoning, overestimated their test performance and their abilities; despite test scores that placed them in the 12th percentile, the participants estimated they ranked in the 62nd percentile.\n\nMoreover, competent students tended to underestimate their own competence, because they erroneously presumed that tasks easy for them to perform were also easy for other people to perform. Incompetent students improved their ability to estimate their class rank correctly after receiving minimal tutoring in the skills they previously lacked, regardless of any objective improvement gained in said skills of perception. The study \"Mind-Reading and Metacognition: Narcissism, not Actual Competence, Predicts Self-estimated Ability\" (2004) extended the cognitive-bias premise of illusory superiority to test subjects' emotional sensitivity toward other people and their own perceptions of other people.\n\nThe study \"How Chronic Self-Views Influence (and Potentially Mislead) Estimates of Performance\" (2003) indicated a shift in the participants' view of themselves when influenced by external cues. The participants' knowledge of geography was tested; some tests were intended to affect the participants' self-view positively and some were intended to affect it negatively. The participants then were asked to rate their performances; the participants given tests with a positive intent reported better performance than did the participants given tests with a negative intent.\n\nTo test Dunning and Kruger's hypotheses, \"that people, at all performance levels, are equally poor at estimating their relative performance\", the study \"Skilled or Unskilled, but Still Unaware of It: How Perceptions of Difficulty Drive Miscalibration in Relative Comparisons\" (2006) investigated three studies that manipulated the \"perceived difficulty of the tasks, and, hence, [the] participants' beliefs about their relative standing\". The investigation indicated that when the experimental subjects were presented with moderately difficult tasks, there was little variation among the best performers and the worst performers in their ability to predict their performance accurately. With more difficult tasks, the best performers were less accurate in predicting their performance than were the worst performers. Therefore, judges at all levels of skill are subject to similar degrees of error in the performance of tasks.\n\nIn testing alternative explanations for the cognitive bias of illusory superiority, the study \"Why the Unskilled are Unaware: Further Explorations of (Absent) Self-insight Among the Incompetent\" (2008), reached the same conclusions as previous studies of the Dunning–Kruger effect: that, in contrast to high performers, \"poor performers do not learn from feedback suggesting a need to improve\".\n\nIndividuals of relatively high social class are more overconfident than lower-class individuals.\n\nThe Dunning–Kruger effect is a statement about a particular disposition of human behavior, but it also makes quantitative assertions that rest on mathematical arguments. \nThe effect relies on the quantifying of paired measures consisting of (a) the measure of the competence people can demonstrate when put to the test (actual competence) and (b) the measure of competence people believe that they have (self-assessed competence). Researchers express the measures either as percentages or as percentile scores scaled from 0 to 1 or from 0 to 100. By convention, researchers express the differences between the two measures as self-assessed competence minus actual competence. In such a convention, negative numbers signify erring toward underconfidence, positive numbers signify erring toward overconfidence, and zero signifies perfectly accurate self-assessment.\n\nEhrlinger et al. summarized the major assertions of the effect that first appeared in the 1999 seminal paper and continued to be supported by many studies after nine years of research: \"People are typically overly optimistic when evaluating the quality of their performance on social and intellectual tasks. In particular, poor performers grossly overestimate their performances\" (Ehrlinger et al. 2008, p. 98)\".\"\n\nThe effect asserts that most people are overconfident about their actual abilities, and that the least competent people are the most overconfident. Support for both assertions rests upon interpreting the patterns produced from graphing the paired measures,\nThe most common graphical convention is the Kruger–Dunning type graph typified by Figure 1 in the seminal paper. That paper depicted college students' accuracy in self-assessing their competencies in humor, logical reasoning, and grammar. Researchers adopted that convention in subsequent papers on the effect. Additional graphs used by other researchers who argued for the legitimacy of the effect include (y-x) versus (x) cross plots (Figure 5 of Pazicni and Bauer, 2015), bar charts (Figure 3 of Bell and Volckman, 2011). The first two of these studies depicted college students' accuracy in self-assessing their competence in introductory chemistry, and the third depicted their accuracy in self-assessing their competence in business classes.\n\nRecent researchers who focused on the mathematical reasoning behind the effect studied 1154 participants' ability to self-assess their competence in understanding the nature of science. These researchers graphed their data in all the earlier papers' various conventions, and explained how the numerical reasoning used to argue for the effect are similar in all. When graphed in these established conventions, the researchers' data also supported the effect. Had the researchers ended their study at this point, their results would have added to the established consensus that validated the effect. But their deeper analyses led them to conclude that the numerical procedures used repeatedly in all previous work were the likely sources of misleading conclusions, driven by ceiling/floor effects (exacerbated by measurement error) causing censoring.\n\nTo expose the sources of the misleading conclusions, the researchers employed their own real data set of paired measures from 1154 participants, and created a second simulated data set that employed random numbers to simulate random guessing by an equal number of simulated participants. The simulated data set contained only random noise, without any measures of human behavior.\n\nThe researchers then used the simulated data set and the graphical conventions of the behavioral scientists to produce patterns like those described as validating the Dunning–Kruger effect. They traced the origin of the patterns, not to the dominant literature's claimed psychological disposition of humans, but instead to the nature of graphing data bounded by limits of 0 and 100 and to the process of ordering and grouping the paired measures to create the graphs. These patterns are mathematical artifacts that random noise devoid of any human influence can produce. They further showed that the graphs used to establish the effect in three of the four case examples presented in the seminal paper are patterns characteristic of purely random noise. These patterns are numerical artifacts that behavioral scientists and educators seem to have interpreted as evidence for a human psychological disposition toward overconfidence.\n\nBut the graphic presented on the case study on humor in the seminal paper's Figure 1 and the \"Numeracy\" researchers' real data (Figure 4 of Nuhfer et al.) were not the patterns of purely random noise. Although the data was noisy, that human-derived data exhibited some order that could not be attributed to random noise. The researchers attributed it to human influence and called it the \"self-assessment signal.\"\n\nThe researchers went on to characterize the signal and worked to determine what human disposition it revealed. To do so, they employed different kinds of graphics that suppress or eliminate the noise responsible for most of the artifacts and distortions. The authors discovered that the different graphics refuted the assertions made for the effect. Instead, they showed that most people are reasonably accurate in their self-assessments. About half of the 1154 participants in their studies accurately estimated their performance within ±10 percentage points (ppts). Two-thirds of these participants self-assessed their competency scores within ±15 ppts. Only about 6% of participants displayed wild overconfidence and were unable to accurately self-assess their abilities within 30 ppts. All groups overestimated and underestimated their actual ability with equal frequency. No marked tendency toward overconfidence, as predicted by the effect, occurs, even in the most novice groups. In 2020, with an updated database of over 5000 participants, this relationship still held true. The revised mathematical interpretation of data confirmed that people typically have no pronounced tendency to overestimate their actual proficiency.\n\nGroups' mean self-assessments prove more than an order of magnitude more accurate than do individuals'. In randomly selected groups of 50 participants, 81% of groups' self-assessed mean scores were within 3 ppts of their actual mean competency score. The discovery that groups of people are accurate in their self-assessments opens an entirely new way to study groups of people with respect to paired measures of cognitive competence and affective self-assessed competence. A third \"Numeracy\" paper by these researchers reports from a database of over 3000 participants to illuminate the effects of privilege on different ethnic and gender groups of college students. The paper confirms that minority groups are on average less privileged and score lower in the cognitive test scores and self-assessed confidence ratings on the instruments used in this research. They verified that women on average self-assessed more accurately than men, and did so across all ethnic groups that had sufficient representation in the researchers' database.\n\nStudies of the Dunning–Kruger effect usually have been of North Americans, but studies of Japanese people suggest that cultural forces have a role in the occurrence of the effect. The study \"Divergent Consequences of Success and Failure in Japan and North America: An Investigation of Self-improving Motivations and Malleable Selves\" (2001) indicated that Japanese people tended to underestimate their abilities, and tended to see underachievement (failure) as an opportunity to improve their abilities at a given task, thereby increasing their value to the social group.\n\nIn 2000, Kruger and Dunning were awarded an Ig Nobel Prize in recognition of the scientific work recorded in \"their modest report\". \n\"The Dunning–Kruger Song\" is part of \"The Incompetence Opera\", a mini-opera that premiered at the Ig Nobel Prize ceremony in 2017. The mini-opera is billed as \"a musical encounter with the Peter principle and the Dunning–Kruger Effect\".\n"}
{"id": "2288780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288780", "title": "Marie-Thérèse Walter", "text": "Marie-Thérèse Walter\n\nMarie-Thérèse Walter (13 July 1909 – 20 October 1977) was the French lover and model of Pablo Picasso from 1927 to about 1935 and the mother of their daughter Maya Widmaier-Picasso. Their relationship began when she was seventeen years old; he was 45 and still living with his first wife, Olga Khokhlova. It ended when Picasso moved on to his next relationship, with artist Dora Maar.\n\nIn Picasso's paintings, Walter appears as blonde, sunny and bright, as in \"Le Rêve\" (1932), in contrast to his darker portrayal of Dora Maar, whom Picasso painted as the tortured \"weeping woman\".\n\nMarie-Thérèse Walter was born in Le Perreux, France.\n\nOn 8 January 1927, Marie first met Picasso in front of the Galeries Lafayette in Paris. Author Herbert T. Schwartz dates their first meeting back to January 1925 at Gare Saint-Lazare, Paris; whereas author Roy MacGregor-Hastie dates the encounter up to 8 January 1928. At the time Picasso was married to Olga Khokhlova, a Russian ballerina, with whom he had a five-year-old son. He and Walter, then seventeen years old, began a relationship which was kept secret from his wife until 1935. From 1927 onwards, Walter lived close to Picasso's family, who lived in an apartment provided by and next door to his art dealer and friend, Paul Rosenberg, in Rue La Boétie. From 1930, she stayed in a house opposite Picasso's at Rue La Boétie 44.\n\nIn July 1930, Picasso bought a castle at Boisgeloup close to Gisors in the Normandie, which he used as a studio for sculptures mainly. Marie was the unseen shadow of the family and became his model and muse for both paintings and sculptures.\n\nIn 1935 Marie became pregnant. When Picasso's then-wife Olga was informed by a friend that her husband had a longtime relationship with a woman who was expecting a child, she immediately left Picasso and moved to the South of France with their son Paulo. Picasso and Olga never divorced, although Picasso was intent on it and explored the legal possibilities Olga was \"bitterly opposed to the whole thing\"; instead she impounded his work until he came to terms eventually paying her a large allowance, they lived separately until her death in 1955.\n\nOn 5 September 1935, Picasso and Marie's daughter, María de la Concepción, called \"Maya\", was born. Marie and Maya stayed with Picasso at Juan-les-Pins in the South of France from 25 March to 14 May 1936 and then at Le Tremblay-sur-Mauldre, from Versailles, where Picasso visited on the weekends and some weekdays to play with his daughter. Maya also modeled for some of his paintings, including \"Maya with Doll\" (1938).\n\nMarie-Thérèse became jealous when Picasso fell in love with Dora Maar, a surrealist photographer and model for Picasso, in 1935. Once, she and Maar met accidentally in Picasso's studio when he was painting \"Guernica\". Asked about this in later life, Picasso allegedly remarked that he had been quite happy with the situation and that when they demanded that he choose between them, he told them that they would have to fight it out themselves, at which point the two women began to wrestle. The Art historian and friend of Picasso, John Richardson, says this story was not true, that both Dora Maar and Picasso told him it never happened and there is no direct evidence that it ever did. More likely the event is imagined from the pictorial representation of Walter and Maar who appear as if in battle at opposite ends of the composition of Guernica.\n\nWhereas Picasso portrays Dora in his works of art as dark and in pain, as \"The Weeping Woman\", he painted Marie-Thérèse as just the opposite, blonde and bright.\n\nIn 1940, Marie and Maya moved to [Paris], Boulevard Henri IV no 1, since the house at [Le Tremblay-sur-Mauldre] was occupied during [World War II].\n\nPicasso supported Marie-Thérèse and her child financially, but he never married her.\n\nOn 20 October 1977, four years after Picasso's death, Marie-Thérèse committed suicide at Juan-les-Pins, South of France.\nHer daughter Maya had three children. One of Maya's sons, Olivier Widmaier Picasso, published a biography of his famous grandfather entitled \"Picasso: The Real Family Story\". Maya's daughter, Diana Widmaier Picasso, is currently working on a catalogue raisonné of her grandfather's sculptures.\n\n\nWalter is played by Susannah Harker in the 1996 film \"Surviving Picasso\" and by Poppy Delevingne in the 2018 television series \"Genius\", which focuses on the life and art of Pablo Picasso.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288782", "title": "Intinction", "text": "Intinction\n\nIntinction is the Eucharistic practice of partly dipping the consecrated bread, or \"host\", into the consecrated wine before consumption by the communicant.\n\nIt is one of the four ways approved in the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church for administering Holy Communion under the form of wine as well as of bread: \"The norms of the Roman Missal admit the principle that in cases where Communion is administered under both kinds, 'the Blood of the Lord may be received either by drinking from the chalice directly, or by intinction, or by means of a tube or a spoon' (General Instruction of the Roman Missal, 245). As regards the administering of Communion to lay members of Christ's faithful, the Bishops may exclude Communion with the tube or the spoon where this is not the local custom, though the option of administering Communion by intinction always remains. If this modality is employed, however, hosts should be used which are neither too thin nor too small, and the communicant should receive the Sacrament from the Priest only on the tongue\" (General Instruction of the Roman Missal, 285b and 287).\n\n\"The communicant must not be permitted to intinct the host himself in the chalice, nor to receive the intincted host in the hand. As for the host to be used for the intinction, it should be made of valid matter, also consecrated; it is altogether forbidden to use non-consecrated bread or other matter.\"\n\nIntinction occurs in some Old Catholic Churches, and intinction is common in some Anglican Churches, which often give the communicant the choice of drinking from the chalice or receiving by intinction. In many Presbyterian, Lutheran, Episcopal, and Methodist churches the communicant, not the minister, dips the host in the chalice. This is the practice in some Baptist and Congregational Churches as well, often using grape juice in place of wine. In 2009, one diocese of the Anglican Church of Canada banned intinction in the belief that it can spread disease.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, leavened bread is employed for the Eucharist. Traditionally, the consecrated bread is placed in the chalice and is given together with the consecrated wine directly into the communicant's mouth with a small spoon. Some of the Byzantine-rite Eastern Catholic Churches in communion with the Church of Rome adopted intinction during the early 20th century, dividing the bread into pieces long enough to be partially dipped in the consecrated wine and placed on the communicant's tongue. This is the practice at least of the Melkite Greek Catholic Church and the Greek Byzantine Catholic Church. \n\nSome Eastern Catholic Churches (for instance, the Ethiopic Rite Catholics of Ethiopia and Eritrea) have adopted the use of unleavened bread, justifying it by reference to the ancient Jewish practice of using only unleavened bread at Passover meals, and give Communion by intinction.\n\nEastern Orthodox practice with regard to the Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts has varied historically and geographically. At this Liturgy, which is customarily used only on weekdays of Great Lent, no prayers of consecration take place but communion is distributed with bread with wine poured into it that were consecrated and reserved at the Divine Liturgy the Sunday before. Wine is placed in the chalice at the Presanctified Liturgy, and the presanctified Eucharist is placed into the wine. In the Greek and ancient Russian practice, this is understood as a \"second consecration\" in which the wine then becomes consecrated by contact with the consecrated bread that has had the consecrated wine poured into it on the previous Sunday\n\nIn modern Russian practice, however, it is not considered consecrated. It is said to remain ordinary wine and is used only to facilitate swallowing the bread and so that the people can receive Communion in their customary way. This view is a subject of some controversy.\n\nThe already consecrated bread used in this Liturgy has been united, at the time it is reserved, with the consecrated wine by placing some of the consecrated wine on the bread with the spoon. In the Russian tradition the wine is placed so that it traces out a cross. Also in the Russian tradition, whichever of the ministers is to consume the remaining elements at the end of the Presanctified Liturgy partakes of the bread alone when he receives Communion at that service and does not drink from the chalice so that he does not break his pre-Communion fast.\n\nThe Greek (and ancient Russian) tradition is that the wine in the cup is sanctified, once a portion of the bread, on which consecrated wine has previously been poured, is placed in it at the \"union\" after the Fraction. All celebrants therefore receive the cup as well as the bread.\n\nEven when it happens that, at the time of reservation, a priest partially dips the unbroken consecrated bread into the consecrated wine instead of pouring some of the wine on it with the spoon, this does not constitute intinction in the sense here understood of performing the action at the time of administering Communion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288784", "title": "Dinkoro Coulibaly", "text": "Dinkoro Coulibaly\n\nDinkoro Coulibaly was the ruler of the Bambara Empire from 1755 to 1757. Successor and relative of empire founder Bitòn Coulibaly, Dinkoro soon lost control of the empire in a succession of military coups. Dinkoro was assassinated in 1757, and succeeded by his brother, Ali Coulibaly. The empire fell briefly into civil war before Ngolo Diarra seized control in 1766 and reasserted stability.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288796", "title": "Andal", "text": "Andal\n\nAndal (, \"Āṇṭāḷ\" ) or Godadevi is the only female Alvar among the 12 Alvar saints of South India. The Alvar saints are known for their affiliation to the Srivaishnava tradition of Hinduism. Active in the 8th-century, with some suggesting 7th-century, Andal is credited with the great Tamil works, Thiruppavai and Nachiar Tirumozhi, which are still recited by devotees during the winter festival season of Margazhi. Andal is an important female figure for women in South India and has inspired women's groups such as Goda Mandali. \nPeriazhwar (originally called Vishnuchittar) was an ardent devotee of \"Perumal\"(God) and he used to string garland to god every day. He was childless and he prayed to God to save him from the longing. One day, he found a girl child under a Tulasi plant in a garden inside the temple. The child was goddess Sri Mahalakshmi herself incarnated to test the devotion of alvars. He and his wife named the child as Kothai, who grew up as a devotee of \"Kannan\" (Krishna), an avatar of Vishnu, the supreme God. She is believed to have worn the garland before dedicating it to the presiding deity of the temple. Periazhwar, who later found it, was highly upset and remonstrated her. Lord Vishnu appeared in his dream and asked him to dedicate only the garland worn by Andal to him. The girl Kothai was thus named Andal and was referred to as சூடிகொடுத்த சுடர்க்கொடி, or \"Chudikodutha Sudarkodi\" (lady who wore and gave her garland) to Lord Vishnu. The practise is followed during modern times when the garland of Andal from Srivilliputhur Andal Temple is sent to Tirumala Venkateswara Temple on Garudotsavam during the Tamil month of \"Purattaasi\" (September – October) and Azhagar Koyil during Chitra Pournami.\n\nKodhai was brought up by Vishnuchitta (Periyalvar) in an atmosphere of love and devotion. As Kodhai grew into a beautiful maiden, her fervor for the Lord grew to the extent that she decided to marry only the Lord himself. As time passed, her resolve strengthened and she thought constantly about marrying Ranganathar of Thiruvarangam (the reclining form of Vishnu).\n\nIn North India, Radha Rani is celebrated as the \"Queen of Bhakti (devotion).\" Among the female devotees, Mirabai's name is also taken as an example of complete devotion or Bhakti to Lord Krishna. Similarly, in Tamil Nadu Andal is remembered for her pure love and devotion. In the Thiruppavai, Andal, as a Gopi in Ayarpadi (Brindavan), emphasizes that the ultimate goal of life is to seek surrender and refuge at the Lord's feet.\n\nIt is also believed that Ranganatha of Ranganathaswamy temple married Andal, who later merged with the idol. Since Andal married Ranganatha, who came as king Raja Sriman Andhra Vishnu, the presiding deity is called Rangamannar.\n\nFor Tirupati Brahmotsavam, garlands worn to Andal in Srivilliputhur temple are sent to Venkateswara Temple at Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh. These traditional garlands are made of tulasi, sevanthi and sampangi flowers. These garlands are worn by Lord Venkateswara during the Garuda seva procession.\n\nEvery year Tirupati Venkateswara's garland is sent to Srivilliputtur Andal for marriage festival of Andal.\n\nAndal garland is also sent to Madurai Kallazhagar temple for the Chithirai Festival.\n\nAndal's hairstyle and ornamentation are unique to Kerala. The tuft of hair is worn in front of the head similar to the Nambudiri priests of Kerala\n\nSrivilliputhur Andal's hand-crafted parrot is made with fresh green leaves each and every day. This parrot is kept in the left hand of Andal. It takes approximately four and half hours to make this parrot. A pomegranate flower for beak and mouth, Bamboo sticks for legs, banana plant, petals of pink oleander and nandiyavattai are used to prepare this parrot.\n\nAndal composed two literary works, both of which are in Tamil verse form and express literary, philosophical, religious, and aesthetic content.\n\nHer first work is the Thiruppavai, a collection of 30 verses in which Andal imagines herself to be a Gopi, one of the cowherd girls known for their unconditional devotion to Lord Krishna. In these verses, she describes her yearning to serve Lord Vishnu and achieve happiness not just in this lifetime, but for all eternity. She also describes the religious vows (pavai) that she and her fellow cowherd girls will observe for this purpose. It is said that Thiruppavai is the nectar of Vedas and teaches philosophical values, moral values, ethical values, pure love, devotion, dedication, single-minded aim, virtues, and the ultimate goal of life.\n\nThe second work by Andal is the Nachiar Tirumozhi, a poem of 143 verses. \"Thirumozhi\" literally means \"Sacred Sayings\" in a Tamil poetic style and \"Nachiar\" means Goddess. Therefore, the title means \"Sacred Sayings of the Goddess.\" This poem fully reveals Andal's intense longing for Vishnu, the Divine Beloved. Utilizing classical Tamil poetic conventions and interspersing stories from the Vedas and Puranas, Andal creates imagery that is possibly unparalleled in the whole gamut of Indian religious literature. However, conservative vainava institutions do not encourage the propagation of Nachiar Tirumozhi as much as they encourage Thiruppavai because Nachiar Tirumozhi belongs to an erotic genre of spirituality that is similar to Jayadeva's Gita Govinda.\n\nAndal is one of the best-loved poet-saints of the Tamils. Pious tradition holds her to be the incarnation of Bhūmi Devi (Sri Lakshmi as Mother Earth) to show humanity the way to Lord Vishnu's lotus feet. Representations of her next to Vishnu are present in all vaishnava temples. During the month of Margazhi, discourses on the Thiruppavai in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, and Hindi take place all over India. The Srivilliputhur Divya Desam at Srivilliputhur consists of twin temples, one of which is dedicated to Andal. Most South Indian Vishnu temples have a separate shrine for Andal. There are a number of festivals dedicated to Andal, among the most notable being the Pavai Nonbu in the Tamil month of \"Margazhi\" (December – January), Andal Thirukalyanam in \"Panguni\", Pagalpathu, Rapathu, Adi Thiruvizha, when Andal is depicted seated in the lap of Ranganathar. Andal is known for her unwavering devotion to Lord Vishnu, the God of the Gods. Adopted by her father, Periyalvar, Andal avoided earthly marriage, the normal and expected path for women of her culture, to marry Vishnu, both spiritually and physically. In many places in India, particularly in Tamil Nadu, Andal is treated more than a saint and as a form of god herself and a shrine for Andal is dedicated in most Vishnu temples.\n\nThousands of people from the state Tamil Nadu participate in the \"Aadi Pooram\" festival celebrated in the Andal Temple. After early morning special pujaas, the presiding deities, Shri Rengamannar and Goddess Andal are taken in decorated palanquins to the car. The festival marks the adoption of presiding deity, Andal, by Periyazhwar after he found her near a Tulsi plant in the garden of Vatapatrasayi Temple at Srivilliputhur on the eighth day of the Tamil month of \"Aadi\".\n\nIn poetry, 9th-century Andal became a well known Bhakti movement poetess, states Pintchman, and historical records suggest that by 12th-century she was a major inspiration to Hindu women in south India and elsewhere. Andal continues to inspire hundreds of classical dancers in modern times choreographing and dancing Andal's songs. Andal is also called \"Goda\", and her contributions to the arts have created \"Goda Mandali\" (circle of Andal) in the Vaishnava tradition.\n\nThrough poetry of saints (such as Andal) women are thought to be able to connect with the Lord directly and those words are thought to encapsulate their personal emotions.\n\nGoda Mandali (circle) which was named after Andal was formed in 1970 and reorganized in 1982 spreads Andal songs widely through TV and radio programs. The group would gather weekly to learn songs and would sing at events such as festivals where they would raise money for shrines.\n\nIn contemporary commentaries on Tamil \"bhakti\" poetry, A.K. Ramanujan's work remarks on how many other religious traditions would keep and treat passionate love and devotion to God as separate, while in the \"bhakti\" tradition, they can be in resonance with one another:\n\n\"All devotional poetry plays on the tension between saguna and nirguna, the lord as person and the lord as principle. If he were entirely a person, he would not be divine, and if he were entirely a principle, a godhead, one could not make poems about him. \nThe Vaishnavas, too, say that the lord is characterized by both 'paratva, 'otherness' and soulabhaya, 'ease of access'; he is both here and beyond, both tangible as a person and intangible as a principle-such is the nature of the ground of all being. It is not either/or, but both and; myth, bhakti and poetry would be impossible without the presence of both attitudes\". \n\nIt is thought that women used poetry as a tool in Hindu society as a way to claim a form of agency.\n\nFeminist interpretations look at some of Andal's verses as her open acknowledgement of her love for Lord Vishnu, written with bold sensuality and startlingly savage longing, hunger and inquiry as widely found in Tamil Sangam literature that express women's longings and their separation from their men; even today, her most erotic poems are rarely rendered publicly. In one such verse Andal dispenses with metaphor and imagines herself lying in the arms of Krishna, making love to him:\n\n<poem>\nMy life will be spared \nOnly if he will come \nTo stay for me for one night \nIf he will enter me, \nSo as to leave \nthe imprint of his saffron paste \nupon my breasts \nMixing, churning, maddening me inside, \nGathering my swollen ripeness \nSpilling nectar, \nAs my body and blood \nBursts into flower.\n</poem> William Dalrymple- In search of Tamil Nadu's poet-preachers\n\n<poem>\ntell him I will survive\nonly if he will stay with me\nfor one day – \nenter me\nso as to wipe away\nthe saffron paste\nadorning my breasts\n</poem>Vidya – The Body Adorned: Sacred and Profane in Indian Art(p. 140)\n\nAndal admiring herself whilst wearing the garland that was meant for the deity:\n<poem>\nthe guilt glazed love lay on Andal's breasts.\nthick and heavy as him.\nfrightened with force\nand locked away, she conjured him every night,\nher empurumaan, her emperor-man. \n</poem>- Meena Kandasamy, Ms Militancy\n\nIn one of her poems, Andal says that her voluptuous breasts will swell for the Lord alone, and scorns the idea of making love to mortal beings, comparing that with the sacrificial offering made by Brahmins being violated by jackals in the forest, and in another verse she dedicates her swelling breasts to the Lord who carries a conch.\n\n<poem>\nMy surging breasts long to leap to the touch of his hand which holds aloft the flaming discus and the conch.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nCoax the world-measurer to caress my waist, to encircle the twin globes of my breasts\n</poem>\n\nContemporary interpretations view her act of marrying Vishnu as feminist. Divine marriages and virginity allowed women's subjectivity, as she is able to choose her husband, and given an \"aristocratic freedom\". It is said that by devoting herself to God and rejecting marrying a human, she avoided the regular duties involved with being a wife that would inhibit her freedom. Feminist interpretations see Andal's pursuit of marrying Vishnu as rejecting the patriarchal institution of marriage. Virgins with divine marriages were often able to practice educational freedom through reading and/or writing such as Andal did.\n\nQuoted from \"Feminism and world religions\" by Arvind Sharma, Katherine K. Young: \"What Andal and other women poets did by living the way they did was to negotiate a space within a marriage-dominated society and made at least some sections of society make room for them\".\n\nAndal fulfilled the expectation of becoming a wife by marrying God, but since her husband was divine, she gained her autonomy. This act is referred to as virginal feminism by numerous scholars in patristic theology. Virginity is viewed as giving women the option to avoid childbearing, \"male domination\" and live a new life of devotion to God.\n\nKrishnadevaraya of the Vijayanagar Dynasty composed the epic poem Amuktamalyada in Telugu, which is considered as a masterpiece. Amuktamalyada translates to \"one who wears and gives away garlands\", and describes the story of Andal or Goda Devi, the daughter of Periyalvar.\n\nAmuktamalyada describes pain of separation (viraha) experienced by Andal, who is described as the incarnate of Lakshmi the consort of Vishnu. Further the poem describes Andal's beauty in 30 verses written in the keśādi-pādam style, starting from her hair, going down her body till her feet.\n\nAndal has sung in praise of eleven holy sites:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288804", "title": "Galleria at Erieview", "text": "Galleria at Erieview\n\nThe Galleria at Erieview is a two floor shopping mall that opened in 1987 in Cleveland, Ohio, United States, on the east side of the city's downtown. It is adjacent to the Erieview Tower, a 40-story office building. The Galleria is a few blocks away from the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nThe concept for the Galleria began in 1985, when Richard E. Jacobs, who had just bought the Cleveland Indians baseball team, also bought the Tower at Erieview, which had opened in 1964. Jacobs began planning to convert the plaza that lay in front of the tower into a shopping center to serve the Cleveland area. The result was the Galleria, a glass-enclosed mall, opened in late 1987. It was the first major retail venture in Downtown Cleveland since the 1920s.\n\nThe Galleria, which helped spark Cleveland's downtown revitalization in the 1990s, had become very empty due to its lack of a department store anchor and its perception as being far from the center of Downtown action. In 2005, the mall had only 36 tenants out of a possible 66.\n\nIn 2003, The Galleria and Tower at Erieview were purchased by Werner Minshall, who made a proposal to close the mall and convert it into a convention center. This did not happen and Minshall changed his approach to try to revive the mall by filling it with local tenants. So far, this plan has been very slow to develop, but it has seen success: a few area businesses have bought retail space, and several area vendors set up stands during the week and sell their goods. There are a few non-retail businesses and groups on the second floor. Another feature of the Galleria is its food court, which attracts downtown workers on weekdays.\n\nAt one point, the Galleria was noted for the business \"Gardens under Glass\", an urban farm beneath the mall's atrium. Gardens under Glass closed in 2013.\n\nMore recently, the Parker Hannifin Downtown YMCA has moved in to occupy a considerable portion of the Galleria and is now open. \n\nIn 2019, James Kassouf and a group of investors purchased the property for $17.7 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288809", "title": "Embedding effect", "text": "Embedding effect\n\nThe embedding effect is an issue in environmental economics and other branches of economics where researchers wish to identify the value of a specific public good using a contingent valuation or willingness-to-pay (WTP) approach. The problem arises because public goods belong to society as a whole, and are generally not traded in the market. Because market prices cannot be used to value them, researchers ask a sample of people how much they are willing to pay for the public good, wildlife preservation for example. The results can be misleading because of the difficulty, for individual society members, of identifying the \"particular\" value that they attach to one \"particular\" thing which is embedded in a collection of similar things (e.g. The Tower of London within the set of all globally important historic monuments or Caernarvon Castle within the set of all Welsh Scheduled Monuments). A similar problem occurs with a wider selection of public goods (for example whether spending on preserving a specific wetland is more important than preserving a specific persons life for the next two years using taxpayers' money). The embedding effect suggests the contingent valuation method is not an unbiased approach to measuring policy impacts for cost-benefit analysis of environmental, and other government policies.\n\nFew government policies are independent of any other governmental policy. Most policies involve either substitute or complementary relationships with others at either the same or different intergovernmental level. For example, the protection of coastal water quality is a goal of both state and multiple federal agencies. The Clean Water Act, wetlands protection programs, and fisheries management plans all address coastal water quality. These policies may be substitutes or complements for each other. These relationships complicate the application of the contingent valuation method. The resulting problems that may be encountered have been called the part-whole bias and sequencing and nesting (see below).\n\nOne method of overcoming some aspects of this problem is to ask two questions (1) How much would you be willing to contribute to a specific tax fund for the whole set of items to be preserved? (e.g. all Coral Sea areas west of Australia) followed by (2) How much of this would you like to give to the preservation of the specific named item? (e.g. the Great Barrier Reef). These questions may also be supplemented by questions which ask about the respective importance of alternatives e.g. whether the preservation of the Great Barrier Reef is more/the same/less important than other public goods such as poor relief, health care, education etc.\n\nIf the contingent valuation method is used to elicit willingness to pay for two government policies independently (the parts) the sum of the independently estimated willingness to pay amounts may be different from the willingness to pay elicited for both projects (the whole). \nThis result is troubling if the projects are geographically related, for example, different wilderness areas (McFadden, 1994). This result does not violate the nonsatiation axiom of consumer theory if projects are perfect substitutes (Carson and Mitchell, 1995). Several applications of the contingent valuation method have found an absence of part-whole bias (e.g., Whitehead, Haab, and Huang, 1998).\n\nA related issue occurs with the sequential valuation of projects. Consider a two-part policy valued in two different sequences. The willingness to pay for a project when valued first will be larger than when the question is placed second. Independent valuation, in effect valuing each project at the beginning of a sequence, will always lead to the largest of the possible willingness to pay estimates. This result is expected for the value of public goods estimated with the contingent valuation method due to substitution and income effects (Hoehn and Randall, 1989; Carson, Flores, and Hanemann, 1998).\n\n"}
{"id": "2288817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288817", "title": "Dmitri Lipskerov", "text": "Dmitri Lipskerov\n\nDmitri Mikhailovich Lipskerov () (born February 19, 1964 in Moscow, Russia) is a Russian writer and dramatist.\n\nDmitri Lipskerov was born on February 19th 1964 in Moscow, Soviet Union into the family of a well-known dramatist and cartoon animator («Ограбление по…», «Волк и телёнок») , and Inna Lipskerova, a music editor in the . In 1981-1985 he studied in the prestigious Boris Shchukin Theater Institute. A year before graduating, in 1984 he played a part in the film \"Osoboe Podrazdelenie\" (Special Unit) made by \n\nDmitri began his writing career as a dramatist. In 1989 under the supervision Oleg Tabakov the author staged his first play, \"Reka Na Asfalte\" (River on Asphalt), which later put on in more than 1,500 theatres and theatre studios. The play \"Schkola Dlya Immigrantov\" (School for Immigrants), first written in 1988 under the name of \"Schkola S Teatral’nym Uklonom\" (Theatre School), was staged in Lenkom in 1990, starring famous actors, such as Oleg Yankovsky, Aleksandr Zbruyev, Aleksandr Abdulov and Nikolai Karachentsov.\n\nDmitri Lipskerov is a winner of the Moscow Komsomol Prize and also the youngest member of the Soviet Writers Union, which he joined in 1989. In 1991 he had left the Soviet Union to go to the US, where he lived until 1993.\n\nFollowing the above-mentioned events, Dmitri had turned away from writing plays. The journal published the writer's first novel \"Sorok let Chanchzhoe\" (The Forty Years of Chanchzhoeh) appeared in in 1996, and the following year was published by . The novel quickly gained fame and was included in the shortlist of the Russian Booker Award. In 1997-1998 he was the author of the television game \"Zolotaya Likhoradka\" (Gold Rush), which appeared on ORT.\n\nIn 1998 Lipskerov together with a state deputy Andrey Skoch became a co-founder of the \"Debut\" prize for works of fiction by young Russian writers. During the first year, he was head of the jury as well as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees.\n\nIn 2000-2001 published the author's three-volume of works and later in 2002 – a five-volume collection of works in the publishing house . In 2004 the publishing house releases another three-volume of works. AST joined in by publishing an eight-volume collection in 2007 and a five-volume collection later in the years. Altogether, Dmitri Lipskerov is an author of 11 novels, dozens of tales and stories, adding to more than 20 plays.\n\nIn 2006-2010 Dmitri was a member of the Civic Chamber of the Russian Federation in the position of a Deputy Chairman of the Commission on Culture.\n\nIn 2008 he established a literature prize \"Neformat.\"\nThe president thanked Dmitri Lipskerov for his contribution to the development of domestic literature and active social activity.\n\nThe author rarely gives interviews, preferring a concealed lifestyle.\n\nA little-known fact about Dmitri is that his book \"Vsyakiy Kapitan Primadonna\" (Any Captain is a Primadonna) was published after Dmitri himself sailed across the Atlantic Ocean, from the Caribbean to Europe, having never before had any experience sailing. The book includes comical snippets that are excerpts from his real-life experience of crossing the Atlantic with only two other people on board.\n\nLipskerov lives in Moscow, and in addition to his literary work, is known as a successful restaurant owner. Dmitri's most prominent restaurant, cleverly named, \"Ris i Riba\" (Rice and Fish) was one of the largest and oldest, and widely regarded as one of the best sushi establishments in Moscow and all of Russia.\n\nHe has two children: Konstantin and Sofia.\n\nOn June 3, 2005, Lipskerov (together with radio personality A.Gordon) has circulated an \"Open letter to journalists of radio station \"Echo of Moscow\"\" expressing support for state-run campaign against Mikhail Khodorkovsky directed on takeover of his oil company \"Yukos\" which culminated in Khodorkovski's conviction and imprisonment. In subsequent discussions there followed allegations of revival of Soviet tradition of KGB-orchestrated participation of intelligentsia in 'public campaign of protest' along with staged show trials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288827", "title": "University of Rochester College of Arts Sciences and Engineering", "text": "University of Rochester College of Arts Sciences and Engineering\n\nThe College of Arts, Sciences, and Engineering is one of the primary units of the University of Rochester, encompassing the majority of the undergraduate and graduate enrollment. The College is divided in the units of Arts and Sciences and the Hajim School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. The College is located on the River Campus of the University of Rochester, though some departments maintain facilities on other campuses. The College was established in 1955 upon the merger of the separate colleges for men and women at the university.\n\nUndergraduate education at the College has no required subjects or core curriculum common to all students. The only class that resembles a requirement is WRT 105 or Reasoning and Writing in the College, which serves as the primary writing requirement, though it is not required with certain test scores. It is also not a single class, but rather a set of courses with different subjects to allow for diversity of interest.\n\nAll undergraduates are required to pursue study in three areas of knowledge: humanities, social sciences and natural sciences. Aside from a concentration, which falls into one of the areas of study, undergraduate students must complete at least one \"cluster\" of related courses (usually 3-4 courses) within each of the remaining areas. For example, a student with a concentration in mathematics, a natural science field, must complete at least one cluster in the humanities and one in social sciences. A second concentration or a minor also satisfies this requirement. The only exceptions are students concentrating in an accredited engineering field (biomedical engineering, chemical engineering, electrical and computer engineering or mechanical engineering), who are only required to have one cluster in either humanities or social sciences.\n\n2013-14 River Campus undergraduate tuition is estimated at $45,372. Total charges (including room and board, fees, books, and personal expenses) is approximately $61,340. More than $40 million is given in financial aid (does not include federal and state grants and loans). Most Rochester undergraduates receive some form of financial assistance, including academic merit scholarships. More than 95 percent of Ph.D. students receive financial aid, usually enough to cover tuition and living expenses.\n\nStudents may take courses from any of the many departments within the College. Each department may offer concentrations, minors, clusters or other degree programs. There are also many interdepartmental programs and students have the option of creating their own courses of study with a special application. The College also offers graduate programs of study in addition to undergraduate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288832", "title": "Imraguen people", "text": "Imraguen people\n\nThe Imraguen, or Imeraguen (Berber: Imragen), are an ethnic group or tribe of Mauritania and Western Sahara. They were estimated at around 5,000 individuals in the 1970s. Most members of the group live in fishing villages in the Banc d'Arguin National Park, located on the Atlantic coast of Mauritania.\n\nThe name \"Imraguen\" (Berber orthography: \"imragen\") is a Berber word meaning \"fishermen\", or «people who fish while walking on the sea»., or «those who harvest life».\n\nThe Imraguen are believed to descend from the Bafour people . According to the Documentation of the human population of the territory, the Imraguen people lived on the Banc d'Arguin National Park for thousands of years, and its population had probably been larger.\n\nMilitarily powerless, the Imraguen were traditionally reduced to the degrading lower-caste status of Znaga, forcibly ruled and taxed (horma) by more powerful Berber, Hassane and Zawia tribes, such as the Oulad Delim and Ouled Bou Sbaa.\n\nIn 2008, the Imraguen people occupied 9 small villages along the coastline. Some Imraguen populate the abandoned La Güera fort, which is also the south point of the Western Sahara zone claimed by Morocco.\n\nA few generations ago, the Imraguen people used to whistle the dolphins to bring them near the shore and catch all the mullets that always followed the dolphins.\n\nThe Imraguen people are the only ones authorized to fish in the Banc d'Arguin area, as long as they use their traditional fishing techniques. The number of fishes caught for each species is limited and strongly reinforced by the Mauritanian authorities. In 2004, the Imraguen people agreed to preserve the shark and ray species in the Banc d'Arguin National Park (which became a UNESCO world heritage site in 1989) and traded their nets for money.\n\nThe Imraguen people blame the new oil and gas explorations around the Banc d'Arguin area, along with a new road adjacent to the area, as the main factors for the reduction of fish reproduction in the area.\n\nAt the Arkeiss village, it is possible for tourists to practice \"sports fishing\" in the Banc d'Arguin and gather up to 5 kilos of fish.\n\nThe Imraguen speak Hassaniya Arabic with some Berber vocabulary related to fishing; their dialect is referred to as the Imraguen language.\n\nThe Imraguen are Muslims of the Sunni Maliki rite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288837", "title": "Outlook, Saskatchewan", "text": "Outlook, Saskatchewan\n\nOutlook is a town in west central Saskatchewan, Canada about 80 km south-southwest of Saskatoon. It is located along the South Saskatchewan River downstream from Gardiner Dam and the Coteau Creek Hydroelectric Station.\n\nSettlement of the area began in the early 1900s with farmers and immigrants moving into the area looking for farmland. Outlook officially started as a settlement on August 26, 1908 when the Canadian Pacific Railway commenced the auction of lots.\n\nOn November 23, 1908 the citizens of Outlook welcomed the first train which arrived from Moose Jaw. Within the month the CPR was running a tri-weekly train service carrying huge piles of lumber, however the supply of workers and materials was far outweighed by the demand for more buildings. The Outlook CPR Station building was built in 1909 and a year later, on November 1, 1910, Outlook was officially declared a town. In 1912 the Skytrail bridge crossing the South Saskatchewan River was finished, allowing both passenger and commercial traffic to cross the river in the area for the first time without using the ferry.\n\nOutlook's arts program includes the Equinox Theatre, a community theatre group that puts on one to two productions a year. They have put on such productions such as \"Anne of Green Gable\"(starring Marcia Orton as Anne, and Alexander Haugen as Gilbert) and \"The Little Mermaid\" (starring Madeline Codling as Ariel, and Gavin Fleck as Prince Eric). In the past, the group would work in Conjunction with the LCBI theatre group.\n\nThe Outlook and District Community Arts Council recently opened an art gallery in the Town Office Building.\n\n\nThe highest temperature ever recorded in Outlook was on June 16, 1933 and July 4, 1937. The coldest temperature ever recorded was on February 25, 1919.\n\nThe Outlook Recreation Complex has a skating rink, a 4-sheet curling rink, a 4-lane bowling alley and an indoor archery range. Adjacent are five baseball diamonds.\n\nThe Jim Kook Arena in the Complex is home to many sports programs throughout the year, including the Outlook Minor Sports program. It is home to the Outlook Ice Hawks senior hockey team.\n\nThe Outlook Stock Car Association maintains a stock car 1/3 mile high banked clay oval track. The track runs 10 or more races a season.\n\nOutlook is home to the MBBL fantasy baseball draft, which is famous for Pistol Pete singing “The Cover of the Rolling Stone” at The Matador.\n\n\nOutlook is located within the Sun West School Division. \n\n"}
{"id": "2288842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288842", "title": "Helsby", "text": "Helsby\n\nHelsby is a village, civil parish and electoral ward in Cheshire, England, which in 2011 had a population of 4,972.\n\nThe village is situated on the A56 main road between Chester and Runcorn. The neighbouring settlements are Dunham-on-the-Hill, Frodsham, Elton and Alvanley. Helsby is a semi-rural village, with many dairy and arable farms, but is also in close proximity to a number of industrial plants around the Mersey estuary including the former Royal Dutch Shell Stanlow oil refinery (now Essar) the Quinn Glass manufacturing plant, the Kemira fertiliser plant on Ince Marshes and the chemical manufacturing site (previously ICI chemicals, now Ineos Chlor) and power station at Rocksavage. There are few jobs in Helsby itself, due to the larger surrounding cities of Chester and Runcorn offering better prospects and a wider range of careers. The Tesco supermarket is one of the biggest employers in Helsby. The village is popular with commuters as a residential area, due to its links to the M56 motorway and rail networks.\n\nOn Helsby Hill, the remains of a promontory hillfort, 1.9ha in area, have been excavated. A buried soil was found under the hillfort containing fossilised pollen dating to the late Mesolithic to early Neolithic, between 7000 and 3001BC. Further evidence suggests a burning episode dating to the early Neolithic occupation or woodland clearance dating to 4000BC to 2351 BC.\n\nThe bivallate hillfort is protected on the south and east by two parallel ramparts and an unusual type of inturned entrance 11 yards (10 m) wide. There were three phases of hillfort construction at Helsby. The first stone rampart was constructed in the middle to late Bronze Age (1250-1050 cal BC) and consisted of a bank of well dressed, outer face of sandstone blocks and an irregular inner face, which was built on a slight batter; it was approximately 4 yards (3.5m) wide. A socketed bronze axe found at Helsby in 1925. This was followed by a series of colluvial deposits against the internal face of the stone rampart that formed the second phase of activity. The third and final phase was the re-building of the rampart in the post-Roman period, dating as late as 530 AD suggesting early Saxon re-occupation of the hillfort.\n\nHelsby was located on the strategically important Roman road between Chester and Wilderspool near Warrington. The road existed between c. 79–410 AD to link the garrison of Deva to Wilderspool, which produced pottery that supplied the north west of England. The Roman road passed at the foot of Helsby Hill probably following the route of Old Chester Road. On the top of the hill a Roman bronze sestertius of the emperor Tiberius minted in Rome in AD22 was found and just off Vicarage Lane in 1958, an uninscribed Roman altar of red sandstone was discovered with a carved jug on one side and an axe and knife on the other.\n\nThe first known settlers of Helsby were the Vikings in the 10th century. In fact, the name 'Helsby' is likely to be derived from the Viking name \"Hjallr-by\", meaning \"the village on the edge\" (placenames with the suffix \"\"by\"\" often denote Viking/Danish origins, e.g. Derby, Grimsby, Whitby, etc.). However, Old Norse suggests that Hjalli means edge and Hjallr means constructed platform or scaffold.\n\nThe village was recorded in the \"Domesday Book\" of 1086 under the Norman name of \"Hellesbe\". The Manor of Helsby was owned by a series of aristocratic landowners, most recently the Marquis of Cholmondeley.\n\nIn the 13th century Helsby was deemed a demesne manor under the lordship of Dunham-on-the-Hill, by a family called Hellesby. Later it passed to Thornton and then to Frodsham. The earliest mention of the original, timber Old Hall, was in a contract for the construction of additional work in stone in the mid 15th century. The wooden part of the hall perished in a fire in the 16th century when it was leased to one of the Hatons of Helsby. The later hall probably derived its name from its proximity to the older site. It was built of brick at the end of the 18th century and was used as a farmhouse.\n\nHelsby Hill was the location of a rare public execution when William Henry Clarke was hung in chains on 21 April 1791 after being convicted of robbing the Warrington Mail.\n\nIn 1968, Mudiad Amddiffyn Cymru (Welsh Defence Movement), a Welsh republican movement, blew up a water pipe at Hapsford near Helsby. The water pipe was carrying water from Chester to Liverpool.\n\nA Methodist church was established in 1800, 70 years before the Anglican church was built in 1870. Helsby is home to two primary schools (Helsby Hillside and Hornsmill) that serve the east and west of the village respectively with the former being in close proximity to one of the most successful secondary schools in Cheshire: Helsby High School.\n\nThe village was once home to many pubs, the majority of which were adjacent to the A56 road. In the centre of the village, the Railway Inn currently offers Greenalls cask ale and is frequently host to live music; it recently changed licensee and a refurbishment is rumoured for January 2018. The old Helsby train station waiting rooms houses the very popular Beer Heroes craft ale Tap Room which provides a vast library of craft ales to buy and take away, as well as beers on draft.\n\nTwo other pubs, the Robin Hood and the Horse & Jockey, were acquired by developers for conversion to residential properties. On 23 September 2011, the Robin Hood pub caught fire, causing roads to be closed throughout the village for some hours, and subsequently the building(s) were demolished. The Horse & Jockey was demolished in 2019 and a housing development has been built. The pub sign is to be displayed in the local community centre.\n\nOn the western edge of the village is the Horns Mill (formerly the Helsby Arms and before that the Brown Cow), a pub and restaurant that has changed hands on several occasions during recent years, and also closed down briefly, but reopened in January 2014.\n\nThe village has been in the press for its hugely successful community Christmas event, Ho Ho Helsby, which was held for the second time on 2 December 2017. There was an estimated attendance of 2,500 people enjoying artisan stalls, ice skating, reindeer, live music from local musicians on stage all day and a twilight procession of floats featuring local schools, community groups and businesses. The village is known for its community spirit, epitomised in the fund raising efforts for Ho Ho Helsby which is entirely voluntary, as well as knitted angels which are hidden around the village in the run up to Christmas Day. The village also has its own craft beer, Ho Ho Helsbeer, brewed in a brewery less than two miles away.\n\nBehind the Railway Inn is the Courtyard, Helsby, a development of holiday cottages in period barn conversions offering a place to stay in the village, close to the North Cheshire Way footpath. There is also \"Homestead Boutique Cottages\" offering accommodation on Lower Robin Hood Lane.\n\nIt has been proposed that a waste incinerator be constructed at Ince Marshes, near Helsby.\nA public inquiry was held and as a result the Government has given permission to build it.\n\nThe railway came to Helsby in 1850, with the construction of the line between Chester and Warrington. Helsby railway station has won awards as one of the best kept unmanned stations in the UK. The signal box at Helsby Junction is still operated manually.\n\nServices are operated at approximately hourly intervals by Transport for Wales to Manchester Piccadilly and in the other direction to Chester and Llandudno.\n\nThere is also a minimal (Parliamentary) service operated by Northern to neighbouring Ince & Elton and Stanlow & Thornton with trains terminating at Ellesmere Port where a connection is made with the Merseyrail electric service to Liverpool.\n\nThere are frequent bus links: X30 (Warrington to Chester), and X2 (Runcorn to Ellesmere Port). All these run Monday to Saturday only.\n\nThe factory site at the western end of the village has for many years been the main source of employment in the village. Originally built in the 1880s by the Telegraph Manufacturing Company, as the Britannia Telegraph Works, the factory was used to manufacture cables, and was most recently owned by BICC Electronic Cables. It employed up to 5,000 people at its peak (from the Second World War until 1970), but continued to decline following a series of redundancy initiatives started in 1970, and the site eventually closed in 2002. The site was then redeveloped for retail, light industrial and residential purposes. The first completed development on the site was a Tesco supermarket, which opened in September 2005. In 2005 cable manufacturing returned to Helsby when Heat Trace Limited, a British specialist cable manufacturer, took over one of the last remaining industrial buildings on the site to expand their operations, taking advantage of the existence of the electron beaming unit on the site for the irradiation of their specialist heating cables.\n\nThe village sits at the foot of a wooded sandstone hill above sea level. Helsby Hill has steep cliffs on the northern and western sides and is a prominent landmark rising above the Cheshire Plain and overlooking the Mersey estuary. Much of the hill is owned and managed by the National Trust. It is the site of Helsby hill fort, an ancient British hillfort, and more recently acquired a concrete pillar trig point on its summit. The top of the hill also has a former Royal Observer Corps post, which was abandoned in 1992. Visitors who see Helsby Hill from the M56 or on the train can sometimes see a man's face within the cliff face from east, west and sometimes from the north. This is referred to as the \"Old Man of Helsby\".\n\nNumerous footpaths, running from the public roads encircling the hill, give ready access for walkers. One such path, known as Hill Road, runs through a large sandstone cutting, which was the route of a railway in the Second World War. The hilltop offers views of the Welsh hills and, on exceptionally clear days, Snowdon. The landmarks of Liverpool can clearly be seen beyond the Helsby marshes, Stanlow Oil Refinery, Kemira Fertiliser Plant and the Manchester Ship Canal. Also on very clear days, visitors can see across Lancashire, past Bolton, to Winter Hill; in mid-morning (when the sun is reflecting off it), it is often possible to see the large white section on top of the Winter Hill TV Mast. The view looking back is not as diverse, but the Peckforton Hills and Beeston Castle can be discerned.\n\nDuring the particularly dry summer of 2018 a wild fire on top of the hill was visible for many miles. Mainly gorse and bracken the fire blazed over the cliff face and was contained after many hours.\n\nThe craggy face of the hill provides many routes for rock climbers at a range of grades from easy climbs suitable for beginners (some of which do not require ropes), to challenging climbs up to a grade 6c. The cliff is also split into two lateral sections. The main face is easily accessible from the ground. At the top is a large grassy area, followed by an easily accessible 10-foot (or thereabouts) cliff to the summit, which is excellent for bouldering. Despite its often slimy appearance, the cliff's sandstone composition means it dries out quickly after rain, and, after several accidents, several large metal spikes were placed at the top of the main cliff for top-rope climbing that offer extra safety for climbers worried about the sandstone's crumbly nature.\n\nSandstone was extracted from a working quarry from the early 19th century until the 1920s. Much of the stone was transported by ferry to Liverpool and Birkenhead, where several buildings, including the Customs House near Canning Dock, were built of Helsby stone. The quarry originally had its own dedicated horse-drawn tramway link to Ince Pier. After stone production ceased, it was not until the late 1980s that an alternative use was found for the site and in the intervening decades the derelict site was used as a tip by local residents. The site was acquired by the former Vale Royal Borough Council in 1988 and transformed into a woodland park, which was opened in 1990. 'Helsby Quarry Woodland Park' is now managed by Cheshire West and Chester Council. It contains a range of trees including oak, sycamore, rowan, silver birch, willow and beech—some of which grew naturally during the site's period of dereliction, and some of which were planted specifically in preparing the woodland park. The woodland and grassland are inhabited by many animal and bird species. Aside from the wildlife, the geology of the site is one of its most significant features and it is designated a Regionally Important Geological Site. The site features exposed rock walls and a tunnel, which enable sandstone formations from the Triassic period (251–199 million years ago) to be viewed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288853", "title": "Miklós Wesselényi", "text": "Miklós Wesselényi\n\nBaron Miklós Wesselényi de Hadad (; archaically English: Nicholas Wesselényi; December 20, 1796April 21, 1850), was a Hungarian statesman, leader of the upper house of the Diet, member of the Board of Academy of Sciences, hero of the 1838 Pest flood.\nA prominent and wealthy Hungarian aristocrat, son of Baron Miklós Wesselényi and Ilona Cserei, he was born at Zsibó (now Jibou), and was educated at his father's castle by Mózes Pataky in a liberal and patriotic direction.\nHe inherited his father's physical strength, and he further trained himself in different sports, such as horse-riding and swimming. He was a celebrity in his age for his sportsman's accomplishments.\n\nWesselényi entered politics in 1818, taking minor positions at numerous County Diets, as was customary with the upper nobility his family belonged to. He went on a grand tour of Western Europe with his friend, Count István Széchenyi in 1821 and 1822. Realizing their native Hungary's need to catch up with the development of other European states, they become leading figures of the progressive opposition in the Upper House, promoting a program of reform and economic and national development.\nHungary was under the foreign rule of the Habsburg emperors, who treated any native reform movement with deep suspicion. The Habsburg government, fearing unrest and independence efforts, took increasingly oppressive measures to curb the nationalist movement.\n\nWesselényi abolished several feudal laws and customs on his own estates, freed his serfs, built and ran schools on his own money, and organized lectures on modern agriculture for his former subjects. He established a printing press in Kolozsvár to promote his ideas.\n\nIn 1833 he published a political book titled \"Prejudices\" (\"Balítéletek\"), which was immediately banned by the Habsburg government.\n\nIn the Diet of 1834, he became one of the political leaders of the opposition. He held several speeches on current topics attacking feudal institutions, and printed and distributed the minutes of the Diet in order to give publicity to the debates.\nFor these activities, the government took him to trial for inciting unrest, operating a printing press without royal permission, and also for one of his speeches, where he called for general land-redemption. His long-lasting trials (two at the same time) became a focal point of the country's political life and reform movement. His legal representative was Ferenc Kölcsey.\n\nDuring the 1838 Pest Flood, he saved many lives by rowing about the flooded city and rescuing people from rooftops, gaining nationwide admiration.\n\nFinally his trials ended and he was sentenced to 3 years in prison. After serving 2 months in the casemates of the Buda castle, he started to suffer from a serious eye ailment, and he was permitted to travel to Gräfenberg (now Lázně Jeseník) in Silesia with his family in order to cure his illness.\nHe returned in 1843, almost completely blind and a wreck of his former self. He moved back to Zsibó, and served in minor positions within the local county government. Subsequently, he did much for agriculture, children's homes and the introduction and extension of the silk industry in Hungary.\n\nSeriously ill, he still took part in the initial stages of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, and had a key role in persuading the Transylvanian Diet to proclaim union with Hungary, one of the important goals of the Revolution. Seeing the development and radicalization of the events, similar to his friend, Count Széchenyi, and also many from the reform-minded aristocracy, he also became disillusioned. In September 1848 he left the country under the pretext of continuing his medical treatment in Gräfenberg. He stayed there, accompanied by his wife, Anna Lux, who faithfully supported and tended him through his illness.\n\nWesselényi died in 1850, while returning to Hungary from Gräfenberg.\n\nAmong his other accomplishments, he is remembered for his support of the development of Hungarian agriculture, the introduction and extension of the silk industry, and his support for children's homes and child care. He was elected to the Board of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1830, and in 1831 he received honorary membership of the institution.\n\nFrom 1902, a statue of Wesselényi by artist János Fadrusz has stood in the center of Zalău.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288858", "title": "Wu Man", "text": "Wu Man\n\nWu Man (; born in Hangzhou, Zhejiang) is a Chinese pipa player and composer. Trained in Pudong-style pipa performance at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, she is known for playing in a broad range of musical styles and introducing the pipa and its Chinese heritage into Western genres. She has performed and recorded extensively with Kronos Quartet and Silk Road Ensemble, and has premiered works by Philip Glass, Lou Harrison, Terry Riley, Bright Sheng, Tan Dun, Zhao Jiping, and Zhou Long, among many others. She has recorded and appeared on over 40 albums, five of which have been nominated for Grammy Awards. In 2013, she was named Instrumentalist of the Year by \"Musical America\", becoming the first performer of a non-Western instrument to receive this award. She also received The United States Artist' Award in 2008.\n\nBorn in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Wu Man began taking pipa lessons at age 9. When universities opened their doors to new students in 1977 after the Cultural Revolution had ended, Wu Man traveled to Beijing to audition for the Central Conservatory of Music. At 13, she became the youngest student at the school, and her final audition was covered in national newspapers. While at the Conservatory, she studied Pudong-style pipa performance under Lin Shicheng, Kuang Yuzhong, Chen Zemin, and Liu Dehai. She was first exposed to non-Chinese music in 1979 when Seiji Ozawa and the Boston Symphony Orchestra performed in Beijing, and again in 1980 when she attended Isaac Stern’s master classes at the Conservatory. She received her Master's Degree (the first such degree conferred on a pipa player) in 1987.\n\nWu Man first performed in the United States as a member of the China Youth Arts Troupe in 1985. She moved to the U.S. five years later to pursue a career in pipa performance that would allow her repertoire to extend beyond traditional Chinese music. Upon arriving, she began working with ensembles such as the Kronos Quartet (see below), and gave premieres of works by Chinese and American composers. In 1997, she gave the premiere of Lou Harrison's Concerto for Pipa and String Orchestra with Dennis Russell Davies conducting the Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Written specifically for Wu Man, the work has been recorded twice, the latter of which (with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Miguel Harth-Bedoya) was nominated for a Grammy for Best Instrumental Soloist Performance with Orchestra. In 1998, Wu Man was awarded a fellowship to study at the Bunting Institute at Radcliffe College. That same year, she became a founding member of Yo-Yo Ma's Silk Road Project (see below).\n\nIn 2003, Wu Man began working with Philip Glass, performing in the premiere of his opera \"The Sound of a Voice\" at the American Repertory Theater. She is featured in the recording of a suite from this work, which was released in 2007 on Glass's private label, Orange Mountain Music. In 2004, Wu Man was approached by Glass once again to collaborate on a commission from the Cultural Olympiad on the occasion of the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. Taking Orion as its title and inspiration (the constellation can be seen from both hemispheres throughout the year), the piece contains movements representing various countries around the world. The third movement, \"China\", was co-written by Glass and Wu Man, and features Wu Man on pipa. Additional collaborators include Ravi Shankar, Mark Atkins, Foday Musa Suso, Ashley MacIsaac, and Uakti. The work was premiered prior to the Games, and recorded and released on Orange Mountain Music in 2005.\n\nIn 2009, Wu Man curated a pair of concerts at Carnegie Hall as part of the \"Ancient Paths, Modern Voices\" Festival. The concerts focused on music from remote areas of China, including traditions of the Dong and Tujia peoples, as well as Taoist ritual. The process of finding these musicians was documented in the 2012 film \"Discovering a Musical Heartland: Wu Man's Return to China\".\n\nWu Man's achievements in bringing the pipa to new audiences were recognized at the end of 2012 when \"Musical America\" selected her as the 2013 Instrumentalist of the Year. She is the first performer of a non-Western instrument to receive this award. Later that season, Wu Man premiered her composition \"Blue and Green\" with New York–based chamber orchestra The Knights. Arranged for pipa and string orchestra by Lev Zhurbin and The Knights' Colin Jacobsen, the work is influenced by folk melodies that Wu Man heard travelling through China. That same season, Wu Man premiered Zhao Jiping’s Pipa Concerto No. 2 at the Sydney Opera House with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, who commissioned the work along with a consortium of North American orchestras.\n\nIn 2014, Wu Man was named the first Musician-in-Residence at the Huntington Library. The residency included educational outreach programs, as well as a commission for a new composition. The piece, \"Three Sharing\", was written by Wu Man for pipa, janggo, and shakuhachi, and was premiered on June 17, 2014 at the Huntington's Chinese Garden.\n\nWu Man first performed with the Kronos Quartet in the premiere of Zhou Long's \"Soul\" for pipa and string quartet at the Pittsburgh New Music Festival in 1992. The Quartet's founding violinist, David Harrington, says he \"heard all sorts of possibilities in Wu Man's vivid pipa sound,\" and the Quartet subsequently commissioned Tan Dun to write a piece for the same instrumentation. The resulting \"Ghost Opera\", a semi-staged work with minimal sets and lighting, received its premiere at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1995. The work was later and released on Nonesuch in 1997. On the occasion of Terry Riley's 70th birthday in 2005, the Quartet commissioned a new work from him that would include pipa. After working with Wu Man for over a year to learn the intricacies of the instrument, Riley composed \"The Cusp of Magic\", a work in six movements that included Wu Man on pipa and vocals. All five musicians also play a variety of percussion instruments and toys. The premiere was presented by Cal Performances at Hertz Hall on the University of California, Berkeley campus, and was recorded and released on Nonesuch in 2008. Wu Man's most recent project with the Quartet is a multimedia work entitled \"A Chinese Home\", co-conceived by Wu Man, Harrington, and Chinese theater director Chen Shi-Zheng. The work, which received its premiere at Carnegie's Zankel Hall in 2009, depicts a broad stretch of Chinese history, from the Qing dynasty through the Chinese Communist Revolution to present day.\n\nWu Man continues to perform regularly with Kronos, and was a featured guest artist in the Quartet's 40th Anniversary concerts in the 2013-14 season at the International Festival of Arts & Ideas, Cal Performances, Center for the Art of Performance at UCLA, and Carnegie Hall. She appears on five albums with the Quartet, including \"Early Music\", in which she plays John Dowland's \"Lachrymæ Antiquæ\" on the ruan; \"You've Stolen My Heart\", a collection of Bollywood songs by Rahul Dev Burman; and \"A Thousand Thoughts\", the Quartet's 40th anniversary compilation album.\n\nWu Man is a founding member of Yo-Yo Ma's Silk Road Project, a non-profit organization established in 1998 to foster cross-cultural communication through musical performance and education. Two years after its inception, the Project hosted a workshop at the Tanglewood Music Center that evolved into the Silk Road Ensemble, an eclectic group of musicians representing countries along the Silk Road. Wu Man has performed regularly with the Ensemble since its inception in 2000, recording five albums and touring internationally.\n\nIn the 2006-07 season, the Silk Road Project partnered with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra for a yearlong celebration called Silk Road Chicago, culminating in the 2008 album release \"Traditions and Transformations: Sounds of Silk Road Chicago\". Wu Man appears on this album as a soloist, performing Lou Harrison's Pipa Concerto with the CSO and conductor Miguel Harth-Bedoya.\n\nWu Man has also performed multiple times with Yo-Yo Ma outside of the Silk Road Ensemble. In 1999, Wu Man and Ma performed at the White House, premiering Bright Sheng's Three Songs for Pipa and Violoncello. That same year, Ma was awarded the Glenn Gould Prize and selected Wu Man as the Glenn Gould Protégé. They performed together again in 2003, premiering Sheng’s \"The Song and Dance of Tears\" alongside pianist Emanuel Ax, with David Zinman conducting the New York Philharmonic.\n\nIn 2005, Wu Man and composer Chen Yi co-wrote a multimedia work titled \"Ancient Dances\", commissioned by the Walton Arts Center in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Taking its inspiration from the poetry of Li Bai, the multimedia work features video art by Kathleen Owen that incorporates Chinese calligraphy and paintings by Wu Man's father. In performances of the work, Wu Man and percussionist Robert Schulz played in front of two vertical screens that displayed Owen's art. The project forms the first installment in what Wu Man refers to as her larger \"Return to the East\" project, which includes many of the projects discussed below, as well as her documentary \"Discovering a Musical Heartland\". Later in 2005, she recorded the album \"Wu Man and Friends\" with Lee Knight (banjo, Appalachian dulcimer, mouth bow, vocals), Julian Kytasty (bandura, sopilka, vocals), and James Makubuya (endongo, adungu, vocals), which was released on the Traditional Crossroads label in 2006. The album contains the music of Chinese, Appalachian, Ukrainian, and Ugandan folk traditions, arranged to combine these plucked instruments from around the world. Since the album release, Wu Man, Knight, Kytasty, and Makubuya have performed their arrangements in concerts around the U.S., including Carnegie's Zankel Hall in 2006 and the Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Wu Man traveled to Taiwan to study the music of Taiwanese aborigines, leading to a series of concerts in 2012 titled \"Wu Man and Aboriginal Friends from Taiwan (吳蠻與原住民朋友)\". In these concerts, Wu Man was joined onstage by musicians of the Paiwan, Atayal, and Bunun tribes, performing arrangements of traditional and ritual songs with pipa accompaniment. Performances took place at the Taiwan International Festival of Arts at the National Theater and Concert Hall, Taipei, and at the New Vision Arts Festival in Hong Kong.\n\nWith funds from the Aga Khan Music Initiative in Central Asia, Wu Man collaborated with Central Asian musicians to produce the CD/DVD \"Borderlands: Wu Man and Master Musicians from the Silk Route\", released on Smithsonian Folkways in 2012. The album/documentary forms the tenth and final installment in the record label's Music of Central Asia series. The music focuses heavily on the Uyghur muqam tradition, a system of 12 modes that draws loosely from Arabic maqam. She is joined on the album by Abduvali Abdurashidov on sato; Sirojiddin Juraev on dutar; Hua'er vocalist Ma Ersa; Abdulla Majnun on diltar (his own invention, combining the plucked tanbur and bowed satar into a single double-necked instrument), dutar, tanbur, and vocals; Hesenjan Tursun on satar and vocals; Sanubar Tursun on dutar and vocals; and Yasin Yaqup on dap.\n\nIn 2013, Wu Man received an Individual Artist Fellowship from San Diego Foundation's Creative Catalyst Fund to pursue a project titled \"When China Meets Latin America\", collaborating with son jarocho quartet Son de San Diego. In their initial rehearsals, Wu Man and Son de San Diego explored the commonalities in Chinese and Latin American folk traditions, both of which, Son de San Diego's Eduardo Garcia Acosta notes, have \"love songs, silvery dawns, birdsongs, broken hearts, tales of sailing, and the sheer joy of dancing.\" Following these rehearsals, the \"ad hoc\" quintet has performed arrangements of Chinese and Latin American folk music in workshops and concerts presented by the Carlsbad Music Festival.\n\n\nSolo or as leader\n\n\nOrchestral\n\n\nwith Kronos Quartet\n\n\nwith Silk Road Ensemble\n\n\nwith Philip Glass\n\n\nwith Bang on a Can\n\n\nwith Liu Sola\n\n\nwith Henry Threadgill\nFilm soundtracks\n\n\nMisc. duo\n\n\nMisc. ensemble\n\n\nAppearances on anthologies & compilations\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288860", "title": "Edinburgh Zoo", "text": "Edinburgh Zoo\n\nEdinburgh Zoo, formerly the Scottish National Zoological Park, is an non-profit zoological park in Corstorphine, a suburb of Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland. \nThe land lies on the south facing slopes of Corstorphine Hill, from which it provides extensive views of the city. Built in 1913, and owned by the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland, it receives over 600,000 visitors a year, which makes it Scotland's second most popular paid-for tourist attraction, after Edinburgh Castle. As well as catering to tourists and locals, the zoo is involved in many scientific pursuits, such as captive breeding of endangered animals, researching into animal behaviour, and active participation in various conservation programs around the world.\n\nEdinburgh Zoo was the first zoo in the world to house and to breed penguins. It is also the only zoo in Britain to house koalas and giant pandas. The zoo is a member of the British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums (BIAZA), the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA), the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA), and the Association of Scottish Visitor Attractions. It has also been granted four stars by the Scottish Tourism Board. The zoo gardens boast one of the most diverse tree collections in the Lothians.\n\nThe Royal Zoological Society of Scotland (RZSS) was founded as a registered charity in 1909 by an Edinburgh lawyer, Thomas Hailing Gillespie. The Corstorphine Hill site was purchased by the Society with help from the Edinburgh Town Council in early 1913. Gillespie's vision of what a zoological park should be was modelled after the 'open design' of Tierpark Hagenbeck in Hamburg, a zoo which promoted a more spacious and natural environment for the animals, and stood in stark contrast to the steel cages typical of the menageries built during the Victorian era. The design and layout were largely the product of Patrick Geddes and his son-in-law Frank Mears but Sir Robert Lorimer was involved in some of the more architectural elements including the remodelling of Corstorphine House at its centre.\n\nThe Scottish National Zoological Park was opened to the public in 1913 and was incorporated by Royal Charter later that year. In 1948, following a visit by His Majesty King George VI, the Society was granted the privilege of adding the prefix 'Royal' to its name. It remains the only zoo with a Royal Charter in the United Kingdom.\n\nEdinburgh Zoo's long association with penguins began in January 1914, with the arrival of three king penguins from the Christian Salvesen whaling expedition which docked in Leith. The subsequent successful hatching of a king penguin chick in 1919 was the first penguin to be hatched in captivity. These were the first penguins to be seen outside of the South Atlantic anywhere in the world. The now famous daily penguin parade started by accident in 1950 with the escape of several birds. This proved so popular with visitors and the penguins that it is a daily feature of the zoo today.\n\nAfter Tom Gillespie retired, Gilbert D. Fisher was appointed director-secretary of the zoo in 1956. He held the post till he retired in 1971.\n\nIn 1986, the Society acquired the Highland Wildlife Park at Kingussie, south of Inverness. The zoo and the park work together in providing the most appropriate captive habitat possible in Scotland. Public visitation trips between both sites are organised frequently by the RZSS.\n\nThe zoo still retains the original charter, which drives its active breeding programme, and biodiversity, conservation and sustainability initiatives. The RZSS provides multiple ways for the public to help support its mission, including a membership club, animal adoption, donations, legacies and volunteering.\n\nNamed after the Budongo Forest in Uganda, the Budongo Trail facility houses a troop of 18 common chimpanzees; 9 males (David, Louis, Qafzeh, Paul, Rene, Frek, Kindia, Liberius and Velu) and 10 females (Cindy, Pearl, Lucy, Eva, Sophie, Lianne, Heleen, Kilimi, Edith and Masindi). The main building features viewing galleries, a lecture theatre and interactive games and displays designed to teach visitors about the chimpanzee's lifestyle and social structure.\n\nLiving Links is built around a field station and research centre for the study of primate behaviour. The exhibit features enclosures housing common squirrel monkeys and tufted capuchins.\n\nEdinburgh Zoo is well known for housing penguins in its collection, the first three being king penguins, which arrived in January 1913. The zoo's current penguin pool, named \"Penguins Rock\", is 65 metres long, 3.5 metres deep at its deepest point, contains 1.2 million litres of water, and houses colonies of gentoo, king, and rockhopper penguins.\n\nIn 2011, Edinburgh Zoo leased two giant pandas, a male named Yáng Guāng (陽光, meaning \"sunshine\") and a female named Tián Tián (甜甜, meaning \"sweetie\"), from the Bifengxia Breeding Centre in China at a cost of $1m a year. The zoo spent £285,000 building an enclosure especially for the pandas, and they will remain at the zoo for a maximum of ten years before being returned to China. Edinburgh Zoo is currently the only zoo in the United Kingdom that houses giant pandas.\n\nOpened in 2011, Brilliant Birds is a walk-through aviary housing several species of exotic birds. The aviary's indoor section houses Nicobar pigeons, Bali starlings, pied imperial pigeons, chestnut-backed thrush, Victoria crowned pigeons, and a big hairy armadillo, while the outdoor section houses rainbow lorikeets.\n\nOpened in 2017, \"Wee Beasties\" is an indoor exhibit displaying some the zoo's smaller species, including blue poison dart frogs, Natal Midlands dwarf chameleons, axolotl, jungle nymphs, mudskippers, lesser hedgehog tenrecs, a Chilean rose tarantula, and an aquarium tank containing tropical fish such as percula clownfish, Lamarck's angelfish and yellow tangs.\n\nKoala Territory was first opened in 2005, and houses three koalas, two males named Gooanroo and Toorie, and a female named Alinga. Toorie is the offspring of Alinga and Goonaroo, another joey named Yooranah was born to Alinga and Goonaroo in 2013, but died in 2016. Koala Territory is decorated with Aboriginal-inspired artwork, and features a garden of eucalyptus plants. Wallaby Outback is a walk-through exhibit next to Koala Territory housing swamp wallabies, and was opened in 2015.\n\nA daily show in which keepers demonstrate the natural skills of animals to an audience of visitors. Keepers use positive reinforcement training with every animal, which means that the animals that are present at the talks are never forced. Because of this, the animals used in Animal Antics vary between shows.\n\nOther notable mammal species in the zoo's collection include oriental small-clawed otters, Asian lions, meerkats, sun bears, Sumatran tigers, giant anteaters, binturong, Grévy's zebras, greater one-horned rhinoceros, banteng, red river hogs, pygmy hippopotamus, Scottish wildcats, Malayan tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, cottontop tamarins, geladas, chinese gorals, red pandas, and Barbary macaques.\n\nOther notable bird species in the zoo's collection include Darwin's rhea, Chilean flamingos, snowy owls, Egyptian vultures, eastern white pelicans, waldrapp ibis, red-fronted macaws, hamerkop, vulturine guineafowl, and southern cassowary.\n\nSome of the zoo's animals have held military rank.\n\nIn 2019, Edinburgh Zoo announced the development of a new enclosure for giraffes, and launched a Crowdfunder campaign to raise money for the project. The giraffe house is intended to be the first of five large scale projects the zoo is planning as part of the \"Edinburgh Zoo's Big 5\" initiative, these include updated enclosures for the sun bears, rhinoceros and king penguins, as well as a new tropical house with free-roaming monkeys and birds.\n\nEdinburgh Zoo is home to a primate behavioural research centre, \"Living Links\". Living Links consists of a field station and research centre that was developed in a partnership with the University of St Andrews. The centre houses capuchin monkeys and squirrel monkeys originating from the forests of South America, and offers researchers opportunities to study primate behaviour.\n\n\"Budongo Trail\", a chimpanzee enclosure, was opened in May 2008 by The Princess Royal. Budongo Trail is a naturalistic enclosure which can house up to 40 chimps. It includes a large outdoor area and three separate indoor areas for the chimps together with observation areas and a lecture theatre for the public. The RZSS is the principal sponsor in the long term study and conservation of a group of approximately 60 chimpanzees as part of the \"Budongo Conservation Field Station\" in Uganda, Africa. Amidst the opening of Budongo Trail, Jane Goodall described it as a \"wonderful facility\" where primates \"are probably better off [than] living in the wild in an area like Budongo [Forest], where one in six gets caught in a wire snare, and countries like Congo, where chimpanzees, monkeys and gorillas are shot for food commercially.\"\nIn July 2006, a cull of invasive brown rats on the Scottish island of Canna was deemed a provisional success and after two years of observation, during which time no rats were observed, the island was declared officially rat free by the Environment Minister, Mike Russell on 7 June 2008. The rats had been outcompeting the rare local wood mouse, known as the Canna mouse and also endangering local seabird populations. The National Trust for Scotland which own the island invested £500,000 employing exterminators from New Zealand to cull the estimated 10,000 brown rats. in co-operation with RZSS, approximately 150 Canna mice were captured and homed at Edinburgh Zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park. 40 mice were returned to the island in late 2006 with the remaining being re-introduced in stages.\n\nIn May 2008, a joint application submitted by the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland (RZSS) and the Scottish Wildlife Trust (SWT) was approved by the Scottish Government allowing for a trial reintroduction of the European beaver to the Knapdale Forest in Mid-Argyll. If the trial is successful then the European beaver will be the first mammal to be reintroduced to the United Kingdom. Beavers have been extinct in Scotland since the 16th century, when they were hunted for their pelt, meat and medicinal properties (use of castoreum).\n\nBefore being acquired by the society, the Corstorphine hill site was a nursery, once owned by Thomas Blaikie, who planted many of the great French parks such as ‘La Bagatelle’. On this site two nurserymen raised the famous apple cultivars ‘John Downie’ and ‘James Grieve’. Today, the zoo has one of the most diverse tree collections in the Lothians with 120 species. The south-facing aspect allows bananas to be grown outside. Increasingly, horticulture is seen as a discipline in its own right, with the focus on habitat creation within enclosures, food stuffs for the animals, and enrichment for both the animals and the visiting public.\n\nOrganisations that remain critical of Edinburgh Zoo's work include the Animal Liberation Front, who have voiced their distaste for the quality of the enclosure that formerly housed polar bears. The Born Free Foundation has also stated several times that the zoo fails in its conservation work, as well as opposing the zoo's plans to house elephants.\n\nEdinburgh Zoo received a public backlash on Twitter after the European Endangered Species Programme (EEP) recommended that they should cull three red river hog piglets after an unplanned birth. A protest took place under the #savethehogs tag on Thursday 3 February 2011. The Twitter campaign was started by OneKind, with major support from Captive Animals Protection Society. On Friday 4 February 2011, it was announced that the #savethehogs campaign had been successful and the zoo would attempt to re-home the piglets. The zoo also came under criticism for plans to charge £20 per person for visitors to watch the necropsy of an animal. A OneKind spokesman criticised the idea, largely due to the timing of the event, which was scheduled to take place two months after the zoo announced a £2 million loss in profits, making the necropsy seem like a \"Money-making drive\".\n\nFollowing various internal issues and allegations relating to senior staff, the zoo was subject to investigations relating to its charitable status. The Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator (OSCR) held an inquiry into the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland, and one director was fired while two others were suspended. The zoo suspended its chief operating officer and acting chief executive Gary Wilson while it investigated allegations made against him. In February 2012, the zoo was told to conduct a full review of its financial controls following an inquiry into complaints about how the zoo was run in 2011. The report by the OSCR cleared the zoo of misconduct but found \"areas of governance that could be improved\".\n\nIn July 2011, the zoo's monkey house had to be closed after a gelada escaped from its enclosure. The animal vaulted an electric fence as it tried to escape whilst visitors looked on.\n\nIn May 2012, several hundred zoo visitors were forced to seek shelter after a family of red river hogs escaped from keepers and ran amok. Those who had taken refuge in the monkey house later described scenes where zoo workers pursued the animals with various equipment including brushes and dart guns. Though the drama lasted over an hour, the adult hogs were recaptured unharmed.\n\nIn August 2012, a scarlet ibis escaped from the zoo and went on the loose in the city after a squirrel had chewed a hole in the netting at the top of its cage. Keepers noticed it was missing and later that day it was spotted more than 3 miles away in Dundas Street, near the city centre. The ibis was missing for nearly a week before being recaptured four miles from the zoo.\n\nIn September 2012, zoo customers were escorted indoors when a Heck bull escaped from its enclosure. The 600 kg animal with three feet long horns was loose for over 40 minutes, until zoo workers and vets managed to restrain him by using tranquilliser darts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288870", "title": "Santi Gucci", "text": "Santi Gucci\n\nSanti Gucci (c. 1530-1600) was an Italian architect and sculptor. \nHe moved to Poland after 1550, most probably from Florence, and became the court artist of king Sigismund II Augustus of Poland, his queen consort Anna Jagiellonka and his successor Stefan Batory of Poland. Santi Gucci's workshop in Pińczów became a notable school which attracted many future artists and became one of the centres of Mannerist art and culture in Poland. For his merits for the Polish crown he was ennobled, accepted into the ranks of the szlachta and given a Zetynian Coat of Arms.\n\nOne of the most successful and fruitful artists of his epoch, Gucci built or reconstructed a number of palaces of notable people in all parts of the Polish Republic. Among them was the Firlej family castle in Janowiec on the Vistula (1565–1585), for whom he also sculpted a Mannerist tomb in a local parish church (c. 1586). For the Piotr Myszkowski family he erected a new palace in Książ Wielki (1585–1595), Mirów Castle. He also erected the Łobzów palace (1585–1587), in Kraków, and expanded the castle in Pińczów (1591–1600). He is also supposed to be the architect of the Pińczów synagogue.\n\nOne of his most notable works is the integral design and funerary monuments in the Bartolommeo Berrecci's Sigismund's Chapel in the Wawel Cathedral. The chapel, often referred to as the \"pearl of Italian Renaissance north of the Alps\", housed the graves of King Sigismund Augustus of Poland and Anna Jagiellonka. Between 1594 and 1595 he also refurbished the Mariacka Chapel to house the tomb of Stefan Batory. Others among his major works include the Branicki family chapel in Niepołomice (1596) and St. Anne's Chapel in Pińczów.\n"}
{"id": "2288877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288877", "title": "Vladimir Lukin", "text": "Vladimir Lukin\n\nSenator\nVladimir Petrovich Lukin (; born 13 July 1937, in Omsk) is a Russian politician who served as Human Rights Commissioner of Russia from February 2004 to March 2014. He is the President of the Russian Paralympic Committee. He was the Russian Ambassador to the United States from 1992 to 1994.\nIn 1990s, Lukin was one of the founders of the liberal-democratic Yabloko Party (the letter L in \"Yabloko\" came from his name). He previously served as the deputy chairman of the Russian Duma, chair of the Duma's Foreign Affairs Committee and as Ombudsman. He is a director on the board of the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), and is also a former Ambassador to the United States. He is considered a long-time specialist in U.S.-Soviet/Russian strategic arms control issues and is a member of Russia's Council on Foreign and Defense Policy, an independent association of national security experts.\n\nOn 18 February 2009, at President Medvedev's recommendation, the Russian Duma voted him another five-year term as human rights commissioner. This term expired in March 2014, and Lukin was replaced by Ella Pamfilova.\n\nIn 2014, Lukin was awarded the Paralympic Order.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288879", "title": "Marco Basaiti", "text": "Marco Basaiti\n\nMarco Basaiti (c. 1470–1530) was a Renaissance painter who worked mainly in Venice and was a contemporary of Giovanni Bellini and Cima da Conegliano. He has been referred to by several names including Marco Baxaiti, Marcus Basitus, and Marcus Baxiti. (Vasari believed that Marco Basarini and Marco Basaiti were two artists, but later information reveals that these two were in fact the same painter.) There is little documentation on Marco Basaiti besides his painting signatures and a guild's ledger of 1530 ithat records him as a painter of figures.\n\nHis works are mainly portraits and often focused on religious themes. There is no known painting attributed to Marco Basaiti with a mythological theme. Although trained in the quattrocento style, Basaiti's career began right at the beginning of the cinquecento style which forced him to attempt to adapt his style to stay current.\n\nMarco Basaiti was born around 1470, in either Venice or Friuli. His family was of either of Albanian or possibly Greek origin, as Vasari reported. In either case this explains the variety of names Basaiti is known by because the Greek and Albanian communities, and other foreign communities, for the most part kept to themselves and do not often appear on Venetian records. A will dated 1526 may provide evidence of his family, but the connection between Basaiti and this will is debated. Due to this lack of documentation, not much is known about Basaiti's life, except what scholars can learn about the artist through his art.\nThere is evidence that Basaiti trained with Bartolomeo Vivarini as Basaiti's earlier pieces are thought to reflect Bartolomeo's style and composition. After Bartolomeo died in the late 1490s, it is thought that Basaiti began working with Alvise Vivarini, Bartolomeo's nephew. This is supported by the fact that when Alvise died in 1505, Basaiti was commissioned to finish the altar piece entitled \"St. Ambrose Enthroned with Saints\" that Alvise had left uncompleted. Typically only major assistants working in the studio would have been asked to do this type of work which suggests that Basaiti was closely connected to Alvise by this time. Additionally, Basaiti's work seems to be influenced stylistically by both Vivarinis, further implying the link between Basaiti and these two masters.\n\nBasaiti was influenced by a variety of great artists that lived during this era. For example, he began to incorporate more extensive landscapes into his backgrounds, taking inspiration from Giovanni Bellini. In fact, some of Bellini’s older works were misattributed to Basaiti for a long period of time. Another likely influence for Basaiti’s more complex backgrounds is the work of Netherlandish painters. Specifically, it has been noted that after Albrecht Dürer’s stay in Venice, Basaiti’s style shifted somewhat towards more complex and dramatic landscapes with less of an emphasis on the figures in the painting. This style can be seen in the \"Lamentation over the Dead Christ\" and \"St. Jerome in the Wilderness\". The latter is thought to be a copy of a painting by Cima da Conegliano which presents yet one more important artistic influence in Marco Basaiti’s life. For the most part Basaiti focused on religious themes rarely delving into mythological or historical topics. Despite this his style seems fairly contemporary with complex composition and correct proportions.\n\nMore than half of Basaiti's known works come from this first period in his painting career. This period comes right after his training and is marked by a constantly changing style as Basaiti experiments with his art to find his own personal style. This era is marked by the \"Portrait of a Young Man\" (1495) which represents his first finished piece as an independent painter.\n\nStylistically there are strong influences from his two proposed mentors in the composition of his paintings, with Bartolomeo specifically influencing his figure design. Notable features of the Antonellian include strong geometric forms and sharp contrast in lighting. Furthermore, in accordance with the style of his proposed masters, Basaiti’s paintings often feature brightly colored clothing and cool skin tones. Indeed, Basaiti’s early works are very like some of Alvise’s established disciples such as Jacopo da Valenza which further confirms the link between Basaiti and Alvise.\n\nAround 1500, the influence of the Antonellian school becomes less distinct. Basaiti’s backgrounds become more developed demonstrating the influence of Giovanni Bellini and Northern artists. This development can be seen in paintings such as in \"Portrait of a Young Man\" (1505), where, in contrast to his first \"Portrait of a Young Man\" (1495), the screen behind the figure has been completely removed and the landscape given more importance. In addition to developing a more complex landscape composition, Basaiti appears to become more concerned with spatial consistency after 1500.\n\nThis change to more expressive landscapes coincided with Albrecht Dürer's stay in Venice during 1505–1506. It has been suggested that the landscape style Basaiti adopted is more influenced by Netherlandish paintings than by Bellini.\n\nAs Basaiti continued to mix the styles of Alvise and Bellini his paintings become comparable to Cima da Conegliano. However, Basaiti arrived at this mix of styles after Cima and he was never able to exert the same influence.\n\nThis period represents the most cohesive time stylistically for Basaiti's paintings. It was a prosperous decade for Basaiti and included several large commissions such as the high altarpiece at Sant'Andrea della Certosa, the \"Call of the Sons of Zebedee\". This piece in particular marked the beginning of his mature period and is considered by Vasari and many later critics to be one of his best pieces. Unlike the portraits which up until now had been his main artistic endeavors, the \"Calling of the Sons of Zebedee\" is a narrative painting which requires more complex composition, and features a detailed and expansive landscape. Although Basaiti tried to compose narrative paintings later on, none were as successful as this first one.\n\nAnother notable example of Basaiti’s work with narrative pieces is the \"Agony of Christ.\" This represents a large commission as the altarpiece of the Foscari in San Giobbe. This altarpiece is set up next similar pieces by Giovanni Bellini and the influence from Bellini in Basaiti's painting is obvious.\n\nLater, during this period, Basaiti’s paintings became more focused and returned to one-figure paintings as intricacies of narrative paintings proved to be too difficult. As seen in the \"Resurrected Christ\" and the \"Blessed Redeemer\", while many aspects of Basaiti’s former success remain, the painting features only one main figure.\n\nContinuing his emphasis on the use of landscapes in paintings, backgrounds became more integrated into the overall painting but the influence of Bellini and of Netherlandish painters is still apparent. As Basaiti’s style developed, the light in his pictures became softer and the components of the painting blended more fluidly. This gradual shift towards softer lines and an emphasis on natural lighting was the popular style developing during this era. The quattrocento style in which Basaiti was trained was declining in popularity, and hs attempts to incorporate some of the new techniques can be seen particularly in his later works.\n\nThis was Basaiti's last period and no paintings have been dated after 1530. Basaiti appears on a ledger for a painters guild in 1530 but there is no known mention of him after this ledger and he is presumed to have died in the early years of that decade. According to current estimations, this would have made him 60 around the time of his death. In this last decade of his painting career, his composition became slightly more developed and more in tune with the contemporary style but remained heavily influenced by the quattrocento style. During this time he mainly focused on portraits, which were the area where he was best able to adapthis style to the changing times. Landscapes started to decline in importance in his paintings although their presence never disappeared completely.\n\nOne exception to this trend is the painting \"The Lamentation\" which once again demonstrates Basaiti's ability to compose narrative scenes. The \"Lamentation\" blends many of the influences throughout Basaiti's life and exhibits his progress towards more organic lighting and forms.\n\nSome call Basaiti one of the last masters of the early Renaissance and his works demonstrate a refined quattrocento style. However, despite his best efforts, his works are still generally considered to be one step behind the trends of the Venetian painting of that time.\n\nThere are approximately 30 known pieces currently attributed to Basaiti.\n\nThe table is ordered by date and those with a range of dates were ordered based on their earliest estimated date. Those with no determined dates were listed last.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288884", "title": "David Peel (actor)", "text": "David Peel (actor)\n\nDavid Peel (19 June 1920 – 4 September 1981) was an English film and television actor.\n\nHe was born in London on 19 June 1920. He attended the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and was a minor player in a few films. In 1960, he was cast in the starring role of Baron Meinster in Hammer Film Productions’ \"The Brides of Dracula\". After appearing in \"The Hands of Orlac\" later in the year, he retired from the film industry and became an estate agent and antiques dealer. He died in London on 4 September 1981 aged 61.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288899", "title": "Collegiate summer baseball", "text": "Collegiate summer baseball\n\nCollegiate summer baseball leagues are amateur baseball leagues in the United States and Canada featuring players who have attended at least one year of college and have at least one year of athletic eligibility remaining. Generally, they operate from early June to early August. Players use wooden baseball bats, hence the common nickname of these leagues as \"wood bat leagues\".\n\nTo find a collegiate summer team, players work with their college coaches and prospective teams' general managers. They report to summer leagues after completing their spring collegiate season with their NCAA, NAIA, NJCAA, and CCCAA teams. Some players arrive late due to their college team's postseason play, which sometimes runs into early June. In some cases, players are drafted during the collegiate summer season. These draftees can remain with their collegiate summer team until they sign a professional contract. During the season, players are housed by volunteer host families and bussed to and from road games.\n\nThe leagues vary greatly in their attendances, quality of play, and ability to attract scouts. The Cape Cod League is considered the premier collegiate summer league. In 2011, \"Baseball America\" scouted and ranked Top 10 prospects from 19 leagues, indicated below with \"(BA)\". \"Ballpark Digest\" tracks attendance for 14 leagues, indicated below with \"(BD)\". Many collegiate summer teams occupy cities and ballparks where a minor league team has left a city.\n\nThis list is organized by federation\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288900", "title": "Gary Baseman", "text": "Gary Baseman\n\nGary Baseman (born September 27, 1960) is an American artist who investigates history, heritage, and the human condition (especially love, longing, and loss). Through iconography and visual narratives that celebrate “the beauty of the bittersweetness of life,” his work brings together the worlds of popular culture and fine art.\n\nBaseman’s career includes illustration for clients including The New York Times, Rolling Stone, and The Wall Street Journal and the bestselling board game Cranium; as well as animation for the Emmy and BAFTA award-winning series and feature film “Teacher’s Pet” for ABC/Disney. He is a frequent speaker at international conferences on graphic and multidisciplinary arts and visual communications. Recent projects include a collaboration with COACH; a documentary “Mythical Creatures” about his family heritage; a traveling retrospective that featured hundreds of his paintings, photographs, videos, and toy and costume designs.\n\nGary Baseman was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. He was the first American-born child of four to Ben and Naomi Baseman, both Holocaust survivors originally from Eastern Poland (now Ukraine). His parents believed strongly in the American Dream, and instilled in their son democratic ideals, using their right to vote, unionize, and advocate for issues that resonated with them. Having experienced horrific history, they encouraged their son to show empathy and compassion for others, as well as be true to oneself. \n\nThe influence of media and Hollywood, blended with LA’s influential art scene, led to how Baseman would perceive and produce art. “I grew up in the center of the city, the son of immigrants, attending public school with kids with different backgrounds. Our house was blocks away from CBS Television City. My mom worked at Canter’s in the Fairfax District, where people from the industry and rock-n-rollers would often land. I was a latchkey kid whose parents were often working, and whose older siblings were out on their own.  Television was like my babysitter. Early on, my brother brought animation cels from Hanna-Barbera Studios home for me to play with. While sitting and drawing at the coffee table in the living room, I’d watch hours of cartoons and comedies and dramas.”Baseman graduated magna cum laude from UCLA in Communications, inspired by the First Amendment (which protects free speech, religion, press, assembly, right to petition), and developed into an effective visual problem-solver and message-maker.\n\nWhile Baseman is a figure in the Los Angeles art world, he is also situated within an international cultural movement that includes both mainstream and underground artists. Baseman cites Yoshitomo Nara, Takashi Murakami, and the illustrator William Joyce as contemporaries.\n\nBaseman coined the term pervasive art as an alternative to the lowbrow art label. Baseman uses the term didactically to describe a broad shift in his and others' work to more visible avenues of art-making. He has stated that his goal is to \"blur the lines between fine art and commercial art.\" According to Baseman, pervasive art can take any medium, and need not be \"limited to one world, whether that is the gallery world, editorial world, or art toy world.\" \n\nToday, artists whom Baseman might refer to as pervasive are part of a larger movement with a recognizable \"pop\" sense, but not necessarily a shared artistic mission. However, by virtue of where these artists are shown and in what ways they garner public attention, it can be said that all pervasive artists in some way play with the boundaries between high and low art.\n\nAmong artistic peers, critics, and Baseman followers, pervasive art referred to an aesthetic that was until recently, limited to the mediums of album art, comic books, cartoons, graffiti, and speciality galleries. Now, pervasive art is largely realized in multiple mediums and across a range of industries, from fashion design, advertising and graphic design, to toy design, film, music collaboratives, and music videos. Cult-status street artists like Banksy, new wave comics illustrators like Gary Panter, Japanese pop artists, post-punk and hip hop artists, and graphic artists like Shepard Fairey all contribute to a highly visible aesthetic that is virtually ubiquitous in contemporary culture.\n\nBaseman himself exemplifies pervasive art in that he works commercially and also remains an independent fine artist. While he creates products that are sold to a mass market, he also shows in museums and galleries, selling original artworks to collectors. Baseman employs traditional art practices such as painting, printmaking, sculpture, drawing, and collage. For Baseman, being a pervasive artist means staying true to a particular message and aesthetic no matter the medium employed.\n\nAs Tom Teicholz pointed out in his 2013 interview \"Going Home with Gary Baseman\", “After graduating from UCLA, Baseman pursued a commercial art career while continuing to make art, “on the side.” He did a short stint at an ad agency, but that did not really agree with him, so he began to pursue work as a commercial illustrator. To make his American Dream come true and despite his parents’ initial objections, Baseman moved to New York in 1986.”“The advertising and publishing and art world were all in New York. Every major artist was in New York, and at the time if you lived in L.A. you were a substandard regional artist. You had to go there”, Gary Baseman has said. From 1986-1996, Baseman worked as an illustrator in New York. He established himself during this period as an in-demand artist with a unique visual sense and the ability to generate sharp, witty messages. He earned several awards from American Illustration, Art Directors Club, and Communication Arts. Baseman refers to his illustration work, and to his general process, as message-making.\n\nBaseman's drawings have been published in The New Yorker, The Atlantic Monthly, Time, Rolling Stone, The New York Times, and The Los Angeles Times. He has had major independent and corporate clients such as AT&T Corporation, Gatorade, Nike, Inc., and Mercedes-Benz. Baseman created the visual identity for the best-selling board game Cranium. After ten years in New York, Baseman returned to Los Angeles to explore opportunities in art and entertainment.\n\nBy the end of the 1990s, Baseman realized his creativity could extend beyond the world of illustration. His desire to learn and explore other areas of art would result in an explosive creative period for him that blurred lines and expanded audiences as he explained:“I had a hunger for many things. I started looking at my legacy and thinking ‘what am I leaving behind me’? I loved the editorial work, but it didn’t seem rich enough. I had a fear of creating my own body of work and bringing it out into the world. It always stems from a fear of failure or that people won’t be interested. But I didn’t let that stop me. While doing my editorial work, even if I had an assignment, I couldn’t stop experimenting with my own things and painting like crazy, but still always made sure to hit my professional deadlines. At the same time, I also wanted to do TV; I created two pilots for Nickelodeon that never got created in the end. I was expanding in different ways, getting bigger within the toy world and participating in exhibitions. At the time, I was gradually giving up the editorial work, so it was an easier transition.” In 1999, Baseman exhibited \"Dumb Luck and Other Paintings About Lack of Control\" at the Mendenhall Gallery in Los Angeles. The exhibition established Baseman's transition from illustration to fine art, during a time when many of his artist-friends, like Mark Ryden, the Clayton Brothers, and Eric White made similar moves.\n\nSince then, Baseman has exhibited in museums and galleries throughout the United States, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, the Philippines, Russia, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, and the United Kingdom. Baseman's work is featured in the permanent collections of the Laguna Art Museum, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. and the Museum of Modern Art in Rome. Baseman had his first major art museum retrospective, \"Gary Baseman: The Door is Always Open\", in 2013 at the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles, California. The exhibition presented more than 300 artworks (including paintings, photographs, toys, sketchbooks, and videos) in an experiential home environment in which guests were invited to sit on a sofa or at the dining room table and explore, participate and visit. The Door is Always Open has since traveled to MOCA Taipei, Taiwan (Summer 2014) and to Shanghai chi K11 Art Museum (Winter 2015).\n\nToby is one of Baseman's most recognizable characters, an adventurous cat that loves unconditionally. Named after one of Baseman's childhood friends, Toby is your best friend and keeper of your secrets.\n\nIn 2005, Toby first appeared in drawings, paintings, and plush toys in the exhibition For the Love of Toby at Billy Shire Fine Arts in Culver City, California, marking the official beginning of Toby as a bridge between character development, toy culture, and fine art. Debuted at a crucial moment when popular culture and lifestyle strongly influenced art, Toby represents an important aspect of 21st century art: art everywhere, in multiple media and platforms.\n\nIn Summer 2015, Baseman commemorated Toby's 10th year as a formal artwork, blurring the lines of fine art and toy culture. HAPPY TOBY TO YOU! at Hong Kong Times Square showcased works from the first Toby art exhibition, photographs, and videos of Toby's adventurous world travels, and a birthday party sculptural installation of Toby and other Baseman characters. The exhibition was housed in another experiential environment conceptualized by Baseman and co-designed by Hjalti Karlsson of New York-based design firm karlssonwilker.\n\nBaseman has translated many of his characters into toys and figurines, clothing, handbags, and other accessories. Prominent characters include Toby, Hotchachacha, \"the little devil who steals haloes,\" and ChouChou who \"dispels hate and fear, and oozes Creamy Gooey Love out of his belly button.\"\n\nFor toy, figurine, and limited edition projects, Baseman has collaborated with Critterbox, Toy2R, Kidrobot, Pretty in Plastic, The Loyal Subjects, and 3DRetro. Fashion collaborations include Swatch, Hobbs & Kent, Harvey's, Poketo, and Frau Blau.\n\nIn 2015, Baseman collaborated with Coach's Creative Director, Stuart Vevers, for the Baseman x COACH 2015 Spring Collection. The collection introduced an original series of Baseman characters (Buster Le Fauve, Emmanuel Hare Ray, Kiki, Buddy Boy, Butch), capturing the attitude of New York City and developed with the Coach girl in mind. In Summer 2015, Coach released the Baseman x Coach Wild Beast collection, featuring handbags, apparel, and accessories with Baseman's reimagined animal print.\n\nIn 1998, Baseman created the Disney animated series \"Teacher's Pet\", about a dog who dresses as a boy because he wants to go to school. Baseman claims the character Spot was based on his dog at the time, Hubcaps. The series aired on ABC from 2000–2002, and the feature film of the same name came out in 2004.\n\nThe cartoon included the voice talents of Nathan Lane, Debra Jo Rupp, Jerry Stiller, David Ogden Stiers, Mae Whitman, and Wallace Shawn. The film featured Kelsey Grammer, Paul Reubens, and Estelle Harris.\n\nBaseman won the Outstanding Individual in Animation Emmy for Production Design in 2003. The show also won 2 Emmy Award for Outstanding Special Class Animated Program 2001 and 2002; Outstanding Performer in an Animated Program: Nathan Lane in 2001; and a BAFTA Emmy for Best International Children's Program in 2001.\n\nBaseman also worked on an animated short for the Nickelodeon television series, \"KaBlam!\" The short was called \"The Louie & Louie Show,\" following the adventure of a hamster and a chameleon both named Louie. Baseman animated the sketch, and was directed by Tom McGrath. The short only aired once.\n\nBaseman added performance art to his oeuvre in 2009 with \"La Noche de la Fusion,\" a mythical holiday festival celebrating the bittersweetness of existence by fusing cultures and blurring the lines of reality. Shown in 2009 at the Corey Helford Gallery in Culver City, the event featured games, live music, dancers, and live models of Baseman's characters such as Toby, ChouChou, Hotchachacha, Skeleton Girl, Hickey Bat Girl, Bubble Girl, and Butterfly Girl.\n\nIn June 2010, Baseman presented \"Giggle and Pop!\" at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Live action costumed ChouChous played in the La Brea Tar Pits along with performers dressed as Baseman's WildGirls, who were renamed \"Tar Pit Girls\" for the occasion. The characters performed a dance choreographed by Sarah Elgart and the audience joined in with singer-songwriter Carina Round, who performed a song she composed for the event.\n\nIn July 2013, Toby's Secret Society came alive in \"Secrets and Truths,\" a spectacular art performance created by Gary Baseman with choreography by Sarah Elgart, costumes by Swinda Reichelt, and music by LA- and Iceland-based Cassette Recordings Collective – arrangement by Scott Hackwith. Created in conjunction with Baseman's The Door is Always Open exhibition at the Skirball Cultural Center, the performance featured Veritas, the Goddess of Dreams, the Princess of Secrets, the Sacred Magi, and the WildGirls performing a special ritual that unveiled \"Secrets and Truth.\"\n\nIn February 2015, Baseman created \"The Secret Order of the Camellias,\" a site-specific installation and performative space at the Serpentine Gallery in London that commemorated the Baseman x Coach 2015 Spring collection. Showcasing the wild beast characters that protect secrets and represent loyalty and friendship, guests participated in a special rite of passage into the Secret Order by offering their deepest darkest dreams at the Shrine of Buster Le Fauve. Inspiring wonder and passion for life, Gary Baseman initiated an adventurous few who faced their fears and desires.\n\nBaseman and director David Charles launched a Kickstarter campaign in July 2014 to fund one of Baseman's personally meaningful creative projects, a film documentary called \"\"Mythical Creatures\"\".\n\nThe film began in 2012 when Baseman first traveled to Eastern Europe on a Fulbright Fellowship, detouring to his parents' hometowns which had not been visited by any family member in over 60 years. \"Mythical Creatures\" aims to connect the stories of the Holocaust to an entirely new generation through Baseman's parents' dark experiences during World War II. The film combines live action documentary elements, along with extensive animated sequences, and other storytelling techniques. Baseman says, \"It's really about taking all of the different narratives from the myths I've been told and mixing them with my characters to try and find my truth,\" he says. \"We're not doing it in a straightforward historical way. It's really an exploration of my psyche.\"\n\n\"Mythical Creatures\" has the support of the Sundance Institute's New Frontier Story Lab and the Museum of the Holocaust in Los Angeles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n2015\n\n\"The Door is Always Open\" (Shanghai chi K11 art museum catalogue)\n\n\"The Door is Always Open\" (MOCA Taipei catalogue)\n\n2014\n\n\"Pictoplasma-Character Portraits\"\n\n\"100 Illustrators\"\n\n2013\n\n\"Gary Baseman: The Door is Always Open\"\n\n\"Mono Baseman\"\n\n2011\n\n\"La Luz de Jesus 25: The Little Gallery that Could\"\n\n\"Heroes & Villains\"\n\n\"Delusional: The Story of the Jonathan LeVine Gallery\"\n\n\"The 3D Artbook\"\n\n2010\n\n\"Graphic: Inside the Sketchbooks of the World's Great Graphic Designers\"\n\n\"I Am Plastic, Too: The Next Generation of Toys\"\n\n\"Toy Design\"\n\n2009\n\n\"Prepare for Pictopia\"\n\n\"Sketch Book\"\n\n2008\n\n\"Dying of Thirst\"\n\n\"The Upset, Young Contemporary Art\"\n\n\"Knowledge Comes with Gas Release\"\n\n2007\n\n\"My Thirst for Venison\"\n\n2006\n\n\"Dot Dot Dash\"\n\n\"Illustrations Now!\"\n\n\"Full Vinyl: The Subversive Art of Designer Toys\"\n\n2005\n\n\"Strong Stuff: Herakles and His Labors\"\n\n\"Illustration Now!\"\n\n2004\n\n\"Dumb Luck\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2288911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288911", "title": "The Ocean (Led Zeppelin song)", "text": "The Ocean (Led Zeppelin song)\n\n\"The Ocean\" is a song by English rock band Led Zeppelin, from their 1973 album \"Houses of the Holy\". The ocean is a metaphor for the \"sea of heads\" faced by lead singer Robert Plant \"in the auditoriums\", according to the group's biographer Dave Lewis.\n\nEddie Kramer, who was present during the recording of \"Houses of the Holy\", commented on extraneous noises in the recording: \"It's entirely possible. [The song was] done in a house [but] I don't remember there being [a phone ringing].\" Jimmy Page remarked:\n\"The Ocean\" features an unusual time signature, being partially in septuple meter, with a repeated two-measure phrase consisting of one bar of and one bar of .\n\nIn the last line, the \"girl who won my heart\" refers to Robert Plant's daughter Carmen, (born 21 November 1968), who was three years old at the time of recording. In concert, Plant always updated the lyric to reflect her current age, as captured on the \"Led Zeppelin DVD\" which features a performance of the song at Madison Square Garden in 1973. During this performance, Plant sang the third verse, which starts with \"Sitting round singing songs 'til the night turns into day\" as the second verse and sang the second verse at the end of the song. The band first played the song live on their 1972 U.S. concert tour and it remained as part of their performances until their 1973 U.S. tour. It was deleted from the set list thereafter.\n\nIn a review for the reissue of \"Houses of the Holy\", Kristofer Lenz of \"Consequence of Sound\" gave \"The Ocean\" a positive review, calling the song\n\"clattering and demonstrative... [an] underappreciated gem\". Lenz continues, \"Page and co. get back to their swaggering rock roots with one of the nastiest guitar riff/drum fill combos in rock history.\" and \"The song and album end with a riotous crescendo as Plant screams out \"Ohhhh, so gooood!\" And he is soooo right.\"\n\nHowever, not all the reception for the song was as positive. In a contemporary review for \"Houses of the Holy\", Gordon Fletcher of \"Rolling Stone\" gave \"The Ocean\" a negative review, calling the track \"so diluted\" and filled with \"pointless humor\". Fletcher further wrote, \"Jimmy Page's guitar spits jagged fireballs with John Paul Jones and John Bonham riffing along behind him, but the effect is destroyed by ridiculous backup cooings and an overbearing \"killer\" coda that's so blatant it can only be taken as a mock of straight rock & roll.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2288927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288927", "title": "Negative thermal expansion", "text": "Negative thermal expansion\n\nNegative thermal expansion (NTE) is an unusual physicochemical process in which some materials contract upon heating, rather than expand as most other materials do. The most well-known material with NTE is water at 0~4 °C. Materials which undergo NTE have a range of potential engineering, photonic, electronic, and structural applications. For example, if one were to mix a negative thermal expansion material with a \"normal\" material which expands on heating, it could be possible to use it as a thermal expansion compensator what might allow for forming composites with tailored or even close to zero thermal expansion.\n\nThere are a number of physical processes which may cause contraction with increasing temperature, including transverse vibrational modes, Rigid Unit Modes and phase transitions.\n\nRecently, Liu et al. showed that the NTE phenomenon originates from the existence of high pressure, small volume configurations with higher entropy, with their configurations present in the stable phase matrix through thermal fluctuations. They were able to predict both the colossal positive thermal expansion (In cerium) and zero and infinite negative thermal expansion (in ) \n\nNegative thermal expansion is usually observed in non-close-packed systems with directional interactions (e.g. ice, graphene, etc.) and complex compounds (e.g. , , beta-quartz, some zeolites, etc.). However, in a paper, it was shown that negative thermal expansion (NTE) is also realized in single-component close-packed lattices with pair central force interactions. The following sufficient condition for potential giving rise to NTE behavior is proposed for the interatomic potential, formula_1, at the equilibrium distance formula_2:\n\nformula_3\n\nWhere formula_4 is shorthand for the third derivative of the interatomic potential at the equilibrium point:\n\nformula_5\n\nThis condition is (i) necessary and sufficient in 1D and (ii) sufficient, but not necessary in 2D and 3D. \"An approximate\" necessary and sufficient condition is derived in a paper\n\nformula_6\n\nwhere formula_7 is the space dimensionality. Thus in 2D and 3D negative thermal expansion in close-packed systems with pair interactions is realized even when the third derivative of the potential is zero or even negative. Note that one-dimensional and multidimensional cases are qualitatively different. In 1D thermal expansion is caused by anharmonicity of interatomic potential only. Therefore, the sign of thermal expansion coefficient is determined by the sign of the third derivative of the potential. In multidimensional case the geometrical nonlinearity is also present, i.e. lattice vibrations are nonlinear even in the case of harmonic interatomic potential. This nonlinearity contributes to thermal expansion. Therefore, in multidimensional case both formula_8 and formula_9 are present in the condition for negative thermal expansion.\n\nPerhaps one of the most studied materials to exhibit \"negative thermal expansion\" is zirconium tungstate (). This compound contracts continuously over a temperature range of 0.3 to 1050 K (at higher temperatures the material decomposes). Other materials that exhibit this behaviour include: other members of the family of materials (where A = or , M = or ) and and . In contrast to , it has to be noted that and exhibit NTE only in their high temperature phase starting at 350 to 400 K. also is an example of controllable \"negative thermal expansion\". Cubic materials like and also and are especially precious for applications in engineering because they exhibit isotropic NTE i.e. the NTE is the same in all three dimensions making it easier to apply them as thermal expansion compensators.\n\nOrdinary ice shows NTE in its hexagonal and cubic phases at very low temperatures (below –200 °C). In its liquid form, pure water also displays negative thermal expansivity below 3.984 °C.\n\nALLVAR, a Titanium based alloy, shows NTE over a wide temperature range, with a -30 ppm/°C instantaneous coefficient of thermal expansion at 20 °C.\n\nRubber elasticity shows NTE at normal temperatures, but the reason for the effect is rather different from that in most other materials. Put simply, as the long polymer chains absorb energy, they adopt a more contorted configuration, reducing the volume of the material.\n\nQuartz () and a number of zeolites also show NTE over certain temperature ranges. Fairly pure silicon (Si) has a negative coefficient of thermal expansion for temperatures between about 18 K and 120 K.\nCubic Scandium trifluoride has this property which is explained by the quartic oscillation of the fluoride ions. The energy stored in the bending strain of the fluoride ion is proportional to the fourth power of the displacement angle, unlike most other materials where it is proportional to the square of the displacement. A fluorine atom is bound to two scandium atoms, and as temperature increases the fluorine oscillates more perpendicularly to its bonds. This draws the scandium atoms together throughout the material and it contracts. exhibits this property from 10 to 1100 K above which it shows the normal positive thermal expansion. Shape memory alloys such as NiTi are a nascent class of materials that exhibit zero and negative thermal expansion.\n\nForming a composite of a material with (ordinary) positive thermal expansion with a material with (anomalous) negative thermal expansion could allow for tailoring the thermal expansion of the composites or even having composites with a thermal expansion close to zero. Negative and positive thermal expansion hereby compensate each other to a certain amount if the temperature is changed. Tailoring the overall thermal expansion coefficient (CTE) to a certain value can be achieved by varying the volume fractions of the different materials contributing to the thermal expansion of the composite.\n\nEspecially in engineering there is a need for having materials with a CTE close to zero i.e. with constant performance over a large temperature range e.g. for application in precision instruments. But also in everyday life materials with a CTE close to zero are required. Glass-ceramic cooktops like Ceran cooktops need to withstand large temperature gradients and rapid changes in temperature while cooking because only certain parts of the cooktops will be heated while other parts stay close to ambient temperature. In general, due to its brittleness temperature gradients in glass might cause cracks. However, the glass-ceramics used in cooktops consist of multiple different phases, some exhibiting positive and some others exhibiting negative thermal expansion. The expansion of the different phases compensate each other so that there is not much change in volume of the glass-ceramic with temperature and crack formation is avoided.\n\nAn everyday life example for the need for materials with tailored thermal expansion are dental fillings. If the fillings tend to expand by an amount different from the teeth, for example when drinking a hot or cold drink, it might be causing toothache. If dental fillings are, however, made of a composite material containing a mixture of materials with positive and negative thermal expansion then the overall expansion could be precisely tailored to that of tooth enamel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288928", "title": "Alaska Baseball League", "text": "Alaska Baseball League\n\nThe Alaska Baseball League (ABL) is an amateur collegiate summer baseball league. Players in the league must have attended one year of college and must have one year of NCAA eligibility remaining.\n\nThe Midnight Sun Game, held at Growden Memorial Park in Fairbanks on the longest day of each year, is one of the highlights of the Alaska Baseball League season.\n\nIn the past, the ABL has sent its top teams to compete at the National Baseball Congress (NBC) World Series, where the league's representatives have won multiple championships. Anchorage has won in 1969, 1971, 1986, 1991, and 2001, Fairbanks in 1972, 1973, 1974, 1976, 1980, and 2002, Kenai in 1977, 1993, and 1994, and Matsu in 1987 and 1997. League teams have also finished second in several years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288939", "title": "Military Counterintelligence Directorate", "text": "Military Counterintelligence Directorate\n\nDirección de Contra-Inteligencia Militar (Military Counterintelligence Directorate) is the military intelligence department of the Ministry of the Revolutionary Armed Forces (MINFAR) of Cuba. It only provides military intelligence for the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, unlike its non-military counterpart, the Dirección de Inteligencia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288950", "title": "Anglezarke", "text": "Anglezarke\n\nAnglezarke is a sparsely populated civil parish in the Borough of Chorley in Lancashire, England. It is dominated by reservoirs that were built to supply water to Liverpool, and a large expanse of moorland with evidence of Bronze Age settlements. Popular with walkers and tourists, it lies in the West Pennine Moors in Lancashire, sandwiched between the moors of Withnell and Rivington, and is close to the towns of Chorley, Horwich and Darwen. At the 2001 census it had a population of 23. At the 2011 Census the population is included within Heapey civil parish.\n\nQuarrying the hard millstone grit for building and paving, mining for lead and minerals, some small-scale coal mining and hill farming were important in Anglezarke particularly from the 17th to the 19th centuries. There is no village: the settlement consisted of scattered farms with the hamlet of White Coppice close to the quarries. The area was subjected to depopulation after the reservoirs were built.\n\nAnglezarke is derived from the Old Norse name \"Anlaf\" and the Old Norse \"erg\", a 'hill pasture or shieling'. The elements together mean 'Anlaf's hill pasture'. The earliest spelling of the name was in 1202 when it was recorded as 'Andelevesarewe'. By 1225 this had become 'Anlavesargh', in 1351 'Anlasargh', and by 1559 'Anlazarghe'.\n\nHuman activity around Anglezarke can be traced to pre-historic times. Rushey Brow on Anglezarke Moor has a site of special archaeological interest, a working floor from the Mesolithic period, dated to 8th millennium BC.\n\nPikestones, a Neolithic chambered cairn, the only one in Lancashire, has an internal burial chamber with evidence of the original entrance and Round Loaf, a Neolithic to late-Bronze Age tumulus which can be seen from the route across Great Hill from White Coppice are scheduled monuments on Anglezarke Moor.\n\nAnglezarke was dependent on the barony of Manchester. Albert Grelley gave two oxgangs of land to Robert de Lathom for an annual rent of 3 shillings. Between 1230 and 1264 Robert son of Richard, Lord of Lathom granted his land known as 'Swinlehehurst' to Burscough Priory.<ref name=\"DL25/645\"></ref> In 1339 Edward III granted free warren in Anglezarke to Thomas de Lathum. In 1298 Sir Robert Fitzhenry, Lord of Lathom gifted land as perpetual alms to Burscough Priory who earned income from rents, a confirmation charter was granted by Henry V in 1422. The Knights Hospitallers held land at Anglezarke. In 1406 John of Stanley Kt granted Anglezarke and its commons held in feoffment of William of Fulthorp Kt to Edward of Lathom senior in exchange for 1000 marks.<ref name=\"DP397/3/2\"></ref>\n\nRecords are preserved at Lancashire Records Office of the court baron of the Manor of Anglezarke.\n\nIn 1600 the William Earl of Derby, Edward Rigbye, Thomas Ireland and Michaell Doughtye of Lathom sold the manor to London merchant, Frances Mosseley and Edward Mosseley of Grays Inn for £400.\n\nIn the 17th century the Standishes purchased rights to the manor. In 1693 Dame Margaret Standish and her son Sir Thomas petitioned the House of Lords against Hugh Willoughby, 12th Baron Willoughby of Parham for the redemption of a mortgage on the manor and lead mines. In 1721 Sir Thomas Standish leased common land near White and Black Coppice to Sir Henry Hoghton of Hoghton Tower for 21 years. Sir Richard Standish's descendants had inherited an interest in the manor from 1677 until in 1812 when the line came to an end. The extent of the Standish interests is illustrated in a large coloured map produced in 1774 for Sir Frank Standish by George Lang. The manor next passed to a distant cousin, Frank Hall, who assumed the name Standish and died without issue in 1840.\n\nPercival Sumner Mayhew bought the Standish share in 1898 and held rights to shoot game at the common near White and Black Coppice during his lifetime. At the turn of the 20th century Liverpool Corporation acquired a large part of the land to protect the Rivington water supply and many properties were demolished leaving only one or two working farms.\n\nThe Manor House, now a Grade II Listed building, was formerly known as High Bullough, the name is derived from the family name of Bullough. It has a 1604 date stone and other stones inscribed \"RS\", \"W S\" and \"WL 1778\".\n\nIt is possible that lead was mined during the Roman occupation of Britain. A mine was started in 1692 by Sir Richard Standish in partnership with two farmers and a mining engineer and after several failures lead was extracted. In 1694 Richard Standish declared in the Chancery Court that he could not sign over the mines to his wife as he was a tenant. After his death, his widow claimed the profits but lost the resultant court case and flooded the mines by diverting a stream. The operation restarted and was expanded and in 1788-1789, 73 tons of lead were produced. In the 1790s copper and galena were produced. Production ended in 1837 when a lease, granted by Frank Hall Standish in 1824 to the Thompsons of Wigan was relinquished and the unsuccessful enterprise was abandoned. Lead Mines Clough had numerous shafts up to 240 feet deep and on the site was a smelting mill, a smithy and a waterwheel provided power. There are remains of bell pits at Dean Brook and spoil heaps containing traces of barites, calcite and galena. The mines were sealed in 1930 but there has been speculation that the site was part of a secret operation in 1940.\n\nThe mineral witherite (barium carbonate) was discovered in spoil from the mines in the 18th century. It was distinct from other sources as it contained above two per cent of carbonate of strontites. Up to this time witherite was considered worthless and used as rat poison by locals. Josiah Wedgwood used it to manufacture Jasper ware and tried to keep the source secret, but after a visit in 1782 by two Frenchmen, a local farmer, James Smithels, exported the mineral to Germany, charging five guineas per ton.\n\nCoal was mined for local or personal use from drift mines where the coal seam outcropped from Fletcher Bank to Great Hill. The Margery Mine near White Coppice and the Sandbrook Mine in the Yarrow Valley were mined by six men in the 19th century. Drifts were opened up by locals during the 1926 General Strike.\n\nA cotton mill was built by the stream at White Coppice. At first it was powered by a waterwheel but later the mill lodge was built to provide water for the steam engine. Around 1900 the mill was owned by Alfred Ephraim Eccles a supporter of the Temperance movement. Another small mill was built on the bank of the River Yarrow at the end of Bradley Wood of which no trace remains. Roger Lester lived in Anglezarke in 1769. The mill gave its name to the Lester Mill Quarry, a major contributor to the economy in the 19th century producing gritstone flags, stone setts and kerbs for paving the streets of the industrialised towns. Between 1880 and 1920, quarry men, sett-makers and two blacksmiths were employed. Dressed stone was carted to Adlington station for transport. The quarry is no longer operational. Millstones were produced at Black Coppice, where some remain.\n\nIn 1850 Thomas Pilkington of the Manor House sold land to Chorley Water Company to build High Bullough Reservoir, the first reservoir in the area. Demand for stone increased with the building of the Anglezarke Reservoir, the largest in the Rivington Reservoir Chain in the 1850s. Construction of the Yarrow Reservoir designed by Liverpool's Borough Engineer, Thomas Duncan, began in 1867. It is fed from the River Yarrow and Limestone Brook which have their sources on Anglezarke Moor.\n\nThe area was used for food production and military training in World War II. Unexploded ordnance was cleared in 1946. On 12 November 1943, the crew of a Wellington Bomber (Z8799) from 28 Operational Training Unit, flying from Blackpool to Manchester, were killed when it crashed just to the North of Winter Hill, on Hurst Hill, Anglezarke Moor. There is a memorial at the crash site. The pilot of the plane was Joseph B. Timperon from Ardrossan, South Australia. Each year on Remembrance Sunday, a service is held at the Wellington Bomber Memorial at Lead Mines Clough, next to Limestone Brook.\n\nUntil the early 19th century, Anglezarke was a township in the ancient parish of Bolton le Moors, itself part of the hundred of Salford in Lancashire. In 1837, Anglezarke joined with other townships (or civil parishes) in the area to form the Chorley Poor Law Union which took responsibility for the administration and funding of the Poor Law in that area. In 1866, Anglezarke became a civil parish. It became part of the Chorley Rural Sanitary District from 1875 to 1894, and then part of the Chorley Rural District from 1894 to 1974. Since 1974, Anglezarke has been a civil parish of the Borough of Chorley.\n\nAnglezarke is part of the Chorley parliamentary constituency, which elected Lindsay Hoyle as Member of Parliament for the Labour party at the 2010 General Election.\n\nAnglezarke covers 2,793 acres of high moorland on the western slopes of the West Pennine Moors reaching about 1,000 feet above sea level. Anglezarke is a settlement of scattered farmhouses with no village centre. The hamlet of White Coppice where there was a cotton mill is in the north-west corner, and Hempshaws, now in ruins, in the south-east. The township is crossed by a minor road on the western border from Rivington to Heapey. The underlying rocks are millstone grit and sandstones of the lower Lower Coal Measures. There were several quarries whose stone was used for road-making and lead mines. The source of the River Yarrow is at \"Will Narr\" on Anglezarke Moor. The west of the area is dominated by the Anglezarke and Yarrow Reservoirs.\n\nAnglezarke's economy is primarily agricultural, with land used mostly for grazing. Some farmers have diversified into providing leisure and storage facilities for camping, caravanning and guest accommodation. Tourists are attracted by the historic landscape and scenery and access to a network of hiking trails.\n\nIn the early 20th century Foggs Buildings, close to Peewet Hall, was vacated. The land was farmed by the Cocker family in the 18th century and by the Pilkingtons in the early 19th century. As properties were abandoned and left to become derelict, the population declined. The remote farms are now landmarks for walkers and geocachers.\n\nThe remains of Lower and Higher Hempshaw's, farms inhabited by the Kershaws in the 19th century, are located by a tributary of the River Yarrow which is 300 metres to the southwest. Jepson's Farm and Jepson's Gate are waypoints en route to Pikestones. The last occupants of Old Rachel's were the Evans family in the 1880s. Simms is located on a private track and footpath. The property which got its water from Green Withins Brook, a tributary of the River Yarrow, was occupied by the Chairman of Horwich Urban District Council in 1928-29.\n\nWaterman's Cottage is at the north end of Anglezarke Reservoir. Shorrocks was occupied by Abel Pilkington until his death in 1888; its ruins are by the bridge at White Coppice ponds at the north end of the reservoir.\n\nAnglezarke Quarry is a destination for rock climbing and has been used for training by serious climbers such as Sir Chris Bonington. Cricket is played at White Coppice. The area was the location for the 2002 Commonwealth Games Mountain Biking competition. There is an extensive network of footpaths providing public access for hikers.\n\nAnglezarke Quarry was used for filming the TV series Jewel in the Crown in 1984. Anglezarke is a setting in the book, \"The Spook's Secret\" by Joseph Delaney. Musician and poet, Richard Skelton used the Anglezarke landscape to inspire his writing and music.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288954", "title": "PowerArchiver", "text": "PowerArchiver\n\nPowerArchiver is a proprietary file archiver for Microsoft Windows, developed by ConeXware Inc. It supports creating and reading ZIP, 7z, and Tar archive formats, as well as various disk image formats. Additionally, it can read (but not create) RAR and ACE files. The evaluation version of the program remains functional for 40 days. Personal licenses are currently permitted free lifetime updates to all future versions of the software, while the business license is valid through two major versions.\n\nPowerArchiver's first public release was made in March 1999. It was advertised as a free archiving solution and was written in Borland Delphi. It turned into shareware in June 2001 with version 7. Prior to being PowerArchiver, the software was known as EasyZip. A command-line version and a Microsoft Outlook plugin is also provided. PowerArchiver's user interface has been translated into 15 languages.\n\nThe latest release of PowerArchiver fully supports Windows 7 and provides the user an option to use the ribbon GUI, as featured in Microsoft Office 2007 and Windows 7. Users can revert to the old-style toolbar if they wish.\n\nIn 2011, Softpedia gave it five stars, praising its wide support for various compressed file types, FTP and backup feature by pointing out its lack of complete support of VHD files.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288960", "title": "Midnight Sun Game", "text": "Midnight Sun Game\n\nThe Midnight Sun Game is an amateur baseball game played every summer solstice at Growden Memorial Park in Fairbanks, Alaska, United States. Because the sun is out for almost 24 hours a day, the game starts at about 10:30 at night and completes around 1:30 the next morning. However, because Fairbanks's summer time zone differs by about an hour from local solar time, coupled with the state's observance of daylight saving time, the game may not actually last until solar midnight, at about 1:53. Famous players who have appeared in the game include Tom Seaver, Dave Winfield, Terry Francona, Harold Reynolds, Jason Giambi, and Bill \"Spaceman\" Lee.\n\nAfter Noel Wien's arrival in 1924, he noted, \"The baseball team played on weekends, and on June 21 and July 4 they always started a game at midnight sharp, just to indicate that this was the farthest city in the country.\"\n\nThe first game was in 1906. Artificial light has never been used. The sun does dip below the horizon for about an hour. Since 1960, the game has been hosted by the Alaska Baseball League's Fairbanks-based Alaska Goldpanners. The opposing team may be another ABL team, but frequently an NCAA or other collegiate summer team from another league is invited to play.\n\nIn 2020 the game was cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic.\n\nThrough 1959, the Midnight Sun Game featured various teams from the Fairbanks area. In 1960, the game became exclusively hosted by the Alaska Goldpanners. Although the Midnight Sun Game has been played since 1906, only games hosted by the Goldpanners are listed.\n"}
{"id": "2288967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288967", "title": "Aerarii", "text": "Aerarii\n\nThe aerarii (from Lat. \"aes\", \"bronze\" or \"money\" in its subsidiary sense of \"poll tax\") were a class of Roman citizens not included in the thirty tribes of Servius Tullius, and subject to a poll-tax arbitrarily fixed by the censor. They were:\n\nThose who were thus excluded from the tribes and centuries had no vote, were incapable of filling Roman magistracies and could not serve in the army. According to Theodore Mommsen, the \"aerarii\" were originally the non-\"assidui\" (non-holders of land), excluded from the tribes, the \"comitia\" and the army. By a reform of the censor Appius Claudius Caecus in 312 BC these non-\"assidui\" were admitted into the tribes, and the \"aerarii\" as such disappeared. But in 304, Fabius Rullianus limited them to the four city tribes, and from that time the term meant a man degraded from a higher (rural) to a lower (urban) tribe, but not deprived of the right of voting or of serving in the army.\n\nThe expressions \"tribu movere\" and \"aerarium facere,\" regarded by Mommsen as identical in meaning (\"to degrade from a higher tribe to a lower\"), are explained by Greenidge the first as relegation from a higher to a lower tribe or total exclusion from the tribes, the second as exclusion from the centuries. Other views of the original \"aerarii\" are that they were: artisans and freedmen (Niebuhr); inhabitants of towns united with Rome by a \"hospitium publicum\", who had become domiciled on Roman territory (Lange); only a class of degraded citizens, including neither the \"cives sine suffragio\" nor the artisans (according to Johan Nicolai Madvig); identical with the \"capite censi\" of the Servian constitution (Belot, Greenidge).\n"}
{"id": "2288971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288971", "title": "Growden Memorial Park", "text": "Growden Memorial Park\n\nGrowden Memorial Park is an outdoor park in Fairbanks, Alaska, United States.Originally called Memorial Park, the park was renamed in 1964 in memory of James Growden who, along with his two sons, lost his life in the tsunami created by the Good Friday Earthquake of 1964. Growden had been active in youth activities in Fairbanks for a number of years.\n\nGrowden Memorial Field is a baseball park located in Growden Memorial Park used for collegiate summer and high school baseball and has been the home field for the Alaska Baseball League's Alaska Goldpanners since 1960. It was also home to the defunct North Pole Nicks, before the Nicks relocated to Newby Field. Famous players to play at Growden include Tom Seaver, Dave Winfield, Rick Monday, Terry Francona, Bob Boone, Bret Boone, Jason Giambi, and Barry Bonds.\n\nIt also has played host to the Alaska School Activities Association state baseball championships over the last few years.\n\nIt has an artificial turf infield and a natural grass outfield. It contains several dozen box seats salvaged from Seattle's Sick's Stadium. The Carlson Center is located nearby.\n\nThe ballpark holds 3,500 people and plays host to the Midnight Sun Game. A crowd larger than 5,200 attended the 1967 Midnight Sun Game when the Goldpanners hosted Kumagai-Gumi of Japan.\n\nThe John Weaver Skate Park, four youth baseball fields, one youth softball field and volleyball courts are located in the park.\n"}
{"id": "2288977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288977", "title": "Robert B. Willumstad", "text": "Robert B. Willumstad\n\nRobert B. \"Bob\" Willumstad is a former Chairman and CEO of the American International Group (AIG).\n\nHe was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Elmont on Long Island. His alma mater is Adelphi University. \nHe and his wife Carol reside in New York City, and have two adult daughters and three grandchildren.\n\nUnder Sanford I. Weill, Willumstad helped to steer the 1998 merger of Travelers Group and Citicorp. From 2000 to 2003, he was the Chairman and CEO of Citigroup's Global Consumer Group. He was named President of Citigroup in 2002, and assumed the post of Chief Operating Officer in 2003, while continuing to serve as CEO and President of Citibank North America. Some suggested that he had been passed over for CEO in favour of Charles Prince, despite being in charge of Citi's largest business.\n\nWillumstad left Citigroup in July 2005, saying that he wanted to run a major company, after CEO Charles Prince decided to take back control of operations.\n\nWillumstad founded Brysam Global Partners, a specialized private equity firm that invests in financial services, in 2007 with partner Marjorie Magner. \n\nWillumstad served as the chairman of the board of directors of AIG from 2006 until 2008, after Maurice R. Greenberg was forced to resign.\n\nWillumstad became CEO on June 15, 2008, after Martin J. Sullivan was ousted. One of Willumstad's initiatives was to repair the rift with Greenberg. In September 2008, Edward M. Liddy succeeded Willumstad to oversee the company's government-financed asset sale. Willumstad refused a $22 million severance payment for his three months' work at AIG since he was never able to enact his strategy. AIG's stock price declined 97% during his short tenure due to preexisting company conditions.\n\nOn October 7, 2008, Willumstad testified before the United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on Capitol Hill regarding the causes and effects of the bailout of AIG.\n"}
{"id": "2288984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288984", "title": "Austrian Civil War", "text": "Austrian Civil War\n\n<noinclude>\n\nThe Austrian Civil War (), also known as the February Uprising (), is a term sometimes used for a few days of skirmishes between Fascist and Socialist forces between 12 and 16 February 1934, in Austria. The clashes started in Linz and took place principally in the cities of Vienna, Graz, Bruck an der Mur, Judenburg, Wiener Neustadt and Steyr, but also in some other industrial cities of eastern and central Austria.\n\nAfter the end of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1918, the state of Austria was created as a parliamentary democracy. Two major factions dominated politics in the new nation: socialists (represented politically by the Social Democratic Workers' Party) and conservatives (politically represented by the Christian Social Party). The socialists found their strongholds in the working class districts of the cities, while the conservatives could build on the support of the rural population and of most of the upper classes. The conservatives also maintained close alliances with the Catholic Church, and could count among their ranks some leading clerics.\n\nAs in most of the nascent European democracies of the time, politics in Austria took on a highly ideological flavour. Both the socialist and the conservative camp did not merely consist of political parties, but possessed far-ranging power structures, including their own paramilitary forces. The conservatives began organising the \"Heimwehr\" () in 1921–23; in response, the Social Democrats organised paramilitaries called the \"Republikanischer Schutzbund\" () after 1923. Altercations and clashes between these forces (at political rallies, etc.) occurred frequently.\n\nA first major incident ensued early in 1927, when members of Hermann Hiltl's \"Frontkämpfervereinigung\" (\"Front Fighters Union\" — a paramilitary association likewise affiliated with the conservative camp) shot and killed an eight-year-old boy and a war veteran marching with the Schutzbund in a peaceful counter-demonstration in Schattendorf (Burgenland). In July, three defendants in the case were acquitted, which led to outrage in the left-wing camp. On 15 July 1927, a general strike occurred, and demonstrations took place in the capital. After the storming of a police station, security forces started shooting at demonstrators. An angry group of people then set fire to the Palace of Justice (\"Justizpalast\"), seen as a symbol of a flawed and partial judicial system. Altogether, 89 people (85 of them demonstrators) lost their lives in this July revolt, and many hundreds suffered injury. Surprisingly, the violence soon died down and the factions took their battle from the streets back into the political institutions.\n\nHowever, the travails of the First Republic only got worse in the following years. The Great Depression also showed its effects in Austria, resulting in high unemployment and massive inflation. In addition, from 1933 — the year Adolf Hitler became Chancellor of Germany — National Socialist sympathisers (who wanted a unification of Austria with Hitler's Germany) threatened the Austrian state from within.\n\nOn 4 March 1933, Christian Social Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuß suspended the Austrian Parliament. In a close vote (on railway workers' wages) in the National Council, each of the three presidents of parliament resigned their position in order to cast a ballot, leaving nobody to preside over the meeting. Even though the bylaws could have resolved this situation, Dollfuss used this opportunity to declare that parliament had ceased to function, and blocked all attempts to reconvene it, also threatening to use military force against the parliamentarians, should they try to reconvene. The Social Democratic Party had thus lost its major platform for political action. The conservatives, facing pressure and violence not only from the left but also from Nazis infiltrating from Germany, could now rule by decree on the basis of a 1917 emergency law, without checks on their power, and began to suspend civil liberties. They banned the Schutzbund and imprisoned many of its members.\n\nOn 12 February 1934, a force, led by Heimwehr commander in Vienna Emil Fey, searched Hotel Schiff in Linz, a property belonging to the Social Democratic Party. Linz Schutzbund commander Richard Bernaschek was the first to actively resist, sparking off armed conflict between a conglomeration of the Heimwehr, the police, the gendarmerie and the regular Federal Army against the outlawed, but still existent, socialist Schutzbund. Skirmishes between the two camps spread to other cities and towns in Austria, with the heat of the action occurring in Vienna. There, members of the Schutzbund barricaded themselves in city council housing estates (Gemeindebauten), the symbols and strongholds for the socialist movement in Austria, such as Karl-Marx-Hof. Police and paramilitaries took up positions outside these fortified complexes and the parties exchanged fire, initially only with small arms. Fighting also occurred in industrial towns such as Steyr, Sankt Pölten, Weiz, Eggenberg (Graz), Kapfenberg, Bruck an der Mur, Graz, Ebensee and Wörgl.\n\nAn apparently decisive moment in the events came with the entry of the Austrian armed forces into the conflict. Though the army remained still a comparatively independent institution, chancellor Dollfuss ordered Karl-Marx-Hof shelled with light artillery, endangering the lives of thousands of civilians and destroying many flats before forcing the socialist fighters to surrender.\nThe fighting ended in Vienna and Upper Austria by 13 February, but continued heavily in Styrian cities, especially in Bruck an der Mur and Judenburg, until 14 or 15 February. After that, there were only small groups of socialists fighting against the armed forces, or fleeing from them. By 16 February 1934, the Austrian Civil War had ended.\n\nSeveral hundred people (including paramilitaries, members of the security forces and civilians) died in the armed conflict; more than a thousand suffered wounds. The authorities tried and executed nine Schutzbund leaders under the provisions of martial law. In addition, over 1,500 arrests were made. Leading socialist politicians, such as Otto Bauer, were forced into exile. John Gunther reported that Schutzbund members received \"mercilessly severe\" sentences.\n\nThe incidents of February 1934 were taken as a pretext by the government to prohibit the Social Democratic Party and its affiliated trade unions altogether. In May, the conservatives replaced the democratic constitution by a corporatist constitution modelled along the lines of Benito Mussolini's fascist Italy; therefore the socialists coined the term 'Austrofascism' although the underlying ideology was essentially that of the most conservative elements in the Austrian Catholic clergy, a feature inconsistent with both Italian Fascism and Nazism. The Patriotic Front (\"Vaterländische Front\"), into which the Heimwehr and the Christian Social Party were merged, became the only legal political party in the resulting authoritarian regime, the \"Ständestaat\".\n\nThough small in scale in an international comparison (and small in scale indeed in the light of the events of the Second World War which soon followed), the Austrian Civil War nevertheless proved a decisive moment in the history of the Republic. After the Second World War, when Austria re-emerged on the political landscape as a sovereign nation, politics again fell under the domination of the Social Democrats and the conservatives, who now formed a party called the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). However, so as to avoid a repeat of the bitter divisions of the First Republic, the leaders of the Second Republic were determined to put the idea of broad consensus at the heart of the new political system. The concept of the 'Grand Coalition' was introduced, in which the two major parties (Social Democrats and People's Party) shared in the government and avoided open confrontation. This system brought with it stability and continuity, but ultimately led to other political repercussions (also see \"Proporz\"). But the events of the Austrian Civil War had persuaded many in the political establishment (and, indeed, the population at large) that a slow pace of political reform was a small price to pay for social calm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288991", "title": "Fire Pro Wrestling", "text": "Fire Pro Wrestling\n\nUnlike many other pro wrestling games, most \"Fire Pro\" games are not licensed by any major professional wrestling promotion, but feature likenesses of real-life wrestlers under different names. Games in the series generally utilize 2-D sprite-based graphics, with some later games incorporating 3D graphical elements. The spin-off \"King of Colosseum\" series features polygonal 3D graphics. Most of the titles in the \"Fire Pro Wrestling\" series have been released in Japan, although some of the games have seen releases in North America.\n\nUnlike many other pro wrestling games, most games in the \"Fire Pro Wrestling\" series are not licensed by any major professional wrestling promotion, but feature likenesses of real-life wrestlers under different names. Games in the series generally utilize 2-D sprite-based graphics, with some later games incorporating 3-D graphical elements. The spin-off series \"King of Colosseum\" features polygonal 3-D graphics.\n\nThe Fire Pro Wrestling series of games distinguish themselves from other wrestling games by combining several unique features. One feature is the focus on a timing-based grappling control system. The grappling control system encourages the use of complex strategy, built on working up to using increasingly powerful moves on your opponent. The timing-based system also stands in contrast to the button-mashing tactics with which most 2-D wrestling gamers are familiar.\n\nAnother feature of Fire Pro Wrestling games is the inclusion of a large roster of playable wrestlers and fighters from different promotions located around the world. The wrestlers and promotions are renamed from their real-life counterparts to avoid copyright, and represent many different styles of professional wrestling: North American WWE style sports-entertainment, Mexican lucha-libre, various styles of Japanese puroresu: athletic junior-heavyweight style, realistic strong-style, women's joshi wrestling, and violent hardcore wrestling, as well as different styles of mixed martial arts.\n\nA variety of match types are available in the Fire Pro Wrestling series of games, with flexible settings for the rules within each match. This complements the variety of wrestlers available as playable characters. Different match types include conventional singles and tag-team wrestling matches, extreme hardcore matches such as the \"Landmine Death Match\" or \"Electric Barbed Wire Cage Match\", and various types of mixed-martial-arts matches.\n\nAnother distinguishing feature of the Fire Pro Wrestling series of games, particularly the later games in the series, is the inclusion of an extensive and highly detailed wrestler creation and edit mode. The edit mode of Fire Pro Wrestling games allows players to build game characters with a high level of attention to detail. Appearance characteristics, such as clothing and ring attire, and physical build, head and facial features, can be customized for a created wrestler. A detailed set of wrestling and fighting moves, drawn from the large pool of moves built into each game, can also be assigned to a created wrestler. The edit mode of Fire Pro Wrestling games also allows players to make detailed changes to the CPU logic of an edited wrestler, making it possible for a skilled creator to create a wrestler that behaves very much like his real-life counterpart, even when controlled by the computer.\n\nLater titles in the series allowed for customization of other aspects of professional wrestling, including changing the design of the ring mat, creating customized championship belts, and creation and editing of referees. The detailed character creation and edit mode of the Fire Pro Wrestling games became an influential feature that was eventually added to other wrestling and sports games.\n\nThe combination of features included in Fire Pro Wrestling games allows players to create \"dream matchups\" between wrestlers from different promotions, or different eras in the history of professional wrestling, as well as matches between real-life wrestlers and fighters, fictional characters and non-wrestling celebrities.\n\nBeginning with the first title in the series from Human Entertainment, \"Fire Pro Wrestling Combination Tag\" for PC Engine in 1989, the \"Fire Pro Wrestling\" series eventually produced editions of games for many systems, notably the Super Famicom, Sega Saturn, Game Boy Advance, Dreamcast and the PlayStation 2. Human also released a wrestling game outside the \"Fire Pro Wrestling\" series in 1989 for Game Boy. Titled \"Pro Wrestling\" in its native Japan, it was released internationally as \"HAL Wrestling\". Most of the titles in the \"Fire Pro Wrestling\" series have been released exclusively in Japan, although some of the games have seen releases in North America.\n\nThe series became popular in Japan, but did not see an international release until after Spike took over the franchise in 2000. Early games in the Fire Pro Wrestling series were popular outside Japan with import gamers, and at least one game, \"Super Fire Pro Wrestling X Premium\" for Super Famicom, received an unofficial fan translation through video game console emulators. \"Fire Pro Wrestling A\" for the Game Boy Advance was released internationally as \"Fire Pro Wrestling\" in 2001, and was one of the titles initially available when the Game Boy Advance was launched in Japan and North America. Four editions of the game have received official English translations: Fire Pro Wrestling (2001) and Fire Pro Wrestling 2 (2002) for the GBA, Fire Pro Wrestling Returns for PS2 (2007), and Fire Pro Wrestling World for the Steam PC platform and PS4 (2017/2018) .\n\nAt the 2010 Tokyo Game Show, it was announced that a 3-D avatar-based version of Fire Pro Wrestling would be released for the Xbox 360 in 2011. It was not released until September 21, 2012. In hopes of appealing to a more casual audience, the developers decided on debuting a new gameplay engine that would use a button-mashing minigame system to perform moves, and not using the well-reviewed timing elements from previous versions of the game.\n\nOn February 24, 2017, Spike Chunsoft debuted a website featuring a teaser video of the series making a possible return. Less than a week later, on March 3, \"Fire Pro Wrestling World\" would be officially announced, returning the series to its roots, in terms of graphical presentation and gameplay mechanics. Also, the new game would be the first in the series to incorporate online multiplayer gameplay on the PC via Steam and the PlayStation 4 console. Fire Pro Wrestling World was released to Early Access on Steam for the PC platform on July 10, 2017, and left Early Access, to a full release, on December 18, 2017.\n\nOn June 30, 2018, Spike Chunsoft would debut a commercial featuring wrestlers Kenny Omega and Kota Ibushi, announcing that the game would be released in North America for PS4 on August 28, 2018. Spike Chunsoft also announced that they had come to terms on official licensing with New Japan Pro-Wrestling, making Fire Pro Wrestling World the first title in the series to be licensed by the \"King of Sports\", and the first game to be licensed by the wrestling organization in over eleven years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2288995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288995", "title": "USS LST-374", "text": "USS LST-374\n\nUSS \"LST-374\" was one of over 1,000 tank landing ships (LSTs) built for the United States Navy during World War II.\n\nLaid down on 12 November 1942 at Quincy, Massachusetts by the Bethlehem Steel Company; launched on 19 January 1943; sponsored by Mrs. Victor D. Herbster; and commissioned on 29 January 1943.\n\nDuring World War II, \"LST-374\" participated in the Allied invasion of Sicily in July and August 1943 and the invasion of Normandy in June 1944.\n\nDecommissioned 29 May 1945 at Baltimore, Maryland, the ship was redesignated USS \"Minerva\" (ARL-47) 29 May 1945. Conversion to a landing craft repair ship commenced on 30 May 1945 at the Maryland Drydock Company of Baltimore; the conversion was subsequently canceled 11 September 1945 and the ship reverted to \"LST-374\". Struck from the Naval Vessel Register 12 March 1946, the tank landing ship was sold to A. G. Schoonmaker for conversion to merchant service 14 January 1947.\n\n\"LST-374\" earned two battle stars for World War II service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2288999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288999", "title": "David Heinemeier Hansson", "text": "David Heinemeier Hansson\n\nDavid Heinemeier Hansson (born 15 October 1979) is a Danish programmer, racing driver and the creator of the popular Ruby on Rails web development framework and the Instiki wiki. He is also a partner at the web-based software development firm Basecamp. \n\nHansson co-wrote \"Agile Web Development with Rails\" with Dave Thomas in 2005 as part of The Facets of Ruby Series. He also co-wrote \"Getting Real\", \"Rework\", \"Remote\", and \"It Doesn't Have to Be Crazy at Work\" with Jason Fried.\n\nIn 1999, Hansson founded and built a Danish online gaming news website and community called Daily Rush, which he ran until 2001. After attracting the attention of Jason Fried by offering him help with PHP coding, Hansson was hired by Fried to build a web-based project management tool, which ultimately became 37signals' Basecamp software as a service product. To aid the development process, Hansson used the then-obscure Ruby programming language to develop a custom web framework. He released the framework separately from the project management tool in 2004 as the open source project Ruby on Rails. In 2005, Hansson was recognized by Google and O'Reilly with the \"Hacker of the Year\" award for his creation of Ruby on Rails. After graduating from the Copenhagen Business School and receiving his bachelor's degree in Computer Science and Business Administration, Hansson moved from Denmark to Chicago, Illinois, U.S. in November 2005.\n\nDavid Heinemeier Hansson lists photography and race car driving amongst his many hobbies. During the post-race technical checks, certain irregularities were detected on the Vaillante Rebellion team's #13 Oreca 07-Gibson, resulting in the car's disqualification from the 2017 24 Hours of Le Mans. He took part in the 2012 24 Hours of Le Mans driving for OAK Racing. He also drove a Morgan-Nissan P2 car for Conquest Racing in the American Le Mans Series (ALMS), winning two races in the season. Heinemeier Hansson joined OAK Racing full-time in 2013, taking five 2nd-place finishes to finish 2nd in the Trophy for LMP2 Drivers. In July 2010 it was revealed that Heinemeier Hansson was the person that had commissioned the one-off Pagani Zonda HH supercar. He also owns the one-off Koenigsegg Agera HH car.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289005", "title": "Vagn Åkesson", "text": "Vagn Åkesson\n\nVagn Åkesson was a Norseman of the late 10th century, mentioned in the \"Jómsvíkinga saga\". At the age of 12, Vagn, a precocious warrior, applied for admission to the mercenary brotherhood of the Jomsvikings. According to the \"Jómsvíkinga saga\", Vagn was the son of Aki, a son of the Jomsviking chieftain Palnatoke. Intrigued by the courage displayed by Vagn, his grandfather Palnatoke allowed him (after first attempting to dissuade him) to prove his worth with a duel against Sigvaldi Strut-Haraldsson, whom Vagn defeated. He was admitted to the order despite the Jomsviking rule that no man under the age of 18 be allowed to join.\n\nPalnatoke adopted Vagn, who is described as one of the most fearless of the Jomsvikings, as a sort of protégé. Vagn's courage stand in sharp contrast to the pragmatism (some would say cowardice) displayed by Sigvaldi. After Palnatoke's death, Sigvaldi became leader of the order. At the Battle of Hjörungavágr, he ordered a retreat, an order which Vagn angrily refused to obey. According to the saga, Vagn even threw his spear in Sigvaldi's direction, but missed. Vagn managed to survive the battle with honor and was spared by Eiríkr Hákonarson, while Sigvaldi became the object of ridicule.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289017", "title": "Peace of Mind (Boston song)", "text": "Peace of Mind (Boston song)\n\n\"Peace of Mind\" is a song written by Tom Scholz and originally released by Boston on their debut 1976 self-titled album. It was released the next year as the third and final single from the album and peaked at number 38 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 1977, as well as number 33 on the \"Cash Box\" Top 100. It received substantial radio airplay, both upon the initial release of the \"Boston\" album and subsequently, and has been described as a \"rock-radio staple.\"\n\n\"Peace of Mind\" is one of six songs, five of which eventually appeared on the \"Boston\" album, that Scholz worked on in his basement in 1974 and 1975, before Boston got its record contract. The demo was specifically finished in 1974. The drum parts were originally developed by Jim Masdea, although Sib Hashian played the drums on the official release. According to \"Ultimate Classic Rock\" critic Michael Gallucci, the demo version was \"fully formed\" and so the album version did not change much except for \"[amping] up the guitars and production.\"\n\nThe song is about the people Scholz worked with at Polaroid Corporation before getting his recording contract, and about Scholz's lack of interest in climbing the corporate ladder into company management. According to music journalist Chuck Eddy, the lyrics argue that it is unhealthy for people to compete with each other. Paul Elliott commented on the lyrics' \"positivity,\" exhorting people to look past their mundane life to \"find deeper meaning.\" He also noted the song's \"uplifting quality,\" expressed through \"its freewheeling riff, its rich melody and dazzling vocal harmonies.\" AXS contributor Craig James describes the theme as being that it is better to make music and being at peace with yourself is better than corporate aspirations. Vanyaland's Daniel Brockman found irony in the refrain, \"I understand about indecision, and I don’t care if I get behind/People living in competition, all I want is to have my peace of mind,” noting that this was a hit single premised on lyrics stating that one shouldn't take their career too seriously. \"Mojo\" magazine cited the lyrics as presenting an alternate view of the American Dream to that described in another song from the \"Boston\" album, \"Hitch a Ride.\"\n\n\"The Greenwood Encyclopedia of Rock History\" described it as being \"built around soaring guitars, tight vocal harmonies, and \"huge\" hooks,\" which were part of the band's appeal. Boston lead singer Brad Delp cited \"Peace of Mind\" as an example of how Scholz was able to combine the vocal harmonies of the Beach Boys with the heavy guitar sound of Led Zeppelin. \"Rolling Stone\" commented on how the guitars \"feel epic\" but also \"delicate and intimate.\" Tom Moon cited \"Peace of Mind\" and \"Long Time\" as examples to illustrate how Scholz varied his guitar effects for each \"Boston\" song, stating that \"Peace of Mind\" has a \"grittier, less airbrushed attack.\"\nThe song is among the earliest ones in popular music to use vi–IV–I–V chord progression, a variant of I–V–vi–IV progression, widely popular in modern Western music.\n\n\"Rolling Stone Album Guide\" critic Paul Evans called \"Peace of Mind\" a \"satisfying, if similar, followup\" to \"More Than a Feeling\". Scott Tady of \"Beaver County Times\" described \"Peace of Mind\" as one of the songs that \"helped set the foundation for classic-rock radio.\" Eric Deggans wrote that \"Bouncy, slick tracks such as 'More Than a Feeling' and 'Peace of Mind' defined new parameters for rock radio during the 70s, with soaring vocals searing guitars and trite lyrics.\" Jamie Reno of \"San Diego\" magazine described it as an \"infectious flick-your Bic staple.\" MTV's Gil Kaufman similarly described the song as a \"rock-radio staple.\" Brockman called it \"one of the most overplayed songs in rock history\" but praised Delp's singing, particularly his vulnerability and sincerity, making Brockman believe that Delp really believed the words of the refrain. Gallucci rated it Boston's 5th greatest song, particularly praising the \"fuzzy guitar riff\" and noting that it has remained a classic rock radio staple. Elliott and Craig both rated it even higher, as Boston's second greatest song behind only \"More Than a Feeling.\" \"Guitar World\" magazine selected \"Peace of Mind\" as one of their 50 greatest rock songs of all time.\n\n\n\n\"Peace of Mind\" was covered by Stryper on their 2009 \"Murder by Pride\" album. Tom Scholz also played guitar on that track. Allmusic critic James Christopher Monger described Stryper's version as \"as a choice cover of the Boston classic.\"\n"}
{"id": "2289022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289022", "title": "Adscript", "text": "Adscript\n\nAdscript (from Latin ad, on or to, and scribere, to write) means something written \"after\", as opposed to subscript which means written \"under\".\n\nA laborer was called an \"adscript of the soil\" (\"adscriptus glebae\") when he could be sold or transferred with the land, as under feudal villeinage and with serfdom in the Russian Empire until 1861.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289044", "title": "Tropical Storm Dalila", "text": "Tropical Storm Dalila\n\nThe name Dalila has been used for five tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nHowever, before 1995, it was known as Dalilia, the Spanish form of \"Delilah\" which was used for two tropical cyclones; it was changed, perhaps inadvertently, in operational documents prior to the 1995 season, and the misspelling has remained.\n"}
{"id": "2289050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289050", "title": "Magic angle", "text": "Magic angle\n\nThe magic angle is a precisely defined angle, the value of which is approximately 54.7356°. The magic angle is a root of a second-order Legendre polynomial, , and so any interaction which depends on this second-order Legendre polynomial vanishes at the magic angle. This property makes the magic angle of particular importance in magic angle spinning solid-state NMR spectroscopy. In magnetic resonance imaging, structures with ordered collagen, such as tendons and ligaments, oriented at the magic angle may appear hyperintense in some sequences; this is called the magic angle artifact or effect.\n\nThe magic angle \"θ\" is\nwhere arccos and arctan are the inverse cosine and tangent functions respectively.\n\n\"θ\" is the angle between the space diagonal of a cube and any of its three connecting edges, see image.\n\nAnother representation of the magic angle is half of the opening angle formed when a cube is rotated from its space diagonal axis, which may be represented as arccos − or 2 arctan  radians ≈ 109.4712°. This double magic angle is directly related to tetrahedral molecular geometry and is the angle between two vertices and the exact center of a tetrahedron (\"i.e.\", the edge central angle also known as the tetrahedral angle).\n\nIn nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, three prominent nuclear magnetic interactions, dipolar coupling, chemical shift anisotropy (CSA), and first-order quadrupolar coupling, depend on the orientation of the interaction tensor with the external magnetic field.\n\nBy spinning the sample around a given axis, their average angular dependence becomes:\n\nwhere \"θ\" is the angle between the principal axis of the interaction and the magnetic field, \"θ\" is the angle of the axis of rotation relative to the magnetic field and \"β\" is the (arbitrary) angle between the axis of rotation and principal axis of the interaction.\n\nFor dipolar couplings, the principal axis corresponds to the internuclear vector between the coupled spins; for the CSA, it corresponds to the direction with the largest deshielding; for the quadrupolar coupling, it corresponds to the \"z\"-axis of the electric-field gradient tensor.\n\nThe angle \"β\" cannot be manipulated as it depends on the orientation of the interaction relative to the molecular frame and on the orientation of the molecule relative to the external field. The angle \"θ\", however, can be decided by the experimenter. If one sets \"θ\" = \"θ\" ≈ 54.7°, then the average angular dependence goes to zero. Magic angle spinning is a technique in solid-state NMR spectroscopy which employs this principle to remove or reduce the influence of anisotropic interactions, thereby increasing spectral resolution.\n\nFor a time-independent interaction, i.e. heteronuclear dipolar couplings, CSA and first-order quadrupolar couplings, the anisotropic component is greatly reduced and almost suppressed in the limit of fast spinning, i.e. when the spinning frequency is greater than the width of the interaction.\n\nThe averaging is only close to zero in a first-order perturbation theory treatment; higher order terms cause allowed frequencies at multiples of the spinning frequency to appear, creating spinning side-bands in the spectra.\n\nTime-dependent interactions, such as homonuclear dipolar couplings, are more difficult to average to their isotropic values by magic angle spinning; a network of strongly coupled spins will produce a mixing of spin states during the course of the sample rotation, interfering with the averaging process.\n\nThe magic angle artifact refers to the increased signal observed when MRI sequences with short echo time (TE) (e.g., \"T\" or proton density spin-echo sequences) are used to image tissues with well-ordered collagen fibers in one direction (e.g., tendon or articular hyaline cartilage). This artifact occurs when the angle such fibers make with the magnetic field is equal to \"θ\".\n\nExample: This artifact comes into play when evaluating the rotator cuff tendons of the shoulder. The magic angle effect can create the appearance of supraspinatus tendinitis.\n\nTo achieve optimal loading in a straight rubber hose the fibres must be positioned under an angle of approximately 54.7 angular degrees, also referred to as the magic angle. The magic angle of 54.7 exactly balances the internal-pressure-induced longitudinal stress and the hoop (circumferential) stress.\n"}
{"id": "2289056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289056", "title": "Bushahr", "text": "Bushahr\n\nBushahr, also spelt as 'Bashahr' and 'Bussahir' or 'Bushair' was a princely state in India during the British Raj. It was located in the hilly western Himalaya promontory in the northern part of colonial Punjab. \n\nThe territory of this former state is now part of Kinnaur and Shimla district of the Indian republic's state of Himachal Pradesh. The erstwhile Bushahr state was traversed by the Sutlej river. It had an area of 8,907 km².\n\nThe erstwhile Bushahr state was occupied by a Gorkha king from central Nepal from 1803 to 1815. Ranjit Singh, the ruler of the Sikh state in the Punjab, intervened in 1809 and drove the Nepalese army east of the Satluj river. A rivalry between Nepal and the British East India Company over the annexation of minor states bordering Nepal eventually led to the Anglo-Nepalese War (1815–16) or the Gurkha War. Both parties eventually signed the Treaty of Sugauli, following which the Gurkhas were expelled from Kamru, the capital of Bushahr.\n\nIn 1898, Bushahr state was taken over by the British administration, although the \"Râja\" remained nominally in charge. After British occupation, the Bushahr state was by far the largest of the 28 Simla Hills States. There was a tax revolt by Bushahr's peasants in 1906.\n\nThe original seat of the rulers of the erstwhile Bushahr state was at the Kamru Fort, in the village of Kamru at the banks of the Baspa River at Sangla in Kinnaur. The fort is currently abandoned and houses an idol of Kamakhya Devi (Kamakshi Dev), which is believed to have been brought several centuries ago from Kamakhya temple in Guwahati. The rulers subsequently moved to Sarahan.\nThe Palace of the \"Raja of Bushahr state\" at Sarahan (\"The Srikhand view\") was built by order of Raja Padam Singh for his lodging in September 1917. \nThe current residence of the \"Raja of Bushahr state\" is at the Padam Palace at Rampur, Shimla district. The town of Rampur may have been founded by Raja Kehri Singh in the 17th century or by Raja Ram Singh in the 18th. The rulers moved down from their traditional seat in Sarahan to the banks of the river Sutlej. Bushair was one of the richest princely states in the hills and was an important center for trade between Tibet, Kinnaur and the lower areas.\n\nWith a personal gun salute of 9 guns, the ruler of Bashahr was the only Hills \"Raja\" amongst India's upper class of princely salute states, but was not entitled to the style of His Highness until independence in 1947.\n\nRulers bore the title of Rana and then Raja.\n\nRanas\nRajas\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289057", "title": "Movses Khorenatsi medal", "text": "Movses Khorenatsi medal\n\nThe Movses Khorenatsi medal () is Armenia's highest cultural award. It is presented by the president of Armenia to people who have significantly contributed to the advancement of Armenian culture. Artist Richard Jeranian received the medal in 2011 and pianist Şahan Arzruni in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "2289058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289058", "title": "Ruy Ramos", "text": "Ruy Ramos\n\nRamos was one of the first foreign players in Japanese professional football, joining club Japan Soccer League club Yomiuri (later \"Verdy Kawasaki\") in 1977 at the age of 20. The club won the champions in Japan Soccer League 5 times, JSL Cup 3 times and Emperor's Cup 3 times. In Asia, the club also won 1987 Asian Club Championship. In 1992, Japan Soccer League was folded and founded new league J1 League. The club won the league champions in 1993 and 1994. The club also won 1992, 1993 and 1994 J.League Cup. In summer 1996, he moved to Kyoto Purple Sanga. In summer 1997, he returned to Verdy Kawasaki and he retired end of 1998 season. He was 41 years old. He was selected Japanese Footballer of the Year awards 2 times and Best Eleven 8 times. He was the one of the most central player in golden era in Yomiuri/Verdy history.\n\nRamos was an important member of the Japanese national team during their unsuccessful 1994 World Cup qualification.\n\nIn September 1990, when Ramos was 33 years old, he was called up for the Japan national team for the 1990 Asian Games. On 26 September, he debuted against Bangladesh. After his debut, he became a regular player for Japan. He was a member of the Japan team that won the 1992 Asian Cup and he played 4 matches in the competition. Under manager Hans Ooft, Japan progressed to the final qualifying stage of the AFC for the 1994 World Cup. Ruy Ramos was on the pitch when Japan's hope to play in the finals was dashed by an injury-time Iraqi equaliser in the last qualifier, the match that the Japanese fans now refer to as the Agony of Doha. In 1995, Ramos also played at King Fahd Cup. He played 32 games and scored 1 goal for Japan until 1995.\n\nRamos briefly came out of his retirement for Okinawa Kariyushi FC as player–technical adviser in 2002. However, he left the club after a row with the management at the end of the season. Then he served as technical adviser for crosstown FC Ryukyu.\n\nIn March 2005, Ramos became coach of the Japan national beach soccer team and took them to the 2005 World Cup, where they finished fourth.\n\nIn January 2006, he was named coach of his former squad Tokyo Verdy, freshly relegated from J1 League. After a disappointing 2006 season in J2 League, Coach Ramos stated that if his team did not win the first game of the 2007 season, he would step down as head coach. The first game was on March 4 against Thespa Kusatsu, one of the weakest teams in the league, and Tokyo won this match 5-0. His team managed to finish 2nd after all and Tokyo Verdy returned to Division 1. After the season, Ramos became the executive director of the club.\n\nIn 2009, Ramos became a manager for Japan national beach soccer team again. He managed at 2009, 2011 and 2013 and 2019 FIFA World Cup.\n\nIn 2014, Ramos signed with J2 League club FC Gifu. However the results of the club were bad every season and he was sacked in July 2016.\n\nIn 2018, Ramos was selected Japan Football Hall of Fame.\n\n\nClub\nNational Team\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289063", "title": "Live Album (Grand Funk Railroad album)", "text": "Live Album (Grand Funk Railroad album)\n\nLive Album is the first live album by American hard rock band Grand Funk Railroad, originally released by Capitol Records on November 16, 1970. The first single released from the album, \"Mean Mistreater\", was released on November 23 and the second, \"Inside Looking Out\", was released in January 1971.\n\nThe album was originally released as a double album on the LP format. Subsequent reissues of the album on the compact disc format have been both double and single disc sets.\n\nThe album's gatefold cover depicts a photograph of the band at the Atlanta International Pop Festival during the weekend of the 4th of July 1970, but none of the music was actually recorded there. According to the liner notes on the 2002 CD reissue, the album was recorded at the Jacksonville Coliseum on June 23, 1970 with the exception of \"Paranoid\" and \"Inside Looking Out\" which were recorded at the West Palm Beach Civic Auditorium on June 24, 1970. \"Heartbreaker\" is listed as being recorded at 'either Jacksonville or West Palm Beach'. A further three tracks (\"In Need\", \"Heartbreaker\" and \"Mean Mistreater\") from The Orlando Sports Center on June 25, 1970 are included as bonus tracks on the \"Closer to Home\" 2002 CD.\n\nUpon the album's release, \"Live Album\" was panned by the critics, while becoming commercially successful.\n\nThe reception of \"Live Album\" by music critics upon the album's release were unfavorable. Popular music critic Robert Christgau said of the album \"I know they have a great--even grand--audience. But an audience and a live album aren't the same thing--not the same thing at all\". He then gave the album a C- rating. A modern review of the album by James Chrispell for AllMusic stated the opinion that people either loved or hated the album. Chrispell also gave the opinion that Grand Funk Railroad were the most popular live act of their time and said that the concerts were powerful.\n\nDespite the massive dislike of the album by music critics, \"Live Album\" became very successful in the United States, peaking at No. 5 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and crossed over to the R&B Albums chart at No. 17—the band's only album to do so. The album was so successful that it was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America a week after its release and was eventually certified 2x multi-platinum in 1991. \"Live Album\" also became the group's first and only release to make the top 40 on the UK Albums Chart, peaking at No. 29. Side two, in particular, featured their two strongest airplay cuts \"Heartbreaker\" and \"Inside-Looking Out\". The barely hidden drug references on \"Inside-Looking Out\" may have not won them favor at Top 40, but, it proved perfect for the new burgeoning FM band where the group also probably benefited from, oddly enough, R&B play taking the album to a prideful No. 17 on that chart.\n\n\"Introduction\" and \"Words of Wisdom\" are spoken-word tracks featuring Mark Farner's stage banter with the audience; consequently, original pressings of \"Live Album\" did not list author credits for these tracks. All other tracks are by Mark Farner, except where noted.\n\n\n\n\n\nOn the CD reissue, the order of the songs has been re-sequenced to reflect the order of performance used in the band's 1970 concerts:\n\n"}
{"id": "2289072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289072", "title": "Saul Shapiro", "text": "Saul Shapiro\n\nSaul Taylor Shapiro is the New York City franchisee of Fibrenew doing business as Fibrenew Manhattan Central.\n\nShapiro was born to Florence and Seymour Shapiro in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York.\n\nA materials science engineering graduate of Brown University, Shapiro has also received an SM in engineering from MIT and an SM in management from the MIT Sloan School of Management as a Leaders for Manufacturing Fellow (now Leaders for Global Operations program). Both of these degrees from MIT were earned in 1991.\n\nHe studied furniture design under Tage Frid and Hank Gilpin at the Rhode Island School of Design for two semesters and attended Harvard University's Graduate School of Design for the first year of a three year Master's program.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2012, Shapiro served as President of the Metropolitan Television Alliance, LLC (MTVA). The MTVA was formed by the New York area television broadcast stations shortly after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Those attacks completely destroyed New York’s analog and digital over-the-air television broadcast infrastructure.\n\nThe MTVA’s mission was to coordinate the recovery and the initial rebuilding of that infrastructure at the Empire State Building, and to locate and develop permanent facilities to replace those lost in 2001. This effort included the relocation of stations to temporary facilities in the immediate aftermath of the attacks, the design and construction of analog and digital facilities at the Empire State Building to meet ongoing broadcast needs, and investigation of the design and construction of the possibility of facilities on top of One World Trade Center (the Freedom Tower). In addition, the MTVA investigated methods to further enhance over-the-air digital signals originating from the Empire State Building facility. This work was funded by a grant administered by the Office of Telecommunications and Information Applications (OTIA) within the National Telecommunications and Infrastructure Administration (NTIA), an office of the Department of Commerce.\n\nPreviously Shapiro served four years as Vice President of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, covering the Media and Telecommunications sectors. He was responsible for attracting investment and expansion of domestic and international companies to NYC, and to serve as an advocate for companies and industries in their dealings with city government.\n\nShapiro joined the EDC with experience stretching across both electronic media and telecommunications services and technology, including Sony, the FCC, ABC Television Network and the Internet.\n\nAt Sony Corporation of America he served as Vice President of Broadband Services, responsible for new business opportunities based on emerging technologies and standards, with particular focus on the strategic integration of Sony’s US e-business initiatives.\n\nShapiro was COO at Gist Communications, then the leading independent online provider of TV listings and editorial, from 1999 to 2001. He helped redirect the company’s efforts to developing on-screen interactive applications for a variety of set-top platforms. Shapiro joined Gist from ABC Television where, as Vice President, Broadcast Technology, he was responsible for developing strategic technical initiatives and the network’s transition to digital television broadcast technology.\n\nShapiro came to ABC after serving as Assistant Bureau Chief for Technology Policy in the Mass Media Bureau of the Federal Communications Commission. While at the FCC, Mr. Shapiro led a team of engineers, economists and lawyers in drafting Rulemakings and Orders for the introduction of digital television to the US broadcast market. He also acted as policy advisor to the Chairman on technological developments and trends in digital media, as well as topics related to the convergence of communications technologies.\n\nPrior to joining the FCC, Shapiro was Director of New Business Development with Sony Corporation of America responsible for identifying new opportunities for Sony’s Television Business Group in the emerging digital era.\n\nPrior to entering the broadcast television business, he was a microelectronics process development engineer for a variety of firms in the Boston area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289076", "title": "Ernest W. Barrett Parkway", "text": "Ernest W. Barrett Parkway\n\nErnest W. Barrett Parkway (more commonly Barrett Parkway) is a major thoroughfare in the northwestern part of the Atlanta metropolitan area, in the north-central part of Cobb County, in the U.S. state of Georgia. It travels from the southeastern edge of Kennesaw to a point north of Marietta, and continues on in both directions under other names. The portion of Barrett Parkway between Interstate 575 (I-575/SR 5) and US 41/SR 3 (Cobb Parkway) is designated State Route 5 Connector. The road is named after Ernest W. Barrett, the first chairman of the Cobb County Board of Commissioners in the 1960s, after home rule was enacted under a Georgia State Constitution amendment. The initial portion was constructed through Barrett family land, enabling it to be later sold for major development.\n\nMuch of the original Barrett Parkway was taken from the two-lane Roberts Road, which generally went from Cobb Parkway (constructed around 1949 for US 41) to Bell's Ferry Road and served an area that was rural in nature. During the 1980s, dramatically-increased land development, most notably the extension of I-75 in 1977 (which cut Roberts Road in half south of Barrett Parkway), the construction of I-575 in 1980, and the completion of the major regional Town Center at Cobb shopping mall in 1986, strained the road to capacity, and was subsequently widened to six lanes (three in each direction, plus turn lanes) with a median by the Cobb County Department of Transportation. Turn lanes were only at the numerous traffic lights. In the mid-1990s, Barrett Parkway was extended by a completely new median-divided highway southwest of US 41 to Burnt Hickory Road, then by widening Ridgeway Road south to SR 120, west of the city of Marietta. This was briefly called West Cobb Parkway (which created potential confusion with Cobb Parkway).\n\nToday, Barrett Parkway is densely packed east of Old 41 Highway with major shopping centers and restaurants. West of Old 41 Highway, Barrett Parkway is mostly residential, but increasingly commercial near the intersection of SR 120 (Dallas Highway). The southeast side of the road is more affiliated with Marietta and the northwest more with Kennesaw. A large industrial park lies to the west. Stilesboro Road east from Barrett Parkway, and Old US 41 south from it, meet at the historic Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, next to the visitor center.\n\nBarrett Parkway is unique in that even though it is a major area route, it remains under local control (with exception to the state route portion) and was built entirely with county funds. Combined with the East–West Connector and Cumberland Parkway, the route doubly serves as a western bypass of Marietta and connects the two major malls of the county, Cumberland Mall and Town Center at Cobb. The route could possibly also carry a bypassed SR 5 in the future, as the city of Marietta has been planning to have it moved away from downtown Marietta entirely, though no action has yet been taken on that measure.\n\nIn 2003, the county commission extended the name of the parkway southward along other roads. This included the short Ridgeway Road (to which the parkway itself was extended) which originally ran only from Burnt Hickory Road in the north, about south to SR 120. Villa Rica Road, which was realigned westward at SR 120 to meet Ridgeway to complete the loop, also had its parkway-widened portion renamed. Where a new highway was built to replace Villa Rica Road, what became \"Old Villa Rica Road\" at the time was then returned to being just \"Villa Rica Road\" again. The very short Villa Rica Way at SR 120 still retains that name, but was the original northern terminus for Villa Rica Road before its realignment to meet Ridgeway.\n\nAs a result of these changes, the Barrett Parkway name now ends at the east–west Connector near Austell. Its northeastern end is at Bells Ferry Road, east of which it continues as Piedmont Road (not to be confused with SR 237, the Piedmont Road in Atlanta). That road curves down around to the south, meeting SR 120 again on the other side of Marietta; here SR 120 is called Roswell Road.\n\nIn November 2009, the long viaduct over the flood plain of Noses Creek and its tributary Ward Creek was named the William \"Bill\" G. Jordan Bridge, in honor of the civil engineer who designed it. It is located south of Villa Rica Road and north of Macland Road (SR 360) at . Due to the environmental impact, this was the last and most expensive section to be built.\n\nDespite being only a few years old, the newer section of Barrett Parkway is already slated to be widened. After a small minority of residents approved a sales tax increase in a little-known referendum in September 2005, one of the projects to be funded is making it a six-lane highway from US 41 to SR 120. This would give it as many lanes as some much busier roads in the county, and would contradict promises made to residents before initial 1990s construction. It would also bring the highway right up to the backs of many homes. The project was expected at the time to cost nearly 50 million tax dollars, including 38 million from the special local option sales tax, which also taxes basic necessities like groceries.\n\nPreviously, the only other east–west route across the Town Center area was Chastain Road, one exit to the north on both I-75 and I-575, which travel parallel to each other between the Barrett and Chastain exits. Both of these are choked with traffic, particularly due to the mall (which can take nearly an hour to travel across during Christmas shopping weekends), and due to the rapid expansion of Kennesaw State University (KSU, which now covers several location distant from the main campus). Because of this, two new parallel routes were planned.\n\n, the South Barrett Reliever is partly completed, extending the four-lane divided Barrett Lakes Boulevard southwestward down formerly two-lane Greers Chapel Road to Cobb Parkway (where it continues as Ridenour Road, renamed from its historic name for a new development of expensive homes adjacent to it). This portion was completed by 2011. According to medium-range plans, the original Roberts Road behind (south of) Costco will later be widened in the same manner, and eventually reconnected with itself across I-75 south of The Home Depot on the other side. In longer-range plans, a new roadway will be constructed from this point eastward to Bells Ferry Road, including a second bridge across I-575. This would take the road through untouched forest and next to a neighborhood around Laura Lake, which feeds Noonday Creek.\n\nThe North Barrett Reliever consisted of reconnecting the severed portions of Big Shanty Road, which from I-75's construction in the early 1970s until July 2012 traveled only from Bells Ferry Road west under I-575 to Busbee Parkway. Instead of terminating before I-75 as it did, it now continues west across a former go-kart track to the other side, crossing Barrett Lakes Boulevard and a bridge over an unnamed tributary of Noonday Creek, to meet the southern tip of a loop road south of Chastain Road. To carry traffic around the KSU area, the western half of that road was also widened to four-lane divided with turn lanes like the rest of Big Shanty Road (west of Chastain Meadows Parkway), and the name was changed to match as well, again making for a single continuous Big Shanty Road to all the way north of Chastain, and leaving the eastern half of the loop as a three-lane side street.\n\nTo complete this, traffic on I-75 was detoured in 2011 onto temporary roadways in the very wide median where trees used to be, and much of the dirt removed to construct new bridges, a project done by the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT). Completed and opened in early June 2012, the detour roads and the rest of the dirt below them and the bridges was removed during the remainder of the month, and the already-completed portions of the road on either side were quickly connected under the bridges for the July opening. This new alternate route connects KSU with its new soccer stadium, and would also be a bus rapid transit station and an interchange with the reversible express lanes on the proposed Northwest Corridor HOV/BRT.\n\nThere is also a further \"wish list\" that includes ramps from I-575 southbound to I-75 northbound, and vice versa, so that traffic will not have to use Chastain or Barrett to do so. However, this is unlikely to affect traffic, as very few cars do this, and the few motorists that do would be unlikely to make a backtrack of extra just to use the ramps. The ramps would also likely be expensive due to the large amount of rock in the area, as is seen on both freeways where they cross the ridge immediately north of where they split.\n\nThe road was exit 116 and is now mile 269 on I-75. It was exit 1 and is still mile 1 on I-575, which originally had no northbound exit to or southbound entrance from Barrett Parkway. Those ramps were not built until the late 1980s or early 1990s, a few years after the mall opened. In August 2007, new ramp meters have been installed by GDOT on both the northbound and southbound entrance ramps, and were activated along with the others on I-575 in 2008, as part of the Georgia Navigator intelligent transportation system.\n\nCobb DOT also operates a traffic camera at this interchange, at Mall Boulevard to its immediate west, at the southwest corner of the I-75 northbound intersection, and at Barrett Lakes Boulevard. Adverse conditions observed on these cameras are displayed on small variable message signs to drivers coming from the northwest on US 41, or from the southwest on Barrett Parkway, just before Old 41 (which becomes Main Street in Kennesaw and Kennesaw Avenue in Marietta). These are the last intersections before US 41 and Barrett meet, allowing drivers to take an alternate route if necessary.\n\nTo the east, another camera is located at Piedmont Road and Canton Road, however there are no message signs in this direction. Elsewhere along the road, in either direction, there are no cameras or message signs at all.\n\nIn southwest Cobb, at Powder Springs Road (original SR 5), Barrett Parkway changes name to East–West Connector, and bends southeast. Its intersection with Austell Road (currently SR 5) is a major commercial district, with a number of big-box retailers. The northwest corner is also home to Cobb Hospital. This section was constructed around 1986, while the section to Hicks Road was done in 1988.\n\nFrom here, it then travels east to SR 280 (South Cobb Drive), through the Concord Covered Bridge Historic District. In order to protect the historic covered bridge (listed on the National Register of Historic Places) and the natural area around it, it does not connect with Concord Road (called Spring Road through Smyrna), but rather travels under it. Additionally, the bridge carrying it over the highway has wooden siding, so that it blends-in much better with the area, looking somewhat like a boxcar. A rust-colored bridge made of weathering steel carries the Silver Comet Trail over the highway. This section was built last while these concerns were addressed.\n\nThis area is also notable for the deep, gorge-like cuts into the rock, like between the Silver Comet Trail and Concord Road overpasses.\n\nBuilt before the extension of Barrett Parkway, part of the eastward extension of this roadway was derived from an extended portion of Fontaine Road. The point where the two meet is now a trailhead for the Silver Comet Trail.\n\nThe highway becomes Cumberland Parkway at South Cobb Drive, and continues roughly northeast toward Atlanta Road (the original US 41; called Marietta Boulevard nearby in Atlanta). The northeast corner of that intersection is now home to a mixed-use development, which is in contrast to the newly developed residential area around it. The road continues generally northeastward, crossing I-285, and ending at Cumberland Boulevard, opposite the Costco entrance to Cumberland Mall. That entire stretch of roadway is in the Vinings area.\n\nPiedmont Road is the continuation of Barrett Parkway on the northeastern end, heading east from Bells Ferry Road. From there, it crosses Canton Road (former SR 5) and Old Piedmont Road (a previous alignment), and the Georgia Northeastern Railroad tracks. It crosses Sandy Plains Road at the Sandy Plains community, and meets Allgood Road and then Sewell Mill Road, its original end before being extended to Roswell Road (SR 120) around 1987. This road was widened to four lanes in three phases during the late 1980s and early to mid 1990s. It is mostly residential and entirely divided, with pin oak, holly, and other smaller trees in the medians, and left-turn lanes. This is the largest link between the mall and east Cobb.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289078", "title": "Marc Storace", "text": "Marc Storace\n\nMarc Storace (\"Sto-rah-che\") (born October 7, 1951) is a Maltese born rock vocalist. His career in music started in the 1960s. He is most noted for his position as frontman, lead singer and songwriter of Swiss hard rock band Krokus from 1980. Before joining \"Krokus\" he sang with the Swiss Prog Rockers \"TEA\". He has since also undertaken a solo project, duets, an acoustical project, and many guest slots. He also had some close encounters with the classical meets rock world and has worked with a few other rock acts as writer and a singer.\n\nMarc has a high pitched raunchy voice, making him a very distinct vocalist, and has been compared, according to most music-journalists, to AC/DC's former lead singer Bon Scott or Led Zeppelin's Robert Plant in terms of vocal style. Since he began singing professionally in the 1970s, his style and voice have remained largely the same, with a noticeable increase of character, through maturity and years of \"live\" and \"studio\" experience.\n\nMarc played a major role in the Swiss-German films \"Anuk\" and \"Handyman\", in which he acted, as well as contributed his writing and singing to songs for both the film's soundtracks.\n\nToday, January 2019, Marc is still active in rock projects as well as his \"ongoing\" semi-acoustic one. Krokus will embark on their \"Farewell Tour\" this April.\n\nBorn as Mark Anthony Storace Crockford, one of six children to Anthony Storace and Edna Crockford on the Mediterranean island of Malta, Marc taught himself to sing at a fairly young age. His life in bands began at the age of fourteen (1965) when he made his first live performances with two local bands: Stonehenge Union (who covered the likes of the Beatles, the Rolling Stones , the Troggs and the Kinks) and: The Boys (who covered some of the same songs, as well as newer chart material containing more vocally challenging songs e.g. Aquarius from the Musical \"HAIR\"). Inspired by the gigantic WOODSTOCK Festival in the late 1960s, Marc renamed The Boys to Cinnamon Hades. Whilst retaining the popular Beatles \"Abbey Road Medley\" the band started to cover Iron Butterfly, Jimi Hendrix, and Hard Rock acts such as The Who, Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath.\n\nWanting to follow his dream of making a career as a rock musician, Marc was forced to leave his beloved island home. He moved to London in 1970. \n\nFurther on in his career, after joining Krokus, many people who heard Marc sing thought that he sounded like Bon Scott of AC/DC. He did not take this as a compliment at the time, saying that, with all respect to Bon, he had his own singing identity (proof of this is on ballads and other songs he recorded with TEA & KROKUS) Marc was later approached (by a production company used by both AC/DC and KROKUS at the time) to audition for the frontman job with AC/DC after Bon's tragic death, but Krokus was enjoying a very fast increase in success whilst at that point in time AC/DC was not that huge, so Marc preferred to stay with his new mates.\n\nAt the end of 1971, Marc joined Swiss progressive hard rock band TEA. With them, he toured Europe with big acts such as Queen, Nazareth,or The (Ginger) Baker Gurvitz Army; and released three studio albums: \"TEA\", \"The Ship\" and \"Tax Exiles\". All were produced by Dieter Dierks, at that time the man behind the Scorpions. For a while, TEA became Switzerland's international rock Flagship, performing as far as Hamburg, London, Wales, Glasgow, Naples and even Malta. \n\nIn 1976, TEA performed their last tour, taking Krokus on-the-road as supporting act. The seed was sown for what followed later on. Meanwhile, Marc returned to London and formed the band Eazy Money. Their song \"Telephone Man\" was included on a Metal-Music-Compilation album called \"Metal for Muthas Vol.2\". In 1979, he received a call from Krokus founder Chris Von Rohr, who told him they were looking for a new singer and invited Marc for a \"weekend jam\" in Switzerland. One exciting long weekend session later, Marc decided to join Chris, Tommy, Fern and Freddie in their quest for Hard Rock success!\n\nIn 1980, Marc recorded and released his debut album with Krokus, \"Metal Rendez-vous\". It became Krokus's first big International hit album, the first to make the Gold & Platinum Status(today 4 x Platinum). With Marc on board, Krokus's success increased dramatically, and from then until 1988 they toured extensively, mostly in the United States, Canada and Europe, with tours lasting up to nine months, as well as releasing a further six studio albums (\"Hardware\", \"One Vice at a Time\", \"Headhunter\", \"The Blitz\", \"Change of Address\" and \"Heart Attack\") and one live album (\"Alive and Screamin'\"). It was an intense long period of constant writing, recording and touring without a break. A physically demanding period spent mostly in rehearsal-rooms, recording-studios, hotel-rooms and tour-buses, and all for the common goal of staying in business rocking their fans. During all this time Marc kept his residence in London. Krokus went their ways in the summer of 1988.\n\nIn 1994, Marc and Fernando Von Arb re-formed the band, and a Reunion Tour commenced with a reformed \"One Vice At A Time \" formation, but with Mané Maurer replacing Chris Von Rohr on bass, since he was busy producing Swiss Rockers Gotthard at that time. The turn-out for their Concerts was satisfying, so in 1995, Krokus released another studio album, \"To Rock or Not to Be\". It went Gold. \nThe year 2002 saw Krokus, with an altered line-up to that of the 1988 hiatus and 1994 return (basically with the DC World -AC/DC Tribute- line-up plus Fernando & Marc) releasing \"Rock The Block\". This was followed by one of their most extensive Tours of Europe so far, playing Swedenrock Festival and, on the personal invitation of the late great Claude Nobs (the same \"funky Claude\" in Deep Purple's \"Smoke On The Water\":) the prestigious \"Montreux Jazz Festival\" too.\nA limited number of DVD's of that Montreux Gig was included with their following release, a Double-Album \"Fire & Gasoline\" containing magnificent \"LIVE\" Recordings from many Gigs off their \"Rock The Block\" European Tour. \n\nA comeback in the USA happened in September 2005 with Mandy Meyer on board, replacing Fernando Von Arb (the latter having undergone surgery to his hand) on lead guitar. It was a very intense Club-Tour in which the band played 22 Gigs in 30 days. The Tour served to enhance the team-spirit in the new line-up before their coming song-writing phase for the follow-up album \"Hellraiser\". The Hellraiser formation toured Europe as Guests of the Swedish Metalband - Hammerfall. They played places where Krokus had never visited before including Greece and Malta.\n\nIn 2007, 4 members from the old Metal-Rendezvous album line-up: Marc, Fern Chris & Fred, came back together for a mere 3 minute slot on a Swiss TV Show called \"Die Grösste Schweizer Hits\" or \"The Biggest swiss Hits\". Their short Medley was received with standing ovations by the TV-audience present. This rekindled the band's early 80's spirit and was followed by a comeback concert of the originals at the \"Stade De Suisse\" in Bern. Since then a reborn Krokus has given us two more studio-albums: \"Hoodoo\" and, after a quick line-up change, \"Dirty Dynamite\". For the latter Marc's vocals were recorded at the legendary \"Abbey Road\" studios in London. \nThe third \"live\" album to date called \"Longstick Goes Boom\", was recorded during 5 consecutive shows at the prestigious venue \"Kofmehl\" in the band's hometown of Solothurn, Switzerland. (This album represents, more or less, the present \"live\" sound of Krokus - Jan.2019) \n\nIn 2015 Krokus flew to Miami to literally embark on a promo-tour for their new \"live\" album, playing the \"Monsters Of Rock Cruise\" in the Caribbean and then continued with several USA dates. They ended their \"Longstick Goes Boom\" Tour with two shows at the prestigious venue the Whisky a Go Go in Los Angeles. \n\nIn 2016, Marc's name appeared on various \"Lists of Singers\" considered as best candidates to replace Brian Johnson as lead vocalist of AC/DC. Krokus were working on a new album at the time. \n\nBIG ROCKS, a collection of covers by artists who influenced individual band members since their teens, was released by Krokus in January 2017. It went straight to No.1 in the Swiss Charts.\n\nMarc has been Krokus' vocalist/frontman since October 1979, and has sung on all but 5 of the band's studio recordings.\n\nKROKUS ALBUMS containing Marc Storace's lead vocals:\n\nBIG ROCKS - 2017 ; \nDIRTY DYNAMITE - 2013 ; \nHOODOO - 2010 ; \nHELLRAISER - 2006 ; \nFIRE & GASOLINE (Live-Double) - 2004 ;\nROCK THE BLOCK - 2003 ; \nTO ROCK OR NOT TO BE - 1995 ; \nHEART ATTACK - 1988 ; \nALIVE and SCREAMIN`- 1987 ; \nCHANGE OF ADDRESS - 1986 ; \nTHE BLITZ - 1984 ; \nHEADHUNTER - 1983 ; \nONE VICE AT A TIME - 1982 ; \nHARDWARE - 1981 ; \nMETAL RENDEZ-VOUS 1980 ;\n\nIn spring 1989, after Krokus's split and a refreshing break in Malta, Marc returned to Switzerland and wrote songs for his first solo project together with guitar-player Vic Vergeat, his long time friend from the TEA days (Vic played in TOAD when Marc sang in TEA, and he was mostly famous for his one on one guitar interpretations of Jimi Hendrix), \"The Blue Album\". It contains a rare collection of melodic, soul influenced rock songs, and was released in 1991 by EurostarGermany. BLUE was re-released in 1998 by BMG Records, Switzerland under the new name \"Vergeat-Storace\"- When A Man - ! The album was produced by Robert Papst and Vic Vergeat in Münich, Germany. Robert also co-wrote the Swiss-radio-hit \"You can`t Stop the Rainfall\".\n\nShortly after AC/DC vocalist Bon Scott's death in 1980, Marc was indirectly asked to audition for the job but things were going extremely well for Krokus at the time. He also claimed that, besides his feelings of loyalty to his mates, he felt happy with the way things were going for Krokus.\n\nIn 1993, Marc joined as guest with the Swiss rock band China. A live album of the band's one and only tour with Marc in 1993 was eventually released on the CD called \"Alive!\" in 2000. (This concert was a \"live\" Swiss radio broadcast of their gig in Sempach released by Phonag Records).\n\nWith China's guitarists Freddie Lawrence and Claudio Matteo, Marc formed Acoustical Mountain that same year. This unplugged trio, performing without drums, played rock 'n' roll classics around Switzerland but never released any albums, making them a \"live-only\" project. They split and then reformed in 1995, this time with China's bassist Brian Kofmehl replacing Freddie, who moved on to join Swiss melodic-rockers Gotthard. In the meantime Brian was replaced by Charly Preissel on 2nd guitar. Marc and Claudio still perform as a Duo at \"Private-Events\" as Acoustical Mountain, and sometimes with Charly Preissel.www.acoustical-mountain.com\n\nIn 1994, during a break in his Krokus Reunion duties, Marc joined Manfred Ehlert's Amen to release an album in the same year.Glenn Hughes sang on some tracks. Marc's second album with Amen was called \"Aguilar\" (1996) with Marc singing all but one track.\n\nIn 2003 during another break from Krokus, Marc wrote and recorded with Los Angeles based metal rockers Warrior. This collaboration resulted in the one-off album The Wars of Gods and Men. Released in the USA and Switzerland in 2004, it was Storace's first collaboration with an American band. Working with guitarist and founding member Joe Floyd the album was recorded in Los Angeles. \n\nNovember 2004 saw German producer Michael Voss invite Marc to collaborate on the new album of the band BISS titled \"Face-off\" that was released in 2005. It was a melodic rock album and Marc said the songs were \"refreshing\". \n\nThe following year, 2006, saw yet another release by BISS featuring Marc on the album \"X-Tension\". \n\nAs of February 2016, Storace has starred in the rock-opera \"TEST\" in the role of Luke (premiered on 20 February 2016)\n\nDuring the same year, Marc recorded the album \"Muscle & Blood\" with Billy Stokes & friends in Tucson Arizona. The album also features Pat Travers, Les Dudek, Frank Marino and Damon Barnaby on guitars.This was a \"Wounded Warrior Project\" with thanks to Paralyzed Veterans of America from Billy, who himself is a veteran.\n\nIn 2006, Marc took part in the Swiss-German film \"Anuk\", playing the role of Geisterzunge, a tribal medicine-man / Shaman. Produced by Luke Gasser (who also plays the lead role), the film tells the story of a Bronze Age tribe trying to save itself from eradication by ruthless marauding horsemen in the panoramic Swiss Alps. Marc co-wrote the soundtrack with Gasser and sings on the song \"On My Own\" together with Gasser and Doro Pesch. His Shaman chanting can be heard throughout the movie soundtrack.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289079", "title": "Stodhart Tunnel", "text": "Stodhart Tunnel\n\nStodhart Tunnel is a tunnel on the Peak Forest Tramway at Chapel Milton, Derbyshire. The tunnel stretches under the Chapel-en-le-Firth to Glossop Road. Although one side has been blocked up, it remains one of the oldest rail-related tunnels in the world and was also the site of one of the earliest rail-related accidents, when a laden carriage rolled into two horses, killing them.\n\nThe tunnel was built in 1796 for the Peak Forest Tramway. Designed by Benjamin Outram, it was built out of gritstone with ashlar coping. Originally considered as an open cutting, it was designed in the style of canal tunnels, so as to not disturb the owners of the nearby Stodhart Lodge. It ran for about under the road between Chapel-en-le-Frith and Glossop, as a single track route. It remained a single-track route when the rest of the tramway was doubled, becoming a bottleneck on the line. The tunnel is also the site of one of the earliest railway accidents: six laden wagons broke free from their horses and rolled back into a following team, killing both horses and injuring an apprentice.\n\nOne side of the tunnel was filled in during road realignment in 1949, so it is only accessible from the other side. The tunnel was designated a grade II* listed building on 3 September 1985 and is on the Buildings at Risk Register. From the 1950s part of the tunnel and about of track was tar sealed and used to test Ferodo brakes. The tunnel was used to test the effect of humidity on brakes. Until May 2013, it was considered to be the earliest rail-related tunnel in the world, but is now believed to be pre-dated by Fritchley Tunnel on the Butterley Gangroad at Fritchley, also in Derbyshire. \n"}
{"id": "2289081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289081", "title": "Symbolic anthropology", "text": "Symbolic anthropology\n\nSymbolic anthropology or, more broadly, symbolic and interpretive anthropology, is the study of cultural symbols and how those symbols can be used to gain a better understanding of a particular society. According to Clifford Geertz, \"[b]elieving, with Max Weber, that man is an animal suspended in webs of significance he himself has spun, I take culture to be those webs, and the analysis of it to be therefore not an experimental science in search of law but an interpretive one in search of meaning\".\n\nProminent symbolic anthropologists include Clifford Geertz, David Schneider, Victor Turner and Mary Douglas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289091", "title": "Salil Chowdhury", "text": "Salil Chowdhury\n\nSalil Chowdhury; 19 November 1925 - 5 September 1995) was an Indian songwriter, music director, lyricist , writer and poet, who predominantly composed for Bengali, Hindi, Malayalam films. He went on to compose music for films in 13 languages. This includes over 75 Hindi films, 41 Bengali films, around 27 Malayalam films, and a few Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Gujarati, Oriya and Assamese films. His musical ability was widely recognised and acknowledged in the Indian film industry. He was an accomplished composer and arranger who was proficient in several musical instruments, including flute, the piano, and the esraj. He was also widely acclaimed and admired for his inspirational and original poetry in Bengali.\n\nThe first Bengali film for which Chowdhury composed music was \"Paribortan\", released in 1949. \"Mahabharati\", released in 1994, was the last of the 41 Bengali films where he rendered his music. He is affectionately called \"Salilda\" by his admirers.\nSalil Chowdhury was first married to Jyoti Chowdhury in July 1953 with whom he had three daughters, Aloka, Tulika and Lipika.\n\nLater he married versatile singer Sabita Chowdhury, with whom he had two sons [Sukanta and Sanjoy] and two daughters [Antara and Sanchari]. Sanjoy Chowdhury is a successful music composer himself and scored music for over a 100 feature films. Sabita Chowdhury was a Legendary singer and their daughter, Antara Chowdhury is a performing artist. Smt Sabita Chowdhury died on 29 June 2017.\n\nSalil Chowdhury was born on 19 November 1925 in a village called Gazipur in South 24 Parganas, West Bengal. Salil's childhood was spent in the tea gardens region of Assam. His father was reputed to stage plays with coolies and other low-paid workers of the tea-gardens. From an early age he listened to the Western Classical collection of his father. During the second world war Salil Chowdhury got the opportunity to closely observe human sufferings, hunger and problem of the refugees. He studied in Harinavi D.V.A.S High School and there after graduating from Bangabasi College, affiliated to the University of Calcutta in Kolkata, and during this period his political ideas were formulated along with a considerable maturity in his musical ideas.\n\nAs a teenager in school, Chowdhury already had an interest in music, and played the flute, harmonium and esraj. He learnt to play the piano from his elder brother at the age of 6. Once in college, he also began to compose tunes. His first popular song was \"\"Becharpoti tomar bichaar\"\" (lit. the days of new judgement have come because people are now awake), set to a kirtan tune. Chowdhury composed it in 1945 during the Indian National Army trials when the freedom fighters had returned from Andaman jail. Chowdhury shifted to a village in 24 parganas to live with his maternal uncles, when he was witness to a big peasant uprising there in 1943. He got involved with them and began writing songs for the peasant movement. In 1944, while studying for his MA, Chowdhury witnessed people dying on the streets of Calcutta, as 50 lakh Bengalis died during the famine created by the British. The famine was manmade as local rice was instead directed to Britain's war effort overseas, leading to scarcity, aggravated by black marketeers and hoarders. This led Chowdhury to become fully involved in the peasant movement, and he became a full-time member of IPTA and the Communist Party. Subsequently, arrest warrants were issued in his name, and he went underground in the Sunderbans, hiding in paddy fields and supported by local peasants. During this time, he continued writing plays and songs.\n\nIn 1944, a young Salil came to Calcutta for his graduate studies. He joined the IPTA (Indian Peoples Theater Association) the cultural wing of the Communist Party of India. He started writing songs and setting tunes for them. The IPTA theatrical outfit travelled through the villages and the cities bringing these songs to the common man. Songs like \"Bicharpati\", \"Runner\" and \"Abak prithibi\" became extremely popular with the general population at the time.\n\nSongs like \"Gnaayer bodhu\" (গাঁয়ের বধূ), which he composed at the age of 20, brought about a new wave of Bengali music. Almost every notable singer at the time from West Bengal had sung at least one of his songs. A few examples are Debabrata Biswas, Hemanta Mukherjee, Shyamal Mitra, Sandhya Mukherjee, Manabendra Mukherjee, Subir Sen and Pratima Banerjee.\n\n The first Bengali film in which Salil Chowdhury composed music was \"Paribortan\", released in 1949. \"Mahabharati\", released in 1994, was the last of the 41 Bengali films where he rendered his music.\n\nIn an interview with All India Radio, Salil Chowdhury described his coming to Bombay in 1953 as a \"stroke of luck\". He was writing the script for a Bengali film, about a peasant who was disowned of his land and had gone to Calcutta to earn money as a Rickshaw puller. Hrishikesh Mukherjee, who heard of it from Chowdhury during a visit to Calcutta liked it immensely and suggested that he narrate it to Bimal da (Bimal Roy). Bimal Roy heard it, and asked him to meet him again the next morning. However, when Chowdhury went to meet him the next day, he learnt that Roy had rushed to Bombay on an urgent call. A week later, he received a telegram from Roy that he wanted to turn his script into a movie. This resulted in Chowdhury's debut in the Hindi Film Industry in 1953 as the Music Director for Do Bigha Zamin (based on Tagore's poem/narrative by the same name, but the story was different. The story was written by Salil Chowdhury himself. Directed by Bimal Roy, this film took his career to new heights when it became the first film to win the Filmfare Best Movie Award and won the international Prize at the Cannes Film Festival.\nAfter working for about 20 years in Bengali and Hindi films, he entered Malayalam film industry and in 1964 composed music for the movie Chemmeen. He went on to compose music for films in 13 languages. This includes over 75 Hindi films, 41 Bengali films, around 27 Malayalam films, and a few Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Gujarati, Oriya and Assamese films. Asked about his method, Chowdhury described it thus – He would usually ask the film maker to explain the situation to him, then Chowdhury would compose a tune to suit the mood, and the lyric writer would set in words. This remained his practice for most of his films including Madhumati, in which Shailendra wrote the lyrics subsequently.\n\nPoet, Playwright, Short story writer, Salil also directed a film Pinjre Ke Panchhi starring Meena Kumari, Balraj Sahani and Mehmood based\non his own story and screenplay in 1966.\nSalil Chowdhury was the Founder of Bombay Youth Choir, the first ever Secular Choir in India in 1958 as it's composer and conductor -\nhe inspired scores of secular choir groups to be formed throughout India formulating a new genre of music using vocal polyphony for\nIndian Folk and Contemporary Music.\nT\n\n\nList of all songs for which Music or Lyrics were composed by Salil Chowdhury (in alphabetical order)\n\nIPTA:: Indian People's Theater Association\n\nA Hindi film directed by Bimal Roy based on a story in Bengali \"Rikshawalaa\" written by Salil Chowdhury.\n\n1st Filmfare Awards (1954)\nWinner – Best Film; Winner – Best Director – Bimal Roy;\n\n1st National Film Awards (India)\nWinner – All India Certificate of Merit for Best Feature Film\n\n7th Cannes Film Festival (1954)\nWinner – Prix International (International Prize)\nNominated – Grand Prize (Best Film)\n\nKarlovy Vary International Film Festival\nWinner – Prize for Social Progress\n\nA Malayalam film directed by Ramu Kariat, based on a novel of the same name written by the renowned writer Thakazhy Shivshankar Pillai, where Music Direction was done by Salil Chowdhury.\n\nRecipient of President's Gold Medal in 1965.\n\nReceived Filmfare Best Music Director Award along with eight other Filmfare awards\n\"Madhumati\" won the National Film Awards for Best Feature Film in Hindi\n\nThe Uttar Pradesh Film Patrakar Sangh Puraskar in 1966 for his only Hindi directorial film 'Pinjre Ke Panchhi'\n\nThe Bengal Films Journalist Award, Kolkata in 1973\n\nThe Allauddin Smriti Puraskar in 1985 from the Govt of West Bengal\n\n\nThe Maharahtra Gaurav Puraskar Award in 1990\n\nPosthumously he was awarded the Mukti Judhho Maitreyi Samman Award by the Govt\nBangladesh in 2012.\n\nPoet, Playwright, Short story writer, he also directed a film Pinjre Ke Panchhi starring Meena Kumari, Balraj Sahani and Mehmood b\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289094", "title": "Midi Minuit Fantastique", "text": "Midi Minuit Fantastique\n\nMidi Minuit Fantastique (1962–1972) was a French film magazine published by Eric Losfeld (publisher of Adonis Kyrou and film magazine \"Positif\"). Michel Caen and Alain Le Bris started it, accompanied by Jean Boullet and Jean-Claude Romer.\n\nThe magazine was dedicated to the fantastique, horror and science fiction films of the 1960s. It had a guide to the Parisian film theatres showing those cultish genres.\n\nSome \"Midi Minuit Fantastique\" issues were dedicated to special themes (King Kong, Dracula, \"The Most Dangerous Game\").\n\nIn later days, when acceptance of alternative canons of cinema had grown, \"Midi Minuit Fantastique\" sometimes dealt with more mainstream subject matter with profiles on Samuel Fuller, Otto Preminger or Federico Fellini.\n\nLiterary fiction was also the subject of \"Midi Minuit\", with an essay on Gaston Leroux by Jean Rollin. During its existence the magazine produced a total of twenty-four issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289103", "title": "Electron-capture dissociation", "text": "Electron-capture dissociation\n\nElectron-capture dissociation (ECD) is a method of fragmenting gas-phase ions for structure elucidation of peptides and proteins in tandem mass spectrometry. It is one of the most widely used techniques for activation and dissociation of mass selected precursor ion in MS/MS. It involves the direct introduction of low-energy electrons to trapped gas-phase ions.\n\nElectron-capture dissociation was developed by Roman Zubarev and Neil Kelleher while in Fred McLafferty's lab at Cornell University. Irradiation of melittin 4+ ions and ubiquitin 10+ ions (trapped in FT-MS cell) by laser pulses not only resulted in peculiar c', z fragmentation but also charge reduction. It was suggested that if FT cell is modified to trap cations and electrons simultaneously, secondary electrons emitted by UV photons increases the charge reduction effect and c′, z• fragmentation. Replacing UV laser with EI source led to the development of this new technique.\n\nElectron-capture dissociation typically involves a multiply protonated molecule M interacting with a free electron to form an odd-electron ion. Liberation of the electric potential energy results in fragmentation of the product ion.\n\nRate of electron capture dissociation not only depends on the frequency of ion–electron fragmentation reactions but also on the number of ions in an ion–electron interaction volume. Electron current density and cross-section of ECD is directly proportional to fragmentation frequency. An indirectly heated dispenser cathode used as an electron source results in larger electron current and larger emitting surface area.\n\nECD devices can be of two forms. It can trap analyte ions during the ECD stage or can undergo flow through mode where dissociation takes place as analyte ions flows continuously through the ECD region. Flow through mode has advantage over other mode because nearly all the analyte ion beam is used. However, that decreases the eﬃciency of ECD for flow through mode.\n\nECD produces significantly different types of fragment ions (although primarily c- and z-type, b-ions have been identified in ECD) than other MS/MS fragmentation methods such as electron-detachment dissociation (EDD) (primarily a and x types), collision-induced dissociation (CID) (primarily b and y type) and infrared multiphoton dissociation. CID and IRMPD introduce internal vibrational energy in some way or another, causing loss of post-translational modifications during fragmentation. In ECD, unique fragments (and complementary to CID) are observed, and the ability to fragment whole macromolecules effectively has been promising.\n\nAlthough ECD is primarily used in Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry, investigators have indicated that it has been successfully used in an ion-trap mass spectrometer. ECD can also do rapid integration of multiple scans in FTICR-MS if put in a combination with external accumulation.\n\nECD is a recently introduced MS/MS fragmentation technique and is still being investigated. The mechanism of ECD is still under debate but appears not to necessarily break the weakest bond and is therefore thought to be a fast process (nonergodic) where energy is not free to relax intramolecularly. Suggestions have been made that radical reactions initiated by the electron may be responsible for the action of ECD. In a similar MS/MS fragmentation technique called electron-transfer dissociation, the electrons are transferred by collision between the analyte cations and reagent anions.\n\nECD itself and combined with other MS is very useful for proteins and peptides containing multiple disulfide bonds. FTICR combined with ECD helps to recognize peptides containing disulfide bonds. ECD could also access important sequence information by activation of higher charged proteins. Moreover, disulfide bond cleavage takes place by ECD of multiply charge proteins or peptides produced by ESI. Electron capture by these proteins releases H atom, captured by the disulfide bond to cause its dissociation.\n\nECD with UV-based activation increases the top-down MS sequence coverage of disulfide bond containing proteins and cleaves a disulfide bond homolytically to produce two separated thiol radicals. This technique was observed with insulin and ribonuclease, which led them to cleave up to three disulfide bonds and increase the sequence coverage.\n\nECD-MS fragments can retain posttranslational modifications such as carboxylation, phosphorylation and O-glycosylation. ECD has the potential to do the top-down characterization of the major types of posttranslational modifications in proteins. It successfully cleaved 87 of 208 backbone bonds and provided the first direct characterization of a phosphoprotein, bovine β casein, simultaneously restricting the location of five phosphorylation sites. It has advantages over CAD to measure the degree of phosphorylation with a minimum number of losses of phosphates and for phosphopeptide/phosphoprotein mapping, which makes ECD a superior technique.\nECD has been coupled with capillary electrophoresis (CE) to gain insight into structural analysis of mixture of peptides and protein digest. Micro-HPLC combined with ECD FTICR was used to analyze pepsin digest of cytochrome c. Sequence tags were provided by analysis of a mixture of peptides and tryptic digest of bovine serum albumin when LC ECD FTICR MS was used. Additionally, LC-ECD-MS/MS is provides longer sequence tags than LC-CID-MS/MS for identification of proteins. ECD devices using radio frequency quadrupole ion trap are relevant for high-throughput proteomics. Recently, Atmospheric pressure electron capture dissociation (AP-ECD) is emerging as a better technique because it can be implemented as a stand-alone ion-source device and doesn’t require any modification of the main instrument.\n\nAnalysis of proteins can be done by either using top-down or bottom-up approach. However, better sequence coverage is provided by top-down analysis. Combination of ECD with FTICR MS has resulted in popularity of this approach. It has also helped in determining the multiple modification sites in intact proteins. Native electron capture dissociation (NECD) was used to study cytochrome c dimer and has been recently used to elucidate iron-binding channels in horse spleen ferritin.\n\nECD studies of polyalkene glycols, polyamides, polyacrylates and polyesters are useful for understanding composition of polymer samples. It has become a powerful technique to analyze structural information about precursor ions during MS/MS for synthetic polymers. ECD's single bond cleavage tendency makes the interpretation of product ion scans simple and easy for polymer chemistry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289104", "title": "Charles-François Galand", "text": "Charles-François Galand\n\nCharles-François Galand (1832–1900) was a French gunsmith who worked in Liege and Paris, France. He manufactured many revolvers for civilian and military use, including the Galand Revolver (also called the Galand-Sommerville or Galand-Perrin), the Tue Tue, and the tiny Le Novo. The Velo-dog, developed from the Tue Tue and the Novo, was designed by Charles-François' son René in 1904.\n\nThe original Galand revolver was a double-action, open frame (no strap across the top of the cylinder) revolver patented in 1868. Military versions were produced in 9 mm while civilian versions were made in 12 mm. The gun is easily recognizable due to its long extraction lever, which stretches under the gun to form the trigger guard. Pulling the lever forward separates the barrel and cylinder from the rest of the gun. At the same time the extractor plate is blocked which catches any cartridges in the cylinder, thereby extracting them.\n\nThe first model was manufactured both in Liege and in Birmingham, England by the British arms firm Braendlin and Sommerville, and is therefore sometimes referred to as the Galand-Sommerville. Sommerville shared the patent for the case extracting system with Galand. The Galand-Perrin is an identical model which uses the Perrin cartridge (7 mm, 9 mm, and most famously 12 mm).\n\nThe Galand's double-action mechanism allowed for rapid firing but the longer trigger pull made this less accurate than single-action fire. The Galand's self-extracting system made loading the revolver much faster than contemporary gate-loaded pistols such as the Colt Peacemaker.\n\nFirst distributed in October 1868, the Galand revolver sold briskly in France, at least in part due to fears over the looming Franco-Prussian War of 1870.\n\nDespite France's loss to the Germans the Galand performed successfully and the Imperial Russian Navy adopted the Galand model 1870 revolver in 1871. This revolver was manufactured under contract by Nagant and Goltiakoff in Russia in 1878. The Romanian Army also adopted the Galand.\n\nIn 1872 Galand improved the design with a closed frame, but failed to win a French military contract and began aiming most of his production at the civilian market. In 1893 Galand introduced the 8 mm Tue Tue (kill kill) hammerless pocket revolver, which continued in production until about 1935. Later versions were also sold in .32 S&W and .38 ACP, and some had an external hammer. The tiny Le Novo revolver, with a hinged trigger and no trigger guard, also featured a folding grip.\n\nAfter Charles-François Galand's death in 1900 his son, René, continued the business until 1942. He created the Velo-dog, a truly peculiar conceit in personal defence weapons. The name is a contraction of \"vélocipède\" (bicycle) and dog. The weapon was originally marketed as a defence for bicyclists during the bicycle craze which started at the end of the 19th century. Like the Le Novo the Velodog originally used a 5.5 mm center fire cartridge; it was also available in .22 caliber and 6.35 mm.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289111", "title": "Tropical Storm Dolores", "text": "Tropical Storm Dolores\n\nThe name Dolores has been used for ten tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. In addition, Delores was used once in 1991, an apparent misspelling that was corrected by the 1997 season.\n\n\nThe name Dolores has also been used for one tropical cyclone in the Western Pacific Ocean\n"}
{"id": "2289112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289112", "title": "James Lloyd (artist)", "text": "James Lloyd (artist)\n\nFrederick James Lloyd (12 October 1905, Alsager, England – 1974), more commonly known as James Lloyd, was an English artist. He became famous for his paintings, mostly of animals and country landscapes.\n\nHe was the first living self-taught artist to have a painting hung at the Tate in London, titled \"Cat and Mouse\".\n\nLloyd was the son of a policeman who had taken up farming. He had worked on his father's farm until the age of 19, when he too joined the police force. He had a variety of jobs before the war: gas-works stoker; bus conductor; builder's labourer; lamp-lighter; until he was accepted for the famous and exclusive British Army regiment of the Coldstream Guards. He served with distinction in his regiment overseas during the war. On demobilisation he married Nancy, she was a teenager and he in his forties, he returned to the land and took a job as a wagoner in Shropshire. He, his wife and four children bought a small holding at Triangle, near Halifax, in the Pennines. Although he had done some paintings as a young man, it was not until he was forty, that he began to paint in earnest.\n\nHe and his family moved to Skirpenbeck, East Riding of Yorkshire in 1950. He took on the job as a cowman. There were now so many paintings, laboriously constructed dot by dot (pointillism). His wife Nancy decided it was time that Lloyd's work was seen by more people. Without telling her husband she wrote to Sir Herbert Read and he paid Lloyd a visit to see his paintings, and bought a couple of them. Herbert Read sent some to various galleries in London. \n\nIn 1958 Lloyd held his first one-man show at (the late) Arthur Jeffress Gallery in London. All but 2 of the 32 paintings being held were sold within hours of opening. \n\nThe rapidly expanding Lloyd family (eight children, and one who died young) moved to a council house further into the village and Lloyd took a job with the Derwent Plastics Company at Stamford Bridge, the money was better and the hours easier, he did shift work so he could paint by day and work by night. He devoted all his spare time (except for the pub) to painting. He never painted in a studio; he would usually just paint in the living room with the children playing around him.\n\nBy the early 1960s he had stopped working at the Derwent Plastics factory to paint full-time. In 1961 he was commissioned by the York City Art Gallery under the Evelyn Award Scheme to paint the view of Cliffords Tower, York, for the gallery's collection. L.S. Lowry also produced a painting of Cliffords Tower. At the closure of Arthur Jeffress Gallery, Lloyd was taken on by the Portal Gallery, where his paintings still remain. His first one-man show there was in 1964 followed by others in 1966, 1968 and 1971. He never titled or dated his paintings. \n\nIn 1963 Eric Lister of the Portal Gallery introduced Lloyd to film director Ken Russell. The result was that the BBC Monitor series made a television documentary film about his life and work, \"The Dotty World of James Lloyd\". Two years later Lloyd was chosen to play (with no previous acting experience) the part of Henri Rousseau in Ken Russells 'Monitor' film on the great French naive painter, \"Always on Sunday\".\n\nThe photographer, David Bailey, bought several paintings by Lloyd and became a very good friend. When his book \"Goodbye Baby and Amen\", an album of Bailey's portraits of celebrities of the 1960s was published, Lloyd featured prominently. He was also commissioned to paint a picture for the 1969/1971 book \"The Beatles Illustrated Lyrics\".\n\nOther galleries who acquired his work were Leeds City Art Gallery, Bowes Museum and Thomas's College, York. He was also noticed by collectors abroad and his work was collected by Museums and Galleries as far apart as Caracas, Venezuela, and Zacreb, Yugoslavia. He won the International Best Primitive Painter Award in 1973, with his painting Boy with Horse.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289115", "title": "Foreplay/Long Time", "text": "Foreplay/Long Time\n\n\"Foreplay/Long Time\" is a song written by Tom Scholz and first performed by the rock band Boston on the band's eponymous debut album, and as their second single, on Epic Records in 1976. It combines an instrumental introduction, \"Foreplay\", to the main song \"Long Time\", generally played as one on the radio and listed as one track on the album. \"Long Time\" peaked at No. 22 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 the week ending March 5, 1977. It reached the Top 10 in Canada, peaking at No. 9. The standalone \"Foreplay\" was released as the B-side of Boston's next single \"Peace of Mind\", which was released in April.\n\nIn an interview for the \"Best of Boston\" CD, Scholz said that \"Foreplay\" was the first song he ever recorded, and he did this on a two-track machine in his basement. Scholz also stated that it was the first piece of music he ever wrote, and that he wrote it as far back as 1969.\n\nAn alternate mix of the song is available on the Epic Records Promo LP \"It's a Knockout\". It was a sampler LP of artists that had releases coming up in 1976. This version has various differences in the mix and effects and also includes extra lyrics towards the end of the song. This version has never been available officially anywhere else.\n\n\"Foreplay\" is a progressive instrumental prelude, primarily consisting of rapid triplet arpeggios on a Hammond M-3 organ (contrary to popular belief, the song was \"not\" recorded on a B-3, as Tom Scholz had a limited budget at the time and was unable to afford one) with a bass part doubled by a clavinet, and drums, with lead guitar joining at the end. According to Scholz, leader and producer of Boston, the synthesizer-like swoops were produced by scraping a pick across the strings of an electric guitar in conjunction with distortion and delay.\n\nThe three guitar solos on \"Long Time\" are played by Barry Goudreau, rather than Scholz, who played most of the guitar parts on \"Boston\". Goudreau also plays the solo in \"Let Me Take You Home Tonight\". Scholz played the solos in \"More Than a Feeling\", \"Peace of Mind\", \"Rock & Roll Band\", and \"Something About You\".\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" described \"Foreplay/Long Time\" as \"a perfect marriage of Led Zeppelin and Yes that plays musical chairs with electric and acoustic sounds.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289119", "title": "Hexol", "text": "Hexol\n\nHexol is the name for various salts of a coordination complex that has historical significance. The salts were the first synthetic non-carbon-containing chiral compounds. The sulfate salt has the formula {[Co(NH)(OH)]Co}(SO).\n\nSalts of hexol were first described by Jørgensen. The salt is prepared by heating [Co(NH)(HO)] with dilute base such as ammonia followed by precipitation of the sulfate salt:\nDepending on the conditions one obtains the 9-hydrate, the 6-hydrate, and the 4-hydrate. These salts exists as dark brownish-violet or black tabular crystals. The salts have low solubility in water. The cation can be quantitatively precipitated from its yellow-gray chromate and hexachloroplatinate salts. When treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid, hexol converts to \"cis\"-diaquotetramminecobalt(III) sulfate. In boiling dilute sulfuric acid, hexol degrades with evolution of oxygen and nitrogen.\n\nIn a historic set of experiments, Alfred Werner obtained chiral resolution by fractional crystallisation of the diastereomeric -(+)-bromocamphorsulfonate salt. This ion has a high specific rotation of 2640°. More efficient methods involve the bis(tartrato)diantimonate(III) salt.\n\nWerner also described a second achiral hexol (a minor byproduct from the production of Fremy's salt) that he incorrectly identified as a linear tetramer. The second hexol is hexanuclear (contains six cobalt centres in each ion), not tetranuclear.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289120", "title": "Gérard Jean-Juste", "text": "Gérard Jean-Juste\n\nGérard Jean-Juste (February 7, 1946 – May 27, 2009) was a Roman Catholic priest and rector of Saint Claire's church for the poor in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. He was also a liberation theologian and a supporter of the Fanmi Lavalas political party, as well as heading the Miami, Florida-based Haitian Refugee Center from 1977 to 1990.\n\nIn 2004, he became internationally noted as an opponent of the interim government of Prime Minister Gérard Latortue following the overthrow of the government of Jean-Bertrand Aristide in the 2004 Haitian coup d'état. He was arrested twice for his political work, leading Amnesty International to designate him a prisoner of conscience. In his obituary, the Associated Press described him as being \"often considered the Martin Luther King Jr. of Haiti\".\n\nGérard Jean-Juste was born in 1946 in Cavaillon, Haiti. A Roman Catholic, Jean-Juste attended a Canadian seminary before becoming the first Haitian to be ordained in the U.S. at Brooklyn's Church of St. Avila. Following his ordination, he worked for a time in a rural parish in Haiti, an experience which increased his commitment to liberation theology and the service of the poor.\n\nIn 1971, however, Jean-Juste was asked to sign a loyalty oath to the Jean-Claude Duvalier government. He refused and fled to the U.S. There he served at Boston's Cathedral of the Holy Cross while also completing bachelor's degrees in engineering technology and civil engineering at Northeastern University.\n\nObserving the due process violations that many Haitian refugees faced in the 1970s, Jean-Juste founded the Miami-based Haitian Refugee Center to assist them. He would supervise the organization from 1977 to 1990. A major point of his advocacy was to change to the U.S.'s differing treatment of Cuban and Haitian refugees; Jean-Juste argued that while the former were treated as political and granted asylum accordingly, the latter were almost always viewed as economic refugees, despite having fled the dictatorship of Duvalier.\n\nAs part of his work with the organization, Jean-Juste picketed Miami's Archbishop Edward A. McCarthy, calling him a racist for failing to advocate on behalf of refugees. As punishment, Jean-Juste was forbidden by his church superiors from celebrating Mass in the area. He also found himself in trouble with church hierarchy for conducting Catholic funeral services for refugees who had drowned at sea regardless of their religious background.\n\nJean-Juste returned to Haiti in 1991, becoming a \"prominent supporter\" of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, and his Fanmi Lavalas party. Following a military coup by Raoul Cédras that unseated Aristide less than a year after his election, Jean-Juste then spent the next three years in hiding. When Aristide resumed office in 1994, Jean-Juste resumed his work as well, becoming rector of Saint Claire's church in Port-au-Prince. One of his legacies is a food program for hungry children in the St. Claire's neighborhood, which continues to be supported by the What If? Foundation, a nonprofit organization in Berkeley, CA.\n\nIn 2004, Aristide was again deposed by a military coup. Jean-Juste became an outspoken critic of the U.S.-supported interim government that followed, headed by Gérard Latortue. He soon became a \"target\" of government pressure, leading a brief arrest in late 2004 on charges of hiding pro-Aristide soldiers.\n\nIn July 2005, Jean-Juste and Fanmi Lavalas were accused by Haitian state media of involvement in the death of journalist Jacques Roche. \nRoche, a columnist for \"Le Matin\" had been kidnapped on July 10, held for ransom, and \"tortured with extreme cruelty\" before being found dead four days later. When attending Roche's funeral on July 21, Jean-Juste was attacked by a group of mourners and arrested; he was then held without charges on suspicion of involvement in the murder.\n\nAs Jean-Juste had been in Miami for the duration of the kidnapping, international organizations generally found the charges to be \"laughable\". His \"New York Times\" obituary, for example, describes the charges as \"universally regarded as politically motivated\". Amnesty International designated him a prisoner of conscience, \"detained solely for the legitimate expression of his opinions\". Signs calling for Jean-Juste's release reportedly became a common sight around the Miami neighborhood of Little Haiti.\n\nAt the time of his arrest, Jean-Juste was being considered as a Fanmi Lavalas candidate for the 2006 presidential election. However, electoral authorities ruled that Jean-Juste could not be properly registered as a candidate due to his incarceration, prompting Fanmi Lavalas to threaten to boycott the poll. Jean-Juste later endorsed the eventual winner, René Préval.\n\nIn late December 2005, Paul Farmer, a U.S. physician who co-founded Partners in Health, examined Jean-Juste and confirmed that he had chronic lympocytic leukemia, telling a reporter that \"Father Gerry's in serious trouble if he isn't released from jail to receive proper medical attention in the United States.\" Jean-Juste was given temporary release from prison to seek care in Miami in early 2006.\n\nHowever, he returned to Haiti in November 2007 to defend himself against the still-pending charges. When asked about his experience with weapons, he replied, \"My rosary is my only weapon\". The charges against him were dismissed.\n\nJean-Juste died in a hospital in the Miami area on May 27, 2009.\n\nOn September 11, 2006, the University of San Francisco conferred an Honorary Doctorate degree on Fr. Jean-Juste to recognize his human rights and social justice work on behalf of Haiti's poor.\n\nThe Carter Center named Jean-Juste one of the \"Featured Human Rights Defenders\" of its Human Rights Defenders Initiative.\n"}
{"id": "2289121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289121", "title": "Eddie Stubbs", "text": "Eddie Stubbs\n\nEddie Stubbs (born November 25, 1961) is an American radio disc jockey. Stubbs is best known for his work and promotion of country music on WSM, a radio station with a nighttime clear channel signal broadcast from Nashville, Tennessee, United States. He is also one of two regular announcers for the long-running \"Grand Ole Opry\" carried on WSM on Tuesday, Friday and Saturday nights.\n\nHe is on the air on weekday evenings from 7 pm to midnight, Central Time, on WSM. WSM's powerful nighttime clear channel signal allows WSM to be heard in a large part of the US and Canada. As a result, Stubbs has many regular listeners in all parts of the US and Canada in areas far away from Nashville.\n\nA fifth-generation resident of Montgomery County, Maryland, he graduated from Gaithersburg High School and became a fiddle player with a traditional bluegrass band, The Johnson Mountain Boys. After a decade, the band split up and Stubbs has only played sporadically since. Stubbs' first radio job was a weekly bluegrass show for WYII in Williamsport, Maryland, in 1983 where he earned $20 per program. In 1984, he was hired by WAMU in Washington, D.C. and worked alongside the veteran country deejay Gary Henderson. He received his own show in 1990 but continued to do odd-jobs such as house-painting to supplement his income. \"No one gets rich in radio\", he observed. \"The Eddie Stubbs Show\" on WAMU was discontinued in April 2007.\n\nHe developed a friendship with the country singer Kitty Wells and her husband, the guitar player and singer Johnnie Wright, and played with them during D.C. area appearances. They eventually convinced Stubbs to move to Nashville in 1995 and join them full-time. But within seventeen days of arriving in the country music capital, he was hired by \"The Grand Ole Opry\" as a regular announcer. \"Five people up for the job, and the new kid in town gets the gig? If that's not God, I don't know what is,\" said Stubbs.\n\nIn 2002, Stubbs was named the Country Music Association's Large Market Air Personality of the Year. The alternative weekly, \"Nashville Scene\", named him Best Country Deejay, and he has also been listed in \"Nashville Life Magazine\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"100 Coolest People\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289127", "title": "John Ready", "text": "John Ready\n\nJohn Ready (\"c.\" 1777 – 10 July 1845) was a British army officer, who served as Lieutenant Governor of Prince Edward Island from 1824 to 1831 and also as Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man from 1832 to 1845.\n\nReady joined the British Army as an ensign in 1796. He was appointed Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in 1815 and military secretary and then civil secretary to the Governor General of British North America in 1818. In 1824 he was appointed lieutenant governor of Prince Edward Island: there he imported livestock at his own expense, promoted the building of roads and ensured there was a school in every town. He became Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man in 1832 but died in office at Castletown on the Isle of Man in 1845 and was buried on the island with full military honours.\n\nIn 1804 he married Susanna Bromley; they had two sons and two daughters; following the death of his first wife he married Sarah Tobin in 1836. His son John Tobin Ready joined the 66th Foot as an officer in 1854. As a veteran of the 2nd Afghan War (Maiwand/Kandahar) Colonel John T. Ready retired in 1887.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289135", "title": "Khasso", "text": "Khasso\n\nKhasso or Xaaso was a West African kingdom of the 17th to 19th centuries, occupying territory in what is today Senegal and the Kayes Region of Mali. Over two thousand years ago, it was part of Serer territory. From the 17th to 19th centuries, its capital was at Medina until its fall.\n\nSeated at the head of the Senegal River, the Khasso kingdom was composed of Fulas who had immigrated to the area and integrated with the local Malinké and Soninké populations. Séga Doua (r. 1681 - 1725) is remembered as the first Fankamala (king) of the Khasso, and his dynasty would last until the death of his descendant Demba Séga in 1796. Following a civil war between his sons Dibba Samballa et Demba Maddy, the kingdom fragmented into five smaller states, the most powerful of which was Dembaya under Hawa Demba Diallo (r. 1810-1833).\n\nLike the Bambara Empire to the east, the Khasso kingdoms depended heavily on the slave trade for their economy. A family's status was indicated by the number of slaves it owned, leading to wars for the sole purpose of taking more captives. This trade led the Khasso into increasing contact with the European settlements of Africa's west coast, particularly the French.\n\nIn 1857, Toucouleur conqueror El Hadj Umar Tall attacked the Khasso as part of his jihad, but was repulsed at Medina Fort with the aid of the Khasso's French allies, particularly General Louis Faidherbe. However, the Khasso found themselves increasingly under French control until they were assimilated into French Sudan in 1880.\n\nPresent-day inhabitants of this region often identify themselves as Khassonké.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289139", "title": "Hurricane Diana (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Diana (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Diana was used for two tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean, and four tropical cyclones in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. It was used in the Pacific with the old four-year lists. It was retired from the Atlantic list following 1990, and was replaced with Dolly in the 1996 season. Diana is not to be confused with Diane.\n\nAtlantic:\n\nEastern Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2289165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289165", "title": "Lego Alpha Team", "text": "Lego Alpha Team\n\nAlpha Team is a building toy line manufactured by Lego, first released in 2001 and discontinued in 2005.\n\nAlpha Team started out as a basic top secret group, under the leadership of Dash Justice. At that time, Ogel had made evil orbs that could turn ordinary civilians into mindless drones to serve as his slaves. However, he was defeated when Alpha Team entered the picture and broke the power of the evil orbs to restore the drones back to normal. They captured Ogel and destroyed the orb machine (found in the Alpha Team video game). However, Ogel managed to escape.\n\nIn 2002, Alpha Team changed slightly. The toyline is known as Mission: Deep Sea. Ogel is back with more sinister looking drones that remained from the year 2001. Ogel also had re-engineered the evil orb so that it causes mutations and uses it to mutate sea creatures to serve him. Ogel's left hand was replaced by a transparent red hook that can still hold things (the Lego minifigure). It is uncertain of how he got the red hook. Rumor has it that he lost his left hand while battling Alpha Team. Alpha Team's helper, TeeVee (a television with legs and antennae) can now turn into a deep sea rover for small openings and scouting around the sea embankment. In the webtoon, Into the Deep, Ogel's sinister plan for the mutant sea animals was destroyed when Dash reversed the orb factory controls, thus reverting all the sea animals back to normal. However, Ogel escaped again by detaching the cockpit on his Mutant Squid vehicle.\n\nAlpha Team did not appear this year, with only a promotional set, \"Dash The Diver\", being released.\n\nAlpha Team went into a massive revision. The Alpha Team symbol was changed, Crunch and Cam were replaced by Diamond Tooth and Arrow (respectively), and Ogel replaced his red hook with a transparent blue hook. Alpha Team has more tech than usual. Their vehicles have a new feature: they can initiate Alpha Mode, a feature that transforms one vehicle to another without disassembling and rebuilding. This time, Ogel's plan has gone from mind controlling to causing damage to the world. His plan was to freeze the world at his base in Antarctica with ice orbs, and as revealed later, to freeze time itself as well. Ice Orbs are completely different from the evil orbs Ogel made earlier, as they no longer cause mutations/brainwashing, but instead freeze everything on touch. Alpha Team tracked him down to Antarctica and ended up battling each other. While Alpha Team raced to Ogel's fortress in a desperate gamble to stop him from freezing time, Ogel ended up freezing almost all of Alpha Team. However, Charge and TeeVee couldn't be found in the iceboxes.\n\nWhen all hope was lost, drones started to behave randomly and they began to steal interesting landmarks. Then Zed, a special agent of Alpha Team, arrived at Antarctica. He melted the ice around the other agents and set off on his own mission. While the other agents were stopping Ogel's drones, Ogel appeared in the Scorpion Orb Launcher, his own vehicle that could convert into the Viper Escape. Ogel and Zed battled. At the same time, the Lego Magazine had invited fans to write their own stories of who won and what will happen next. The Lego Magazine didn't show the results, but it was assumed that Zed had won the conflict and the world was restored to normal. While the Lego Company didn't give the 2004 subtheme an official name, (like Mission Deep Sea) fans coined the name \"Mission Deep Freeze\" for the series.\n\nMain Characters\n\nOther Characters\n\n\nAn Evil Orb is Ogel's main tool for all the missions. There are three types.\n\nOgel has had several bases in the series.\n\nOgel has several bases in the form of LEGO sets. All of his hideouts have a big skull on them .\nThis is where ice orbs are created and where Ogel hatches the plan to freeze the world. In the set, it includes Ogel, two drones, and two Alpha team agents: Arrow and Dash. The set also includes the Solar Speeder: the Alpha team scout vehicle equipped with only a missile launcher that can open the gate of Ogel's fortress.\n\nA video game adaption, \"Lego Alpha Team\", was developed by Digital Domain and published by Lego Media in September 2000 for Microsoft Windows, with a Game Boy Color version developed by Climax Studios and published in November of the same year.\n\nMinifigures: Ogel\nMinifigures: Radia\nMinifigures: Dash\nMinifigures: Flex, Cam\nMinifigures: Tee Vee, Crunch, Charge\nMinifigures: Ogel, Drone Minion Commanders (Two)\n\nMinifigures: Dash\nMinifigures: Cam\nMinifigures: Ogel\nMinifigures: Skeleton Drones (Two)\n\nAnimals: Octopus\nMinifigures: Dash\n\nAnimals: Black Sawfish\nMinifigures: Charge\nMinifigures: Flex\nMinifigures: Cam\nMinifigures: Skeleton Drones (Two), Drone Pilot\nMinifigures: Radia, Crunch\nMinifigures: Dash, Ogel, Skeleton Drones (Two)\nMinifigures: Ogel\nMinifigures: Skeleton Drone\nMinifigures: Skeleton Drone\n\nAnimals: Octopus\n\nMinifigures: Flex.\nMinifigures: Charge.\nMinifigures: Diamond Tooth, Radia.\nMinifigures: Dash, Ice Drone.\nMinifigures: Charge, Radia, Tee-Vee, Ice Drone, Arrow.\nMinifigures: Dash, Ogel, Arrow, Ice Drones (Two)\nMinifigures: Zed, Ice Drone.\nMinifigures: Super Ice Drone, Flex.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289167", "title": "Cabildo insular", "text": "Cabildo insular\n\nCabildos are a Spanish system of government administration that are now only used in the Canary Islands, where they are known as cabildos insulares (\"island councils\"), each governing one of the seven main islands - Tenerife, Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, La Palma, La Gomera and El Hierro. The island of La Graciosa falls under the jurisdiction of the \"cabildo\" of Lanzarote. \nThe members of a \"cabildo\" are elected by direct universal suffrage by the Spanish citizens of each island. The membership is determined by party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe \"cabildos\" were created under the \"Law of Cabildos\" of 1912. In Francoist Spain they were appointed rather than elected. \"Cabildos\" exercise a level of authority between those of their province and their autonomous communities in matters of health, environment, culture, sports, industry, roads, drinking water and irrigation, hunting and fishing licensing, museums, beaches, public transportation and land organization. \"Cabildos\" can impose fuel taxes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289171", "title": "Shell and tube heat exchanger", "text": "Shell and tube heat exchanger\n\nA shell and tube heat exchanger is a class of heat exchanger designs. It is the most common type of heat exchanger in oil refineries and other large chemical processes, and is suited for higher-pressure applications. As its name implies, this type of heat exchanger consists of a shell (a large pressure vessel) with a bundle of tubes inside it. One fluid runs through the tubes, and another fluid flows over the tubes (through the shell) to transfer heat between the two fluids. The set of tubes is called a tube bundle, and may be composed of several types of tubes: plain, longitudinally finned, etc.\nTwo fluids, of different starting temperatures, flow through the heat exchanger. One flows through the tubes (the tube side) and the other flows outside the tubes but inside the shell (the shell side). Heat is transferred from one fluid to the other through the tube walls, either from tube side to shell side or vice versa. The fluids can be either liquids or gases on either the shell or the tube side. In order to transfer heat efficiently, a large heat transfer area should be used, leading to the use of many tubes. In this way, waste heat can be put to use. This is an efficient way to conserve energy.\n\nHeat exchangers with only one phase (liquid or gas) on each side can be called one-phase or single-phase heat exchangers. Two-phase heat exchangers can be used to heat a liquid to boil it into a gas (vapor), sometimes called boilers, or to cool the vapors and condense it into a liquid (called condensers), with the phase change usually occurring on the shell side. Boilers in steam engine locomotives are typically large, usually cylindrically-shaped shell-and-tube heat exchangers. In large power plants with steam-driven turbines, shell-and-tube surface condensers are used to condense the exhaust steam exiting the turbine into condensate water which is recycled back to be turned into steam in the steam generator.\n\nThere can be many variations on the shell and tube design. Typically, the ends of each tube are connected to plenums (sometimes called water boxes) through holes in tubesheets. The tubes may be straight or bent in the shape of a U, called U-tubes. \nIn nuclear power plants called pressurized water reactors, large heat exchangers called steam generators are two-phase, shell-and-tube heat exchangers which typically have U-tubes. They are used to boil water recycled from a surface condenser into steam to drive a turbine to produce power. Most shell-and-tube heat exchangers are either 1, 2, or 4 pass designs on the tube side. This refers to the number of times the fluid in the tubes passes through the fluid in the shell. In a single pass heat exchanger, the fluid goes in one end of each tube and out the other. \nSurface condensers in power plants are often 1-pass straight-tube heat exchangers (see surface condenser for diagram). Two and four pass designs are common because the fluid can enter and exit on the same side. This makes construction much simpler. \n\nThere are often baffles directing flow through the shell side so the fluid does not take a short cut through the shell side leaving ineffective low flow volumes. These are generally attached to the tube bundle rather than the shell in order that the bundle is still removable for maintenance.\n\nCounter current heat exchangers are most efficient because they allow the highest log mean temperature difference between the hot and cold streams. Many companies however do not use two pass heat exchangers with a u-tube because they can break easily in addition to being more expensive to build. Often multiple heat exchangers can be used to simulate the counter current flow of a single large exchanger.\n\nTo be able to transfer heat well, the tube material should have good thermal conductivity. Because heat is transferred from a hot to a cold side through the tubes, there is a temperature difference through the width of the tubes. Because of the tendency of the tube material to thermally expand differently at various temperatures, thermal stresses occur during operation. This is in addition to any stress from high pressures from the fluids themselves. The tube material also should be compatible with both the shell and tube side fluids for long periods under the operating conditions (temperatures, pressures, pH, etc.) to minimize deterioration such as corrosion. All of these requirements call for careful selection of strong, thermally-conductive, corrosion-resistant, high quality tube materials, typically metals, including aluminium, copper alloy, stainless steel, carbon steel, non-ferrous copper alloy, Inconel, nickel, Hastelloy and titanium. Fluoropolymers such as Perfluoroalkoxy alkane (PFA) and Fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP) are also used to produce the tubing material due to their high resistance to extreme temperatures. Poor choice of tube material could result in a leak through a tube between the shell and tube sides causing fluid cross-contamination and possibly loss of pressure.\n\nThe simple design of a shell and tube heat exchanger makes it an ideal cooling solution for a wide variety of applications. One of the most common applications is the cooling of hydraulic fluid and oil in engines, transmissions and hydraulic power packs. With the right choice of materials they can also be used to cool or heat other mediums, such as swimming pool water or charge air. One of the big advantages of using a shell and tube heat exchanger is that they are often easy to service, particularly with models where a floating tube bundle (where the tube plates are not welded to the outer shell) is available.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289175", "title": "Khassonké people", "text": "Khassonké people\n\nThe Khassonké (CAH-KES-SON-QUE) are an ethnic group of Mali's Kayes Region. Descendants of the Fula and Malinké Khasso kingdoms, they speak the Khassonke/Xaasongaxango language, a Manding language similar to Bambara.\n\nTheir traditional musical instruments are the dundunba (a big cylindrical drum with two skins), the jingò (a small cylindrical drum with two skins), the tantanwò (a small drum), the tamandinwo (an \"aisselle\" drum), as well as lutes and harps and hunters' whistles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289189", "title": "Westham Island Bridge", "text": "Westham Island Bridge\n\nThe Westham Island Bridge is a partially single-lane, wood-deck truss bridge located in Ladner, British Columbia. The bridge passes over \"Canoe Pass\" in the Fraser River Estuary and connects Ladner with Westham Island. The bridge's length is approximately 325 m (1066 feet). The bridge was constructed between 1909 and 1912 and has undergone extensive refitting over the years.\n\nElectrical operation of the swing span was adapted in 1974. Previous to that time the bridge was manually operated by lifting a steel plate in the deck of the bridge and inserting a ten-foot bar into a lever. The operator would walk in a clockwise circle to open the span for marine traffic and then reverse the operation to close. The bridge still has this manual capacity. Remarkably a single-armed gentleman operated the bridge in this fashion until the age of 71, retiring when the electrical motor was installed.\n\nTransLink contracts Mainroad Contracting Ltd. and improves the load restriction to 50 tonnes (originally 20 tonnes).\n\nPart of the bridge consists of one of the few remaining wooden 'Howe Trusses' in existence and has been recognized and storied by both 'Canadian' and 'National' Geographic Societies.\nIt is an occasional chosen location for film and TV productions. One of the most famous was an episode of the \"X-Files\" TV series, \"Kill Switch\". The bridge is a favourite of photographers in general and particularly bird-watchers as Westham Island Road is also the only route by road to the Riefel Island Bird Sanctuary.\nIt is one of the oldest swing-bridges operating in BC.\n\nTransLink, the regional transportation authority, is responsible for the bridge.\n\nThe bridge opens on request for marine traffic. Vessels should call the bridge operator on VHF channel 74.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289190", "title": "Malfeasance in office", "text": "Malfeasance in office\n\nMalfeasance in office, or official misconduct, is\nthe commission of an unlawful act, done in an official capacity, that affects the performance of official duties. Malfeasance in office is often grounds for a just cause removal of an elected official by statute or recall election. Malfeasance in office contrasts with \"misfeasance in office\", which is the commission of a \"lawful\" act, done in an official capacity, that improperly causes harm; and \"nonfeasance in office,\" which is the failure to perform an official duty.\n\nAn exact definition of malfeasance in office is difficult: many highly regarded secondary sources (such as books and commentaries) compete over its established elements based on reported cases. This confusion has arisen from the courts where no single consensus definition has arisen from the relatively few reported appeal-level cases involving malfeasance in office.\n\nUnder English law, misconduct in public office is a criminal offence at common law which dates back to the 13th century.\n\nThe offence carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. It is confined to those who are public office holders, and is committed when the office holder acts (or neglects to act) in a way that constitutes a breach of the duties of that office.\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service guidelines on this offence say that the elements of the offence are when:\n\nThe similarly-named misfeasance in public office is a tort. In the House of Lords judgement on the BCCI case, it was held that this had three essential elements:\n\n\"Misconduct in public office\" is often but inaccurately rendered as \"misconduct in \"a\" public office\", which has a different meaning.\n\nThe West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals summarized a number of the definitions of malfeasance in office applied by various appellate courts in the United States.\n\nThe court then went on to use yet another definition, \"malfeasance is the doing of an act which an officer had no legal right to do at all and that when an officer, through ignorance, inattention, or malice, does that which they have no legal right to do at all, or acts without any authority whatsoever, or exceeds, ignores, or abuses their powers, they are guilty of malfeasance.\"\n\nNevertheless, a few \"elements\" can be distilled from those cases. First, malfeasance in office requires an affirmative act or omission. Second, the act must have been done in an official capacity—under the color of office. Finally, that that act somehow interferes with the performance of official duties—though some debate remains about \"whose official\" duties.\n\nIn addition, jurisdictions differ greatly over whether intent or knowledge is necessary. As noted above, many courts will find malfeasance in office where there is \"ignorance, inattention, or malice\", which implies no intent or knowledge is required.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289192", "title": "J. L. Hunter &quot;Red&quot; Rountree", "text": "J. L. Hunter &quot;Red&quot; Rountree\n\nJ. L. Hunter \"Red\" Rountree (December 16, 1911, Brownwood, Texas – October 12, 2004, Springfield, Missouri) was an American folk hero who was believed to have been the world's oldest active bank robber. On August 12, 2003, Rountree walked into the First American Bank (now Citibank N.A.) in Abilene, Texas, to hand a large envelope to the teller marked \"robbery.\" Moments later, Rountree sped off in a 1996 Buick Regal with $2,000.00 in small bills. He was arrested shortly thereafter when a witness wrote down his car license plate number.\n\nThe robbery at First American Bank was his third in five years. Rountree's first robbery took place in 1998 when at the age of 86, he held up SouthTrust Bank in Biloxi, Mississippi. He was arrested shortly afterward and was later convicted. Rountree was sentenced to three years probation. His second robbery was at Nations Bank in Pensacola, Florida. He was again caught and convicted, this time receiving a sentence of three years in prison. Rountree's third and final heist earned the then 91-year-old man 12 years in federal prison. He died at US Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Missouri on October 12, 2004.\n\nRountree claimed the loss of a considerable fortune, including the Rountree Machinery Company, was the motivation for his crimes. He believed a Corpus Christi, Texas bank was responsible for his personal bankruptcy.\n\nA documentary based on the story of Rountree, \"This Is Not A Robbery\" was an official selection for the 2008 Tribeca Film Festival in New York City. The film was directed by Lucas Jansen and Adam Kurland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289197", "title": "Coquito", "text": "Coquito\n\nCoquito meaning \"\"Little Coconut\"\" in Spanish is a traditional Christmas drink that originated in Puerto Rico. The coconut-based alcoholic beverage is similar to eggnog, sometimes being called the Puerto Rican Eggnog. The mixed drink is made with Puerto Rican rum, coconut milk, cream of coconut, and sweetened condensed milk. Eggs and other spices and flavoring can be added, such as ginger, lemon zest, star anise, cinnamon, and cloves.\n\nThe traditional Christmas drink, Coquito, was originally found in Puerto Rico. However, drinks similar to Coquito can be found all throughout the Caribbean. There are two different theories about the origin of the drink. Some believe the person who created Coquito is unknown along with how the recipe began.\n\nOthers say that the Puerto Rican drink was brought to the Caribbean by the Spanish during Puerto Rico's colonial period. The Spanish took their version of \"eggnog\" and combined it with the local rum creating Coquito. As they continued to travel and settle in other areas the drink followed them creating different variations around the Caribbean. The variations are very similar to what they considered the original recipe: egg, milk, sugar, and spirit. Although this was seen as the original ingredients, Puerto Rico altered it by adding coconut.\n\nThe recipe has 4 main ingredients: 1. Coconut Milk 2. Coconut Cream 3. Puerto Rican rum and 4. Sweetened Condensed Milk, but is not limited to these. The Puerto Rican mix drink resembles eggnog and is usually served after dinner in a shot glass. The drink is known to be sweet and strong (with rum).\n\nMany families have their own variations of the recipe that are passed down through generations. The drink will be seen as early as Thanksgiving and as late as Día de los Reyes. That being said the drink makes its main appearance during the Christmas season.\n\nCoquito has become much more popular as more people hear about the drink. The drink can be found bottled in supermarkets and grocery stores for consumers to buy pre-made. Along with being in stores, there are competitions like \"Coquito Masters,\" which is an annual competition at the Museo del Barrio in New York City.\n\nThere are many variations of Coquito based on location and family traditions. Although all these variations are unique in their own way, they all have one thing in common and that is rum.\n\nCoquito can be served in shot glasses or small cups and is usually garnished with grated nutmeg or cinnamon.\n\nDepending on the ingredient of choice, Coquito can be prepared over the stove top or in a blender.\n\nIf looking for convenience, a quick way to prepare Coquito is to process the ingredients in a blender with the option of using ground spices for more flavor.\n\nAfter Coquito is prepared and chilled for a few hours it is ready to be served.\n\nEl Museo del Barrio in New York City hosts an annual Coquito Tasting Contest called \"Coquito Masters\" on Three Kings Day in January. The competition was first established in 2002 and continues each year. The Competitors bring forth their best recipes including traditional ingredients as well as fusion mixes.\n"}
{"id": "2289211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289211", "title": "RK 95 TP", "text": "RK 95 TP\n\nThe RK 95 TP (from Finnish , 'assault rifle 95 folding stock'), officially 7.62 RK 95 TP and commercially known as the M95, is a 7.62×39mm Finnish assault rifle adopted in relatively small numbers by the Finnish Defence Forces in the 1990s. The RK 95 TP originally featured many improvements including a fire control selector and a muzzle device that enabled the firing of rifle grenades, the attachment of a silencer, or bayonet.\n\nThe rifle is only used by Finland.\n\nThe rifle was developed in the late 1980s in response to a requirement to replace the 7.62mm RK 62 service rifle. Between 1988 and 1990, the SAKO company developed the M90 prototype, which was a substantially upgraded variant of the RK 62. Changes to the original design included the fire control and safety selector, whose lever was transferred to the left side of the receiver housing, the cocking handle cut-out in the bolt carrier assembly was covered with a strip of metal. \n\nThe cocking handle itself was placed at an upward angle (enhancing left-handed reloading), the rear sight assembly was installed on a sliding tangent with 150 and 300 m range adjustments and the rifle was equipped with a folding tubular stock with a latch modeled on the locking solution employed in the SIG SG 540 rifle. The M90 was also equipped with a multifunction muzzle device and manual gas valve, enabling the use of rifle grenades. \n\nSome advertisements released in Finland in the 1990s suggested that SAKO was going to produce the M90 in 5.56 NATO caliber. However, this type was never produced.\n\nTwo prototypes were developed by SAKO, known as the RK 92, were delivered to the FDF for combat trials.\n\nAfter undergoing further testing and implementing several changes (among them, the selector mechanism was reverted to the familiar RK 62 configuration) the rifle was introduced into service with the Finnish Army as the 7.62 RK 95 TP. Deliveries to the Finnish started in 1995 and ended at 1997 with further orders ceasing in 1998. The first RK 95 with the serial number 960,001 was presented by SAKO representatives to the Military Museum in Helsinki, which is on display.\n\nPrior to the adoption of the RK 95, several Chinese and East German-based AKs were purchased by Finland to easily arm mobilized Finnish soldiers in the 90s.\n\nIn 2015, the RK 95 is supplemented by the FN SCAR-L, which is used by Finnish special forces units.\n\nThe RK 95 TP is a select-fire, gas-operated firearm using the Kalashnikov-pattern operating system with a long stroke gas piston rod coupled to the bolt carrier as in the AK rifle. The rotating bolt locks into battery via two locking lugs.\n\nThe weapon's spring extractor is installed inside the bolt head and enclosed in one of the locking lugs while the ejector is a fixed protrusion of the internal bolt carrier guide rail. The firearm uses a hammer-type firing mechanism and a trigger group that enables semi-automatic and fully automatic firing modes. The fire selector switch, which is also the manual safety toggle, can occupy one of three positions: the top \"safe\" setting (the trigger and bolt carrier are both disabled mechanically), the middle setting (marked with three dot symbols) produces continuous fire and the bottom setting (single dot) activates a disconnector for single fire mode.\n\nThe weapon's barrel has a multipurpose muzzle attachment, which performs the role of a muzzle brake, flash suppressor and a mounting base for launching rifle grenades. The gas block incorporates a manually adjustable gas regulator that isolates and disconnects the gas system in the closed position and a lug at its base—used to attach a blade bayonet (i.e. KCB-type bayonet).\n\nThe RK 95 TP has a plastic-coated tubular metal shoulder stock that folds to the right side and features an internal compartment used to store a cleaning rod. Both the forward handguard and pistol grip are made of a lightweight synthetic.\n\nFor maintenance the weapon is field stripped into the following components: the receiver and barrel, bolt carrier, bolt, return mechanism, gas tube, receiver cover and magazine.\n\nThe RK 95 TP is chambered for the intermediate 7.62×39mm M43 cartridge, due to its reliability in cold and harsh weather/terrain conditions. The rifle feeds from curved box magazines made of an impact-resistant polymer (empty weight: 0.16 kg), with a 30-round capacity of double-stacked cartridges. These magazines are also interchangeable with standard AK-47/AKM magazines.\n\nThe rifle comes with adjustable iron sights, consisting of a forward post and an L-shaped dual-aperture rear flip sight with settings for firing at ranges of 150 and 300 m. The front sight, corrected for windage and elevation, is mounted in a semi-shrouded post on top of the gas block, and the rear sight—on the receiver top cover. \n\nFor operation in low-level lighting conditions the rifle uses subdued self-luminous tritium gas vials, installed in a separate folding post attached to the base of the front sight and deployed manually, and in the rear sight assembly in a fixed notch sight, exposed by rotating the rear sight arm 180° forward around its pivot axis.\n\nAdditionally the rifle can be adapted to use various optical sights (i.e. the Trijicon ACOG or night vision equipment such as the Patria VV 2000 passive night sight), through the use of a receiver-mounted side-rail. A detachable cheek riser is employed when using optics.\n\nThe rifle can be used with a barrel-mounted bipod or a 40 mm underslung grenade launcher attachment. A railed gas block attachment was also developed for the weapon and is used to mount tactical accessories. It can also use a mounted suppressor.\n\nA civilian 7.62mm-caliber semi-automatic variant was manufactured and marketed as the M92S. This was marketed to civilians, as well as for law enforcement sales. One way to tell this apart from the RK 95 TP is the absence of an automatic sear axis.\n\nThe M95S is a semi-auto variant of the RK 95 TP.\n\nAn export variant of the rifle was also produced, modified to use the 5.56×45mm NATO cartridge with the SS109 bullet, fed from plastic 30-round curved magazines. The barrel has four right-hand grooves with a rifling twist rate of 185 mm (1:7 in), and has a muzzle velocity of using standard ammunition.\n\nSmall numbers of this variant were made in order to show to clients for potential contracts that call for the purchase of the RK 95 TP in 5.56 NATO caliber in trade shows and arms conventions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289214", "title": "Wooden horse (device)", "text": "Wooden horse (device)\n\nA wooden horse, Spanish donkey or cavaletto squarciapalle, is a torture device, of which there exist two variations; both inflict pain by using the subject's own weight by keeping the legs open, tied with ropes from above, while lowering down the subject. The French called this instrument the chevalet, from the French diminutive of \"cheval\", horse.\n\nThe first variation of the wooden horse is a triangular device with one end of the triangle pointing upward, mounted on a saw-horse like support. The victim is made to straddle the triangular \"horse.\" Weights or additional restraints were often added to keep the victim from falling off. A punishment similar to this called \"riding the rail\" was used during the American colonial period and later. The victim was often carried through town in this predicament, often in conjunction with the punishment of tarring and feathering. The crotch could be injured and the victim left unable to walk without pain.\n\nWhile the device was designed for women, there are accounts of male victims as well. The Jesuit Relations say that in 1646, a man \"was sentenced to make reparation, by the Civil authority, and to mount the Chevalet,\" and \"a public blasphemer, was put on the Chevalet. He acknowledged his fault, saying that he had well deserved punishment, and came of his own accord to confess, that evening or the next day,\" and that another man \"acted at the fort as such a glutton, that he was put on the Chevalet, on which he was ruptured.\"\n\nThe device was used during the American Civil War by Union guards against their Confederate prisoners:\n\nThe device was also used by Union officers as an entertaining way to discipline troops, and on freedmen and women after the Civil War.\n"}
{"id": "2289219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289219", "title": "Analytic element method", "text": "Analytic element method\n\nThe analytic element method (AEM) is a numerical method used for the solution of partial differential equations. It was initially developed by O.D.L. Strack at the University of Minnesota. It is similar in nature to the boundary element method (BEM), as it does not rely upon discretization of volumes or areas in the modeled system; only internal and external boundaries are discretized. One of the primary distinctions between AEM and BEMs is that the boundary integrals are calculated analytically. \nThe basic premise of the analytic element method is that, for linear differential equations, elementary solutions may be superimposed to obtain more complex solutions. A suite of 2D and 3D analytic solutions (\"elements\") are available for different governing equations. These elements typically correspond to a discontinuity in the dependent variable or its gradient along a geometric boundary (e.g., point, line, ellipse, circle, sphere, etc.). This discontinuity has a specific functional form (usually a polynomial in 2D) and may be manipulated to satisfy Dirichlet, Neumann, or Robin (mixed) boundary conditions. Each analytic solution is infinite in space and/or time.\n\nCommonly each analytic solution contains degrees of freedom (coefficients) that may be calculated to meet prescribed boundary conditions along the element's border. To obtain a global solution (i.e., the correct element coefficients), a system of equations is solved such that the boundary conditions are satisfied along all of the elements (using collocation, least-squares minimization, or a similar approach). Notably, the global solution provides a spatially continuous description of the dependent variable everywhere in the infinite domain, and the governing equation is satisfied everywhere exactly except along the border of the element, where the governing equation is not strictly applicable due to the discontinuity.\n\nThe ability to superpose numerous elements in a single solution means that analytical solutions can be realized for arbitrarily complex boundary conditions. That is, models that have complex geometries, straight or curved boundaries, multiple boundaries, transient boundary conditions, multiple aquifer layers, piecewise varying properties and continuously varying properties can be solved. Elements can be implemented using far-field expansions such that model containing many thousands of elements can be solved efficiently to high precision.\n\nThe analytic element method has been applied to problems of groundwater flow governed by a variety of linear partial differential equations including the Laplace, the Poisson equation, the modified Helmholtz equation, the heat equation, and the biharmonic equations. Often theses equations are solved using complex variables which enables using mathematical techniques available in complex variable theory. A useful technique to solve complex problems is using conformal mapping which maps the boundary of a geometry, e.g. an ellipse, onto the boundary of the unit circle where the solution is known.\n\nIn the analytic element method the discharge potential and stream function, or combined the complex potential, is used. This potential links the physical properties of the groundwater system, the hydraulic head or flow boundaries, to a mathematical representation in a potential. This mathematical representation can be used to calculate the potential in terms of position and thus also solving groundwater flow problems. Elements are developed by solving the boundary conditions for either of these two properties, hydraulic head or flow boundary, which results in analytical solutions capable of dealing with numerous boundary conditions.\n\nA contemporary student of Strack's who is a proponent of the Analytic Element Method (AEM) in groundwater modeling applications is Dr. David Steward of Kansas State University.\n\nAs mentioned the analytic element method thus not rely on discretization of volume or area in the model, as in the finite elements or finite different methods. Thus, it can model complex problem with an error on the order of machine precision. This is illustrated in a study which modeled a highly heterogeneous, isotropic aquifer by including 100,000 spherical heterogeneity with a random conductivity and tracing 40,000 particles. The analytical element method can efficiently be used as verification or as a screening tool in larger projects as it may fast and accurately calculate the groundwater flow for many complex problems.\n\nIn contrast to other commonly used groundwater modeling methods, e.g. the finite elements or finite different method, the AEM does not discrete the model domain into cells. This gives the advantage that the model is valid for any given point in the model domain. However, it also imposes that the domain is not as easily divided into regions of e.g. different hydraulic conductivity, as when modeling with a cell grid. While there are some solutions that deals with this, e.g. there exist solutions for implementing a vertically varying properties or structures in an aquifer in an AEM model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289235", "title": "Éric Losfeld", "text": "Éric Losfeld\n\nÉric Losfeld (Mouscron, 1922 - Paris, 1979) was a Belgian-born French publisher who had a reputation for publishing controversial material with his publishing imprint Éditions Le Terrain Vague.\n\nHe was the publisher of \"Emmanuelle\" (1967), two film magazines \"(Midi Minuit Fantastique\" and \"Positif\") founded by Ado Kyrou. \n\nHe published a series of controversial erotic cult comic books, like \"Barbarella\", created by Jean-Claude Forest, \"Scarlett Dream\" by Robert Gigi, \"Epoxy\" by Paul Cuvelier and Jean van Hamme, the French edition of \"Phoebe Zeit-Geist\", \"The Adventures of Jodelle\" and \"Pravda\", both by Guy Peellaert. In 1967 he also published legendary psychedelic feminist comic book \"Saga de Xam\" by Jean Rollin\n\nLosfeld's tombstone inscription reads, \"\"Tout ce qu'il éditait avait le souffle de la liberté.\"\" (\"Everything he edited had the breath of freedom.\").\n"}
{"id": "2289237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289237", "title": "Wirehead (science fiction)", "text": "Wirehead (science fiction)\n\nWirehead is a term first used in works of science fiction to refer to various kinds of interaction between human beings and technology, or to a person who makes use of such technology. In its most common usage, the \"wirehead\" concept refers to technologies involving electrical wiring that is implanted in or otherwise connected to a human brain and used to deliver safe amounts of electricity either to the whole brain or to more specific areas of the brain, often the so-called \"pleasure centers\" or reward circuitry.\n\nThough the concept of \"wireheading\" originated in science fiction, electrical brain stimulation and related technologies have long been studied in neuroscience and psychiatry and are routinely used in therapeutic and research settings. Usage of the science fiction term has since expanded to include these real-world applications.\n\nIn Larry Niven's \"Known Space\" stories, a \"wirehead\" is someone who has been fitted with an electronic brain implant known as a \"droud\" in order to stimulate the pleasure centers of their brain. Wireheading is the most addictive habit known (Louis Wu is the only given example of a recovered addict), and wireheads usually die from neglecting their basic needs in favour of the ceaseless pleasure. Wireheading is so powerful and easy that it becomes an evolutionary pressure, selecting against that portion of humanity without self-control. A wirehead's death is central to Niven's Gil \"the Arm\" Hamilton story \"Death by Ecstasy\", published by Galaxy Magazine in 1969, and a main character in the book \"Ringworld Engineers\" is a former wirehead trying to quit.\n\nAlso in the \"Known Space\" universe, a device called a \"tasp\" which does not need a surgical implant (similar to transcranial magnetic stimulation) can be used to achieve similar goals: the pleasure center of a person's brain is found and remotely stimulated (considered a violation without seeking the person's consent beforehand). It is an important device in Niven's \"Ringworld\" novels.\n\nNiven's stories explain wireheads by mentioning a study in which experimental rats had electrodes implanted at strategic locations in their brains, so that an applied current would induce a pleasant feeling. If the current could be obtained any time the rats pushed the lever, they would use it over and over, ignoring food and physical necessities until they died. Such experiments were actually conducted by James Olds and Peter Milner in the 1950s, first discovering the locations of such areas, and later showing the extremes to which rats would go to obtain the stimulus again.\n\n\"Mindkiller\", a 1982 sci-fi novel by Spider Robinson set in the late 1980s, explores the social implications of technologies that manipulate the brain, beginning with wireheading, the use of electric current to stimulate the pleasure center of the brain in order to achieve a narcotic high.\n\nIn the \"Shaper/Mechanist\" stories by Bruce Sterling, \"wirehead\" is the Mechanist term for a human who has given up corporeal existence and become a computer simulation.\n\nIn \"The Terminal Man\" (1972) by Michael Crichton, forty electrodes are implanted into the brain of the character Harold Franklin \"Harry\" Benson to control his seizures. However, his pleasure center is also stimulated, and his body begins producing more seizures in order to receive the pleasurable sensation.\n\nIn the 1983 film \"Brainstorm\", a wireless brain connection machine is made. A character named Hal Abramson abuses the device with a signal of neverending sexual pleasure.\n\nIn season three, episode 10, \"Awakening\" of the television series \"The Outer Limits\", a neurologically impaired woman receives a brain implant to help her become more like a typical human.\n\nIn episode 41, \"Zone Dancer\" of the 1986 animated series \"The Centurions\", the lead character Crystal Kane is accused of \"Zone Dancing\" (the series' term for computer hacking) and seen using a \"droud\" to interface her brain with computer networks in what is probably the first animated representation of cyberspace and virtual reality. The story, written by Michael Reaves, weaves a future noir tale of cyberpunk espionage, cloning, and private-eye procedural, all set in the universe of the animated series and makes copious references to William Gibson's \"Neuromancer\". There is even a Zone Dancer named Gibson and, in what may be an homage to Larry Niven's Louis Wu, a cyberneticist named Dr. Wu.\n\nThe title character of the television series \"House\" is a physician who suffers from chronic pain. In the episode \"Half-Wit\", House seeks a medical procedure to stimulate the \"pleasure center\" of his brain.\n\nThough electrical brain stimulation is exaggerated to its logical extremity in science fiction tropes such as wireheading, the technology and its application for medical purposes do indeed exist in the real world. The application of electricity to the brains of animals in order to study brain function has been practiced for nearly a century. In 1924, Hans Berger succeeded in recording the first human electroencephalogram (EEG). William Grey Walter wrote a paper in 1938 on the applications of electro-encephalography, the measurement of electrical activity in the brain using wires of different types.\n\nWilder Penfield and Herbert Jasper used electrical stimulation of the human brain to find the places where their patients' seizures were coming from. Dr. J. Lawrence Pool wrote \"Effects of Electrical Stimulation of the Human Cerebellar Cortex\" and described stimulation of a patient's brain. In 1944, Reginald Bickford is reported to have recorded the EEG of psychiatric patients who had had lobotomies. After the 1949 Nobel Prize was awarded to António Egas Moniz for the procedure of lobotomy, a more precise method of destroying brain structures was pursued. In 1955, the placing of wires into a mentally ill patient was performed by Carl Wilhelm Sem-Jacobsen. Stephen Sherwood also performed wire implantation. In 1961, five patients had wires implanted to treat their mental illness and a precision leucotomy was performed for favorable results.\n\nThroughout the 1950s, many doctors continued to place wires or electrodes into the human brain. They worked primarily on the brains of epileptic and psychiatric patients. Robert Galbraith Heath placed electrodes in his subjects' brains in the 1950s to try to treat their mental illness and wrote several papers on his work of stimulating the various regions of the brain. José Manuel Rodriguez Delgado also placed electrodes in his patients' brains. He called his inventions a \"stimoceiver\" and a \"chemitrode\".\n\nBy the 1980s, silver and copper electrodes had been found to be toxic to brain tissue. Electrodes are encapsulated by fibrous growths as an inflammatory bodily response to a foreign object.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289243", "title": "John Meyendorff", "text": "John Meyendorff\n\nJohn Meyendorff (; , tr. ; February 17, 1926 – July 22, 1992) was a leading theologian of the Orthodox Church of America as well as a writer and teacher. He served as the dean of St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary in the United States until June 30, 1992.\n\nMeyendorff was born in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, into the émigré Russian nobility as Ivan Feofilovich Meyendorf (Иван Феофилович Мейендорф). He was the grandson of Baron General Feofil Egorovich Meyendorff.\n\nMeyendorff completed his secondary education in France and his theological education at the St. Sergius Orthodox Theological Institute in Paris in 1949. In 1948, he also received a licentiate at the Sorbonne, and later earned a Diplôme d'études supérieures (1949) and a Diplôme de l'école pratique des Hautes Etudes (1954). He earned the degree of Doctor of Theology in 1958 with a groundbreaking doctoral thesis on the teachings of St. Gregory Palamas.\n\nIn France, Meyendorff was an Assistant Professor of Church History at the St. Sergius Institute, and a Fellow at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.\n\nAfter his ordination to the priesthood in the Orthodox Church in 1959, Meyendorff and his family moved to the United States. There he joined the faculty of Saint Vladimir's Seminary, located in Tuckahoe, New York, as a Professor of Church History and Patristics. Additionally, he held successive joint appointments as a lecturer in Byzantine theology at Harvard University, Dumbarton Oaks (to which he returned for a semester as Acting Director of Studies in 1977), and as Professor of Byzantine History at Fordham University (from 1967). He also was Adjunct Professor at Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary, both in New York City, and lectured widely on university campuses and at church events. He held the position of Dean of St. Vladimir's Seminary from March 1984 until June 1992.\n\nMeyendorff was a major voice in the Orthodox community and worked for the reunion of the three splinter groups into which the Russian Orthodox Church broke up after the Russian Revolution. He was instrumental in the establishment of the Orthodox Church in America as an independent entity in 1970, and urged the various Orthodox Churches in the United States, which were ethnically based, to grow closer together in their shared faith. He frequently represented the Orthodox tradition in ecumenical gatherings, such as the Uppsala Assembly held in 1968 by the World Council of Churches, during his tenure as Chairman of its Commission on Faith and Order (1967-1975).\n\nWhile on vacation at the family's summer home in Quebec following his resignation, Meyendorff took ill and was taken to St. Mary's Hospital in Montreal. He died there on 22 July as the result of pancreatic cancer.\n\nHis son, Paul Meyendorff (born 1950), is currently Professor of Liturgical Theology at St. Vladimir's Seminary.\n\nMeyendorff's publications include the critical text and translation of Byzantine theologian Gregory Palamas (1959), as well as a number of books in the fields of theology and history, such as \"A Study of Gregory Palamas\" (French ed., 1959; Engl. 1964); \"The Orthodox Church\" (1963); \"Orthodoxy and Catholicity\" (1966); \"Christ in Eastern Christian Thought\" (1969); \"Byzantine Theology\" (1973); \"Marriage, an Orthodox Perspective\" (1975); \"Living Tradition\" (1978); \"Byzantium and the Rise of Russia\" (1980); \"The Byzantine Legacy in the Orthodox Church\" (1981); \"Catholicity and the Church\" (1983); and \"Imperial unity and Christian divisions. The Church 450-680 A.D.\" (1989); \"Rome, Constantinople, Moscow: Historical and Theological Studies\" (1996). His books have been published in a number of languages, including French, German, Italian, Russian, Greek, English, Finnish, Spanish, Dutch, Korean, Japanese, Serbian, Romanian, Polish, Hungarian and Chinese.\n\nMeyendorff's doctoral dissertation on Palamas is considered to have transformed the opinion of the Western Church regarding Palamism. Before his study of Palamas, Palamite theology was considered to be a \"curious and \"sui generis\" example of medieval Byzantium's intellectual decline.\" Meyendorff's landmark study of Palamas however, \"set Palamas firmly within the context of Greek patristic thought and spirituality\" with the result that Palamism is now generally understood to be \"a faithful witness to the long-standing Eastern Christian emphasis on deification (\"theosis\") as the purpose of the divine economy in Christ.\"\n\nA member of several professional associations, Meyendorff served during different periods as President of the Orthodox Theological Society of America, President of the American Patristic Association, and a member of the Executive Committee, U.S. Committee for Byzantine Studies. He was a Fellow of the National Endowment for the Humanities (1976–77), and a Guggenheim Fellow (1981).\n\nDuring his service at the seminary, he held the positions of librarian, director of studies, and was long-time editor of St Vladimir's Theological Quarterly. His service to the church included positions as chairman of the Department of External Affairs of the Orthodox Church in America, as advisor to the Holy Synod, and as editor of the monthly newspaper \"The Orthodox Church\".\n\nAs a representative of the Orthodox Church, he participated in the activities of the World Council of Churches, having been Chairman of the Commission on Faith and Order (1967–75) and a member of the Central Committee. Committed particularly to inter-Orthodox unity and cooperation, he was one of the founders and the first general secretary of Syndesmos (World Fellowship of Orthodox Youth Organizations), and served later as its president.\n\nMeyendorff held honorary doctorates from the University of Notre Dame and General Theological Seminary, and was a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy.\n\nMeyendorff was a Senior Fellow at Dumbarton Oaks. The Diploma of Honorary Member of the Leningrad Theological Academy was bestowed upon Fr John in May 1990. In June 1991, Fr John was awarded the Order of St Vladimir, 2nd Class, by Aleksy II, Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia.\n\nFrom 9–11 February 2012, an International Conference \"The Legacy of Fr John Meyendorff, Scholar and Churchman (1926-1992)\" was held at the St. Sergius Institute in Paris, to honour the 20th anniversary of the passing away of Protopresbyter John Meyendorff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289244", "title": "Too Young (Sidney Lippman and Sylvia Dee song)", "text": "Too Young (Sidney Lippman and Sylvia Dee song)\n\n\"Too Young\" is a popular song. The music was written by Sidney Lippman, the lyrics by Sylvia Dee. The song was published in 1951.\n\nIn the United States, the best-known version of the song was recorded by Nat King Cole on February 6, 1951 and released by Capitol Records as catalog number 1449. It was a million-selling record and reached the #1 position on the \"Billboard\" chart, staying at #1 for 5 weeks and altogether on the Best Seller chart for 29 weeks. \"Billboard\" ranked this version as the No. 1 song of 1951. Cole described this song as one of his three favorites among his own songs.\n\nSeveral contemporary versions were also recorded, making the charts but not as high.\n\nThe recording by Patty Andrews was released by Decca Records as catalog number 27569. It first reached the \"Billboard\" Best Seller chart on June 8, 1951 and lasted 1 week on the chart, peaking at #30. On other \"Billboard\" charts, this version reached as high as #19.\n\nVersions that did not make the top 30 best-seller list, but did chart on other \"Billboard\" charts were by Toni Arden (#15, on Columbia), by Fran Allison (#20, on RCA), by Richard Hayes (#24, on Mercury), and by Michael Jackson (on Motown) 1973.\n\nSemprini, piano with rhythm accompaniment recorded it in London on July 7, 1951, as the second song of the medley \"Dancing to the piano (No. 7): Part 1. Hit Medley of Slow Foxtrots\" along with \"Alice in Wonderland\" and \"Forbidden Love\". It was released by EMI on the His Master's Voice label as catalog number B 10123.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Jimmy Young had a hit version of the song, also made in 1951. Sam Cooke recorded it for his \"Hits of the Fifties\" LP 1960. In Australia, on Parlophone, Jim Gussey And His Orchestra, with vocals by Matt Dryden and Olive Lester.\n\nA version of \"Too Young\" by 14-year-old Donny Osmond became an international Top 10 hit for him, reaching #5 in the UK and #6 in Canada. It also spent eight weeks on the U.S. Top 40, with a peak position of #13 when released as a single (MGM catalog number 14407) in 1972.\n\nIn Akira Kurosawa's 1952 film \"Ikiru\", protagonist Watanabe's daughter-in-law is heard humming the tune in a point-of-view scene in which the character is approaching the family home late at night.\n"}
{"id": "2289250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289250", "title": "Zirconia light", "text": "Zirconia light\n\nA zirconia light is an intensely brilliant chemical light produced by incandescent zirconia. It is similar in design to the Drummond light (limelight), but uses a block of zirconia instead of quicklime. Both have been replaced by the electric light.\n\n<no author listed (1870).\"New Zirconia Light\", The Pharmaceutical Journal and Transactions. 29:81-82/>"}
{"id": "2289256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289256", "title": "Agapemonites", "text": "Agapemonites\n\nThe Agapemonites or Community of The Son of Man was a Christian religious group or sect that existed in England from 1846 to 1956. It was named from the meaning \"abode of love\". The Agapemone community was founded by the Reverend Henry Prince in Spaxton, Somerset. The sect also built a church in Upper Clapton, London, and briefly had bases in Stoke-by-Clare in Suffolk, Brighton and Weymouth.\n\nThe ideas of the community were based on the theories of various German religious mystics and its primary object was the spiritualisation of the matrimonial state. The Church of England had dismissed Prince earlier in his career for his radical teachings. The Agapemonites predicted the imminent return of Jesus Christ. According to newspaper accounts, Prince's successor, John Hugh Smyth-Pigott, declared himself Jesus Christ reincarnate.\n\nThe Agapemone community consisted mostly of wealthy unmarried women. Both Prince and Smyth-Pigott took many spiritual brides. Later investigations have shown that these \"brides\" were not solely spiritual and that some produced illegitimate children. In 1860, Prince lost a lawsuit brought on behalf of Louisa Nottidge by the Nottidge family and the group vanished from the public eye. It finally closed in 1956 when the last member died.\n\nHenry James Prince (1811–1899) studied medicine at Guy's Hospital, obtained his qualifications in 1832 and was appointed medical officer to the General Hospital in Bath, his native city. Compelled by ill health to abandon his profession, he entered himself in 1837 as a student at St David's College, Lampeter (now the Lampeter campus of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David), where he gathered about him a band of earnest religious enthusiasts known as the Lampeter Brethren. The vice principal of the college contacted the Bishop of Bath and Wells who, in 1846, installed Prince as the curate of Charlinch in Somerset, where he had sole charge during the illness and absence of the rector, Samuel Starkey.\n\nAttendances at the church were small until, during one of the services, Prince acted as if he was possessed, throwing himself around the church. Congregations grew each week as the \"possession\" was repeated. The congregation was then divided with separate services for men and women. Subsequently, he separated them again into sinners and the righteous, the latter of which generally included females who were wealthy. The bishop was summoned to investigate the practices. By that time, Prince had contracted his first \"spiritual marriage\" and had persuaded himself that he had been absorbed into the personality of God and become a visible embodiment of the Holy Spirit. During his illness, Reverend Starkey read one of his curate's sermons, and was not only \"cured\" forthwith, but embraced his strange doctrines. Together they procured many conversions in the countryside and the neighbouring towns. In the end the rector was deprived of his living and Prince was defrocked. Together with a few disciples they started the Charlinch Free Church, which had a very brief existence, meeting in a supportive farmer's barn.\n\nPrince used money inherited on the death of his first wife, Martha, to marry Julia Starkey, the sister of the rector. They all moved to Stoke-by-Clare in Suffolk where Prince started again to build a congregation, which grew over the subsequent one to two years. The Bishop of Ely then expelled them. Prince opened Adullam Chapel, which was also known as Cave Adullam, in the North Laine area of Brighton. Meanwhile, Starkey established himself at Weymouth. Their chief success lay in the latter town, and Prince soon moved there.\n\nA number of followers, estimated by Prince at 500 but by his critics at one fifth of the number, were gathered together, and it was given out by \"Beloved\" or \"The Lamb\" (the names by which the Agapemonites designated their leader) that his disciples must divest themselves of their possessions and throw them into the common stock. This was done, even by the poor, all of whom looked forward to the speedy end of the present dispensation and were content, for the short remainder of this world, to live in common and, while not repudiating earthly ties, to treat them as purely spiritual. With the money thus obtained the house at Spaxton that was to become the \"Abode of Love\" was enlarged and furnished luxuriously, and the three Nottidge sisters, who contributed £6,000 each, were immediately married to three of Prince's nearest disciples. Agnes, the eldest of the Nottidge sisters, objected to the spiritual marriage which entailed a celibate life and, as one writer reports, became pregnant by another member of the community; however, it is unlikely that she committed adultery because her husband never accused her, and she later gained sole custody of their child in 1850 after proving herself of good moral character before a court. Agnes wrote to her younger sister Louisa warning her not to come to Spaxton. Despite this Louisa travelled to Somerset to join them. Her mother Emily feared the spiritual and financial influence that Prince had established over her daughters. Emily instructed her son Edmund, her nephew Edward Nottidge, and her son-in-law, Frederick Ripley, to travel down to Somerset and to rescue her unmarried daughter, Louisa after her arrival. The three men succeeded in removing Louisa against her will in November 1846, and imprisoned her in 12 Woburn Place, a villa by Regents Park.\n\nFollowing Louisa's persistent claims regarding the divinity of Henry Prince, her mother enlisted medical aid and had Louisa certified insane and then placed her in Moorcroft House Asylum, Hillingdon. Her treatment and forced incarceration in the asylum have remained of interest with respect to the rights of psychiatric patients; Dr Arthur Stillwell, the presiding physician, made notes on Louisa's condition and treatment, recorded in \"The Lancet\". Louisa escaped from the asylum in January 1848, travelling across London to meet the Reverend William Cobbe from The Agapemone at a hotel in Cavendish Square, but was recaptured two days later at Paddington railway station. Cobbe alerted the Commissioners in Lunacy, whose report by Bryan Procter led to her release in May 1848. Louisa then sued her brother, cousin and brother-in-law, Frederick Ripley, for abduction and false imprisonment in \"Nottidge v. Ripley and Another\" (1849); the trial was reported daily in \"The Times\" newspaper. In 1860 Louisa's brother, Ralph Nottidge, sued Prince to recoup the money that Louisa had given him as a result of his undue influence over her, in the case of \"Nottidge v. Prince\" (1860). The Nottidges won the case, with costs. After the cases were resolved Louisa Nottidge returned to Spaxton and spent the rest of her life as one of the Agapemonites.\n\nIn 1856, a few years after the establishment of the “Abode of Love”, Prince and Zoe Patterson, one of his virginal female followers, engaged in public ceremonial sexual intercourse on a billiard table in front of a large audience. The scandal led to the secession of some of his most faithful friends, who were unable any longer to endure what they regarded as the amazing mixture of blasphemy and immorality offered for their acceptance. The most prominent of those who remained received such titles as the \"Anointed Ones\", the \"Angel of the Last Trumpet\", the \"Seven Witnesses\" and so forth.\n\nExtensive building work was undertaken to accommodate members and followers at Four Forks in Spaxton, to which Prince and his followers moved in the summer of 1846. Behind high walls were built a 20-bedroom house and attached chapel, as well as a gazebo, stables, and cottages, all set within landscaped gardens. The buildings were designed by William Cobbe. The buttressed chapel, with its pinnacles and stained glass, was completed in 1845; today, together with the attached house, it is a Grade II listed building.\n\nIn 1899, Prince died at the age of 88. His followers buried Prince in the grounds of the chapel, with his coffin positioned vertically so that he would be standing on the day of his resurrection.\n\nIn the early 20th century, a number of houses (some in the Arts and Crafts style) were built at Four Forks by members of the Agapemonites, including Joseph Morris and his daughter Violet.\n\nSince closure of the community, the chapel has been used as a studio for the production of children's television programmes, including \"Trumpton\" and \"Camberwick Green\". The complex of buildings became known as Barford Gables and was put on the market in 1997. The chapel received planning permission for conversion into a residential house and was put on the market again in 2004.\n\nBetween 1892 and 1895 the Agapemonites built the Church of the Good Shepherd in Upper Clapton, London. It was designed by Joseph Morris (and his sons and daughters, some of whom lived with the sect) in a Gothic style. Although it is fairly conventional in floor plan, the outside of the church is a riot of statuary and symbolism. The main doorways sport large carvings of angels and the four evangelists symbolised by a man, an eagle, a bull and a lion. The same four figures, cast in bronze, look out over the four quarters of the Earth from the base of the steeple. The two flanking weather vanes show a certain symbolic debt to William Blake's Jerusalem depicting, as they do, a fiery chariot and a sheaf of arrows (presumably of desire), while the main steeple is clearly surmounted by a spear. The stained glass windows, designed by noted children's book illustrator Walter Crane, and made by J. S. Sparrow, betray the unconventional nature of the sect as they illustrate the 'true station of womankind'. The church was abandoned after 1956, used by a splinter group, and now is used by the Georgian Orthodox Church.\n\nAfter Prince died in 1899 he was replaced by the Reverend John Hugh Smyth-Pigott. Around 1890, Smyth-Pigott again started leading meetings of the community and recruited 50 young female followers to supplement the ageing population of Agapemonites. He took Ruth Anne Preece as his second wife and she had three children, named Glory, Power and Life. By 1902 his fame had spread as far as India, from where Mirza Ghulam Ahmad warned him of his false teachings and made a death prophecy against him stating that he would die within Mirza's lifetime, if he will claim that he was a god another time, which did come true as in the life time of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad he stopped claiming being a god. After the death of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad he claimed again being god and was sentenced to death and died.\n\nThe house which may have belonged to Smyth-Pigott in St John's Wood was visited by John Betjeman in his film \"Metro-land\". It is built in the neo-gothic style. It is currently the home of the television presenter Vanessa Feltz and was previously the home of Charles Saatchi.\n\nSmyth-Pigott died in 1927 and the sect gradually declined until the last member, Ruth, died in 1956. Her funeral in 1956 was the only time when outsiders were admitted to the chapel.\n\nSmyth-Pigott's grand daughter, Margaret Campbell, recalled that her grandmother (Ruth Preece) had warned her that there were many stories made up about Smyth-Pigott but that he was a 'good man'. Campbell argued that Smyth-Pigott, or Beloved as he was known, did not have affairs although he did have two bigamous wives. She claimed that both wives were happy with the arrangement (one being older and unable to have children) and that the sect had to be viewed as of its time, emerging shortly after religious emancipation in the 1830s. It allowed many rich women an alternative lifestyle to their other options of governess or wife and they lived in luxury at the Agapemone in Somerset until their death. She recalled growing up at the cult as a very happy experience in an interview to the Henley Standard in 2016, shortly before her death. Campbell argued that Beloved had once given a sermon in which he said, 'Christ is no longer here (pointing skywards) but here (pointing to his chest),' thereby expounding the central Christian doctrine of Christ within every Christian and that this had been twisted by the media for their own aims. Kate Barlow deftly dispels rumours of a 'revolving stage of virgins' as described by one newspaper at the time as myth in her memoir 'The Abode of Love' and details many interesting aspects of the cult such as its own signature tea served at 4pm every day.\n\n\"The Abode of Love\" by Aubrey Menen – \"an appallingly inaccurate popular account\" according to one review – is a novelisation of the history of the Agapemonites under Prince's leadership.\n\nIn 2006 Smyth-Pigott's granddaughter, Kate Barlow, published an account of life as a child with her family in the sect. The book includes family photographs and details of conversations she had as a child with the then elderly sect members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289257", "title": "Everlong", "text": "Everlong\n\n\"Everlong\" is a song by American rock group Foo Fighters. It was released in August 1997 as the second single from their second studio album, \"The Colour and the Shape\" (1997). The song reached number 3 on the US \"Billboard\" Alternative Songs chart and the Canadian \"(RPM)\" Rock/Alternative chart.\n\nIn late 1996, Dave Grohl was lodging at Bear Creek Studios in Woodinville, Washington, recording what was to be the second Foo Fighters album. While playing around with his guitar during downtime between takes of the song \"Monkey Wrench\" (which is in drop D tuning), he stumbled on a \"Sonic Youth rip off\" riff, which he felt had the same vibe as one of that band's songs, \"Schizophrenia\". He took a liking to it and decided to develop it into a song, the band jamming on what became the verse; by the end of those sessions, the song had not progressed beyond this rudimentary draft.\n\nAround Christmastime, Grohl returned to his native Virginia shortly thereafter, homeless due to his ongoing divorce; on a sleeping bag on the floor of a friend's house, he wrote it into a song proper in 45 minutes. The lyrics were inspired by ongoing romance with Louise Post of the band Veruca Salt: \"That song's about a girl that I'd fallen in love with and it was basically about being connected to someone so much, that not only do you love them physically and spiritually, but when you sing along with them you harmonize perfectly\". Not long after, during a visit to a friend's studio in nearby Washington, D.C., he recorded a demo of the song playing all instruments on his own, which he describes as \"honestly its just the same thing [as the version on \"The Colour and The Shape\"], but super raw\".\n\nGrohl returned to the west coast to continue work on the album, reconvening with producer Gil Norton at Grandmaster Recorders in Hollywood to show him the song, which Norton approved of. Not long after, most of the band joined them and they proceeded to record the song. The solo guitar intro was recorded through an Astatic JT40 microphone, which outputs \"dull\" recordings with \"no clarity\". Grohl wanted Post to provide vocals, but as she was in Chicago at the time, her parts (\"doo doo doo\"s alongside the lead guitar riff and harmonizing on the chorus) were achieved through 2 different telephone lines in the studio calling her: one connected as her monitor, the other for recording; Grohl recorded his chorus harmonies through the JT40, providing vocals at a similar level of fidelity as Post's. For the breakdown, Grohl recited 3 spoken word takes: one retells a childhood story from assistant engineer Ryan Boesch of being punished for disturbing his father's sleep and 2 reading random passages from a book in the studio; all 3 were meant to be blended together in the final mix, but the book takes went unused.\n\nThe music video for \"Everlong\" was nominated for Best Rock Video at the 1998 MTV Video Music Awards.\n\nThe surreal, satirical video for the song was directed by Michel Gondry. The running time of the video exceeds that of the original version of the song; this version is used only for the video. Although Taylor Hawkins appears in the video as the drummer, Dave Grohl actually plays the drum track on the original album recording, as Hawkins had not yet joined the band. The music video is, in part, a parody of the film \"The Evil Dead\".\n\nThe video starts with a black and white shot of Smear and Mendel (dressed as Teddy Boys) outside of a house where Grohl and Hawkins (playing his wife) supposedly live. The video then transitions to Grohl's dream, in which he is Sid Vicious at a party that Hawkins' character (playing Nancy Spungen) is getting harassed by Mendel and Smear. The video transitions to Hawkins' dream, in which his character is reading a book, when, all of a sudden, a supposedly undead being creeps up from the floorboard (parodying \"Evil Dead\".) The video transitions back to Grohl's dream, when his hand enlarges and begins to attack Smear and Mendel, after which they vaporise, and wake up in Hawkins' dream. Grohl wakes up after he hears his phone ring. Meanwhile, in Hawkins' dream, Hawkins' character tries to fend off the zombies, while Grohl gets firewood. Hawkins' then attempts to call Grohl, to which point he wakes up. Grohl realizes Hawkins' plight, and tries to wake his character up, to no avail. Grohl goes back to sleep, only to reappear in Hawkins' dream. Grohl then proceeds to save Hawkins and throw the zombies in the lake. The video transitions back to real life to show that Mendel and Smear are in the house. The video takes a surreal twist as real-life Mendel and Smear pop out of the characters' heads. Grohl and Hawkins wake up, and the band finishes the video by playing out the rest of the song.\n\nA live version filmed at Hyde Park on June 17, 2006 was released on Live at Hyde Park DVD.\n\nA live version appears on the \"Live at Wembley Stadium\" DVD which was released in 2008.\n\nAlthough the song is normally performed with electric guitars, vocalist/guitarist Dave Grohl's solo acoustic variation gained popularity after an impromptu rendition on Howard Stern's radio show in 1998. The band has performed it acoustically since then and an acoustic performance concludes their 2006 live CD and DVD \"Skin and Bones\". Additionally, an acoustic version of Everlong was released on Foo Fighters' 2009 \"Greatest Hits\" album.\n\nA more upbeat, uptempo elevator music-esque version of the song can be heard at the beginning of the music video for the Foo Fighters song \"Learn to Fly\" when Jack Black puts the drug in the coffee maker. This version of the song is much like the version of \"Big Me\" that can be heard in the beginning of their \"Monkey Wrench\" video.\n\nAn instrumental cover version of the track was recorded by the experimental band OXES, as the b-side to their 2002 single \"Half Half & Half\".\n\n\n\"Everlong\" has been featured in the music video games \"Rock Band 2\", \"Rock Band Unplugged\", \"Guitar Hero World Tour\" (which is exportable to other games) and \"Rocksmith 2014\". It is also included in \"Rock Band\" for iOS.\n\nAn arrangement of the song for string quartet was used in the \"Friends\" episode \"The One with Monica and Chandler's Wedding\", during the titular event, and in the \"Daria\" episode \"Lane Miserables\", while Daria watches from a window as Trent and Monique are walking away. It was also used in a 1998 episode of the US daytime soap opera \"All My Children\". The original version of the song was used in Martin Scorsese's 2013 film \"The Wolf of Wall Street\". The song was also used briefly in the movie \"Little Nicky\" while Nicky is ascending his girlfriend's apartment building.\n\nComedian and late night talk show host David Letterman has called \"Everlong\" his favorite song, citing it as having helped him through his recovery from heart surgery in 2000. Foo Fighters were invited to serve as the musical act on the February 21, 2000 episode of \"Late Show with David Letterman\", the first since his surgery, to perform \"Everlong.\" Grohl stated that he was \"blown away\" after learning that Letterman was a fan of their music. The band went as far as cancelling a stop on a tour in South America so they could perform, explaining that \"We just felt like we had to be there. Not only was it an honor to be asked, but it felt like something we had to do – because he had always meant so much to us. And that started this connection that we've had for years. It's fucking cool, you know?\" On May 20, 2015, the band returned to perform \"Everlong\" again, the night of Letterman's final episode. The six-minute-long performance was set to a montage of footage spanning Letterman's career.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289262", "title": "Batch (album)", "text": "Batch (album)\n\nBatch is the second album by Orange County pop punk band Big Drill Car. It was released in 1991. It was the last studio recording with the original line-up, and their last album distributed by Cruz Records. Like many Big Drill Car albums, \"Batch\" is currently out of print.\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n"}
{"id": "2289280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289280", "title": "Achaeus of Syracuse", "text": "Achaeus of Syracuse\n\nAchaeus of Syracuse (; lived 4th century BC) was an ancient Greek tragedian native of Syracuse. The \"Suda\" ascribes to him 10 plays, while the Pseudo-Eudocia 14. He may be the \"Achaios\" who won a victory at Athens' Lenaia festival in 356 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289282", "title": "Ayrshire cattle", "text": "Ayrshire cattle\n\nAyrshire cattle (IPA ) are a breed of dairy cattle from Ayrshire in southwest Scotland. The adult Ayrshire cow weighs from . Ayrshires typically have red and white markings; the red can range from a shade of orange to a dark brown. They are known for their hardiness and their ability to convert grass into milk efficiently. The breed's strengths today are traits of easy calving and longevity.\n\nThe breed originated in the county of Ayrshire in Scotland before 1800. During the breed's development, it was referred to as the Dunlop, later the Cunningham, and finally, the Ayrshire. These are all parts of the County Ayr. Which strains of cattle were crossbred to create the Ayrshire is not known.\n\nAlthough they are now native to Ayrshire, Scotland, many cattle historians believe the Ayrshire breed originated in Holland. In 1750, they were crossbred with other breeds of cattle, which led to their distinctive brown spots. The cattle were recognised as a distinct breed by the Highland and Agricultural Society in 1814. Many modern dairy farmers favour Ayrshires because of their longevity, hardiness, and easy calving. These traits are thought to have developed due to the rugged conditions of its native habitat.\n\nAyrshire cattle were first brought to the United States in 1822, primarily to Connecticut and other parts of New England. The environment was similar to their native land of Scotland. The American Ayrshire Breed Association was founded in 1875. The Approved Ayrshire Milk programme, which licensed farms that owned Ayrshire cattle, began in the 1930s. Ayrshire milk was identified as being of higher quality compared to that of other breeds. Today, the cattle are owned by farmers in many areas of America, including New York and Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Ayrshire is considered to be a medium-sized breed by most conservation organisations and breed associations. The average adult individual \"should weigh over at maturity.\" Their milk production can reach or greater per annum.\n\nAyrshire cattle are usually red and white in colour. The red colour can vary from very deep to a lighter shade; according to the U.S. Ayrshire Breeders' Association, \"[t]here is no discrimination or registry restriction on color patterns for Ayrshires.\" Calves are normally dehorned to reduce injuries to other cattle and human handlers. If they are not polled, their horns can grow up to in length. Due to the environment of their native Scottish lowlands, they are typically strong and adaptable to many farming methods. Compared to other dairy breeds, such as the Holstein-Friesian, Ayrshires are usually able to survive despite less feed and less fertile ground.\n\nA study of the social behaviour of Polish Black-and-White dairy cattle and their F1-crossbreds with Ayrshire, Jersey, Holstein-Friesian and Swedish Black-and-White breeds, found the Ayrshire crossbreeds were most dominant, least attacked by their group-mates and least susceptible to a group change. A further study found that among Ayrshire, Holstein, Jersey, Brown Swiss and Guernsey (the other common dairy breeds), the Ayrshire had the highest number of agonistic interactions, however, this was not related to bodyweight.\n\nIn 2008, 63,356 Ayrshire cattle were registered in the United Kingdom. In the United States, Ayrshire cattle are classed as a \"recovering\" breed by the Livestock Conservancy, despite a significant decline in registrations over the last 30 years. This means more than 2,500 registrations occur annually, but the breed is \"still in need of monitoring.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2289285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289285", "title": "Sheila MacRae", "text": "Sheila MacRae\n\nSheila Margaret MacRae (née Stevens; 24 September 1921 – 6 March 2014) was an English-born American actress, singer, and dancer.\n\nMacRae appeared in such films as \"Caged\" (1950), \"Backfire\" (1950), and \"Sex and the Single Girl\" (1964). On television, MacRae played herself in an episode of \"I Love Lucy\", \"The Fashion Show\", in which she asks Lucy to participate in a Hollywood fashion show organized by Don Loper and featuring actors' wives as models.\n\nIn her first continuing role on television, between 1966 and 1970, MacRae played Alice Kramden on 52 episodes of \"The Jackie Gleason Show\", taking over the role from Audrey Meadows. She went on to have her own short-lived television series (\"The Sheila MacRae Show\"), and to play Madelyn Richmond on the long-running soap opera \"General Hospital\".\n\nSheila Margaret Stephens was born in London in 1921, but evacuated with her parents to Long Island, New York, in 1939, shortly before the onset of World War II. She finished high school when she was 15.\n\nShe married actor and singer Gordon MacRae in 1941; the couple divorced in 1967. They often appeared on the stage together, in musicals such as \"Bells Are Ringing\" (in a 1964 production), and \"Guys and Dolls\" (as Miss Adelaide, a character that she took to Broadway in the 1965 revival). They were the parents of two daughters, actresses Heather and Meredith MacRae, and two sons, William Gordon MacRae and Robert Bruce MacRae. One of Sheila's four children, Meredith, predeceased her.\n\nShe later married Ronald Wayne, a television producer.\n\nMacRae became a naturalized United States citizen on 20 March 1959, in California.\n\nMacRae, a devout Christian Scientist, died suddenly on 6 March 2014, in Englewood, New Jersey, aged 92, at the Lillian Booth Actor's Home. She had suffered from dementia, but was otherwise in good health and had been hospitalized for a minor surgical procedure, when her death came suddenly from natural causes, said her daughter, Heather. She was soon cremated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289288", "title": "Perevolochna", "text": "Perevolochna\n\nPerevolochna () was a former fortress and town in Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and Cossack Hetmanate, later a village in Poltava Oblast. Before establishing Kamianske Water Reservoir in 1960s, here also existed a river crossing. The settlement was situated at the bank of the Dnieper near the mouth of Vorskla River, where a ford across Dnieper enabled people to cross the river, hence its name. The crossing Perevolochna – Mishuryn Rih was also a key crossing during the battle of the Dnieper in October 1943.\n\nPerevolochna was founded at the turn of the 13th to 14th century by the Lithuanian Great Duke Vitaut as a fortified settlement in order to protect his empire against enemies from the East. \n\nAgain Perevolochna is mentioned in 1640s belonging to Yuri Nemyrych (Jerzy Niemirycz), but which was also claimed by Potocki family. Since the start of Khmelnytsky Uprising, the town belonged to Chyryn Regiment, since 1661 it was part of Kremenchuk Regiment. Since mid 1660s it belonged to Poltava Regiment. Claims to Perevolochna laid the Zaporizhian Sich. Role of the town has increased from mid 1680s being the main fort on the Crimean direction.\n\nIn April 1709 Russian forces burned down Perevolochna. On July 11, 1709, three days after the Swedish army had been defeated at the Battle of Poltava, the remainder of the Swedish army under General Adam Ludwig Lewenhaupt surrendered at Perevolochna to Russian Empire General Aleksandr Menshikov near Perevolochna. King Charles XII of Sweden, hetman Ivan Mazepa and Kost Hordiienko with 3,000 Swedes and Cossacks managed to cross the Dnieper river and take refuge into Turkish-held Moldavia.\n\nOn maps of 1730s Perevolochna fortress is shown on Dnieper river just north of the Ukrainian fortification line.\n\nAfter the loss of Russia at the Pruth River Campaign, the fortress again became the key place of Southern frontier. It also played great role during the Russo-Turkish War of 1735–1739. In 1760s Perevolochna lost its city status, while in 1785 Perevolochna fortress was liquidated.\n\nSince 1802 it was a town within Kobeliaky county, Poltava Governorate. Since 1919 Perevolochna was a village.\n\nDuring the World War II at the end of September 1943 the Soviet army stormed Dnieper near Perevolochna establishing the bridgehead (\"foothold\") of Auly.\n\nUntil being flooded by the Soviet government with creation of the Dniprodzerzhynsk reservoir (today Kamianske Reservoir) in the middle of the 1960s, it belonged to Kobeliaky Raion (district) of Poltava Oblast (province) of Ukraine. On 6 December 1963 population of Perevolochna and Kyshenky was moved to the newly established village of Svitlohirske, while the submerged settlements were excluded from record.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289296", "title": "Grove Press", "text": "Grove Press\n\nGrove Press is an American publishing imprint that was founded in 1947. Imprints include: Black Cat, Evergreen, Venus Library, and Zebra. Barney Rosset purchased the company in 1951 and turned it into an alternative book press in the United States. He partnered with Richard Seaver to bring French literature to the United States. The Atlantic Monthly Press, under the aegis of its publisher, Morgan Entrekin, merged with Grove Press in 1991. Grove later became an imprint of the publisher Grove/Atlantic, Inc.\n\nGrove Press was founded in 1947 in Greenwich Village on Grove Street. The original owners only published three books in three years and so sold it to Barney Rosset in 1951 for three thousand dollars.\n\nUnder Rosset's leadership, Grove introduced American readers to European avant-garde literature and theatre, including French authors Alain Robbe-Grillet, Jean Genet, and Eugène Ionesco. In 1954 Grove published Samuel Beckett's play \"Waiting for Godot\" after it had been refused by more mainstream publishers. Since then Grove has been Beckett's U.S. publisher. Grove is also the U.S. publisher of the works of Harold Pinter; in 2006 it published a collection called \"The Essential Pinter\", which includes Pinter's Nobel Lecture, entitled \"Art, Truth & Politics\".In 2006 Grove published an anniversary bilingual edition of \"Waiting for Godot\" and a special four-volume edition of Beckett's works, with commissioned introductions by Edward Albee, J. M. Coetzee, Salman Rushdie, and Colm Tóibín, to commemorate his centenary (April 2006). Grove was also the first American house to publish the unabridged complete works of the Marquis de Sade, translated by Seaver and Austryn Wainhouse. Grove also had an interest in Japanese literature, publishing several anthologies as well as works by Kenzaburō Ōe and others.\n\nGrove published most of the American Beats of the 1950s (Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs, and Allen Ginsberg) as well as poets like Frank O'Hara of the New York School and poets associated with Black Mountain and the San Francisco Renaissance such as Robert Duncan. In 1963, Grove published \"My Life and Loves: Five Volumes in One/Complete and Unexpurgated\", with annotations, collecting Frank Harris' work in one volume for the first time.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1973 Grove published \"Evergreen Review\", a literary magazine whose contributors included Edward Albee, Bertolt Brecht, William S. Burroughs, Albert Camus, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Nat Hentoff, LeRoi Jones, John Lahr, and Timothy Leary.\n\nGrove has also from time to time published mainstream works. For example, in 1978 it published the script from the George Lucas film \"American Graffiti\" under its Black Cat paperback imprint.\n\nThe defining movements of the 1960s in America—the antiwar, civil rights, black power, counterculture, and student movements in the United States—along with revolutions across the globe, were debated, exposed, and discussed in Grove’s publications as was the sexual revolution. Grove’s books challenged prevailing attitudes about sex through dozens of erotic books, many by \"anonymous\" authors; introduced the layperson to new directions in psychology through Eric Berne’s \"Games People Play\"; and gave voice to revolutionaries around the world, including Che Guevara and Malcolm X. They published works by Frantz Fanon and Régis Debray, and numerous books opposing the Vietnam war and the draft, including information on G.I. rights.\n\nRejecting conventional notions of obscenity and morality, Grove gained a reputation as a controversial publisher committed to fighting censorship as it published some of the most well-known banned books.\n\nIn 1959, Grove Press published an unexpurgated version of D.H. Lawrence’s \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\". The U.S. Post Office Department confiscated copies sent through the mail. Rosset sued the New York city postmaster and his Lawyer Charles Rembar won in New York, and then on federal appeal.\n\nGrove’s success in publishing \"Lady Chatterley’s Lover\" paved the way for Rosset to publish another contested work that was ultimately cleared by the courts, Henry Miller's 1934 novel, \"Tropic of Cancer\". The book contained explicit sexual passages and therefore could not be published in the United States. In 1961, Grove Press issued a copy of the work and lawsuits were brought against dozens of individual booksellers in many states for selling it. The issue was ultimately settled by the U. S. Supreme Court's 1973 decision in Miller v. California. (The Miller of the \"Miller\" case was unrelated to Henry Miller.)\n\nThe William S. Burroughs novel \"Naked Lunch\" was banned in some parts of the world for approximately ten years. The first American publisher was Grove Press. The book was banned by Boston courts in 1962 due to obscenity, but that decision was reversed in a landmark 1966 opinion by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. This was the last major literary censorship battle in the US. Upon publication, Grove Press added to the book supplementary material regarding the censorship battle as well as an article written by Burroughs on the topic of drug addiction. Grove would publish several editions of the novel over the next four decades, including a \"Restored Text\" version in 2002. Grove also published the first American paperback editions of other Burroughs works including \"The Soft Machine\", \"Nova Express\" and \"The Ticket That Exploded\". Grove would also publish the final collection of the author's writings, the posthumously published \"\", and in 2008 published the American first edition of \"And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks\", the first release of a novel that Burroughs and Jack Kerouac had collaborated on in the mid-1940s.\n\nGrove had to defend its Evergreen Review on several occasions due to what was deemed objectionable content. Issues were occasionally seized by the authorities.\n\nAfter winning several battles over the printed page, Grove built on these victories and successfully defended the screening of Vilgot Sjöman’s Swedish film I Am Curious (Yellow).\n\nIn 1962, Grove had sales of $2 million, but after legal bills, lost $400,000. But by 1964, they were profitable, and by 1967, Grove went public and built its own headquarters. In 1970, the staff of 150 began organizing a union. Rosset fired some of the organizers (and later re-hired them in arbitration). The organizers responded with a picket line and an occupation of the building. Rosset called the police, and the occupiers left. His editor, Richard Seaver, talked to the pickets and convinced them to disperse. Grove distributed an anti-union information sheet, and the union vote failed, 86–34. After the vote, Grove fired half its workers.\n\nIn 1985 Rosset sold Grove Press to Ann Getty, Getty Oil, and Sir George Weidenfeld, a British Publisher. Rosset was fired a year later.\n\n\n\"Obscene\", a documentary feature about Rosset and Grove Press by Neil Ortenberg and Daniel O’Connor, was released September 26, 2008. The film was a selection of the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival. Featured in the film are Amiri Baraka, Lenny Bruce, William S. Burroughs, Jim Carroll, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Allen Ginsberg, Al Goldstein, Erica Jong, Ray Manzarek, Michael McClure, Henry Miller, John Rechy, Ed Sanders, Floyd Salas, John Sayles, Gore Vidal, John Waters, and Malcolm X.\n\nGrove Press is referenced several times in the AMC series \"Mad Men\", directly or indirectly. In Season 1, Episode 3, Joan Holloway returns a borrowed copy of D. H. Lawrence's \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\"; the book's first U.S. publisher was Grove Press, who fought numerous court battles over it. Season 2, Episode 13 is titled \"Meditations in an Emergency,\" after a book of poetry by Frank O'Hara published by Grove Press in 1957; later in the episode Don Draper is seen reading the book, after being challenged by a colleague (\"You wouldn't like it.\"). The episode reportedly boosted sales of the book by 218%. Season 4, Episode 11 features Eric Berne's Games People Play, another best-seller published by Grove Press. In Season 5, Episode 9, Don is seen at the theater holding an issue of \"Evergreen Showcard\", Grove's short-lived off-Broadway theatrical magazine. In Season 7, Episode 6, Don mentions to Peggy that he and Megan had seen the film \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\" the previous evening (Don: \"[I'm] still scandalized.\" Peggy: \"Of course Megan would want to see a dirty movie.\"); the film's U.S. distributor was Grove Press. In 2010, in an interesting example of art influencing life, Grove/Atlantic (the successor company to Grove Press) published—for real—the memoir of fictional Roger Sterling: \"Sterling's Gold: Wit and Wisdom of an Ad Man\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289298", "title": "Batdance", "text": "Batdance\n\n\"Batdance\" is a song by American musician Prince, from the 1989 \"Batman\" soundtrack. Helped by the film's popularity, the song reached number one in the US, becoming Prince's fourth American number-one single.\n\n\"Batdance\" was a last-minute replacement for a brooding track titled \"Dance with the Devil\", which Prince felt was too dark. Incidentally, although \"Dance with the Devil\" remains unreleased, some of the lyrics appear in the album's liner notes.\n\n\"Batdance\" is almost two songs in one—a chaotic, mechanical dance beat that changes gears into a slinky, funky groove before changing back for the song's conclusion (except on the single version in which it eliminates the guitar solo before the middle section, then goes straight to the mechanical Joker laughter from the end of the movie and an earlier movie soundbyte of Michael Keaton saying \"Stop\"). The track is an amalgam of many musical ideas of Prince's at the time. Elements from at least seven songs (some unreleased) were incorporated into \"Batdance\": \"200 Balloons\", \"We Got the Power\", \"House in Order\", \"Rave Unto the Joy Fantastic\" (later released on the album \"Rave Un2 the Joy Fantastic\"), \"The Future\", and \"Electric Chair\". Some of these were mere snippets, and other segments showed up only in remixes of the track. The song was also loaded with dialog samples from the film.\n\nThe song's music video, directed by Albert Magnoli and choreographed by Barry Lather, featured dancers costumed as multiple Batmen, Jokers and Vicki Vales. Prince appears as a costumed character in face paint known as \"Gemini\", with one side of his face representing the Joker (evil) and the other, Batman (good). The Batman and Jokers alternate dance sections, while Prince (as both himself and Gemini) sings. The video ends with Gemini hitting a detonator, exploding an electric chair (referenced in the song), and Prince (actually Michael Keaton's voice) saying \"Stop\" as the video abruptly ends. The video also features one Vicki Vale wearing a black dress with the words \"All this and brains too\", a reference to \"The Dark Knight Returns\" by Frank Miller, in which a female news presenter wears a top with the same slogan.\n\nGemini is Prince's astrological sign, and is a reference to the duality in his music. \"Gemini\" would also make an appearance in the \"Partyman\" video, but this time the costume would be all-Joker. The video earned Prince a 1990 Soul Train Music Award nomination for Best R&B/Soul Music Video, and nomination for Best Video From a Film from the MTV Video Music Awards of the same year.\n\nThe B-side to the \"Batdance\" is \"200 Balloons\", which was recorded for the film and serves as the musical blueprint for the main portion of \"Batdance\". The song was rejected for the film by Tim Burton and replaced with \"Trust\". The lyrics of \"200 Balloons\" reference the scene which it was created for to a greater degree than the replacement track, which is only connected to the scene by the Joker asking \"Who do you trust?\" after the song ends. Prince did little more than replace the lyrics of \"200 Balloons\" in its transition into \"Batdance\". Only musical portions survived the transition, but full lyrics showed up in \"The Batmix\" (turn your head to the east, I be coming from the west). \"200 Balloons\" also contains samples of \"House in Order\" and \"Rave Unto the Joy Fantastic\"; the latter was another song submitted for inclusion in the movie, but rejected (it was replaced by \"Partyman\").\n\nThe 7-inch edit of the song is basically the album version without the guitar solo and the up-tempo part near the end.\n\nThe 12-inch vinyl and CD Maxi versions of the single included two remixes of \"Batdance\" that were done by Mark Moore and William Orbit, \"The Batmix\" and \"Vicki Vale Mix\". \"The Batmix\" focuses on the chaotic \"rock\" section of \"Batdance\", and is supplemented with electronic distortion and sampling of voices, instruments, and larger excerpts of Prince's then-unreleased \"Rave Un2 the Joy Fantastic\". The \"Vicki Vale Mix\" is an extension of the middle part of \"Batdance\", which includes dialogue between Bruce Wayne and Vicki Vale. In addition to \"200 Balloons\", the CD Maxi single (9-21257-2) features both of these remixes.\n\nIn November 2013, an unreleased mix leaked online that featured a rap by Big Daddy Kane. The remix was done by John Luongo, who confirmed its existence. According to Luongo, the reason for the remix being unreleased was that Warner Bros. Records didn't like it because it was \"too different\" and refused its release. However, Prince was pleased with the outcome.\n\n\n7-inch single\n\n12-inch / CD single\n\n12-inch / CD maxi single\n\n12-inch promo\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289302", "title": "Gauss's lemma", "text": "Gauss's lemma\n\nGauss's lemma can mean any of several lemmas named after Carl Friedrich Gauss:\n\n"}
{"id": "2289303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289303", "title": "Hyposmocoma", "text": "Hyposmocoma\n\nHyposmocoma is a genus of moths with more 350 species endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. The genus was first described by Arthur Gardiner Butler in 1881. Most species of \"Hyposmocoma\" have plant-based diets, but four species, such as \"Hyposmocoma molluscivora,\" eat snails. The caterpillars spin silk, which they then use to capture and eat snails. These are the first caterpillars known to eat snails (or mollusks of any kind).\n\nSome species are amphibious. This trait has evolved at least three times within this genus.\n\n\nThere are a number of undescribed species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289305", "title": "Fadhili William", "text": "Fadhili William\n\nFadhili William Mdawida (November 11, 1938 – February 11, 2001), often referred to simply as Fadhili William, was a Kenyan recording artist and composer who is most famous as the first person to record Adam Salim's song \"Malaika\" which he recorded with his band The Jambo Boys around 1963.\n\nFadhili William was born to Halima Wughanga and Ramadhan Mwamburi in Taita-Taveta District near Mombasa. His father, who died when Fadhili was only seven, was a traditional musician. Like three of his siblings – Ali Harrison Mwataku, Esther John and Mumba Charo – he became a musician.\n\nHe started singing while in primary school in Taita. He went on to Government African School, in Pumwani in Nairobi. He then dropped out of Shimo la Tewa Secondary School, where he had joined Form Three, to pursue a musical career.\n\nIt was while at Pumwani, he said in an interview, that he fell in love with a beautiful girl, \"an angel,\" to whom he composed and recorded \"Malaika\" (Angel) to console her when she was given away to an older man who could pay a bride price.\n\n\"Malaika\" was recorded at the Equator Sound Studios under the guidance of Charles Worrod, who went on to promote and distribute the ballad.\n"}
{"id": "2289306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289306", "title": "Conservative Punk", "text": "Conservative Punk\n\nConservative Punk was a website that promoted conservative views in the punk subculture. It was created by Nick Rizzuto, an employee of a New York City rock radio station, partially in response to the left-liberal group Punkvoter (created by NOFX lead singer Fat Mike). The Conservative Punk website received significant press coverage during the 2004 presidential election. It includes contributions from talk radio personality Andrew Wilkow and former Misfits singer and Gotham Road frontman Michale Graves. Dorian Lynskey of \"The Guardian\" wrote about Rizzuto: \"To his critics he's a crank bringing punk's good name into disrepute - but to his supporters he's the fearless voice of a formerly silent minority.\" \n\nIn early 2010, Nick Rizzuto, without notice, stopped paying the hosting fees for Conservativepunk.com, causing the website and discussion forum to become inaccessible. Longtime members and regular posters created a replacement site, ConPunk.com, in order to maintain the community, but that site went offline in May 2013, in favor of a Facebook group which too has since closed as of 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289312", "title": "Electrodialysis reversal", "text": "Electrodialysis reversal\n\nElectrodialysis reversal (EDR) is an electrodialysis reversal water desalination membrane process that has been commercially used since the early 1960s. An electric current migrates dissolved salt ions, including fluorides, nitrates and sulfates, through an electrodialysis stack consisting of alternating layers of cationic and anionic ion exchange membranes. Periodically (3-4 times per hour), the direction of ion flow is reversed by reversing the polarity of the applied electric current.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289314", "title": "Dale Long", "text": "Dale Long\n\nRichard Dale Long (February 6, 1926 – January 27, 1991) was an American first baseman in Major League Baseball with the Pittsburgh Pirates, St. Louis Browns, Chicago Cubs, San Francisco Giants, New York Yankees and the Washington Senators between 1951 and 1963. He batted and threw left-handed.\n\nA native of Springfield, Missouri, Long turned down an offer from the Green Bay Packers to play football, opting instead to play baseball.\n\nLong spent six seasons in the minor leagues, playing for five different organizations before he debuted with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1951, ending that season with the St. Louis Browns. After three and one-half additional seasons in the minors, Pittsburgh gave Long another chance. He hit .291 with 79 RBIs, while collecting double-figure totals in extra-base hits with 19 doubles, 13 triples, and 16 home runs. In fact, Long led the major leagues in triples (13) in that 1955 season.\nIn 1956, Long posted career highs in home runs (27) and RBI (91), made the National League All-Star team, and put his name in the record books by hitting eight home runs in eight consecutive games between May 19 and May 28, breaking the previous mark of six straight games, shared by Ken Williams (1922), George Kelly (1924), Lou Gehrig (1931), Walker Cooper (1947) and Willie Mays (1955). Since then, the mark has been matched only by Don Mattingly (1987) and Ken Griffey, Jr. (1993), both in the American League.\n\nTraded to the Chicago Cubs in May 1957, Long belted 55 homers for them in two and a half seasons. In 1958 he became the first left-handed-throwing catcher since Jiggs Donahue in 1902. Long performed this feat in a pair of Cubs losses at Wrigley Field, during the first game of a doubleheader versus the Pirates on August 20 and on September 21 against the Los Angeles Dodgers. In both cases, he had been shifted from first base in the ninth inning. In 1959 he tied another home run record, when he hit back-to-back pinch-hit homers.\n\nIn 1960 Long divided his playing time between the San Francisco Giants and New York Yankees. As a member of the Yankees, he faced his former Pirates team in the 1960 World Series.\n\nLong played for the Washington Senators during 1961 and 1962, but was also on the Yankees team that won the 1962 World Series over the Giants. He finished his playing career in 1963. Following his retirement, Long served as a Yankee coach and later as an umpire in minor league baseball.\n\nIn a 10-season MLB career, Long was a .267 hitter with 805 hits, 132 home runs and 467 RBI in 1,013 games. He recorded a .988 fielding percentage as a first baseman.\n\nDale Long died in Palm Coast, Florida after long battle with cancer at age 64.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289319", "title": "Enfield (heraldry)", "text": "Enfield (heraldry)\n\nThe enfield is a fictitious creature sometimes used in heraldry.\n\nThe Enfield has the head of a fox, forelegs like an eagle's talons, the chest of a greyhound, the body of a lion, and the hindquarters and tail of a wolf.\n\nThe earliest known example of the enfield is the crest of the Ó Cellaigh clan of Ireland. Ó Cellaigh of Uí Maine are the most documented O'Kelly sept in early Irish history and annals. The enfield appears in \"Leabhar Ua Maine\".\n\nThe ancient tradition among the O'Kellys is that they have borne this fabulous animal since the days of King Tadhg Mór Ua Cellaigh who fell \"fighting like a wolf dog\" on the side of the High King of Ireland, Brian Boru, at the Battle of Clontarf in 1014. When Tadhg Mor fell this mythical beast issued from the nearby sea to protect the dead body of the chief until it was retrieved for proper burial by his kinsmen.\n\nThe animal is sculptured on many old (–1650) tombstones of the O'Kelly family in the Abbey of Kilconnell (founded ca. 1353 by King William Buidhe Ó Cellaigh), and in the old church of Cloonkeen.\n\nIn 1859, an excavation project found a bronze 15th century O'Kelly seal 20 ft deep in a bog, prompting considerable research on the origins of the O'Kelly enfield on the seal:\n\nThe beast was on the coat of arms of the Municipal Borough of Enfield, which was amalgamated with the Municipal Borough of Edmonton and the Municipal Borough of Southgate to form the London Borough of Enfield. It is unclear whether the beast has any historic connection with the town, but it still makes a striking example of canting arms. It is used on the modern coat of arms of the London Borough of Enfield and as an emblem by some organisations there: for example, on the badges of Enfield County School, Chace Community School, Enfield Ignatians R.F.C. and of the football clubs Enfield (1893) F.C. and Enfield Town F.C., as well as Oneida FC.\n\nIn Australia, it was used in the crest of the former City of Enfield, South Australia (which was named after the London borough), and is still used by the Enfield Brass Band. It is also used as the centrepiece of the squadron crest of 38 Squadron of the Royal Australian Air Force, in Queensland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289323", "title": "Illinois Route 134", "text": "Illinois Route 134\n\nIllinois Route 134 (IL 134) is a east–west state road in northeastern Illinois. It runs from the U.S. Route 12 (US 12) and IL 59 in Fox Lake to IL 120 (Belvidere Road) in Hainesville.\n\nIllinois 134 is called Big Hollow Road in Fox Lake. In Round Lake Beach it is called Round Lake Road west of downtown, and Main Street east of downtown. After its terminus, Big Hollow Road continues further west for an additional 5.8 miles under county control first as Lake County Highway A26. It then crosses the county line and becomes McHenry County Highway A26 and continues until Illinois Route 31.\n\nSBI Route 134 originally ran from Paris to the Indiana state line on what is now U.S. Route 150. In 1950, it was placed on the current route, and has not been changed since.\n"}
{"id": "2289326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289326", "title": "History of the Anglican Communion", "text": "History of the Anglican Communion\n\nThe history of the Anglican Communion may be attributed mainly to the worldwide spread of British culture associated with the British Empire. Among other things the Church of England spread around the world and, gradually developing autonomy in each region of the world, became the communion as it exists today.\n\nThe only provinces of the Anglican Communion with a direct and unbroken history stretching back to the pre-Reformation church are to be found in Great Britain and Ireland: the Church of England, the Church in Wales, the Church of Ireland and the Scottish Episcopal Church. As its name suggests, the Scottish situation is unique; the national Church of Scotland is Presbyterian and for some years in the late 17th and early 18th centuries the Scottish Episcopal Church, despite its similarities to the Church of England, was regarded with some suspicion because of its occasional associations with Jacobite opposition to the House of Hanover.\n\nAlthough Henry VIII broke with the Church of Rome in the 1530s, he strongly resisted thereafter associating the English Church with the Continental Protestant Reformation.\n\nThe Elizabethan Settlement in England was broken in 1570 with the excommunication of Elizabeth. Although few, if any, concessions were made to the Papacy or to Roman Catholic doctrine, a small number of changes were then made to the Articles of Religion and to the Prayer Book, especially in relation the Real Presence and to the continuation of worship in more traditional forms. Only one of Mary's English and Welsh bishops conformed to the Elizabethan settlement, though all save 300 of the parish clergy subscribed. In Ireland the position was reversed; all bishops save two accepted the Elizabethan Settlement, but the bulk of parish clergy and laity remained loyal to the pope. In the period since 1553, Continental Reformed Protestantism had itself continued to develop, especially in Geneva and Heidelberg, but English divines who wished the Elizabethan church to take part in these developments were to be bitterly disappointed; Elizabeth refused any further change to the forms or structures of religion established in 1559. In particular, Protestant controversialists began to attack the episcopal polity, and the defined liturgy of the Elizabethan Church as incompatible with the true Reformed tradition; and, in response, defenders of the established church began, from the early 17th Century onwards, to claim these specific features as positively desirable, or indeed essential. \n\nThe attempt to impose in Scotland a Prayer Book on the English model, drove the three kingdoms into civil war. However, the Puritan sympathies of the victorious Parliamentary armies in the English Civil War, and the consequential abolition during the Commonwealth of English bishoprics and cathedral chapters with the suppression of the Book of Common Prayer, resulted in English churchmen beginning to recognise Anglican identity as being distinct from and incompatible with the traditions of Presbyterian Protestantism. This distinction was formalised at the Restoration of Charles II, when the proposals of Puritan divines for further reform of the Prayer Book were thoroughly rejected; and 1,760 clergymen were deprived of their livings for failing to subscribe to the 1662 Book. From this date onwards dissenting Protestant congregations were to be found throughout England, and the established church no longer claimed or sought to comprehend all traditions of Protestant belief. In Ireland and in many of England's American Colonies, the numbers who subscribed to Presbyterian congregations formed the majority of the Protestant population; while in Scotland from 1689, following the accession of William and Mary, Presbyterian church polity was revived, and constituted in that kingdom, the established church; so that those ministers and congregations who continued to subscribe to the Anglican Episcopalian traditions eventually became a dissenting minority.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, divines of the Church of England increasingly differentiated their faith from that of the Protestant churches. Controversy broke out into the open after 1829, with the removal of religious restrictions on political rights in the United Kingdom, following which elected members of the UK Parliament (the legal authority in England for definitions of religious faith), might include both Roman Catholics and Dissenters. The Tractarians undertook a re-examination of Anglican traditions of the 19th century; developing these into the general principle that Anglicanism represented a \"via media\" between Protestantism and Catholicism; or otherwise, that the Church of England together with the Roman Catholic and Greek Orthodox churches, represented three 'branches' of the Universal Church, whose faith derived from Scripture and Tradition independent of legislative formulae. The issue was more pressing insofar as Anglican societies were engaging actively in missionary work, often in conjunction with Christians of other traditions; resulting in the foundation of new churches, especially in Africa. Anglican traditions implied an expectation that these churches should develop self-government and a locally based episcopacy; but it was unclear who had legal power to create such bishoprics, who had the authority to appoint to them, and what discretion such bishops would have to define local statements of faith and forms of worship. Matters came to a head with the case of John William Colenso appointed to the Bishopric of Natal in 1853. When Bishop Colenso published commentaries on the Epistle to the Romans and on the Pentateuch that questioned traditional teachings, he was deprived of his see by the bishops of the South African church in 1863; but then re-instated on appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in 1866. Whatever the merits of the Colenso case, the implied action of a British court in constraining matters of faith and discipline in a church outside the United Kingdom was instrumental in the decision to summon the first Lambeth Conference in 1867.\n\nAs Britain's worldwide colonial empire grew, the Church of England began to spread with it. But at first no bishops were sent overseas; all colonial churches reported back to the Bishop of London. At the time of the American Revolution, there had already been considerable American demand for a local bishop; and after that event the Church of England in the new United States certainly needed to organize itself on a local basis.\n\nThe first Anglican service in North America was conducted in California in 1579 by the chaplain accompanying Sir Francis Drake on his voyage around the globe. The first baptisms were held in Roanoke, North Carolina, by the ill-fated Roanoke colony. The continuous presence of Anglicanism in North America, however, begins in 1607 with the founding of Jamestown, Virginia. By 1700 there were more than 100 Anglican parishes in British colonies on the mainland of North America, the largest number in Virginia and Maryland. The American War for Independence resulted in the formation of the first independent national church in the Anglican tradition. \n\nThe 1609 wreck of the flagship of the Virginia Company, the \"Sea Venture\", resulted in the settlement of Bermuda by the Company. This was made official in 1612 when the town of St. George's, now the oldest surviving English settlement in the New World, was established. It is the location of St. Peter's Church, the oldest-surviving Anglican church outside of the British Isles (Britain and Ireland) and the oldest surviving non-Roman Catholic church in the New World, also established in 1612. It remained part of the Church of England until 1978 when the Anglican Church of Bermuda was formed. The Church of England was the state church in Bermuda and a system of parishes was set up for the religious and political subdivision of the colony (they survive, today, as both civil and religious parishes).\nThe parish of St. John the Baptist in the city of St. John's, Newfoundland (part of the Diocese of Eastern Newfoundland and Labrador) is the oldest in Canada, founded in 1699 in response to a petition drafted by the Anglican townsfolk of St. John's and sent to the Bishop of London, Henry Compton. In this petition the people also requested help in the rebuilding of their church, which had been destroyed, along with the rest of the city, in 1696 by the French under the command of General Pierre Le Moyne d'Iberville.\n\nOn August 12, 1787, Charles Inglis was consecrated Bishop of Nova Scotia with jurisdiction over all the British possessions in North America. In 1793 the see of Quebec was founded; Jamaica and Barbados followed in 1824 and Toronto and Newfoundland in 1839. Meanwhile, the needs of India were met, on the urgent representations in Parliament of William Wilberforce and others, by the consecration of T. F. Middleton as Bishop of Calcutta, with three archdeacons to assist him. In 1829, on the nomination of the Duke of Wellington, William Broughton was sent out to work as the Archdeacon of Australia. The first Anglican church in Latin America, St. John's Cathedral (Belize City), was built in the colony of British Honduras (Belize) in 1812.\n\nSoon afterwards, in 1835 and 1837, the sees of Madras and Bombay were founded; whilst in 1836 Broughton himself was consecrated as the first Bishop of Australia. Thus down to 1840 there were but ten colonial bishops; and of these several were so hampered by civil regulations that they were little more than government chaplains in episcopal orders. In April of that year, however, Bishop Blomfield of London published his famous letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury, declaring that \"an episcopal church without a bishop is a contradiction in terms\" and strenuously advocating a great effort for the extension of the episcopate. \n\nThe plan was taken up with enthusiasm and, in 1841, the bishops of the United Kingdom met and issued a declaration which inaugurated the Colonial Bishoprics Council. Subsequent declarations in 1872 and 1891 have served both to record progress and to stimulate to new effort. The Diocese of New Zealand was founded in 1841, being endowed by the Church Missionary Society through the council, and George Augustus Selwyn was chosen as the first bishop. Moreover, in many cases bishops have been sent to inaugurate new missions, as in the cases of the Universities' Mission to Central Africa, Lebombo, Corea and New Guinea; and the missionary jurisdictions so founded develop in time into dioceses. \n\nIt was only very gradually that these dioceses acquired legislative independence and a determinate organization. At first, sees were created and bishops were nominated by the crown by means of letters patent; and in some cases an income was assigned out of public funds. Moreover, for many years all bishops were consecrated in England, took the customary \"oath of due obedience\" to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and were regarded as his extraterritorial suffragans. But by degrees changes have been made on all these points.\n\nIn 1783 the parishes of Connecticut elected Samuel Seabury as their bishop and sent him to England for ordination. However John Moore, Archbishop of Canterbury at the time, found that he had the authority neither to create new bishops without legislation nor to dispense with the Oath of Allegiance to the Crown which formed part of the ordination ceremony. Seabury then went to Scotland where, free from such legal difficulties, he was ordained in 1784. Eventually, with new legislation in place, the Archbishop of Canterbury was able to consecrate William White and Samuel Provoost as bishops for the new Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of America in 1787 and James Madison, Bishop of Virginia in 1790.\n\nThe Protestant Episcopal Church held its first General Convention in 1785, and organized using a system of state conventions in place of dioceses. They adopted a constitution and canons and approved an American version of the Book of Common Prayer in 1789 in Philadelphia. William White, who had served as presiding officer of General Convention in 1785 and 1786, was also elected presiding officer of the 1789 convention. He was the first bishop to preside over the convention. When in a second session of the 1789 convention, Bishop Seabury was seated and the New England churches acceded to the constitution. The bishops then withdrew and Bishop Seabury became the first bishop to preside over a separate House of Bishops. The American church officially adopted the term \"diocese\" in 1839 with the formation of a second diocese in the state of New York.\n\nLocal conditions soon made a provincial organization necessary, and it was gradually introduced. The bishop of Calcutta received letters patent as metropolitan of India when the sees of Madras and Bombay were founded; and fresh patents were issued to Bishop Broughton in 1847 and Bishop Gray in 1853, as metropolitans of Australia and South Africa respectively. Similar action was taken in 1858, when Bishop Selwyn became metropolitan of New Zealand; and again in 1860, when, on the petition of the Canadian bishops to the Crown and the colonial legislature for permission to elect a metropolitan, letters patent were issued appointing Bishop Fulford of Montreal to that office. Since then metropolitans have been chosen and provinces formed by regular synodical action, a process greatly encouraged by the resolutions of the Lambeth Conferences on the subject. The constitution of these provinces was not uniform. In some cases, as South Africa, New South Wales, and Queensland, the metropolitan see was fixed. Elsewhere, as in New Zealand, where no single city can claim pre-eminence, the metropolitan is either elected or else is the senior bishop by consecration. Two further developments must be mentioned:\n\n\nBy degrees, also, the colonial churches have been freed from their rather burdensome relations with the state. The Church of the West Indies was disestablished in 1868. Other colonial churches followed suit over the next few decades.\n\nIn 1857 it was decided, in \"Regina v. Eton College\", that the Crown could not claim the presentation to a living when it had appointed the former incumbent to a colonial bishopric, as it does in the case of an English bishopric. In 1861, after some protest from the crown lawyers, two missionary bishops were consecrated without letters patent for regions outside British territory: C. F. Mackenzie for the Zambezi region and J. C. Patteson for Melanesia, by the metropolitans of Cape Town and New Zealand respectively. \n\nIn 1863 the privy council declared, in \"Long v. The Bishop of Cape Town\", that \"the Church of England, in places where there is no church established by law, is in the same situation with any other religious body.\" \n\nIn 1865 it adjudged Bishop Gray's letters patent, as metropolitan of Cape Town, to be powerless to enable him \"to exercise any coercive jurisdiction, or hold any court or tribunal for that purpose,\" since the Cape colony already possessed legislative institutions when they were issued; and his deposition of Bishop Colenso was declared to be \"null and void in law\" (\"re The Bishop of Natal\"). With the exception of Colenso the South African bishops forthwith surrendered their patents, and formally accepted Bishop Gray as their metropolitan, an example followed in 1865 in the province of New Zealand. \n\nIn 1862, when the Diocese of Ontario was formed, the bishop was elected in Canada, and consecrated under a royal mandate, letters patent being by this time entirely discredited. And when, in 1867, a coadjutor was chosen for the bishop of Toronto, an application for a royal mandate produced the reply from the colonial secretary that \"it was not the part of the Crown to interfere in the creation of a new bishop or bishopric, and not consistent with the dignity of the Crown that he should advise Her Majesty to issue a mandate which would not be worth the paper on which it was written, and which, having been sent out to Canada, might be disregarded in the most complete manner.\" \n\nAnd at the present day the colonial churches are entirely free in this matter. This, however, is not the case with the Church in India. Here the bishops of sees founded down to 1879 receive a stipend from the revenue (with the exception of the bishop of Ceylon, who no longer does so). They are not only nominated by the crown and consecrated under letters patent, but the appointment is expressly subjected \"to such power of revocation and recall as is by law vested\" in the crown; and where additional oversight was necessary for the Church in Tinnevelly, it could only be secured by the consecration of two assistant bishops, who worked under a commission for the Archbishop of Canterbury which was to expire on the death of the bishop of Madras. Since then, however, new sees have been founded which are under no such restrictions.\n\nBy degrees, also, the relations of colonial churches to the Archbishop of Canterbury have changed. Until 1855 no colonial bishop was consecrated outside the British Isles, the first instance being Bishop MacDougall of Labuan, consecrated in India under a commission from the Archbishop of Canterbury; and until 1874 it was held to be unlawful for a bishop to be consecrated in England without taking the suffragan's Oath of Due Obedience. This necessity was removed by the Colonial Clergy Act of 1874, which permits the Archbishop of Canterbury at his discretion to dispense with the oath. \n\nBut the most complete autonomy does not involve isolation. The churches are in full communion with one another and act together in many ways; missionary jurisdictions and dioceses are mapped out by common arrangement and even transferred if it seems advisable; \"e.g.\", the Diocese of Honolulu (Hawaii), previously under the jurisdiction of the Archbishop of Canterbury, was transferred in 1900 to the Episcopal Church in the United States of America on account of political changes. Missionary activity of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America resulted in creation of other provinces of the communion, including Brazil, Mexico, Central America, the Philippines and Japan. In Brazil and Japan the Church of England also had a presence, but the Episcopal Church work was more extensive and the Episcopal Church consecrated the first bishops. \n\nThough the See of Canterbury claims no primacy over the Anglican Communion analogous to that exercised over the Roman Catholic Church by the Pope, it is regarded with a strong affection and deference, which shows itself by frequent consultation and interchange of greetings. By this the Archbishop of Canterbury is held as the titular and spiritual head of the Anglican Communion, but his role is strictly an honorary one.\n\nThe conference of Anglican bishops from all parts of the world, instituted by Archbishop Longley in 1867 and known as the Lambeth Conferences, though even for the Anglican Communion they have not the authority of an ecumenical synod and their decisions are rather of the nature of counsels than commands, have done much to promote the harmony and co-operation of the various churches within Anglicanism. \n\nAn even more imposing manifestation of this common life was given by the great Pan-Anglican Congress held in London between June 12 and June 24, 1908, which preceded the Lambeth Conference opened on July 5. The idea of this originated with Bishop Montgomery, secretary to the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, and was endorsed by a resolution of the United Boards of Mission in 1903. \n\nAs the result of negotiations and preparations extending over five years, 250 bishops, together with delegates, clerical and lay, from every diocese in the Anglican Communion, met at Lambeth Palace, the opening service of intercession being held in Westminster Abbey. In its general character the meeting was but a church congress on an enlarged scale and the subjects discussed, e.g. the attitude of churchmen towards the question of the marriage laws or that of socialism, followed much the same lines. The conference had no power to decide or to legislate for the church, its main value being in drawing its scattered members closer together, in bringing the newer and more isolated parts into consciousness of their contact with the parent stem, and in opening the eyes of the Church of England to the point of view and the peculiar problems of the daughter-churches.\n\nIn 1931 the Anglican Communion and the Old Catholics of the Union of Utrecht enter into full communion in the Bonn Agreement. Both the Old Catholics and the Anglicans agree on several key points:\n\n\nWith this new inter-communion cross-episcopal ordinations began, further endorsing the apostolic succession within Anglicanism.\n\nMeetings began in 1937 about inter-communion between the Episcopal Church and the Presbyterians. After two years these talks arrived at no concrete conclusion because the Episcopalians insisted on the historic episcopate. The Presbyterians backed out of the talks in 1940.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2289330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289330", "title": "Thomas Hopko", "text": "Thomas Hopko\n\nThomas John Hopko (March 28, 1939 – March 18, 2015) was an Eastern Orthodox Christian priest and theologian. He was the Dean of Saint Vladimir’s Orthodox Theological Seminary from September 1992 until July 1, 2002 and taught dogmatic theology there from 1968 until 2002. In retirement, he carried the honorary title of \"Dean Emeritus\".\n\nThomas Hopko was born in Endicott, New York of Rusyn descent. His ancestors are linked to the Rusyn village of Naviczke (now Nevyts'ke) near the city of Uzhorod. He was baptized and raised in St. Mary’s Carpatho-Russian Orthodox Greek-Catholic Church, Endicott. He gained his B.A. in Russian studies at Fordham University in 1960, followed by a Master of Divinity degree at St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary in 1963. He later completed a master's degree in philosophy at Duquesne University in 1968 and a Ph.D. in theology at Fordham University in 1982.\nAt St. Vladimir's Seminary, Hopko studied with such renowned Orthodox theologians as Fr. Alexander Schmemann, Fr. John Meyendorff, Nicholas Arseniev and Serge Verkhovskoy. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1963 and served several parishes in the states of Ohio and New York. In 1968 he began to teach at St. Vladimir's and eventually succeeded his teacher Serge Verkhovskoy as professor of dogmatic theology. He was elevated to the rank of archpriest in 1970 and, upon his election as dean, to the rank of protopresbyter (1995).\n\nHopko was an Orthodox Christian lecturer and speaker, known both in Orthodox and ecumenical circles. He served as a member of the Faith and Order Commission of the World Council of Churches and as a delegate from the Orthodox Church in America to the Assemblies of WCC in Uppsala, Sweden and Nairobi, Kenya. He was also President of the Orthodox Theological Society in America (1992–95). In retirement, he had several popular podcasts on Ancient Faith Radio.\n\nHopko has written about the ordination of women and the reasons for its rejection in the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nHopko died of complications from congestive heart failure due to amyloidosis on March 18, 2015, in the Pittsburgh suburb of Wexford, Pennsylvania. He was survived by his wife and five children. Days before his death, his daughter Juliana created a blog wherein she provided periodic status updates about his declining health and eventual death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289332", "title": "Jean Louis Lassaigne", "text": "Jean Louis Lassaigne\n\nJean Louis Lassaigne (22 September 1800 – 18 March 1859) was a French chemist. He is best known for the sodium fusion test named after him.\n\nLassaigne was born in Paris. Initially he worked in the laboratory of Louis Nicolas Vauquelin, and in 1828 was named professor of chemistry and physics at the \"École Royale Vétérinaire d’Alfort\" (Royal School of Veterinary) in Maisons-Alfort. He filled this role until 1854.\n\nIn 1825 Lassaigne partnered with François Leuret to publish \"\"Recherches physiques et chimiques pour servir à l’historie de la digestion\"\" (Physical and chemical research for understanding digestion). Four years later Lassaigne wrote an investigation about chemistry as part of medical sciences \"\"Abrégé élémentaire de chimie considérée comme science accessoire à l'étude de la médecine, de la pharmacie et de l'histoire naturelle\"\" (Elementary summary of chemistry considered as an ancillary science to the study of medicine, pharmacy and natural history), at the same time he was admitted as member to prestigious \"\"Société de Chimie Médicale\"\" (Medical Chemistry Society) in Paris.\n\nHe became a chemical researcher, where he did research related to pure chemistry, inorganic chemistry, industrial chemistry, animal chemistry, and forensic chemistry, which led to many discoveries. His major works were studies about phosphoric ether, pyrocitric acid, pyro acids of the malic acid, chromium salts, and compounds of iodine. Lassaigne also did research on processes for the carbonization of organic matter.\n\nLassaigne discovered new alkaloids and made major investigations related to toxicology of phosphorus and hydrocyanic acid. He also discovered new dyes, and in 1831 won an award by \"\"Société d'Encouragement de l'Industrie\"\" (Society for Encouragement of Industry) for his work on the process of enamel elaboration for pottery.\n\nIn 1843, Lassaigne presented a procedure for detecting the presence of nitrogen in organic compounds by heating them with molten potassium. This procedure was later extended to the detection of sulfur and halogens in organic compounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2289337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289337", "title": "Kénédougou Kingdom", "text": "Kénédougou Kingdom\n\nThe Kénédougou Kingdom, also referred to as the Kenedugu Kingdom, (c. 1650–1898) was a pre-colonial West African state established in the southern portion of present-day Mali.\n\nKénédougou was first established in the 1650s by the Senoufo people, who originate in modern-day Cote d'Ivoire. They began traversing the borders of Cote d'Ivoire, Mali, Burkina Faso and Ghana around the 13th century. The new kingdom was conveniently centered on the border of Mali and Burkina Faso. Its position was crucial to the exchange of desert and forest goods. Sadly, the Senoufo traditionalist practices put them at odds with the Muslims to their north. The Senoufo of Kenedougou adopted some Mandé practices such as the king title of faama. Nanka Traoré became Kénédougou's first ruler and began the Traoré dynasty, which would last into the late 19th century. \n\nThere is little information about the kingdom's formative years, and approximately five to seven famas ruled between the foundation of the dynasty and Fama Douala ba I. Kénédougou's existence was marked by relative peace compared to neighboring states of the period.\n\nThis would all come to an end in the last quarter of the 19th century as the double threat of French colonialists and Samori Toure began swallowing up its commercial partners in the south, west and east. Possibly anticipating the inevitable outcome, Faama Tieba moved the capital of the kingdom to his mother's home city of Sikasso in 1877. There he built a new palace called the Mamelon on a strategic hill. The decision proved wise, as Tieba and his successor Babemba Traoré fought a number of battles against both Samori Toure and the rapidly advancing French army. \n\nIronically, the small kingdom of Kénédougou would become one of the last major hold-outs against French ambitions in West Africa. The larger states were falling like dominoes to either Samori's Wassulu Empire or the French. Samori attacked Sikasso with an army of 12,000 men in April 1887, but failed to take the city. Then, from 1887 to 1888, the French besieged Sikasso but also met with defeat. In light of these threats, Tieba ordered the construction of a \"tata\", or fortified wall, around the city in 1890. Parts of the tata have become one of present-day Sikasso's major tourist attractions.\n\nFollowing Tieba's death on January 1, 1893, his brother Babemba Traoré assumed the throne. He held the French at bay for another five years. In 1897, the French conquered Ségou, the capital of the Kénédougou's northern neighbor, the Toucouleur Empire. This victory renewed the France's ambition toward Sikasso, and they prepared to take the city again determined to avenge the previous disgrace.\n\nThe French launched an artillery assault against Sikasso's tata in April 1898, and the city fell on May 1 of the same year. Rather than see the French take control of his city, Fama Babemba ordered his guards to kill him. The territory of the Kénédougou Kingdom was soon assimilated into the colony of French Sudan, and later into the country of Mali. The memory of Tieba and Babemba are still revered to this day in Mali as symbols of African resistance to the French.\n\n"}
