{"id": "2259018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259018", "title": "United States Air Force Pararescue", "text": "United States Air Force Pararescue\n\nPararescuemen (also known as PJs) are United States Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) and Air Combat Command (ACC) operators tasked with recovery and medical treatment of personnel in humanitarian and combat environments. These special operations units are also used to support NASA missions and have been used to recover astronauts after water landings. They are attached to other special operations units from all branches to conduct other operations as appropriate. Of the roughly 200 Air Force Cross recipients, only 24 are enlisted rank, of which 12 are Pararescuemen. Part of the little-known Air Force Special Operations community and long an enlisted preserve, the Pararescue service expanded to include Combat Rescue Officers early in the 21st century.\n\nAs early as 1922 there was a recognized need for trained personnel to go to remote sites to rescue airmen. In that year, Army Medical Corps doctor Colonel Albert E. Truby predicted that \"airplane ambulances\" would be used to take medical personnel to crashes and to return victims to medical facilities for treatment. However, it was another two decades before technology and necessity helped to create what would eventually become Air Force Pararescue.\n\nEven so, there were developments in critical technologies. In 1940, two United States Forest Service Smokejumpers, Earl Cooley and Rufus Robinson, showed that parachutists could be placed very accurately onto the ground using the newly invented 'steerable parachute'. These parachutes, and the techniques smokejumpers used with them, were completely different from those used by Army airborne units. It was in that year that Dr. (Captain) Leo P. Martin was trained by the U.S. Forest Service Smokejumper Parachute Training Center in Seeley Lake, Montana as the first 'para-doctor'.\n\nDuring the first months after America's entry into the war, there was very little need for air rescue. As the war progressed, a U.S. strategic bombing campaign was launched, and air rescue began to play a key role.\n\nRescue units were formed around the globe under the operational control of local commanders. While training, techniques and equipment varied, one rule was constant: \"Rescue forces must presume survivors in each crash until proved otherwise.\"\n\nSearch and rescue of downed aviators in the continental United States fell primarily to the Civil Air Patrol, a civilian aviation group under the command of the Army Air Corps. The CAP would usually send in ground crews after locating a crash site; however, they would sometimes land small aircraft and they did experiment with parachute rescue teams.\n\nWith Canada's entry into WWII in 1939, former Canadian fighter ace Wop May was put in charge of training operations and took over command at the No 2 Air Observer School in Edmonton, Alberta. Edmonton was one of the common stops for A-20 Boston, B-26 Marauder and especially B-25 Mitchell bombers being flown to the Soviet Union as part of the lend-lease program. When these aircraft went down, typically due to mechanical or navigational problems, the crew often survived only to die attempting to make it out of the bush. May's school was often asked to supply aircraft to search for downed planes, but even when one was spotted there was often little they could do to help. May decided to address this problem.\n\nIn early 1942 May asked for volunteers from his civilian servicing crew, and about a dozen agreed to join. With basically no equipment, the instruction consisted of \"jump and pull\" and windage was calculated by throwing an Eaton's catalogue out the door. Early operations were comical, but in early 1943 May sent two volunteers, Owen Hargreaves and Scotty Thompson to the smoke jumpers school in Missoula, Montana to be trained by the U.S. Forest Service. After six weeks they returned home with borrowed steerable equipment to train two other volunteers, Wilfred Rivet and Laurie Poulsom. Soon the unit was conducting operational jumps, and by 1944 May's persistence had paid off and an official para-rescue training program started. For his work, May was awarded a Medal of Freedom with Bronze Palm in 1947 by the USAAF.\n\nIn the European Theater, there was very little opportunity for ground rescue. Most flights were over enemy-occupied territory, where a landing meant immediate capture. In the UK area of the European Theatre, the British military was at the time creating its own Royal Air Force Mountain Rescue Service which would be based largely on civilian mountain rescue doctrine. The RAFMRS rescued many American aircrew, or recovered remains, from USAF crashes over its UK territory. As crashes during over-water flights created a great many casualties, the Eighth Air Force initiated a 'sea rescue' group. From its creation in 1943 until the end of the war, the recovery rate of aircrews downed at sea rose from less than five percent to over forty percent.\n\nIn the vast reaches of the Pacific Theater, a plane crash meant almost certain death from exposure to the elements. The Army formed several squadrons in theater specifically to aid and rescue downed flyers—both at sea and on islands—with great success.\n\nThe China Burma India Theater (CBI) was the birthplace of what would eventually become pararescue. Here was a unique combination of long overland flights through territory that was loosely held by the enemy and survivable. Dominating the flying in the CBI was 'The Hump' route: cargo flights that left India carrying thousands of tons of vital war supplies had to cross the spine of the Himalayas to reach their destinations in China. Every day thousands of flight crews and their passengers risked their lives making this passage in C-46 and C-47 aircraft. Many of these flights never arrived at their destinations due to mechanical problems, weather and mistakes. Crews forced to bail out or crash land faced weeks of hardship in tracing a path back to civilization, enduring harsh weather, little food, and the injuries they sustained during the crashes.\n\nCapt. John L. \"Blackie\" Porter—a former stunt pilot—is credited with commanding the first organized air rescue unit in the theater. Known as \"Blackie's Gang\" and flying out of Chabua, India, they were equipped with two C-47 aircraft. One of their first rescue missions was the recovery of twenty people who had bailed out of a stricken C-46 in August 1943 in the Naga area of Burma; an area that contained not just Japanese troops, but tribes of head hunters as well. Among the twenty was CBS reporter Eric Sevareid. The men were located and supplies were dropped to them. The wing flight surgeon, Lt. Col. Don Flickinger, and two combat surgical technicians, Sgt. Richard S. Passey and Cpl. William MacKenzie, parachuted from the search planes to assist and care for the injured. At the same time, a ground team was sent to their location and all twenty walked to safety.\n\nAlthough parachute rescues were not officially authorized at the time, this is considered by PJs to be the birth of Air Force pararescue. Eric Sevareid said of his rescuers: \"Gallant is a precious word: they deserve it\". A few short months later, Capt. Porter was killed on a rescue mission when his B-25 was shot down.\n\nIn 1944, General William H. Tunner took command of Air Transport Command operations in CBI. Declaring the rescue organization to be a 'cowboy operation', he appointed Maj. Donald C. Pricer commander of the 3352nd Air Search and Rescue Squadron and assigned him several aircraft for the mission. In addition to fixed-wing aircraft, early helicopters were deployed to the CBI for use in rescue, marking the start of a long association between rotary-wing aircraft and air rescue.\n\nRecognizing the need for a unified organization to perform search and rescue, the Army Air Force formed the Air Rescue Service (ARS). Officially established on 29 May 1946, the ARS was charged with saving the lives of aircrews who were involved in aircraft disasters, accidents, crash landings, ditchings or abandonments occurring away from an air base, and with being world-deployable to support far-flung air operations.\n\nIn the area around an air base, the air base commander had search and rescue jurisdiction through the Local Base Rescue (LBR) helicopter units. However, these were limited to a radius around the base due to the range and payload limitations of the aircraft. In order to reach beyond this limitation, Pararescue teams were authorized on 1 July 1947, with the first teams to be ready for fielding in November. Each team was to be composed of a Para-doctor and four Pararescue technicians trained in medicine, survival, rescue and tactics. Pararescue was given the mission of rescuing crews lost on long-range bomber and transport missions and to support other agencies when aerial rescue was requested.\n\nA mission earlier in 1947 was the final impetus for the formal creation of Air Force Pararescue. In May, Dr. (Capt) Pope B. 'Doc' Holliday parachuted out of an OA-10 Catalina into the Nicaraguan jungle to aid a crewmember who had parachuted from a crippled B-17 Flying Fortress. His actions earned him the Bronze Star and made him another of Pararescue's early legends.\n\nShortly after Pararescue teams were authorized, the 5th Rescue Squadron conducted the first Pararescue and Survival School at MacDill Air Force Base in Florida. The core of instructors were experienced officers and enlisted men who were recruited from all branches of service. The commandant of that first school was pilot 1st Lieutenant Perry C. Emmons, who had been assigned to the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) during World War II. At the close of the war, Emmons and six sergeants flew prisoners of war out of Thailand, earning his group the nickname \"Perry and the Pirates\", after the popular comic strip \"Terry and the Pirates\". After the war, Emmons completed Airborne School at Fort Benning, Georgia, becoming only the second jump-qualified Air Force pilot.\n\nIn late 1947, the crash of the B-29 \"Clobbered Turkey\" in Alaska brought home the need for specialized, well-trained Pararescuemen. On 21 December, the \"Clobbered Turkey\" hit a mountain and when the wreck was spotted on the 27th, Medical Corps 1st Lieutenant Albert C. Kinney, First Sergeant Santhell A. London, premier Army Air Forces cold weather expert and T-5 Leon J. Casey—none of whom were trained Pararescuemen—volunteered to jump onto the crash site, located 95 miles north of Nome. The team encountered poor visibility, extreme temperatures and high winds on the site and as a result, all three died. Casey's body was found seven miles (11 km) from the crash site, swept there by the surface winds. Two members of the crew of the \"Clobbered Turkey\" who set out to seek assistance also died a few miles from the site. When civilian bush pilots William Munz and Frank Whaley finally arrived at the crash site two days later, they found that the remaining six members of the crew—who had stayed with the aircraft—had all survived. Dr. Kinney's body was not located until July of the next year.\n\nIn 1949, due to a shortage of available doctors, Medical Service Corps officers replaced Para-doctors on the teams, receiving the same training as the enlisted Pararescuemen. One of the first of these officers was John C. Shumate, a pharmacist, who was appointed commandant of the Pararescue and Survival School.\n\nAt this time the Air Rescue Specialist Course was created at the School of Aviation Medicine, Gunter Air Force Base, Alabama. Designed to teach Pararescuemen the skills needed to determine the nature and extent of injuries and to administer treatment, the course was taught by Medical Corps officers with previous Pararescue experience, including: Dr. Pope B.'Doc' Holliday, Dr. Rufus Hessberg, Dr. Hamilton Blackshear, Dr. Randal W. Briggs and Dr. Burt Rowan.\n\nAs Pararescue grew, PJ teams were assigned to every Air Rescue Service squadron to provide global coverage. By 1950, the unification of all the formerly independent Air Rescue Squadrons under the umbrella of the Air Rescue Service was complete.\n\nIn 1950, North Korea attacked across the 38th parallel and began the Korean War. This was an opportunity for Air Rescue to put training into practice and to develop theories into policies. One of the key new concepts was rescue of stranded personnel from behind enemy lines. This, along with evacuating critically wounded men from aid stations close to the front, were Air Rescue's primary missions.\n\nPararescuemen were a normal part of Air Rescue crews for these missions. Their medical and tactical skills made them invaluable for evacuation and rescue missions of this type.\n\nPararescuemen were often called upon to leave the helicopters that carried them in order to assist the personnel they were sent to rescue. This might call for an extended stay behind enemy lines and overland travel of several miles. The longest of these 'Lone Wolf' missions lasted seventy-two hours.\n\nBy the end of the war in 1953, Air Rescue had evacuated over eight thousand critical casualties and rescued nearly a thousand men from behind enemy lines.\n\nThe Vietnam War was a pivotal conflict for the Pararescue teams. The Air Force's scope of operations became so large that demand for Pararescue teams expanded as well. The use of helicopters caused new tactics utilizing the speed, distance, and support they could provide. Rescue \"packages\" were created utilizing FACs (Forward Air Controllers), rescue escorts (such as AH-1 Cobras or A-1 Sandys), protective fighter CAP (Combat Air Patrol), HC-130 \"King\" Hercules for Rescue Mission Coordination and helicopter refueling, and the HH-3 Jolly Green Giant and HH-53 Super Jolly Green Giant helicopters to provide fast rescue for pilots shot down far behind enemy lines. Pararescue personnel were part of these packages to provide medical assistance for injured aircrew as well as the ability to patrol for missing aircrew that might have been unconscious or dead.\n\nPararescue team members would be inserted to conduct LSO (Limited Surface Operations) searches while the escorts maintained an aggressive patrol to provide instantaneous support. Sometimes they would be inserted to search for personnel who were being forced to escape and evade; in such cases the mission might last for days. The Pararescue teams racked up an impressive record; during the conflict only 19 Airmen were awarded the Air Force Cross. Ten of those were awarded to Pararescuemen.\n\nThe process of becoming a \"PJ\" is known informally as \"Superman School\". Almost two years long, it's among the longest special operations training courses in the world. It also has one of the highest training attrition rates in the entire U.S. special operations community, at around 80%.\n\nPararescue trainees are first required to pass the Pararescue Indoctrination Course at Lackland AFB, commonly referred to as \"indoc\". Following that is a long string of courses including Combat Dive School, Army Airborne, National Registry for Paramedic, Survival (SERE), and Military Free-fall Parachutist. Upon completing the aforementioned, a pararescue trainee is required to then complete the Pararescue Apprentice Course, which combines all the prior skills and adds a few more. Once a Pararescueman has completed the pipeline, he is assigned to a Rescue or Special Tactics team as per the needs of the Air Force. Graduates assigned to Rescue Squadrons will receive on-the-job operational upgrade training. Graduates assigned to Special Tactics Squadrons attend portions of Advanced Skills Training at the Special Tactics Training Squadron along with Air Force Combat Controllers in order to complete most of their operational upgrade training.\n\n\nThe mission of the Indoctrination Course is to recruit, select and train future PJs and CROs. At this school, participants undergo extensive physical conditioning with swimming, running, weight training and calisthenics. This course helps prepare students for the rigors of training and the demands of these lifestyles. Other training includes obstacle courses, rucksack marches, diving physics, dive tables, metric manipulations, medical terminology, dive terminology, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, weapons qualifications, history of PJs, and leadership reaction course. Graduation of this course gives candidates a \"ticket to ride the pipeline,\" where Pararescuemen begin learning the special skills that make PJs highly regarded special operators. Pararescue \"Indoctrination course\" has been replaced with a tougher Assessment and Selection (A&S) course. This course is similar in methods of workouts to its predecessor, however, at the end of the course, the instructors choose who will and will not go on to continue the Pararescue pipeline. \n\n— Indoctrination Course (currently A&S) Training Gear is essentially made up of a High Volume Face Mask, A Silicone Snorkel, Rocket Fins and Booties. The mask and snorkel are key throughout training, being used in water confidence training such as water inserted into the mask throughout the training, simulating the effect of being underwater regardless of whether submerged or not. Mask and snorkel recovery is a key portion that is tested on, in which the trainee has to recover the mask and snorkel from the deep end of the pool, \"clearing\" the mask of water while still submerged and \"clearing\" the snorkel of water as well. These two can be referred to as key training tools. Items such as rope and booties can be used to further increase the intensity of water confidence training. \n\nStudents learn the basic parachuting skills required to infiltrate an objective area by static line airdrop. This course includes ground operations week, tower week, and \"jump week\" when participants make five parachute jumps. Personnel who complete this training are awarded the basic parachutist rating and are allowed to wear the Parachutist Badge.\n\nThe course is divided into four blocks of instruction: (1) Diving Theory, (2) Infiltration/Exfiltration Methods, (3) Open Circuit Diving Operations, and (4) Closed Circuit Diving Operations. The primary focus of AFCDC is to develop Pararescuemen/Combat Rescue Officers and Combat Controller/Special Tactics Officers into competent, capable and safe combat divers/swimmers. The course provides commanders with divers/swimmers capable of undertaking personnel recovery and special operations waterborne missions. AFCDC provides diver training through classroom instruction, extensive physical training, surface and sub-surface water confidence pool exercises, pool familiarization dives, day/night tactical open water surface/sub-surface infiltration swims, open/closed circuit diving procedures and underwater search and recovery procedures. The session culminates with a waterborne field training exercise.\n\nThis course teaches how to safely escape from an aircraft that has landed in the water. Instruction includes principles, procedures and techniques necessary to escape a sinking aircraft.\n\nThis course teaches basic survival techniques for remote areas using minimal equipment. This includes instruction of principles, procedures, equipment and techniques that help individuals to survive, regardless of climatic conditions or unfriendly environments, and return home.\n\n\nThis course instructs free fall parachuting (HALO) using a high performance parafoil. The course provides wind tunnel training, in-air instruction focusing on student stability, aerial maneuvers, air sense and parachute opening procedures. Each student undertakes a minimum of 30 free fall jumps including two day and two night jumps with supplemental oxygen, rucksack and load-bearing equipment.\n\nThis course teaches how to manage trauma patients prior to evacuation and provide emergency medical treatment. Phase I is seven weeks of emergency medical technician basic (EMT-B) training. Phase II lasts 30 weeks and provides instruction in minor field surgery, pharmacology, combat trauma management, advanced airway management and military evacuation procedures. Graduates of the course are awarded National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians-Paramedic (NREMT-P) certification.\nQualifies airmen as pararescue recovery specialists for assignment to any Pararescue unit worldwide. Training includes field medical care and tactics, mountaineering, combat tactics, advanced parachuting and helicopter insertion/extraction qualifications. At the completion of this course, each graduate is awarded the maroon beret.\n\nSince the 1950s, Air Force Pararescueman have provided training and mentorship for Civil Air Patrol cadets. This was formalized in 1977 with the introduction of Pararescue Orientation Course (PJOC) at Kirtland AFB, New Mexico. PJOC was later taught at Fort Knox, Kentucky and George Washington National Forest, Virginia. The course teaches CAP cadets fundamental survival and rescue skills such as shelter building, land navigation, and rock climbing. Advanced Pararescue Orientation Course (APJOC) began in the 1980s and was taught only at Kirtland AFB. In 2003, both programs were cancelled. PJOC returned in 2004, but APJOC did not see its return until 2008 when the course was moved to Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona. APJOC builds upon the skills learned at PJOC and exposes cadets to life in an operational Pararescue or Special Tactics Squadron. The course culminates with a Combat Rescue Training Exercise. During APJOC, Both PJOC and APJOC are Civil Air Patrol National Cadet Special Activities provided by United States Air Force Pararescue.\n\nOriginally titled \"The Code of the Air Rescueman\", it was penned by the first commander of the Air Rescue Service, (then) Lieutenant Colonel Richard T. Kight and is also still used by the Air Force Rescue Coordination Center (AFRCC).\n\nThis tradition arose during the Vietnam War, at which time the most commonly used USAF helicopter was the CH-3E, nicknamed the Jolly Green Giant due to its enormous size and olive drab exterior. The tradition came about when pilots, navigators, enlisted aircrew, or other military personnel were in need of rescue. After these personnel were rescued, they would proceed to receive the temporary ink-stamped \"tattoo\" of the green feet on their buttocks due to the fact that the Para Jumpers \"saved their ass.\"\n\nThe term \"Para Jumper\" is a retronym of the initials \"PJ\" which represent the Military Duty Identifiers; P =Parachutist and J= Diver, that were used on an Air Force Form 5 (Aircrew Flight Log) to identify anyone who is on board in order to jump from the aircraft. Pararescuemen originally had no \"in flight\" duties and were listed only as \"PJ\" on the Form 5. The pararescue position eventually grew to include duties as an aerial gunner and scanner on rotary wing aircraft, a duty now performed by aerial gunners. Currently, aircrew qualified Pararescuemen are recorded using aircrew position identifier \"J\" (\"Pararescue Member\") on the AFTO form 781.\n\nThe maroon beret worn by Pararescuemen and Combat Rescue Officers was authorized by HQ USAF in 1966 and is the second beret to be authorized for universal wear, after the US Army Special Forces Beret. The beret symbolizes the blood sacrificed by fellow Pararescuemen and their devotion to duty by aiding others in distress.\n\nThe flash is a variant of the original Air Rescue Service emblem that was designed by Bill Steffens and implemented in 1952. The significance of the original ARS emblem is described as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259024", "title": "Damaschke Field", "text": "Damaschke Field\n\nDamaschke Field, officially Dutch Damaschke Stadium, is a sports playing field and stadium in Oneonta, New York. Primarily used for baseball, the field has been a municipal landmark for over a hundred years.\n\nThe original baseball field was officially opened on Memorial Day in 1905 under the name Elm Park. Numerous stars from the early years of US baseball, including Babe Ruth and Rogers Hornsby, drew large crowds at the field for semi-pro and exposition games. A permanent steel grandstand was erected for spectators in 1938.\n\nIn August 1968, the city renamed the site as Dutch Damaschke Stadium to honor local sports coach, referee, and counselor Ernest C. \"Dutch\" Damaschke, who had served as Oneonta's Recreation Commissioner for more than thirty years. The field and stadium are administered as public facilities within Oneonta's large Neahwa Park.\n\nThe site was the longtime home of the area's minor league baseball team, the Oneonta Red Sox (1966), Oneonta Yankees (1967–1998), Oneonta Tigers (1999–2009). The field has also regularly hosted the Oneonta Indians football team, the Oneonta United soccer team, and the Hartwick College baseball team. It is currently the home field of the Oneonta Outlaws, a collegiate summer baseball team in the Perfect Game Collegiate Baseball League.\n\nA few games were staged here in late May of 1969 by the Syracuse Chiefs of the International League while their home field MacArthur Stadium was being repaired after a fire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259030", "title": "Tarzan the Ape Man (1932 film)", "text": "Tarzan the Ape Man (1932 film)\n\nTarzan the Ape Man is a 1932 pre-Code American action adventure film released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer featuring Edgar Rice Burroughs' famous jungle hero Tarzan and starring Johnny Weissmuller, Neil Hamilton, C. Aubrey Smith and Maureen O'Sullivan. It was Weissmuller's first of 12 \"Tarzan\" films. O'Sullivan played Jane in six features between 1932 and 1942. The film is loosely based on Burroughs' 1912 novel \"Tarzan of the Apes\", with the dialogue written by Ivor Novello. The film was directed by W. S. Van Dyke. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer released two remakes of \"Tarzan, the Ape Man\" in 1959 and in 1981, but each was a different adaptation of Rice Burroughs' novel.\n\nJames Parker (C. Aubrey Smith) and Harry Holt (Neil Hamilton) travel in Africa on a quest for the legendary elephant burial grounds and their ivory. They are joined by Parker's daughter Jane (Maureen O'Sullivan). Holt is attracted to Jane, and tries somewhat ineffectively to protect her from the jungle's dangers. He notably fails to prevent her abduction by the jungle's guardian, the mysterious Tarzan (Johnny Weissmuller) and his ape allies.\n\nThe experience is terrifying to Jane at first, but as their relationship develops, she finds herself happy: \"Not a bit afraid, not a bit sorry.\" As she returns to her father, her feelings are brought to a test. She wants Tarzan to come with her to London, and to be part of her world. But Tarzan turns his back on her and returns to the jungle. Her father tells her that is where Tarzan belongs, she cries, \"No dad, he belongs to me.\"\n\nThe expedition is captured by a tribe of aggressive dwarfs. Jane sends Tarzan's ape friend Cheeta (Jiggs) for help, bringing Tarzan to their rescue. During the rescue, Tarzan summons elephants and they escape from the dwarf's stronghold, although Jane's father dies from wounds just as they reach the elephant graveyard. Jane decides to stay in the jungle with Tarzan and in the final scene, to the music of Tchaikovsky's Romeo and Juliet, the happy couple appear on a rock, Jane holding Cheeta like a baby.\n\n\nThe film was shot on Lot One of the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios in Culver City, California and at the Lake Sherwood area north of Los Angeles as well as Silver Springs in Florida. Lions from the film were borrowed from nearby Goebel's Lion Farm in Thousand Oaks, CA. Goebel himself would often camp by the filming site near Lake Sherwood to watch his lions during filming.\n\nAs with most Weissmuller Tarzan films, the elephants were Indian, which have smaller ears, rather than African, so large fake ears, and fake tusks, were fitted onto the animals in an attempt to make them look authentic. Similarly, the tribe of African dwarfs, made to look like pygmies (all males), portrayed in the film was actually a cast of several white midgets wearing blackface.\n\nStock footage made in Africa for W.S. Van Dyke's \"Trader Horn\" was added to location work shot in the then-undeveloped Toluca Lake region north of Los Angeles.\n\nThe film was released on April 4, 1932.\n\nThe film was MGM's biggest film of the season with a worldwide rental of $2,540,000. A subsequent re-release earned an additional $225,000.\n\nFilm review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported an approval rating of 100%, based on , with a rating average of 7.8/10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259032", "title": "William Murray, 8th Earl of Mansfield", "text": "William Murray, 8th Earl of Mansfield\n\nWilliam David Mungo James Murray, 8th Earl of Mansfield, 7th Earl of Mansfield DL, JP (7 July 1930 – 21 October 2015), styled Lord Scone until 1970, was a British nobleman and Conservative politician.\n\nWilliam Murray was born on 7 July 1930. He was the only son of Mungo Murray, 7th Earl of Mansfield and Mansfield, and his wife Dorothea Helena, younger daughter of Sir Lancelot Carnegie. He was educated at Eton College and Christ Church, Oxford. He served with the Scots Guards in Malaya from 1949 to 1950. He was called to the bar, Inner Temple, in 1958.\n\nMurray was a barrister from 1958 until 1971, when he succeeded his father as Earl of Mansfield.\n\nHe was a member of the British Delegation to the European Parliament from 1973 to 1975 (prior to the direct election of Members of the European Parliament), and was an opposition spokesman in the House of Lords from 1975 to 1979. He was a Minister of State in the Scottish Office from 1979 to 1983 and in the Northern Ireland Office from 1983 to 1984.\n\nHe was appointed an Honorary Sheriff of Perthshire in 1974, a Justice of the Peace in 1975 and a Deputy Lieutenant for Perth and Kinross in 1980.\n\nMurray has also held a number of business and charitable appointments, such as serving as first president of the Federation of Hunting Associations of the European Communities (FACE) from 1977 to 1979.\n\nHe was the first President of the Scottish Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders and from 1985 to 1996 served as First Crown Estate Commissioner.\n\nHe succeeded as the 11th Lord Balvaird on 2 September 1971 and he succeeded as the 13th Lord Scone on 2 September 1971. He was also the feudal Baron of Balvaird.\n\nMurray married Pamela Joan Foster on 19 December 1955. They had three children:\n\nThe Countess is a Patroness of the Royal Caledonian Ball.\n\nMurray died on 21 October 2015 and his funeral and memorial service were held at St John's Kirk of Perth on 30 October 2015, with a wake at Scone Palace. He was succeeded by his son Alexander David Mungo Murray.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259037", "title": "Disjecta", "text": "Disjecta\n\nDisjecta Contemporary Art Center is an art center in Portland, Oregon. It is home to the Portland Biennial since 2010, continuing in the tradition of the Portland Art Museum's ended Oregon Biennial. \n\nDisjecta's Curator in Residence program began in 2011. Curators include Justin Hoover (2019-20), Suzy Halajian (2018-19), Julia Greenway (2017-18), Michele Fiedler (2016-17), Chiara Giovando (2015-16), Rachel Adams (2014-15), Summer Guthery (2013-14), Josephine Zarkovich (2012-13), and Jenene Nagy (2011-12).\n\nVisual arts programming highlights include solo exhibitions by Avantika Bawa, Karl Burkheimer, Tannaz Farsi, Anna Fidler, Chris Fraser, Dan Gilsdorf, Peter Halley, Mark Licari, and Jenene Nagy.\n\nIn 2010, Disjecta launched the first Portland Biennial. The Portland2019 Biennial was curated by a group of three regional curators–Yaelle S. Amir, Elisheba Johnson, and Ashley Stull-Meyers. The Biennial received positive reviews particularly for including new, diverse voices and a wider curatorial scope than previous biennials.\n\nPast curators of the Biennial include Cris Moss (2010), Prudence F. Roberts (2012), Amanda Hunt (2014), and Michelle Grabner (2016).\n\nDisjecta became a non-profit in 2005 and had plans to move to an expanded 20,000 sf space in North Park Blocks. The plans were launched with a high profile party.\n\nIn 2008, Disjecta announced the public opening of a 20,000 sf facility at 8371 N Interstate in the historic Kenton neighborhood. The former bowling alley and more recently abandoned hydraulic shop now houses five large, fully leased artist studios, along with 3,500 sf of visual exhibition space, a 600 sf performance space, and an open space that houses performances and community events. \n\nIn 2016, Disjecta announced the departure of founder, Bryan Suereth amid some mild controversy. Hiring Blake Shell as Executive Director in April, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259039", "title": "Integrated Electronic Control Centre", "text": "Integrated Electronic Control Centre\n\nThe Integrated Electronic Control Centre (IECC) was developed in the late 1980s by the British Rail Research Division for UK-based railway signalling centres, although variations exist around the world. It is the most widely deployed VDU based signalling control system in the UK, with over 50 workstations in control centres that manage many of the most complex and busy areas of the network.\n\nIECC consists of a number of operator’s workstations with VDU/LCD displays which depict the control area and is semi-automatic using Automatic Route Setting (ARS) – a computer-based route setting system driven from a pre-programmed timetable database. ARS can also handle severely disrupted service patterns and assist the signaller in the event of train or infrastructure failures.\n\nIECCs were developed as an alternative to the traditional switch or button panel control, which in turn replaced mechanical lever frames. From the start, they controlled Solid State Interlockings (SSIs), a software version of the traditional relay interlocking, but existing relay interlockings may also be controlled from an IECC. The system can control as many miles of track as required, but typically around 50–100 miles.\n\nRecently, PC-based control systems, similar to the IECC have been developed and are sold by various signalling contractors, e.g. Westinghouse Rail Systems WESTCAD.\n\nThe concept of IECC was developed at the Railway Technical Centre in Derby during the 1980s, and in particular the initial software for ARS and SSI.\n\nA contract for the development of an operational standard system was let in January 1987 to CAP Group, including the supply of a complete system for Yoker (Glasgow) and the ARS for the Waterloo area. This was the first time a software house became involved in railway signalling after competing against the main incumbent suppliers of GEC-General Signal and Westinghouse Signals Ltd.\nThe solution used off-the-shelf microcomputer technology (Motorola 68000 microprocessors and VME Bus) to host the sub-systems of IECC in high availability configurations linked via a duplicated Nine Tiles Superlink local area network. Subsequent contracts were let to CAP Group (became Sema Group in 1988) for further operational IECC systems involving the supply of turnkey hardware and software. These included the first IECC to go live at Liverpool Street in Easter 1989 quickly followed by York.\n\nAs a result of UK railway privatisation in the mid-1990s, British Rail Research was bought by AEA Technology Rail, who took over the supply of new IECCs, support for the existing installed base, and enhancements to the hardware and software. In 2006, the AEA rail business became DeltaRail (now called Resonate Group), who have developed IECC Scalable which replicates all the functionality of the original IECC on a modern hardware platform and software architecture. Following a successful six-month trial at Swindon B in 2012, IECC Scalable is now the standard for new installations, starting with Cambridge where it controls the Ely-Norwich line which has been resignalled on the \"modular signalling\" concept for secondary routes.\n\nThe following installations are not true IECCs of the BR/SEMA/DeltaRail design. They are VDU based signalling control systems with a similar \"look and feel\" but in most cases they do not incorporate Automatic Route Setting.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259044", "title": "Frederick James Hargreaves", "text": "Frederick James Hargreaves\n\nFrederick James Hargreaves (10 February 1891 – 4 September 1970) was a British astronomer and optician.\n\nHe was considered the foremost optician in Britain, and was noted for his skill in mirror making and other optics for astronomical telescopes. He also\nmade a series of observations and drawings of the turbulence in the belts and zones of Jupiter's atmosphere.\n\nHe served as president of both the British Astronomical Association and the Royal Astronomical Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259048", "title": "Saint-Pierre-de-Plesguen", "text": "Saint-Pierre-de-Plesguen\n\nSaint-Pierre-de-Plesguen () is a former commune in the Ille-et-Vilaine department in Brittany in northwestern France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune Mesnil-Roc'h.\n\nHughes Felicité Robert de Lamennais lived in Saint-Pierre-de-Plesguen during the 19th century.\n\nInhabitants of Saint-Pierre-de-Plesguen are called \"saint-pierrais\" in French.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259051", "title": "Acrolepiidae", "text": "Acrolepiidae\n\nThe Acrolepiidae are a family of moths known as false diamondback moths. In modern classifications, they are often treated as a subfamily (Acrolepiinae) of the family Glyphipterigidae.\n\nCaterpillars are typically spotted and 10 to 12 mm in length. Adults have a wingspan between 16 and 18 mm and are generally nocturnal.\n\nSome representative species are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259058", "title": "Jeju language", "text": "Jeju language\n\nJeju ( , Korean and Jeju: ), often called Jejueo in English-language scholarship, is a Koreanic language traditionally spoken in Jeju Island, South Korea. While often classified as a divergent Jeju dialect ( ) of the Korean language, the variety is referred to as a language in local government and increasingly in both South Korean and foreign academia.\n\nThe consonants of Jeju are similar to those of Seoul Korean, but Jeju has a larger and more conservative vowel inventory. Jeju is a head-final, agglutinative, suffixing language like Korean. Nouns are followed by particles that may function as case markers. Verbs inflect for tense, aspect, mood, evidentiality, relative social status, formality, and other grammatical information. Korean and Jeju differ significantly in their verbal paradigms. For instance, the continuative aspect marker of Jeju and the mood or aspect distinction of many Jeju connective suffixes are absent in Korean. While most of the Jeju lexicon is Koreanic, the language preserves many Middle Korean words now lost in Standard Korean. Jeju is not mutually intelligible with the mainland dialects of South Korea.\n\nJeju was already divergent from Seoul Korean by the fifteenth century, and was unintelligible to mainland Korean visitors by the sixteenth century. The language was severely undermined by the Jeju uprising of 1948, the Korean War, and the modernization of South Korea. All fluent speakers remaining in Jeju Island are now over seventy years old. Most people in Jeju Island now speak a variety of Korean with a Jeju substratum. The language may be somewhat more vigorous in a diaspora community in Osaka, Japan, but even there, younger members of the community speak Japanese. Since 2010, UNESCO has designated the language as critically endangered, the highest level of language endangerment possible. Revitalization efforts are ongoing.\n\nJeju is closely related to Korean. It was traditionally considered an unusually divergent dialect of Korean, and is still referred to as such by the National Institute of the Korean Language and the South Korean Ministry of Education. While the term \"Jeju language\" (, ) was first used in 1947, it was not until the mid-1990s that the term gained currency in South Korean academia. While \"Jeju dialect\" was still the preferred usage throughout the decade of the 2000s, the majority of South Korean academic publications had switched to the term \"Jeju language\" by the early 2010s. Since somewhat earlier, \"Jeju language\" has also been the term preferred in local law, such as the 2007 Language Act for the Preservation and Promotion of the Jeju Language ( ), and by non-governmental organizations working to preserve the language. The only English-language monograph on Jeju, published in 2019, consistently refers to it as a language as well.\n\nJeju is not mutually intelligible with even the southernmost dialects of mainland Modern Korean. In a 2014 test for intelligibility, Korean speakers from three different dialect zones (Seoul, Busan, and Yeosu) were exposed to one minute of spoken Jeju, with a control group of native Jeju speakers. On average, Korean native speakers from all three dialect zones answered less than 10% of the basic comprehension questions correctly, while native Jeju speakers answered over 89% of the questions correctly. These results are comparable to the results of an intelligibility test of Norwegian for native Dutch speakers. Diaspora Jeju speakers living in Japan also report that they find it difficult to understand South Korean news media, and resort to Japanese subtitles when watching South Korean TV shows.\n\nJeju was traditionally spoken throughout Jeju Province except in the Chuja Islands, halfway between Jeju Island and mainland Korea, where a variety of Southwestern Korean is found. The language is also used by some of the first- and second-generation members of the Zainichi Korean community in Ikuno-ku, Osaka, Japan.\n\nCompared to mainland Korean dialect groups, there is little internal variation within Jeju. A distinction between a northern and southern dialect with a geographic divide at Hallasan is sometimes posited, but an eastern-western dialectal divide cutting through Jeju City and Seogwipo may better explain the few dialectal differences that do exist. A 2010 survey of regional variation in 305 word sets suggests that the north-south divide and the east-west divide coexist, resulting in four distinct dialect groups.\n\nThe Koreanic languages are likely not native to Jeju Island; it has been proposed that the family has its roots in Manchuria, a historical region in northeastern Asia. It is thought that Koreanic speakers migrated from southern Manchuria between the third and eighth centuries CE. Linguist Alexander Vovin suggests that the ancient kingdom of Tamna, which ruled the island until the twelfth century, may have spoken a Japonic language that left a substrate influence on Jeju. When exactly this putative Japonic language may have been replaced by the Koreanic ancestor of Jeju remains unclear.\n\nUnlike mainland Korea, which was ruled only indirectly by the Mongols, Jeju was placed under direct Yuan administration in the late thirteenth century. Significant numbers of Mongol soldiers migrated to the island during this period, and their language acted as a superstratum that may have accelerated local language change. Linguist Yang Changyong speculates that the formation of Jeju as a language independent of Korean was influenced by Mongol. By the fifteenth century, when the invention of Hangul permits a detailed understanding of Korean phonology for the first time, Seoul Korean and Jeju were already divergent; the Seoul prestige dialect of fifteenth-century Middle Korean disallowed the diphthong , but Jeju does not.\n\nSixteenth- and seventeenth-century references to the language of Jeju by mainland Korean literati state that it was already unintelligible to mainland Koreans. Kim Sang-heon (1570―1652), who served as pacification commissioner ( ) on the island from 1601 to 1602, gives six words in the \"provincial language\" with clear cognates in modern Jeju and also writes:\n\n\"The exiled man Shin Jangnyeong was originally a government interpreter. He said, 'The language of this island is most like Chinese, and the sounds they make while driving cattle and horses are yet more impossible to tell apart. Is this because the climate is not far from that of China, or because the Yuan dynasty once ruled and appointed officials here and the Chinese mingled with them?'... What is called the provincial language is but high and thin and cannot be understood.\"\nIn 1629, the Korean government banned the emigration of Jeju Islanders to the mainland, further restricting linguistic contacts between Jeju and Korean. At the same time, the island was also used throughout the Joseon era (1392―1910) as a place of exile for disgraced scholar-officials. These highly educated speakers of Seoul Korean often tutored the children of their Jeju neighbors during their exile and established a continuous and significant Seoul Korean superstratum in Jeju.\n\nJeju remained the dominant language of both private and public spheres under Japanese colonial rule (1910―1945), although many Japanese loanwords entered the lexicon, and many speakers were monolingual. Large-scale migration of Jeju people to Japan began in 1911, and 38,000 Jeju Islanders lived in Osaka alone by 1934. Immigration to Japan continued even after Korean independence into the 1980s. Jeju is still spoken by older members of these diaspora communities, although younger individuals speak Japanese as their native language and are not fluent in Jeju.\n\nSevere disruption to the Jeju language community began after the end of Japanese rule in 1945. Popular opposition to the division of Korea and police brutality led to a rebellion against the American military government on April 3, 1948. The Syngman Rhee regime, which succeeded the American administration in August 1948, suppressed the rebellion with mass killings of civilians. As many as sixty thousand Jeju Islanders, or a full fifth of the pre-rebellion population, were killed. Forty thousand more fled to Japan. Out of the four hundred villages of the island, only 170 remained. The devastating impact of the massacres on the Jeju language community was exacerbated by the outbreak of the Korean War in 1950. While Jeju was never occupied by the North Korean army, nearly 150,000 Korean-speaking refugees from the mainland fleeing North Korean invasion arrived in Jeju in the first year of the war. These events shattered the Jeju language's former dominance on the island, and Standard Korean was beginning to displace Jeju in the public sphere by the 1950s.\n\nThe decline of Jeju continued into the 1960s and 1970s. The Saemaeul Movement, an ambitious rural modernization program launched by Park Chung-hee, disrupted the traditional village community where Jeju had thrived. The language came to be perceived as an incorrect dialect of Korean, so that students were subject to corporal punishment if they used it in school, and the use of Standard Korean even in the private sphere began to spread from Jeju City outwards. The language attitude of native Jeju speakers in this period was self-disparaging, and even Jeju people regarded the use of Jeju \"with contempt.\" A 1981 survey of language attitudes among high school and university students natively speaking Seoul Korean, Chungcheong Korean, Southwestern Korean, Southeastern Korean, and Jeju showed that Jeju speakers were the most likely among the five groups to ascribe negative traits to their native variety.\n\nA 1992 study of code-switching by native Jeju speakers shows that Jeju was by then in an unfavorable diglossic relationship with Korean, and was largely restricted to informal contexts even between Jeju natives. Within a primarily Jeju-language conversation, speakers might spontaneously switch to Korean to emphasize the rationality or truth value of their statement, while switching to Jeju in a primarily Korean conversation signified that the speaker was making a subjective statement or being less serious.\n\nThe same study notes that by 1992, even this variety restricted to the informal domain was usually a Korean dialect with a Jeju substratum, rather than the traditional Jeju language:\n\n\"As for the Jeju language [] in general use nowadays [as of 1992], the situation is that its differences from Standard Korean are greatly diminishing compared to the past. Its greatest differences with Standard Korean [now] lie especially in the suffix paradigm, and in other areas the differences are being minimized. The Jeju people accordingly understand that Jeju and Standard Korean are in a form of dialect continuum, and refer to the native language formerly in use as \"thick (or intense) Jeju language\" and the Jeju language currently in use as \"light Jeju language\" or \"mixed (with Korean) language.\"\n\nJeju is nearly extinct. As of 2018, fluent speakers in Jeju Island were all over seventy years of age, while passive competence was found in some people in their forties and fifties. Younger Islanders speak Korean with Jeju substrate influence found in residual elements of the Jeju verbal paradigm and in select vocabulary such as kinship terms. The language is more vigorous in Osaka, where there may be fluent speakers born as late as the 1960s. Since 2010, UNESCO has classified Jeju as a critically endangered language, defined as one whose \"youngest speakers are grandparents and older... [who] speak the language partially and infrequently.\"\n\nA 2008 survey of adult residents' knowledge of ninety Jeju cultural words showed that only twenty-one were understood by the majority of those surveyed. Lack of heritage knowledge of Jeju is even more severe among younger people. Four hundred Jeju teenagers were surveyed for their knowledge of 120 basic Jeju vocabulary items in 2010, but only nineteen words were recognized by the majority while forty-five words were understood by less than 10%. A 2018 study suggests that even the verbal paradigm, among the more resilient parts of the substratum, may be in danger; the average middle schooler was more competent in the verb system of English, a language \"taught only a few hours a week in school and in private tutoring institutions,\" than of Jeju.\n\nRevitalization efforts have recently been ongoing. On September 27, 2007, the Jeju provincial government promulgated the Language Act for the Preservation and Promotion of the Jeju Language, which established five-year plans for state-backed language preservation. However, it was not until UNESCO's 2010 designation of Jeju as critically endangered that the provincial government became proactive in Jeju preservation efforts. In 2016, the provincial government allotted ₩685,000,000 (US$ 565,592 in 2016) to revitalization programs, and the government-funded Jeju Research Institute has compiled phrasebooks of the language. The provincial Ministry of Education has also published Jeju textbooks for elementary and secondary schools, although some textbooks really teach Standard Korean interspersed with Jeju lexical items. Some public schools offer after-school programs for Jeju, but the short duration of these classes may be insufficient to promote more than \"symbolic\" use by students. The linguistic competence of many teachers has also been challenged.\n\nOther preservation and revitalization efforts are led by non-state bodies. The Jeju Language Preservation Society ( ), founded in December 2008, publishes \"Deongdeureong-makke\" (), a bimonthly Jeju-language magazine, and holds Jeju teaching programs and speaking contests. Literature in the language has recently been published, including children's books and a 2014 poetry anthology. Local bands and theater troupes have made Jeju-language performances. Regional newspapers such as the \"Jemin Ilbo\" and the \"Halla Ilbo\" include Jeju-language sections, and local branches of KBS and MBC have launched radio programs and a television series in Jeju. Recent South Korean media with nationwide appeal, including the 2010 television series \"Life is Beautiful\" and \"The Great Merchant\", the 2012 drama film \"Jiseul\", and the 2015 television series \"Warm and Cozy\", have also featured spoken Jeju.\n\nRecent surveys show changes favorable towards Jeju in prevailing language attitudes. In a National Institute of the Korean Language survey in 2005, only 9.4% of Jeju Islanders were very proud of the regional variety. When the same survey was reheld in 2015, 36.8% were very proud of the language, and Jeju Islanders had become the most likely among South Korean dialect groups to have \"very positive\" opinions of the regional variety. In a 2017 study of 240 Jeju Islanders, 82.8% of those sampled considered Jeju to be \"nice to listen to,\" and 74.9% hoped that their children would learn the language. But significant generational cleavages in language attitudes were also found. For instance, only 13.8% of Jeju Islanders between twenty and forty liked Jeju much more than Standard Korean, which 49.1% of those above eighty did.\n\nIn a 2013 survey of Jeju natives, 77.9% agreed with the statement that \"[the Jeju language] has to be passed down as part of Jeju culture.\" But a 2015 study of approximately a thousand Jeju Islanders suggests that even though most Jeju Islanders believe the language to be an important part of the island's culture, the vast majority are skeptical of the language's long-term viability, and more people are unwilling than willing to actively participate in language preservation efforts.\n\nJeju has historically had no written language. Two recently devised standard orthographies are currently in use: a system created in 1991 by scholars of the Jeju Dialect Research Society ( ), and a system promulgated by the provincial government in 2014. Both systems use the Korean alphabet Hangul with one additional letter , which was used in the Middle and Early Modern Korean scripts but is now defunct in written Korean. Similar to the modern Korean script, Jeju orthographies have morphophonemic tendencies, meaning that transcribing the underlying morphology generally takes precedence over the surface form. The two orthographies differ largely because they are based on different morphological analyses of the language, especially of the verbal paradigm, as seen in the example below.\n\nThis article will use the government's orthography where the two differ.\n\nThe transliteration scheme generally used in Korean linguistics, including when transcribing Jeju, is the Yale Romanization system. Yang C., Yang S., and O'Grady 2019 instead uses a variant of the Revised Romanization system with the addition of the sequence \"aw\" for . This article also uses Revised Romanization with the addition of \"aw\", but without Yang C., Yang S., and O'Grady 2019's one-to-one correspondence between Hangul glyphs and the Latin alphabet.\n\nThe non-approximant consonants of Jeju correspond to the nineteen non-approximant consonants of Standard Korean, and Jeju displays the three-way contrast between stops and affricates characteristic of Modern Korean. Whether the voiced glottal fricative , absent in Standard Korean, exists as a phoneme in Jeju or merely as an allophone of remains disputed. A 2000 acoustic and aerodynamic study of eight native Jeju speakers concludes that \"the consonants of the two languages seem to be the same in every respect... the phonetic realization of all [Jeju] consonants are the same as those found in [Seoul] Korean.\"\n\nJeju allophony involves a number of phonological processes also found in Seoul Korean. As in Korean, surfaces as intervocally. Also as in Korean, lax stops and affricates have fully voiced allophones in medial position, all obstruents have unreleased allophones in final position, and syllable-final sibilants surface as . Whether non-lax stops and affricates can appear in final position is controversial. The morphological analysis necessary for the government's orthography permits them, while the analysis behind the Jeju Language Research Society's orthography forbids them.\n\nMost non-morphophonological consonant assimilation rules of Standard Korean are also found in Jeju. and are regularly palatalized to before or . Lax obstruents are tensed following another obstruent. aspirates both the preceding and the subsequent lax obstruent. A nasal consonant nasalizes a preceding obstruent or . becomes following all consonants except itself or , and this can itself nasalize the preceding obstruent so that the underlying sequence is realized as . On the other hand, underlying and both produce .\n\nJeju also has consonant allophones that appear only at morpheme boundaries. Some of these are found in Standard Korean, such as the insertion of before or at most word-internal morpheme boundaries; the palatalization of to before an affixal ; and the tensing of obstruents following certain morpheme-final nasals. Other rules are absent in Standard Korean. For instance, a sonorant-final word or morpheme can trigger aspiration (for older speakers) or tensing (for younger speakers) in a subsequent lax consonant. In some cases this is due to an underlying consonant cluster, but not all cases can be explained in this way. Other Jeju-specific processes include the doubling of a word-final consonant when followed by a vowel, glide, or , and the lenition of to at some word boundaries.\n\n! Jeju word (morphemes hyphenated) !! Underlying phonemes !! Realization !!\n"}
{"id": "2259059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259059", "title": "Chronometry", "text": "Chronometry\n\nChronometry (from Greek χρόνος \"chronos\", \"time\" and μέτρον \"metron\", \"measure\") is the science of the measurement of time, or timekeeping.\n\nIt should not to be confused with chronology, the science of locating events in time, which often relies upon it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259060", "title": "National Highway System (United States)", "text": "National Highway System (United States)\n\nThe National Highway System (NHS) is a network of strategic highways within the United States, including the Interstate Highway System and other roads serving major airports, ports, rail or truck terminals, railway stations, pipeline terminals and other strategic transport facilities. Altogether, it constitutes the largest highway system in the world.\n\nIndividual states are encouraged to focus federal funds on improving the efficiency and safety of this network. The roads within the system were identified by the United States Department of Transportation in cooperation with the states, local officials, and metropolitan planning organizations and approved by the United States Congress in 1995.\n\nThe Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 provided that certain key routes such as the Interstate Highway System, be included.\n\nThe National Highway System Designation Act of 1995 (, ) is a United States Act of Congress that was signed into law by President Bill Clinton on November 28, 1995. The legislation designated about of roads, including the Interstate Highway System, as the NHS.\n\nAside from designating the system, the act served several other purposes, including restoring $5.4 billion in funding to state highway departments, giving Congress the power to prioritize highway system projects, repealing all federal speed limit controls, and prohibits the federal government from requiring states to use federal-aid highway funds to convert existing signs or purchase new signs with metric units.\n\nThe act also created a State Infrastructure Bank pilot program. Ten states were chosen in 1996 for this new method of road financing. These banks would lend money like regular banks, with funding coming from the federal government or the private sector, and they would be repaid through such means as highway tolls or taxes. In 1997, 28 more states asked to be part of the program. Ohio was the first state to use a state infrastructure bank to start building a road. An advantage to this method was completing projects faster; state laws and the lack of appropriate projects were potential problems.\n\nAccording to the Federal Highway Administration, the National Highway System includes roads important to the United States' economy, defense, and mobility, from one or more of the following road networks (specific routes may be part of more than one sub-system):\n\n\nThe system includes 4% of the nation's roads, but carries more than 40% of all highway traffic, 75% of heavy truck traffic, and 90% of tourist traffic. All urban areas with a population of over 50,000 and about 90% of America's population live within of the network, which is the longest in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259067", "title": "Franz Xaver Haberl", "text": "Franz Xaver Haberl\n\nFranz Xaver Haberl (12 April 1840, in Oberellenbach (today Mallersdorf-Pfaffenberg), Lower Bavaria – 5 September 1910, in Ratisbon) was a German musicologist, friend of Liszt, Perosi, and Singenberger, cleric, and student of Proske.\n\nHe made his classical and theological studies at Passau, Bavaria, where he was ordained priest, 12 August, 1862. Showing decided aptitude for music, he was given every opportunity for study of the art, and was entrusted with the direction of music in the seminary. From 1867 to 1870 Haberl resided in Rome, where he was active as choirmaster at the German national church, Santa Maria dell'Anima, and also made historical and archæological researches. From 1871 to 1882 he directed the choir at the Ratisbon cathedral, his incumbency forming one of the most brilliant periods in the history of this famous institute. \n\nWorking for church music reform, in 1874 Haberl founded a famous school for church musicians at Regensburg (Ratisbon). This school began with three professors—Dr. Haberl, Dr. Jacob, and Canon Haller—and only three pupils, and attracted reform-minded church music programs. Haberl not only secured permanency for the school in the shape of endowment, but he built next to it a church, dedicated to St. Cecilia, where pupils are given opportunities for practising the knowledge they have acquired in theory.\n\nHe fought for the Editio Medicea against the editions of Solesmes and others. In 1868 Haberl re-edited the Medicæa version of the Gregorian chant, and the Holy See declared his edition authentic and official for the Catholic Church. This form of the chant has since been superseded by the \"Editio Vaticana.\"\n\nWith Proske, he was a prime mover in the \"Caecilia Movement,\" and helped to edit the fourth volume of Musica Divina.\n\nFor thirty years he gathered data and material for a critical edition of the works of Palestrina, completed in 1908 in thirty-three volumes, the first ten of which were prepared by the joint labour of Th. de Witt, J.N. Rauch, Fr. Espagne, and Fr. Commer. A similar edition of the works of Orlando Lasso, undertaken by him in company with Dr. Sanberger, he left unfinished.\n\nAs president of the Allgemeiner Cäcilien-Verband für Deutschland (Cecilian Society for Germany), which position he held from 1899 until his death, as editor of \"Musica sacra\" and \"Fliegende Blätter für Kirchenmusik\", the official organ of the society, as the author of \"Magister Choralis\", now in the twelfth edition, and of innumerable articles on historical, theoretical, and scientific subjects, but especially as director of the school which he founded, Haberl championed the spirit and authority of the Church in musical matters against modernising influences. \n\nOne of Haberl's most famous students was Lorenzo Perosi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259069", "title": "Löhne", "text": "Löhne\n\nLöhne is a town in the district of Herford, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.\n\nLöhne is situated on the river Werre, approx. 8 km north of Herford and 20 km south-west of Minden.\n\n\nLöhne is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2259073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259073", "title": "Frankenhooker", "text": "Frankenhooker\n\nFrankenhooker is a 1990 American comedy horror film directed by Frank Henenlotter. Very loosely inspired by Mary Shelley's novel \"Frankenstein\", the film stars James Lorinz as medical school drop-out Jeffrey Franken and former Penthouse Pet Patty Mullen as the title character (who wears a fatsuit in the beginning of the film).\n\nJeffrey, a young man who lives in New Jersey, is a former med student but dropped out due to absurd and unethical experiments with bringing body parts to life using a formula he invented in combination with electricity. He is later heartbroken after his fiancée Elizabeth is killed by a lawnmower during a family cookout. He decides that the only way to confront her loss is to use his science skills to bring her back to life. As her body has been cut into pieces save for one of her hands and her head, Jeffrey must take new parts from other women in order to create a new body for Elizabeth. He ultimately chooses to harvest them from the bodies of New York City prostitutes as no one would notice if they went missing. He feels guilty with the idea of killing them and performs a surgical method using a drill to his brain to calm himself and go through with the plan. He lures them back into a hotel under the guise of a party but begins to back out of the decision to kill them with large exploding crack rocks he made since the hookers were already addicted to the drug. The hookers find the bag of drugs and begin using them much to Jeffrey's dismay, seconds later they explode with Jeffrey having to rush to run away with the parts and escape the wrath of their pimp Zorro. He uses the body parts to bring Elizabeth back to life; after a successful attempt she lives, her face has turned pale along with her original hand and her hair is purple now, however her mind isn't fully restored and only speaks the words the previous hookers have said and acts like one too. The newly revived creation escapes and begins looking for customers, who end up exploding after encountering her. Jeffrey goes looking for her and finds her at a bar but unfortunately Zorro is there too and upon hearing her mention his name and seeing his tattoo design on her arm his girls had he angrily strikes Elizabeth nearly knocking her head off. Jeffrey grabs Elizabeth and escapes home to fix her neck and hits her with electricity again which causes her to regain her senses but she's angry at Jeffrey over what he did to her. After Jeffrey explains to her how he did it and why they\nAlmost reconcile but Zorro tracked them down and decapitates Jeffrey with a machete with the attempt to steal Elizabeth. However the spare hooker parts were reanimated from the first experiment into a many limbed monster, which drags Zorro away when he pulls out his drugs to lure Elizabeth. Wanting her lover back, Elizabeth decides to revive Jeffrey via the same procedure he used on her. When Jeffrey wakes up he sees Elizabeth who tells him what happened but since the process only works on female bodies, Elizabeth had to use the hookers' body parts to bring him back. Elizabeth Happily says they'll be together now forever with the ending being Jeffrey groaning in the same manner as the traditional Frankenstein in horror of his new appearance.\n\n\n\"Frankenhooker\"'s initial release was delayed because of difficulty obtaining an R rating from the MPAA; the director recalls that one representative of the ratings body actually said, in a phone call to the production company's secretary, \"Congratulations, you're the first film rated \"S\".\" And she said, \"\"S\"? For sex?\" And they said, \"No, \"S\" for \"shit\".\" To his dismay, Henenlotter's conservative parents insisted on attending the film's premiere in New York City; Henenlotter expressed surprise that they were not offended by the exploitative elements.\n\n\"Variety\" wrote, \"\"Frankenhooker\" is a grisly, grotesque horror comedy recommended only for the stout of heart and strong of stomach.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"there is a legitimate sense of the absurd lurking within Frank Henenlotter's \"Frankenhooker\",\" but it is \"overshadowed by special effects\" and elements that recall soft-core pornography. Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called it a \"hilarious, totally outrageous grin-and-gore comedy.\"\n\n\"Frankenhooker\" was named \"Killer B Film of the Year for 1990\" by E! Entertainment Television's Attack of the Killer B's segment.\n\nBill Murray was quoted as saying \"If you see one movie this year, it should be \"Frankenhooker\".\" Henenlotter said that Murray had been editing his film \"Quick Change\" and hung out with the \"Frankenhooker\" crew. After Murray expressed interest in their film, the distributor attempted to get an endorsement from him. Embarrassed that they would abuse Murray's friendliness, Henenlotter attempted to avoid Murray. When they eventually ran into each other, Henenlotter apologized and explained that he was not responsible. Satisfied with the explanation, Murray volunteered a quotation.\n\nThe film currently has a 62% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 13 reviews, with an average rating of 5.2/10\n\n\"Frankenhooker\" was released on VHS in 1990, by Shapiro-Glickenhaus Entertainment, and had an interactive box which had the titular character exclaim \"wanna date?!\" when you pressed a button on the box.\n\nOn November 8, 2011, Synapse Films released \"Frankenhooker\" on Blu-ray. This edition has reversible cover art, with the original theatrical poster on one side and newly commissioned artwork on the reverse side. The disc contains a 2K high definition transfer of the film and a digitally remastered 5.1 audio mix, as well as an audio commentary track from writer/director Frank Henenlotter and make-up effects designer Gabe Bartalos, three featurettes and the original theatrical trailer. The special features from this release were also available on the DVD version of the film, released on September 10, 2013.\n\nOn January 2, 2012, Arrow Films released a special edition Blu-ray of \"Frankenhooker\". Like the Synapse release before it, this edition also has reversible cover art, featuring both the original theatrical poster art and newly commissioned art (different from the Synapse version). This edition includes many UK exclusives, including an audio commentary from Henenlotter and star James Lorinz, a documentary titled \"Your Date's on a Place\" and a tour of Gabe Bartalos' effects lab in Los Angeles. It also includes all three featurettes from the Synapse release, as well as trailers for the films \"Basket Case\", \"Basket Case 2\" and \"Brain Damage\", all of which were also directed by Henenlotter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259075", "title": "Spotlight (Madonna song)", "text": "Spotlight (Madonna song)\n\n\"Spotlight\" is a song by American singer Madonna from her first remix album \"You Can Dance\" (1987). It was released as a single in Japan on April 25, 1988 by Sire Records and Warner-Pioneer Japan. Initially rejected during her \"True Blue\" album recording sessions, the song was written by Madonna, Stephen Bray and Curtis Hudson who had presented the original to the singer. It was inspired by the song \"Everybody Is a Star\" (1970), by American rock band Sly and the Family Stone. The song was remixed by Shep Pettibone, with additional mixing done by John \"Jellybean\" Benitez.\n\n\"Spotlight\" features instrumentation from drums, bass synths and handclaps, accompanied by vocal echos, a piano segment and violin phrases in the musical interlude. The lyrics talk about how one can be famous if one sings about it. The song received mixed reviews from critics. After its release, it reached number 68 on the Japanese Oricon weekly singles chart, as well as number three on its international singles chart. Although not released in the United States, the song managed to chart on \"Billboard\"s Airplay chart in early 1988. The song was used in a Mitsubishi VCR commercial, in which she appeared.\n\nBy the mid-eighties, post-disco dance music was extremely popular and the concept of remix was widely regarded as a new direction of music. Several artists were remixing their tracks and compiling them to create new albums. Hence Madonna, who was the most popular dance artist of that era, decided to create a similar remix compilation album, later titled \"You Can Dance\", which included seven of her up-tempo songs. Along with the pre-released tracks in remixed form, \"Spotlight\" was included as a new track. Madonna said that she was inspired by the song \"Everybody Is a Star\" (1970), by American rock band Sly and the Family Stone.\n\nIn 1983, Curtis Hudson and Lisa Stevens of the group Pure Energy had written the song \"Holiday\", which Madonna recorded and released as the third single from her self-titled debut album. After the single's commercial success, Hudson wrote a song sounding like \"Holiday\", in case Warner Bros., Madonna's record company, wanted to release a similar sounding single. He named it \"Spotlight\" and offered it to Madonna, who recorded the song for her 1986 album \"True Blue\" but did not include it because of its similarity to \"Holiday\".\n\nWhen Madonna decided to create \"You Can Dance\", she and Stephen Bray reworked the demo composed by Hudson and Madonna asked Shep Pettibone, who had remixed her songs from \"True Blue\", to remix \"Spotlight\" and included it on the album. John \"Jellybean\" Benitez, who had recorded the original demo during the \"True Blue\" sessions, assisted Pettibone in remixing the song. Hudson, who was given credit as a songwriter since he had the demo copyrighted, recalled that much of the demo's production was changed in the final version, including the rhythm and the basic groove.\n\n\"Spotlight\" begins with the sound of drums, bass synths and handclaps, followed by Madonna uttering the words \"Spotlight, shine bright\". After the first verse, the sound of keyboard is heard during the effect. It continues like this through the second verse, which is followed by an interlude featuring vocal echos, a piano segment and violin phrases. Madonna follows the music played by the piano and utters the words \"Pa-da-pa-da-pappa pappa pa pa\" in the same melody. The lyrics deal with Madonna making the listener remember that \"Everybody is a Star\" and that if one wants to be famous and be under the \"Spotlight\", the person should sing about it and reality may catch up with him or her. According to the sheet music for the song, it is set in the time signature of common time, with a tempo of 100 beats per minute. It is set in the key of F major with Madonna's voice spanning from the notes of C to B. \"Spotlight\" has a basic sequence of Am–C–Am–C–G–F as its chord progression.\n\nMark Bego, author of \"Madonna: Blonde Ambition\" wrote that \"Spotlight\" was a \"typical Madonna 'look-at-me' dance routine, that sounds flat besides the heavy remixes in \"You Can Dance\".\" Stephen Thomas Erlewine from Allmusic said that the song \"sounds dated—this is quite clearly extended mixes from the mid 80's—but that's part of the charm.\" Dave Barry from \"The Miami Herald\" commented that although \"You Can Dance\" sounds like \"old Madonna\", \"Spotlight\" sounds surprisingly fresh to his ears. Joe Brown from \"The Washington Post\" commented that the song should have been a \"flat reject\". Don McLeese from \"Chicago Sun-Times\" called the song \"exuberant\". From the \"Dallas Observer\", Hunter Hauk deemed it \"the bastard brother of 'Into the Groove'. It's just as infectious, but it didn't get the support it deserved\".\n\nDennis Hunt from \"Los Angeles Times\" commented that \"[\"You Can Dance\"] is an attractive package for dance fans—particularly with the inclusion of a new cut, 'Spotlight'\". He went on to add that the \"lyrics of 'Spotlight' aren't great, but they're still more interesting than the others. Still, the words, like those of most dance songs, are just window dressing that's secondary to the beat. The big attraction of 'Spotlight' is a long, hard-driving, closing passage that's guaranteed to turn dancers on.\" Jan DeKnock, while writing for \"Orlando Sentinel\", noted that the song was already receiving airplay from radio stations. \"Billboard\"s Joe Lynch called it a \"lyrically simplistic affair that’s elevated by a pounding opener, sparkling keys and a charmingly earnest vocal that makes even the silliest sentiment sound like a viable philosophy for conquering the world\".\n\n\"Spotlight\" was not officially released as a single in the United States; therefore it was not eligible at the time to appear on \"Billboard\"s Hot 100. Even so, it managed to garner enough airplay to appear on the publication's Hot 100 Airplay survey in early 1988. It debuted on the Airplay chart at 37 on the issue dated January 16, 1988. After three weeks, \"Spotlight\" reached a peak of 32, but fell to 40 the next week before exiting the chart. It had also reached the Hot Crossover 30 chart beginning on the issue dated December 12, 1987, peaking at 15 for two consecutive weeks beginning January 9, 1988 and spending eight total weeks on the chart. The song was released commercially in Japan on April 25, 1988. \"Spotlight\" peaked at number 68 on the Oricon weekly singles chart, remaining on the chart for five weeks. It also charted on the Oricon international singles chart, reaching a peak of three on May 19, 1988, staying on the chart for ten weeks.\n\n\"Spotlight\" was featured in the last of a series of Japanese TV commercials Madonna filmed for electronics company Mitsubishi. The commercial promoted their VCR model F-5.3. In the commercial, Madonna was featured as coming out of a car and sitting down on a sofa, while watching a film on the VCR, as \"Spotlight\" is played in the background. The song was also used as cross-promotion for the Japanese leg of her 1987 Who's That Girl World Tour under the campaign name of \"Dreams Come True\".\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"You Can Dance\" liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259080", "title": "Yellow-necked mouse", "text": "Yellow-necked mouse\n\nThe yellow-necked mouse (\"Apodemus flavicollis\"), also called yellow-necked field mouse, yellow-necked wood mouse, and South China field mouse, is closely related to the wood mouse, with which it was long confused. It was only recognised as a separate species in 1894. It differs in its band of yellow fur around the neck and in having slightly larger ears and usually being slightly larger overall. Around 100 mm in length, it can climb trees and sometimes overwinters in houses. It is found mostly in mountainous areas of southern Europe, but extends north into parts of Scandinavia and Britain. It facilitates the spread of tick-borne encephalitis to humans and is a reservoir species for the Dobrava virus, a hantavirus that is responsible for causing haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome.\n\n\"Apodemus ponticus\" is probably a synonym of \"Apodemus flavicollis\". The former is found in the Soviet Union with the boundary between the two being the political boundary between Russia and Western Europe. For many years direct comparison of the two species was not possible because of political tensions but it is now accepted that they are in reality the same species.\n\nThe yellow-necked mouse is very similar to the wood mouse but differs in having a slightly longer tail and larger ears, and a complete band of yellow fur across the neck area. The adult head and body length is with a tail about as long again, and the weight varies between . The upperparts are brownish-grey, - a rather more brown shade than the wood mouse. The underparts are white and there is a sharp demarcation line between the two colours. This mouse gets its common name from the ochre-coloured patch of fur between its forelegs but this is often inconspicuous. The upperside of juveniles is a rather paler shade of greyish-brown than the adults.\n\nThe yellow-necked mouse is native to Europe and western Asia. Its range includes the more mountainous parts of Western Europe with the exception of northern Scandinavia, southern Spain and western France. This mouse occurs in Great Britain but not in Ireland, and it is also absent from a number of Mediterranean islands. In Asia, its range extends eastward to the Ural Mountains and it is also found in Turkey, Armenia, Iran, Syria, Lebanon and Israel. It is mostly a woodland species, often living near the forest verge, but in mountainous regions, it occupies any part of the forest. It is usually found in mature deciduous woodland is also found in scrubby areas, hedgerows, orchards and plantations. It favours areas where there are large, nut-bearing trees such as the oak and the hazel. It is also found in parks and gardens and beside alder-fringed streams.\n\nThe yellow-necked mouse is active all year round and does not hibernate. Sometimes several mice will huddle together during the winter to preserve heat. It is an excellent climber and scrambles around in trees and bushes. It lives in crevices, burrows at the base of trees, holes in tree trunks, hollow logs and bird nesting boxes and sometimes enters buildings. The burrows are often extensive with many entrances and complex layouts. It makes extensive stores of food such as acorns and beechmast in storage chambers and uses other chambers for nesting, bringing in dry plant material for this purpose. There are often mounds of earth outside the entrances to the burrow. It also makes larders of food in holes in trees away from the burrow. The shade is very dense under a beech tree in summer and it has been found that beech nuts hidden in caches by the yellow-necked mouse, and not subsequently eaten, can later germinate and help with dispersal of the parent tree.\n\nThe yellow-necked mouse is nocturnal. It is active on the ground and in the tree canopy and has a home range rather smaller than half a hectare. Besides nuts, it feeds on buds, shoots, fruit, seedling plants and sometimes small invertebrates. Breeding takes place at any time between February and October with successive pregnancies occurring at short intervals. The gestation period is about twenty six days and females can remate while still feeding the previous litter. A litter of young is born in a nesting chamber lined with dry plant material and consists of two to eleven (usually five) altricial young born naked, blind and helpless. The eyes of the young open after about a fortnight and their yellow collars are visible by then as grey patches. They are weaned at about eighteen days old. If they are born early in the year, they may start breeding in the same year, but late-born young become sexually mature in the following spring.\n\nThe yellow-necked mouse is preyed on by owls, foxes, weasels and other predators. It can leap to evade attackers and the skin of its tail is readily detachable and slides off if grasped by a predator.\n\nIt has been found that the yellow-necked mouse can transmit the virus causing tick-borne encephalitis while being immune to the virus itself. It has also been found that the yellow-necked mouse together with the striped field mouse (\"Apodemus agrarius\") are the natural reservoir for a Orthohantavirus, the Dobrava virus, which causes a severe form of haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome in humans.\n\nThe yellow-necked mouse has a very wide range and is common in suitable habitat within that range. In Eastern Europe, densities of up to a hundred individuals per hectare have been recorded. The population is stable and this species faces no specific threats so the IUCN has listed it as being of \"Least Concern\" in its Red List of Threatened Species.\n"}
{"id": "2259083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259083", "title": "Phillip Fulmer", "text": "Phillip Fulmer\n\nPhillip Edward Fulmer Sr. (born September 1, 1950) is a former American football player, coach, and current athletic director at the University of Tennessee. He served as head coach of the Tennessee Volunteers football team from 1992 to 2008, compiling a 152–52 record. He is best known for coaching the Volunteers in the first BCS National Championship Game in 1998, defeating Florida State Seminoles. Fulmer was the Volunteers' 20th head football coach.\n\nAt the end of his tenure at Tennessee, Fulmer had the second-highest number of wins of any head coach in Tennessee history, 21 behind Robert Neyland. Fulmer also was the third coach in Tennessee history to win a claimed national championship. His 1997 and 1998 teams won consecutive SEC championships. Despite a decline in the later years of his career, he is widely considered by many to be an icon of Tennessee football and one of the greatest coaches ever. In recognition of his accomplishments at Tennessee, Fulmer was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2012.\n\nFulmer served as a special assistant to the athletic director at East Tennessee State University. On June 20, 2017, Fulmer was named as a special advisor to the University of Tennessee president. On December 1, 2017, Fulmer became the Athletic Director at the University of Tennessee.\n\nFulmer was born in Winchester, Tennessee, where he attended Franklin County High School. While at Franklin, Fulmer played football and starred for the Rebels. Fulmer enrolled at the University of Tennessee as a student in 1968. He promptly joined the football team as an offensive guard. While playing for the Volunteers, Fulmer garnered All-Southeastern Conference honors at offensive guard. Fulmer contributed to Tennessee's 30–5 record from 1969–1971, where he played for head coaches Doug Dickey (who returned to Tennessee as athletic director and hired Fulmer as the Volunteers' coach) and Bill Battle. The Volunteers captured the SEC championship with a 9–2 record in 1969, went 11–1 and won the Sugar Bowl in 1970, and finished as Liberty Bowl champions with a 10–2 record in 1971.\n\nFulmer served as linebacker coach and defensive coordinator for the Vols freshman team in 1973 before moving to Wichita State University the following season. He spent five years at Wichita State, where he coached the offensive line in 1974 and 1977–1978 and served as linebacker coach in 1975–1976. He followed those years with a one-season stint at Vanderbilt, serving as an assistant to Commodores head coach George MacIntyre.\n\nBeginning in 1980, Fulmer served 13 years as a Vols assistant coach, initially as the offensive line coach, and then as the offensive coordinator and offensive line coach. Linemen coached by Fulmer during this period include Bill Mayo, Raleigh McKenzie, Bruce Wilkerson, Harry Galbreath, Charles McRae, Antone Davis, and Tom Myslinski.\n\nJohnny Majors was the coach of the Volunteers going into the 1992 season. However, a couple of weeks before the first game, Majors underwent quintuple-bypass heart surgery. Fulmer took over the role as interim head coach with Heath Shuler as his quarterback. Fulmer helped lead the team to a 3–0 start with a 38–3 victory over Southwestern Louisiana, a 34–31 victory over #14 Georgia, and a 31–14 victory over #4 Florida. Majors returned for the Cincinnati game, a 40–0 victory, and the LSU game, a 20–0 victory. However, the Vols dropped their next three games, a 25–24 loss to Arkansas, a 17–10 loss to #4 Alabama, and a 24–23 loss to South Carolina. Among growing dissent among the fanbase, Majors resigned due to his contract being bought out and Fulmer became the 20th head football coach in Tennessee history at the end of the season. The team recorded three wins, a 26–21 victory over Memphis, a 34–13 victory over Kentucky, a 29–25 victory over Vanderbilt to close out the regular season. The team recorded a 38–23 victory over #16 Boston College in the Hall of Fame Bowl to finish with a 9–3 record and a #12 ranking in the AP Poll.>\n\nGoing into his first full season as the Vols' head coach, Fulmer's Vols were ranked #10 going into the season opener against Louisiana Tech. On September 4, the Vols defeated the Bulldogs by a score of 50–0. The next week, the Vols defeated the #22 Georgia Bulldogs by a score of 38–6. The first setback came in the next game against #9 Florida, a 41–34 loss in The Swamp. The Vols won their next three games, a 42–20 victory over LSU, a 52–19 victory over Duke, and a 28–14 victory over Arkansas to move to a 5–1 record. The next game, against #3 Alabama, was a rare 17–17 tie. Fulmer led the team to victories in the next four games against South Carolina, #13 Louisville, Kentucky, and Vanderbilt to finish the regular season with a 9–1–1 record. In the Citrus Bowl against #13 Penn State, the Volunteers fell 31–13 to finish Heath Shuler's final season with a 9–2–1 record and #12 in the AP Poll.\n\nGoing into the 1994 season, Fulmer's Vols were the preseason #13 team. The season started off with a 25–23 loss to UCLA, the first season-opening loss of Fulmer's head coaching career. The Vols got their first win, a 41–23 win over the #23 Georgia Bulldogs, in the next game. The Vols faced a tough task in the next game against #1 Florida and fell 31–0. The Vols' struggles continued in the next game, a 24–21 loss to Mississippi State to fall to 1–3 and unranked for the first time with Fulmer at the helm. However, despite the loss, Fulmer had a young Peyton Manning as his quarterback due to injuries of previous starters Jerry Colquitt and Todd Helton. The Vols won their next two games, a 10–9 victory over #17 Washington State and a 38–21 victory over Arkansas to get to 3–3 on the season. A rough 17–13 loss to #10 Alabama followed before a four-game winning streak, which included a 52–0 victory over Kentucky and a 65–0 victory over Vanderbilt to close out the season brought the Vols to a 7–4 record and a bowl game. The Vols faced off against #17 Virginia Tech in the Gator Bowl and defeated them 45–23. The Vols finished 8–4 and #22 in the AP Poll despite their rough start to the season.\n\nThe Volunteers started the season with a #8 ranking, the highest to start a season under Fulmer to that point. The season started with back-to-back victories over East Carolina (27–7) and Georgia (30-27). The Vols suffered their first setback in a 62–37 defeat to #4 Florida. Fulmer lead the team to eight straight victories to close out the regular season. In the winning streak was Fulmer's first victory over Alabama, a 41–14 win in Birmingham, Alabama. With a 10–1 record, the Vols played #4 Ohio State in the Citrus Bowl and defeated the Buckeyes by a score of 20–14. The Vols finished with an 11–1 record and #3 in the final AP Poll for their best finish with Fulmer to that point.\n\nThe Vols started the 1996 season ranked #2 in the nation. Fulmer led the team to two victories over UNLV (62-3) and UCLA (35-20) to start the season. Similar to the previous season, the Vols first setback came to the #4 Florida Gators, this time by a score of 35–29. The Vols rolled off four straight victories, including another victory for Fulmer over #7 Alabama. The Vols faced Memphis and were shocked by the Tigers by a score of 21–17. To close out the regular season, the Vols ran the table to finish 9–2. They faced the Northwestern Wildcats in the Citrus Bowl and won 48–28 to finish 10–2 and #9 in the final AP Poll. Fulmer led the team to consecutive 10-win seasons for the first time since 1971–1972 under Bill Battle.\n\nFulmer's Vols started the 1997 season #5 in the nation and eventually finished in uncharted territory. With Peyton Manning, the Vols started with two victories over Texas Tech (52-17) and UCLA (30-24). Once again, the #3 Florida Gators defeated the Vols 33-20 for the first setback of the year. The Volunteers did recover from the defeat and won out in the regular season to finish with a 10–1 record. The Volunteers qualified for the SEC Championship and faced off against the Auburn Tigers and won 30–29 for their first conference championship since 1990. The Vols played against #2 Nebraska with a potential National Championship at stake. However, the Vols fell 42–17 and finished with an 11–2 record and #7 in the final AP Poll. Despite the disappointing ending, Fulmer had brought the Volunteers to and sustained national prominence and greater things were on the horizon.\n\nDue to the loss of Peyton Manning to the NFL, the Vols might not have been as respected going into the 1998 season. However, Fulmer had a new quarterback ready to go in Tee Martin. The season started with a close 34–33 victory over the Donovan McNabb-led Syracuse Orangemen. Two weeks later, after years of defeat, the Vols finally overcame the #2 Florida Gators in a 20–17 overtime victory. The following game was a 42–7 victory over Houston. On October 3, the Vols survived a close game with the Auburn Tigers by a score of 17–9. Against the #7 Georgia Bulldogs in the next game, the Vols won 22–3. Fulmer continued his winning streak over Alabama with a 35–18 victory. After two more wins against South Carolina and UAB, the top-ranked Vols faced off against #10 Arkansas. The Vols escaped with a 28–24 victory after recovering a late fumble by the Razorbacks to get the go-ahead score. The Vols closed out the regular season undefeated with wins over Kentucky and Vanderbilt. In the SEC Championship, the Vols defeated the #23 Mississippi State Bulldogs by a score of 24–14. The Vols made the BCS National Championship game and faced off against the #2 Florida State Seminoles in the 1999 Fiesta Bowl 23–16. Fulmer had led the Volunteers to their first National Championship since 1967. Fulmer's senior class of the 1998 team compiled a record of 45–5, losing only to Florida (three times), Nebraska, and Memphis. As a result of the 1998 season, Fulmer was named National Coach of the Year and SEC Coach of the Year.\n\nFresh off of the National Championship, Fulmer's Vols started the season as the #2 team in the country. After a 42–17 victory against the Wyoming Cowboys, the Vols dropped a game to the #4 Florida Gators by a score of 23–21. The Vols then won their next six games including another victory over #10 Alabama and a 38–14 victory over Notre Dame. On November 13, the Vols lost 28–24 to Arkansas before closing out the regular season with two wins to finish 9–2. In the Fiesta Bowl, the Vols lost 31–21 to #3 Nebraska. Fulmer's streak of 10-win seasons was snapped, but the Vols finished #9 in the nation going into 2000. Fulmer was honored with the State Farm Eddie Robinson Coach of Distinction Award in December 1999.\n\nThe 2000 season brought Fulmer and the Vols some struggles early on in the season. The season started off with a narrow victory 19–16 victory over #22 Southern Miss. After the game, the City of Knoxville proclaimed September 9, 2000 as \"Phillip Fulmer Day\" in honor of the coach. However, the Vols lost the next game 27–23 to #6 Florida. After a 70–3 victory over Louisiana–Monroe, the Vols dropped their next two games to LSU by a score of 38–31 and #19 Georgia by a score of 21–10 to drop to 2–3 and unranked for the first time in several years under Fulmer. The Vols recovered and won their next six games, which included a 20–10 victory over Alabama and a 17–14 victory over #17 South Carolina, to finish with an 8–3 record and qualified for a bowl game. In the Cotton Bowl against Kansas State, the Vols fell 35–21 and finished unranked for the first time under Fulmer.\n\nDespite the disappointing ending to the 2000 season, the Vols started the 2001 season ranked #8 in the nation. The Vols started the season off with two wins over Syracuse (33-9) and Arkansas (13-3). Due to the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the Florida game had to be moved to later in the season. The Vols faced off against #14 LSU without having played in three weeks. The Vols won 26–18 to move Fulmer to 3–0 on the season. The Vols suffered their first setback against Georgia in the next game, a 26–24 loss. The Vols followed the loss with a six-game winning streak to move to #5 in the nation and faced off with the #2 Florida Gators on December 1. The Vols won a close game against their rivals, 34–32, to go up against #21 LSU in the SEC Championship. The Vols controlled their own destiny in the National Championship race, but fell 31–20 to the Nick Saban-led Tigers. In the Citrus Bowl against #17 Michigan, the Vols won 45–17 to finish 11–2 and #4 in the country in the AP Poll. In 2001, Fulmer has named to the Tennessee Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nFulmer and the Vols had high expectations as a result of their #5 ranking to start the 2002 season. However, the season was inconsistent for the Vols. After two wins against Wyoming and Middle Tennessee State, the Vols dropped a game to the Florida Gators by a score of 30–13. After two victories over Rutgers and Arkansas, the Vols dropped two games to #6 Georgia and #19 Alabama. The unranked Vols finished out the season with a 3–1 stretch to make a bowl game against Maryland in the 2002 Peach Bowl. The Vols fell to the Terrapins by a score of 30–3 and finished with an 8–5 record.\n\nFulmer's Vols came into the 2003 season with a #14 ranking. The Vols started off the season with four straight victories to move to #8 in the country going into the Auburn game. The Vols fell to the Tigers 28–21 for their first setback. The Vols dropped the next game to #8 Georgia by a score of 41–14. The Vols won their next six games, including a 5OT 51–43 victory over Alabama to finish with a 10–2 record. In the 2004 Peach Bowl against Clemson, the Vols fell 27–14 to finish 10–3 and #15 in the final AP Poll.\n\nFulmer's Vols started the 2004 season #14 in the country. The Vols started off 3–0, including a 30–28 victory over the #11 Florida Gators in the last matchup with Gator head coach Ron Zook. The Vols lost the next game against the #8 Auburn Tigers by a score of 34–10 before winning four straight, including a 19–14 over #3 Georgia. On November 6, the Vols lost to Notre Dame by a score of 17–13 before winning out to finish 9–2. In a rematch with the #3 Auburn Tigers in the SEC Championship, the Vols fell 38–28. In the 2005 Cotton Bowl against #22 Texas A&M, Fulmer led the Vols to a 38–7 victory to finish 10–3 and 13th in the final AP Poll.\n\nIn 2005, Fulmer's pre-season #3 Volunteers had very high expectations. However, for the first time in his tenure, the Volunteers struggled mightily by the standards that were established. After a close 17–10 victory over UAB, the Vols fell to the #6 Florida by a score of 16–7. After a 30–27 victory over #3 LSU and a 27–10 victory over Ole Miss, the Vols lost four straight games to stand at 3–5. The Vols ended up 5–6, losing to in-state SEC rival Vanderbilt for the first time in his 14-year tenure. The losing season also kept Tennessee out of a bowl game for the first time since 1988, a streak of 16 years, which was the third-longest in the NCAA.\n\nDespite their abysmal finish to the 2005 season, Fulmer's Vols started the 2006 season ranked #23. The team started with two straight wins over #9 California and Air Force before dropping a game to #7 Florida Gators by score of 21–20. The Vols reeled off five straight wins before dropping two games to #13 LSU and #11 Arkansas. The Vols won their last two regular season games to finish 9–3 and face Penn State in the 2007 Outback Bowl. The Vols fell to the Nittany Lions by a score of 20–10 to finish 9–4 and #25 in the final poll.\n\nFulmer's Vols started the season ranked #15. The Vols dropped their opening game to the #12 California Golden Bears by a score of 45–31. After a 39–19 win over Southern Miss, the Vols dropped a game to #5 Florida Gators by a score of 59–20. They won their next three games, a 48-27 victory over Arkansas State, a 35–14 upset against #12 Georgia, and a 33-21 victory over Mississippi State. The next week, Tennessee suffered a setback in a 41–17 loss to Alabama. Tennessee went on a five-game winning streak to close out the season, which included a 27–24 victory over #15 South Carolina. The Vols finished with a 9–3 record, won the SEC East, and qualified for the SEC Championship. Against #5 LSU, the Vols fell 21–14. In the 2008 Outback Bowl against Wisconsin, the Vols won 21–17 to finish 10–4 and #12 in the final AP Poll.\n\nThe Vols started the 2008 season as #18 in the country. The team dropped their season opener to UCLA by a score of 27–24 in overtime and fell out of the rankings. In the next game, the Vols got their first victory of the a season, a 35–3 result against UAB. Tennessee dropped their next two games against #4 Florida by a score of 30–6 and #15 Auburn by a score of 14–12. After a narrow 13-9 victory over Northern Illinois, the Vols dropped a game by a score of 26-14 to #10 Georgia. The Vols recorded their first conference win in the next game against Mississippi State 34-3 before dropping a 29–9 result to #2 Alabama and a 27–6 result to South Carolina to fall to 3-6. After the 3–6 start, Fulmer came under increased scrutiny from Tennessee fans, leaving skepticism about how long he would remain Tennessee's head football coach despite having just received a contract extension after the 2007 season. Tennessee athletic director Mike Hamilton finally notified Fulmer of his dismissal on November 2, 2008. The next day, he agreed to step down as head coach following the season. That week, the Vols suffered a loss at the hands of Wyoming, a 26-point underdog. Fulmer completed his long tenure at the University of Tennessee with a 28–10 win over Kentucky on November 29, 2008.\n\nLane Kiffin was hired by Mike Hamilton to succeed Fulmer as the head coach of the Tennessee Volunteers.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki><br>\n<nowiki>^</nowiki>\n\nFulmer had a reputation as an ace recruiter, leading many analysts to praise him as one of the game's top head coach recruiters. Despite his decline over the last several years of his career, Fulmer's winning percentage was still among the top in the country for head coaches who had over ten years' experience.\n\nAfter winning the National Championship in 1998, a street near Neyland Stadium was renamed \"Phillip Fulmer Way\".\n\nFulmer never lost to the Kentucky Wildcats, winning 17 straight games.\n\nFulmer was a sports analyst on CBS's \"SEC Postgame Show\", as well as various programming on the CBS College Sports Network.\n\nFulmer was a strong candidate for the University of Louisville head coaching job. He stated in many interviews that he was interested in the job and had a phone interview with Louisville athletic director Tom Jurich. However, the job was eventually offered to Charlie Strong. After UConn head coach Randy Edsall left for Maryland in January 2011, sources confirmed that Fulmer expressed interest in the coaching vacancy at Connecticut. After Mike Hamilton stepped down as University of Tennessee athletic director, Fulmer was frequently brought up by Tennessee fans as a potential replacement, but said that he did not consider himself a likely candidate.\n\nFulmer appeared as himself in the 2009 biographical sports drama film \"The Blind Side\".\n\nOn May 15, 2012, Fulmer was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.\n\nFulmer served as a consultant and special assistant to athletic director Richard Sander at East Tennessee State University, which relaunched a football program it had shut down for financial reasons in 2003.\n\nFulmer became a founding partner at BPV Capital Management in Knoxville. He serves as part of the business development team.\n\nOn June 20, 2017, it was announced that Fulmer will serve as a special advisor to the University of Tennessee president.\n\nOn December 1, 2017, following the suspension of John Currie, the previous athletic director at the University of Tennessee, Fulmer was named the new Athletic Director for the university. In April 2018, Fulmer signed a four-year contract extension. In 2018, Fulmer was able to achieve getting the University of Tennessee to #35 in the NACDA Directors' Cup. In 2019, he helped improve Tennessee's standing to #25, their best finish since 2011.\n\nIn 2018, Fulmer was named to the 2018 SEC Legends Class, honored at that year's SEC Championship game.\n\nIn 2019, Fulmer was named East Tennessean of the Year by the East Tennessee Historical Society.\n\nIn December 2019, Fulmer was named to ESPN's list of their top 150 college football coaches to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the sport. He was named #94.\n\nFulmer and his wife Vicky have three daughters: Courtney, Brittany, and Allison. He also has a son, Phillip Fulmer, Jr. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259087", "title": "Chicago Youth Symphony Orchestras", "text": "Chicago Youth Symphony Orchestras\n\nChicago Youth Symphony Orchestras (CYSO) is an orchestral Music Education organization in Chicago, Illinois that was founded in 1946 to provide music education and instrumental training of the highest quality to Chicago area youth.\n\nChicago Youth Symphony Orchestras (CYSO) is located in the Chicago Fine Arts Building on S. Michigan Avenue. CYSO serves more than 600 students ages 6–18 in on-site ensembles including four full orchestras, three string orchestras, jazz orchestra, multiple steel orchestras, and enrichment opportunities including chamber music, masterclasses, and music composition.\n\nCYSO Community Partnership Programs support instrumental music training and music access, reaching 8,500 young people during the 2017-2018 season. The organization works with students in underserved neighborhoods through the Ambassador Program, which brings Chamber Music ensembles to neighborhood schools to perform interactive concerts; after-school ensembles; free community and education concerts; and partners with institutions including Chicago Public Schools (CPS) and The People's Music School.\n\nOn-site Ensembles:\n\nEnrichment Programs\n\nCYSO was founded in 1946 by a group of students who, energized by a summer music camp, wanted to explore music closer to home throughout the school year. They first met on Saturday mornings at the Wurlitzer Music Store on South Wabash Avenue, and in November 1947, 100 young musicians held the first performance at Chicago's Orchestra Hall, featuring a program of Frescobaldi, Beethoven, MacDowell, and Kodaly. In 1960, CYSO moved to the historic Fine Arts Building, a center for arts and culture since 1898.\n\n\n2017-2018 Season:\n\nCYSO's various ensembles perform at places including Symphony Center's Orchestra Hall, the Chicago Cultural Center, the South Shore Cultural Center, University of Chicago's Reva and David Logan Center for the Arts, The Studebaker Theater located in the Fine Arts Building Chicago, Chicago's Grant Park, and the Ravinia Festival. CYSO's Symphony Orchestra also performs regularly at Millennium Park's Jay Pritzker Pavilion, appearing in the past at the Grant Park Music Festival Independence Day Salute and with Blue Man Group.\n\nDuring the 2009 South American Tour to Argentina and Uruguay, the CYSO Symphony Orchestra performed at Teatro Coliseo Podesta in La Plata, La Facultad de Derecho in Buenos Aires, Teatro El Circulo in Rosario, and Teatro Solis in Montevideo. On the 2012 Tour of Spain, students performed in Madrid, in Cuenca in a joint concert with the Joven Orquesta de la Mancha, at Valencia's Palau de la Música Catalana, and Barcelona's Conservatori Superior de Música del Liceu. During the 2014 Tour of China, CYSO's Symphony Orchestra students performed in Beijin at the National Centre for the Performing Arts (China), Xi'an Concert Hall, in Hangzhou at the Opera Hall of the Hangzhou Grand Theater, and at the Shanghai Oriental Art Center. On the most recent tour of Central Europe in 2017, CYSO performed at Belgrade's Kolarac Hall, Budapest's Béla Bartók National Concert Hall, at the Jihlava Mahler Festival at the Church of the Holy Cross, and in a sold-out joint concert with the Symphony Orchestra of the Music High Schools of Prague at Dvorak Hall of the Rudolfinum\n"}
{"id": "2259090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259090", "title": "Spyderco", "text": "Spyderco\n\nSpyderco is an American cutlery company based in Golden, Colorado, U.S.A., producing knives and knife sharpeners. Spyderco pioneered many features that are now common in folding knives, including the pocket clip, serrations, and the opening hole. Spyderco has collaborated with 30 custom knife makers, athletes, and self-defense instructors for designs and innovated the usage of 20 different blade materials.\n\nSpyderco was founded by Sal Glesser. The name Spyderco was coined after Glesser noticed that many high performance sports cars had 'Spyder' in the name; which inspired the name Spyderco to signify high performance cutting tools. The first product Spyderco produced was the Portable Hand in 1976, this \"spider-shaped device\", was a series of angles, ball joints and alligator clips that helped people such as jewelers and hobbyists to work with small parts. Spyderco's founder, Sal Glesser, and his wife Gail, converted an old bread delivery truck into a motor-home and traveled to shows. As they became more successful, they graduated from the bread truck to a truck and trailer. They settled in Golden in November 1978. The firm began producing knife sharpeners in 1978 and produced their first folding knife, the C01 Worker, in 1981; this was the first to feature a round hole in the blade designed for fast, one-handed and ambidextrous opening, which is now the company's trademark. Additionally, the company claims that this was the first knife to feature a pocket clip on the right side of the handle.\n\nSal Glesser, the company's founder, published a history of serrations on the Spyderco online forums detailing how the Spyderco company started producing serrated knives. \n\n\"I thought that since some of my friends like Mike Blue and Ugaarguy brought up the question, I thought to try to provide some explanation and history.\n\nSome of you know that Gail and I were \"Pitchmen\". Standing on a box, microphone next to our mouth, demonstrating products at Shows and Fairs to a group of people being entertained and educated about a product. Eric says he was raised under a \"Pitch Joint\", his education on knives began when he was in diapers. We demo'd knives like the \"Ginsu\" and our K04SBL \"Utility\" as well as Sharpeners. For a couple of months we demo'd and sold \"Scrape-amatic\" Sharpeners. We weren't pleased with the sharpeners so we decided to develop our own. That's how the Sharpmaker came to be.\n\nAt the time, we were homeless, living on the road, first in a converted \"Bread Delivery Truck\" and eventually in a 31' Air conditioned trailer. It wasn't an expensive trailer, but for us, it was heaven. We developed, patented and built our Sharpmaker in the living room of this trailer.\n\nWe knew that there were some advantages to serrations, so we really studied \"teeth\" when developing our sharpener. The multiple sized serration we traced back to Germany in the '40's. Another \"Pitchman\" named Ronny Popeil ( Ronco - a great inventor, pitchman and producer) developed a kitchen knife based on that concept called the \"Feather touch\" knife. It was a really effective Kitchen cutting tool, though inexpensively made. Most of the knife Pitchmen bought and sold his knife. It had one large serration and one small serration.\n\nThen another Pitchmen named John Spyker (another really good Pitchman) designed a larger knife with one large serration and two small serrations called the \"Sharpcut carving and serving knife\". Made in Ohio, John had \"broken the Ex\" (exclusive) of Popeil's knife, sold them for less money and the Pitchmen eventually gravitated to the new \"Pitch Knife\".\n\nThen another company designed and created a similar and larger model promoted on Television called the \"Ginsu\" knife. All based on the multiple sized serrated edge. Gail and I with microscopes studied serrations to determine why they worked better and how to sharpen them. This was in the late 70's. Once we felt we had it nailed down, we produced the \"201 Sharpmaker\". We then produced our own kitchen knife, which we still make today. It is our serrated \"Utility\" knife and general kitchen performance is exceptional. In 1981, we produced the first \"Clipit\" folding pocket knife and in 1982, we produce ed the \"Mariner\" serrated pocket knife. Early models were thicker at the edge and it took us a while to get our maker to make the edge thinner and thinner.\n\nWe continue to study serrations and we're still refining them. In my opinion, a serrated Spyderco, sharpened a few times with a Sharpmaker is the best performing serrated edge on the market. This was and is a 40 year study and I'm sure I left out some history. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them.\n\nsal\" https://forum.spyderco.com/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=86288\n\nMost knives produced by Spyderco are folding knives of various designs, blade steels, handle materials, and locking mechanisms (including two patented proprietary locks); however, they have also produced fixed-blade knives for various purposes.\n\nThe firm's knives are made with a plain edge, a partially serrated edge, or a fully serrated \"Spyder Edge\" configuration. Their most common handle material is FRN (Fiberglass Reinforced Nylon) and G10, although they make knives with steel handles as well as some limited editions with handles from various other materials.\n\nA large part of the firm's knife production is outsourced to foreign contractors in countries such as Japan, Taiwan, Italy, and China. (though many of their flagship knives are made in the US) Knives made with CPM S30V steel were previously all made in Golden, Colorado; however, Spyderco began shipping CPM-S30V to Taiwan to have their highest end knives produced there using this steel.\n\nSpyderco knives are popular with many markets including private citizens, fire and rescue personnel and law enforcement officers.\n\nFor his many influences in tactical knife design (most notably the pocket clip, serrations, and opening hole) and many collaborations with custom knife makers, Spyderco's President, Sal Glesser, was inducted into the \"Blade\" magazine Cutlery Hall of Fame at the 2000 Blade Show in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nSpyderco has experimented with new blade steels over the years. In 1994, it was the first company to use powder metallurgy in a production knife (in the form of Crucible's S60V tool steel), and the first knife company to use H-1 steel in a folding knife.\n\nSpyderco's 2017 Steel Chart PDF.\n\nThe blade steel used by the company over the years include:\n\n154CM an American stainless cutlery steel\n\n52100, a ball bearing steel used in the first run of the Mule project.\n\n8Cr13MoV, a Chinese stainless steel tempered at the RC56 to RC58 range and used in the Tenacious, Persistence, Ambitious, Resilience, Grasshopper, Kiwi3 and Byrd lines of knives. Often compared to AUS-8, but with slightly more carbon.\n\n9Cr18Mo, a Chinese stainless steel used mostly in high-end barbering scissors and surgical tools.\n\n440C, a stainless steel known for corrosion resistance and ease of sharpening.\n\nAogami Super Blue (青紙スーパー), a Japanese high-end steel made by Hitachi. The \"Blue\" refers not to the color of the steel itself, but the color of the paper in which the raw steel comes wrapped.\n\nATS-55, a performance stainless steel similar to ATS-34 with the molybdenum reduced, used only by Spyderco for knife steels until the early 2000s.\n\nAUS-6, similar in quality to 440a, used as a \"budget\" steel in early Spyderco models.\n\nAUS-8, a frequently used Japanese steel, which is known for taking a very fine edge, due to the inclusion of vanadium. Sharpens easily, and has moderate edge holding and corrosion resistance.\n\nAUS-10, a Japanese stainless steel series made by Aichi with the same carbon content as 440C but with slightly less chromium.\n\nBG-42, a high performance stainless steel formulated for ball bearings, similar to ATS-34 (same composition, but with added vanadium), which has similar properties.\n\nCPM S30V steel an American powder-metallurgy, high-carbide steel developed for the cutlery market.\n\nCPM-M4 9aka AISI M4), usually tempered to 62-65 HRC, a high-speed steel with combination of high carbon, molybdenum, vanadium, and tungsten for excellent wear resistance and toughness; a powder-metallurgical, non-stainless steel.\n\nCPM-S60V, (a.k.a. 440V, a.k.a. CPMT440V), a modern American super-steel that is wear resistant, but difficult to sharpen. Unfortunately the low level of toughness means that it can only be hardened to around 56 RC, causing the edge-holding performance to be diminished.\n\nCPM-S90V (a.k.a. 420V), similar to Crucible's S60V but designed to be more wear resistant with a very high carbide volume and high vanadium content. Appreciated for extreme edge-holding. S90V was featured in a sprint run of Spyderco's Military in 2004. Since then it has been used in several sprint runs in knives like the Manix 2 and Paramilitary 2. While S90V holds an edge significantly better than S30V, both are usually hardened to about 59–61 RC.\n\nCTS-20CP, Carpenter Technology's version of S90V, with slightly reduced chromium. Features incredible wear-resistance and edge-holding, hardened to about 60 RC.\n\nCTS-BD1, Carpenter's versions of Gin-1 with improved chemistry. Originally featured in a Mule Team fixed blade.\n\nCTS-XHP, made by Carpenter Technology. Often referred to as a stainless version of D2.\n\nD2, a high performance tool steel that features outstanding wear resistance. Spyderco uses Crucible's version of D2, which is a powder metallurgy version. CPM-D2 is found in a sprint run version of the Military model.\n\nG2, a.k.a. GIN-1 (銀紙１号), a Hitachi-made low cost stainless steel comparable to, but softer than, AUS-8. Generally hardened in the mid to high RC 50s. A tough, corrosion-resistant steel.\n\nH-1, a steel which is ideal for marine applications, because it substitutes nitrogen for carbon and thus is completely rust-proof in any normal environment such as salt water exposure, though can still oxidize if exposed to extreme heat and chemical attack. It grinds, scratches and has edge retention similar to the low carbide steels such as AUS-6. It is a precipitation hardening steel, which means it hardens by the mechanical process of grinding the steel, rather than by heat treating.\n\nMBS-26, a Japanese [stainless] steel, very fine grained with high corrosion resistance used in the Catcherman and in most kitchen knives by Spyderco.\n\nN690CO, an Austrian stainless steel similar to VG-10. Currently found in the Squeak and previously used in Spydercos manufactured by Fox Cutlery.\n\nVG-10 (V金10号), a Japanese steel developed for the horticulture industry by Takefu, often hardened around the RC60 range. Reported to have better corrosion resistance but slightly less edge retention than S30V. Appreciated for taking a fine edge, and being easy to sharpen, while still holding an edge well. Used in most of the firm's Japanese-made knives.\n\nZDP-189, a premium Japanese powdered super-steel made by Hitachi, hardened to RC 62–67, with very high carbide volume. Has excellent edge-holding ability, although it trails behind S90V and S110V in that regard.\n\nThrough the years, Spyderco has collaborated with numerous custom knife makers in the design of various models.\n\nSpyderco often produces limited edition models, referred to as sprint runs. These limited runs are generally versions of discontinued models with different blade and handle materials, though some are completely new models, such as the Kopa; a \"dress knife\" with several variants, each with a different handle material such as micarta, evrina, and tiger coral.\n\nSpyderco designs and produces knives under the Byrd brand. These knives use high quality materials and are manufactured in China, allowing much lower prices while retaining most of Spyderco's quality. To differentiate the brands, Byrd knives have a \"comet\" shaped opening hole in the blade, rather than the trademark round hole found on Spyderco models.\n\nTo date, Byrd knives have featured 8Cr13MoV as their blade steel except for the Byrd Catbyrd titanium which uses 9Cr18Mo steel. The brand's early knives were marked 440C, but tests found that the steel was something entirely different from American 440C. This steel was closer to AUS-8 than American 440C, and also went by the name 8Cr13MoV.\n\nThe first Byrd models, the Cara Cara, Meadowlark, Flight, Pelican, and Crossbill, initially featured stainless steel handles. Newer Byrds have featured aluminum, fiberglass reinforced nylon (FRN), and G10 handles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259113", "title": "Danny Sandoval", "text": "Danny Sandoval\n\nDanny E. Sandoval (born April 7, 1979) is a Venezuelan former infielder in Major League Baseball. Listed at 5' 11\", 190 lb., he was a switch-hitter and threw right-handed.\n\nSandoval spent seven seasons in the Minor Leagues with the Chicago White Sox and Colorado Rockies organizations before signing with the Philadelphia Phillies in November 2013. He started 2005 at Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons and was promoted to replace Geoff Geary after the All-Star Game. \n\nAt time of the call, Sandoval ranked second in the International League with a .349 batting average, while hitting .423 (55-for-130) with 11 doubles, three home runs, 16 RBI and 23 runs in his last 31 games. Along with Bobby Abreu, Ugueth Urbina, Tomás Pérez, and Endy Chávez, Sandoval became the fifth Venezuelan player on the Phillies roster.\n\nSandoval appeared in three games with the Phillies and went 0-for-2 with a run scored. On July 23, he was optioned back to Scranton/Wilkes-Barre in order to bring up a right-handed reliever.\n\nThe fact that Sandoval was able play several infield positions was a definite plus. He then fought for a spot on the Phillies roster during the 2006 spring training, but was demoted after the team kept both Alex Gonzalez and Abraham Núñez.\n\nIn , Sandoval played in the Cleveland Indians and Toronto Blue Jays minor league systems. He became a free agent at the end of the season, and then signed with the York Revolution of the Atlantic League. In June 2009, the Colorado Rockies purchased his contract from the York Revolution.\n\nAfter that, Sandoval was acquired by the BBC Orioles Grosseto of the Italian Baseball League for the 2010 season.\n\nIn between, Sandoval played winter ball with the Águilas del Zulia, Pastora de Los Llanos and Tiburones de La Guaira clubs of the Venezuelan League in a span of 11 seasons from 1998–2008.\n\n\n, or CBS SportsLine, or Phily Baseball News Report, or Pelota Binaria\n"}
{"id": "2259123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259123", "title": "Isaac Snowman", "text": "Isaac Snowman\n\nIsaac Snowman (1873 – 11 February 1947) was an Anglo-Jewish artist who made Jewish cultural themes his subject.\n\nHe was educated at the City of London School. In 1890 he entered the Royal Academy School, where he gained a free medal, and afterward a scholarship in the Institution of British Artists. He showed his interest in Jewish matters by his drawings \"A Difficult Passage in the Talmud\" and \"The Blessing of Sabbath Lights,\" as well as by his \"Early Morning Prayer in the Synagogue.\"\n\nHis older brother Jacob Snowman was a London medical doctor and prominent mohel, who circumcised Charles, Prince of Wales and possibly other members of the British Royal Family. His younger brother was Emanuel Snowman, the jeweller, politician and community leader.\n\nIn that year, 1897, he formed a group of English Jews known as the Maccabaeans, including Israel Zangwill and Herbert Bentwich, which undertook a pilgrimage to Palestine in the same year. \n\nOf his paintings, which were devoted mainly to portraits and domestic views, \"Children's Voices\" (1901) attracted a great deal of attention, and \"The Bride\" (1904) was very popular at the time. He also exhibited a study of \"Sardanapalus,\" as well as \"The Wailing-Place at Jerusalem\" and \"The Proclamation of Joseph as Ruler of Egypt.\"\n\nIsaac Snowman was married to Pearl Alexander at the North London Synagogue on 13 September 1898. According to the report in \"The Times\" the marriage was never a happy one for the wife owing to the husband's exaggerated views on the subject of \"wifely obedience.\" They lived in Algiers and Hampstead, and after their son died they adopted a daughter.\n\nIn August 1907, Isaac Snowman left for Africa to execute a commission for the King of Dahomey. Subsequently Pearl filed for divorce on grounds of statutory desertion and adultery, which was granted in June 1909. \n\nIsaac meantime continued to build his career. He was commissioned to paint portraits of King George V and Queen Mary, and it was said he was one of the Queen’s favourite artists. 21] Serious artworks enabled him to commission the first house on the now know Hocroft Estate to be built in Ranulf Road off Finchley Road. The house, now number 3, included dedicated artists work space: completed in about 1911, was for many years simply known as ‘The Studio’. Isaac sent five works to the R.A. from this 3 Ranulf Road. This area would have been well known to him, as it was just a few minutes walk from his old home in Fortune Green Road.\n\nIsaac Snowman moved to Jerusalem, where he had a studio over the Damascus Gate. In the riots that occurred in Jerusalem on 2 November 1921, Snowman encountered a mob and, while trying to make his way through with two friends, was stabbed. \n\nThe outbreak of the Second World War found Snowman on a visit to England and his failing health prevented him from returning to his home in Jerusalem.\n\nIsaac Snowman died peacefully on 11 February 1947, and his funeral was held the following day at Willesden Jewish Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259138", "title": "Jibal", "text": "Jibal\n\nJibāl () was the name given by the Arabs to a region and province located in western Iran, under the Umayyad and Abbasid Caliphates. \n\nIts name means \"the Mountains\", being the plural of \"jabal\" (\"mountain, hill\"), highlighting the region's mountainous nature in the Zagros. Between the 12th and 14th centuries, the name Jibal was progressively abandoned, and it came to be mistakenly referred to as \"ʿIrāq ʿAjamī\" (\"Persian Iraq\") to distinguish it from \"Arab Iraq\" in Mesopotamia. The region never had any precisely defined boundaries, but was held to be bounded by the Maranjab Desert in the east, by Fars and Khuzistan in the south, by Iraq in the south-west and west, by Adharbayjan in the north-west and by the Alborz Mountains in the north, making it roughly coterminous with the ancient country of Media. \n\nUnder the Abbasid Caliphate, Jibal formed a separate province, with its capital usually at Rayy, until the Abbasids lost control in the early 10th century. For most of the 9th century, however, the area was ruled by an autonomous local dynasty, the Dulafids. In the late 10th and early 11th century, the larger portion of Jibal became one of the Buyid emirates, while the south passed to the Kakuyids.\n\nThe Jibal and Azerbaijan were considered part of the Pahla region (Fahla). The name \"Pahla\" is related to \"pahlaviyat\" (poems) and \"Pahlavi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2259142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259142", "title": "Moses Soave", "text": "Moses Soave\n\nMoses Soave was an Italian Hebraist; born in Venice 28 March 1820; died there 27 November 1882. He supported himself as a private tutor in Venetian Jewish families, and collected a library containing many rare and valuable works. Two years before his death he gave up teaching, and devoted himself entirely to study. In addition to numerous articles which appeared in Italian Jewish periodicals he wrote biographies of Sara Copia Sullam, Amatus Lusitanus, Abraham de Balmes, Shabbethai Donnolo and Leon de Modena. He was, besides, the editor of Isacco Israelita's \"Guida dei Medici\" (\"Manhig ha-Rofe'im\"), translated from an old Hebrew manuscript (Venice, 1861); and wrote \"Dei Soncino, Celebri Tipografi Italiani nel Secoli XV.-XVI.\" (Venice, 1878).\n"}
{"id": "2259149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259149", "title": "NetBackup", "text": "NetBackup\n\nVeritas NetBackup (called Symantec NetBackup prior to Symantec's divestiture of Veritas) is an enterprise-level heterogeneous backup and recovery suite. It provides cross-platform backup functionality to a large variety of Windows, UNIX and Linux operating systems.\n\nNetBackup features a central \"master\" server which manages both \"media servers\" (containing the backup media) and clients. Core server platforms include Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, Tru64, Linux and Windows. Netbackup database backend is based in Sybase.\n\nNetBackup OpsCenter, which comes bundled with the NetBackup 7.0 distribution and replaces the NetBackup Operations Manager\n(NOM) component used in previous versions, can manage multiple NetBackup environments. NetBackup comes with support for many hardware devices like tape drives, tape libraries, disk units. It supports, among many other features, hot backups for major database products like Oracle; it can natively backup and restore the virtual machines of major virtualization products like VMware Infrastructure, can use Network Data Management Protocol (NDMP), and has tape vaulting. NetBackup also enables LAN-free and server-free backups in SAN fabric environments.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259151", "title": "The Hostage (play)", "text": "The Hostage (play)\n\nThe Hostage is a loose 1958 English version, with songs, adapted in a much longer text from a one-act Irish language play An Giall, by its author, Brendan Behan.\n\n\"The Hostage\" depicts the events leading up to the planned execution of an 18-year-old IRA member in a Belfast jail, accused of killing a Royal Ulster Constabulary policeman. Like the protagonist of \"The Quare Fellow\", the audience never sees him. The action of the play is set in a very odd house of ill-repute on Nelson Street, Dublin, owned by a former IRA commandant. The hostage of the title is Leslie Williams, a young and innocent Cockney British Army soldier taken hostage at the border with Northern Ireland and held in the brothel, brought among the vibrant but desperately unorthodox combination of prostitutes, revolutionaries and general low characters inhabiting the place.\n\nDuring the course of the play, a love story develops between Leslie and Teresa (played by Marie Rafferty) (a young girl, resident of the house). Both are orphans living foreign to the city they find themselves in, Teresa being from Ballymahon, County Longford. During this Teresa promises never to forget him.\n\nThe play ends with news of the hanging in Belfast and armed Gardaí raid the brothel. Leslie is killed in the ensuing gunfight, by Garda bullets. In the finale his corpse rises and sings \"The Bells of Hell Go Ting-a-ling-a-ling\".\n\nThe play has a large cast of over 13 characters with the Irish characters representing different facets of Irish nationalism. In their comic representations, they express Behan's dislike for different aspects of Nationalist, Catholic, Republican Ireland's vision of itself by the late 1950s.\n\nThe play switches suddenly between comedy, serious political commentary and tragedy throughout its two hours. This constant change of tone is heightened further by its regular changes from prose to song, with a number of popular nationalist ballads punctuating the narrative, when sung by different cast members. In this it mirrors the music hall tradition of Dublin both pre- and post-independence and anticipates the later (1960s) British satire on the First World War, the play \"Oh, What a Lovely War!\", created by Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop in 1963.\n\nMEN: Pat, Leslie (English Soldier) Mr. Mulleady, Monsewer, Rio Rita, PRINCESS GRACE, RUSSIAN, IRA OFFICER, IRA Feargus O`Connor (Volunteer). WOMEN: Meg, Teresa, Colette, Miss Gilchrist, Ropeen.\n\nThe principal themes of the play are innocence set against the political motives and ambitions of others; and the arbitrary power of authority. It examines the Anglo-Irish relationship, and the Irish themselves. Behan uses Brechtian techniques of directly addressing the audience, using song and dance to offset the tragedy of the situation.\n\nAn Giall was first performed at the Damer Theatre, Dublin, in June 1958. It was translated into English, by Behan, and had its London première at Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop at the Theatre Royal Stratford East in October of the same year. It subsequently transferred to the West End theatre and Broadway. Theatre Workshop used improvisational theatre to develop performance, and the text was revised during production, in a collaboration between Behan, Littlewood and the cast. The play was the West End début of actor Stephen Lewis.\n\n\"The Hostage\" was also played at the Four Courts, Dublin, and at The Embankment, Tallaght, Co. Dublin in 1969 directed by Don Foley and Eamon Draper. The role of Teresa was played by Marie Rafferty and Leslie was played by Jerry Woods. During the Embankment performances, the cast met Brendan Behan's mother and pictures were taken, one which was printed in the press. A review was also published in the Dublin press.\n\n\"The Hostage\", by Brendan Behan (1970) Methuen Drama \n"}
{"id": "2259153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259153", "title": "Tadjoura", "text": "Tadjoura\n\nTadjoura (; \"Tağūrah\"; ) is one of the oldest towns in Djibouti and the capital of the Tadjourah Region. The town evolved into an early Islamic center with the arrival of Muslims shortly after the Hijra. An important port for many centuries, it was ruled by a succession of polities, including the Ifat Sultanate, Adal Sultanate, the Ottoman Empire, France until Djibouti's independence in 1977. Lying on the Gulf of Tadjoura, it is home to a population of around 45,000 inhabitants. It is the third largest city in the country after Djibouti City and Ali Sabieh.\n\nTadjoura has an airstrip and is linked by ferry with Djibouti City. It is also known for its whitewashed buildings and nearby beaches, along with its mosques.\n\nThe Afar name \"Tagórri\" derives from the noun \"tágor\" or \"tógor\", (pl. \"tágar\" meaning \"outre à puiser\" (\"goatskin flask for drawing water\"). The name \"Tagórri\" is specifically derived from *\"tagór-li\", which means \"qui a des outre à puiser\" (\"that which has goatskin flasks to draw water\"), in effect meaning \"abondante en eau\" (\"abundant with water\").\n\nDuring antiquity Tadjoura was part of the city-states that in engaged in a lucrative trade network connecting the merchants with Phoenicia, Ptolemaic Egypt, Greece, Parthian Persia, Saba, Nabataea, and the Roman Empire.\n\nTaǵurrá appears in Muhammad al-Idrisi's map of 1154 on the coast of the Horn of Africa, north of the straits of Bab-el-Mandeb.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Tadjoura was ruled by the Adal Sultanate. It later formed a part of the French Somaliland protectorate in the first half of the 20th century. While visiting Tadjoura in 1842, Charles Johnston was told that there could be found \"stone walls of some extent, but completely in ruins,\" which \"could be seen on the road to the well\" between the town and a local well. Upon inspecting the site, Johnston \"by raking over the spot with the butt end of a spear very evident marks of the foundations of some extensive buildings were to be seen, but were still too indistinct to enable us to form any idea as to their character.\" Questions about these ruins only informed Johnston that they were the work of \"Turks\", or \"sometimes, as if correcting themselves, explaining that they meant the Feringees, for that the old possessors had not been Mahomedans but Christians.\"\n\nAccording to Mordechai Abir, Tadjoura originally was the seat of the Afar Ad-Ali Abli Sultanate as well as a port. This ruler, known as the \"Dardar\", \"claimed authority over all of the northern Adoimara Afar to the borders of Showa. However, although it was true that some sub-clans of the Ad-Ali and Abli Adoimara roamed as far as the borders of Yifat, even the staunchest supporters of the Sultan agreed that his actual authority did not stretch beyond Lake Assal, a short distance from Tadjoura.\"\n\nRichard Pankhurst notes that it differed from neighboring ports by handling almost entirely the trade of Shewa and Aussa, \"rather than that of Harar or the Ogaden.\" He quotes William Cornwallis Harris' description of an annual bazaar that started each September, when \"for two months the beach is piled with merchandise, and the suburbs are crowded with camels, mules and donkeys.\" Pankhurst also cites C.T. Beke that the trade with the inhabitants of the Afar Depression was handled entirely by women, \"who loaded the camels, bought and sold while the men kept away altogether 'to avoid bloodshed, this country being the scene of constant feuds among the different tribes.'\"\n\nWhile Abir observes that the port is not mentioned in all of the material about the Red Sea in the eighteenth or early nineteenth centuries, by the mid-19th century Tadjoura was thriving, \"while all the other so-called Afar sultanates along the coast were described ... as small decaying villages of no political or commercial importance.\" Tadjoura owed this success to possessing a major slave market; Pankhurst suggests that a rough estimate of 6,000 people a year left Ethiopia through Tadjoura and Zeila. The other important commodity sold in Tadjoura in the 19th century was ivory, brought by caravan from Aliyu Amba. Other goods exported included wheat, durra, honey, gold, ostrich feathers, senna, madder, and civetone. The value of trade in 1880-1 was estimated at the time as 29,656 rupees in exports and 18,513 rupees in imports.\n\nOnce Tadjoura came under French control, the slave trade was abolished by decree on 26 October 1889; however, Noel-Buxton reported that Tajoura still remained a center of the slave trade, but \"limited to small though frequent shipments.\" While during the 1880s the port served as a distribution point for rifles and ammunition to Shewa and Ethiopia (during this period, Arthur Rimbaud lived in the city), Tajoura's importance inevitably declined with the construction of the Franco-Ethiopian railway, which connected Djibouti with the hinterlands. The railway began to carry traffic on 22 July 1901, was extended to Dire Dawa 17 months later, and finally to Addis Ababa on 3 December 1929.\n\nThe port of Tadjoura was modernized in 2000, at a cost of US$1.64 million, allowing it to handle cargo vessels and their contents. The work was described as part of the government's effort to help the economic development of the districts of Tadjourah, Obock, Ali-Sabieh and Dikhil. The new port was formally opened by Djibouti president Ismail Omar Guelleh on 10 October.\n\nFeaturing an arid climate, the town sees on average 186 mm (7.31 in) of rainfall per year. Average temperatures range from in winter to in summer.\n\nFrom Djibouti City to Tadjoura, it takes a two and a half hour ferry ride. \n\nThe distance between Dijbouti City is 130 km.\n\nFor air transportation, Tajdoura is served by the Tadjoura Airport. It takes 30 minutes to travel from Dijbouti City to here.\n\nThe local port is the proposed terminus of a rebuilt standard gauge railway to Ethiopia.\n\nThe following is a list of Sultans of Tadjoura:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259155", "title": "Adam Greenberg (baseball)", "text": "Adam Greenberg (baseball)\n\nAdam Daniel Greenberg (born February 21, 1981) is an American former professional baseball player. He was an outfielder for the Chicago Cubs of Major League Baseball in 2005 and was best known for being hit in the head in his major league debut on the first pitch of his first plate appearance. He suffered a compound skull fracture from the pitch.\n\nGreenberg was one of two players in league history to be hit by a pitch in their only plate appearance without ever taking the field. However, a successful online petition drive in 2012 led to him getting signed by the Miami Marlins to a one-day contract. He had one at bat for the Marlins and struck out on three pitches. He agreed to a minor league contract with the Baltimore Orioles for 2013, but the option wasn't pursued.\n\nHe also played parts of five seasons with the Bridgeport Bluefish of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball near his hometown.\n\nGreenberg is the son of Wendy and Mark Greenberg. He is Jewish. He attended Guilford High School in Guilford, Connecticut and was a four-year letterman on Guilford's baseball, basketball, and soccer teams.\n\nGreenberg was baseball team captain as a junior and senior, four-time All-conference and all-area, and was the first player in Connecticut history to be named to four all-state teams.\n\nGreenberg also served as soccer team captain for 1998 and 1999, and was a striker and four-year starter. Greenberg was a three-time all-conference, all-area, and all-state selection. He was named all-New England and All-America in 1998, during which season he set the school season record with 17 assists. Greenberg was also the team and area most valuable player in 1998, and helped lead Guilford to the state soccer title in 1996. Greenberg holds the school record for career assists, with 33.\n\nGreenberg went to college at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. There, he played college baseball for the North Carolina Tar Heels in the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC). After the 2001 season, he played collegiate summer baseball with the Chatham A's of the Cape Cod Baseball League.\n\nAs a junior in 2002, he hit .337, stole 35 bases, scored 80 runs, homered 17 times, and again led the ACC with seven triples. He was named to the All-Conference Team. In 2002, he was named a \"Jewish Sports Review\" College Baseball First Team All-American.\n\nHe was selected by the Chicago Cubs in the ninth round of the 2002 Major League Baseball Draft.\n\nIn 2002, Greenberg hit .224 for the Lansing Lugnuts, and .384/.500/.575 in 21 games for the Daytona Cubs, swiping 15 bases in 17 tries.\n\nGreenberg spent the 2003 season with Daytona and put up a .299/.387/.410 line, stealing 26 bases in 35 attempts. In 2003, when Executive Editor of \"Baseball America\" Jim Callis was asked whether he thought Greenberg had a chance to be a starter, or was destined to be a backup, he responded: \"Very good character guy, often compared to John Cangelosi, more of a fourth or fifth outfielder.\"\n\nIn 2004, Greenberg hit .291 with a .381 OBP for Daytona, with 12 triples in 91 games (tying for the Florida State League lead), and moved up to the West Tenn Diamond Jaxx, where he put up a .274 batting average in 33 games. His season ended with the Iowa Cubs. Overall, his 14 triples tied him for third in the minor leagues.\nGreenberg began 2005 with West Tennessee, hitting .269 with a .386 on-base percentage with nine triples and 15 steals. He spent three months of the winter playing baseball in Venezuela, playing center field and leading off.\n\nOn July 7, 2005, Greenberg was called up to the Cubs' major league team from their West Tennessee Double-A affiliate. Pinch hitting in the ninth inning against the Florida Marlins, in a game on July 9, Greenberg was hit directly in the back of his head by a 92 mph fastball on the very first pitch from Valerio de los Santos. Greenberg suffered a concussion as a result of the beaning, and was immediately removed from the game and taken to a hospital. Carlos Zambrano was sent in to pinch-run for Greenberg, and eventually came around to score the Cubs' fifth run in an 8–2 victory.\n\nDe los Santos called to check on him and apologize. As a result of the injury, Greenberg couldn’t sleep upright, or even bend down to tie his shoes without losing his balance. He spent the rest of the 2005 season on the 15-day disabled list, and continued to suffer from positional vertigo, terrible headaches, nausea, double vision and dizziness.\n\nIn 2006, Greenberg hit .179 for the Diamond Jaxx and .118 for Iowa, and was released by the Chicago Cubs organization on June 2, 2006. Mike Downey of the Chicago Tribune, in an interview on 06/06/06, compared him to Moonlight Graham, who 100 years earlier had appeared in his only Major League game, only to not get an official at-bat, a story recounted in the film \"Field of Dreams\". Greenberg said in the interview, \"If that was the extent of my time as a baseball player, just that one very strange little moment, well, there's nothing more I can do about it.\"\n\nSigned by the Los Angeles Dodgers a few days later, Greenberg was assigned to the Jacksonville Suns, hitting .228, but had a .387 on-base percentage (his minor league average), as he had more walks than hits. He also hit well against lefties, with a .455 batting average, and hit .313 with runners on base. Following this stint in the Dodgers' farm system, Greenberg played for the Kansas City Royals organization. The Kansas City Royals agreed to terms with Greenberg on a minor-league contract on December 5, 2006.\n\nGreenberg played the 2007 season with the Royals' Double-A Wichita Wranglers in the Texas League. He batted .266 with a .373 on-base percentage (10th in the league), a league-leading 11 triples, 13 sacrifice hits (second in the league), 74 walks (tied for fourth in the league), and 23 stolen bases (fifth in the league) in 467 at bats, while leading the team with 73 runs scored.\n\nIn December 2007, the Royals signed Greenberg to a minor league contract for 2008. Unable to gain a spot in the Triple-A Omaha Royals outfield, Greenberg was granted free agency by Kansas City. After a brief stint with the Independent Bridgeport Bluefish near his hometown of Guilford, in which he batted .289 with a .450 on-base percentage, Greenberg signed a contract with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and was assigned to the Double-A Arkansas Travelers. There, he batted .271 with a .361 on-base percentage, and 16 steals in 262 at-bats.\n\nOn February 23, 2009, Greenberg signed a minor league contract with the Cincinnati Reds and was invited to minor league spring training.\n\nHe did not make the team in spring training, and played with the Independent League Bridgeport Bluefish. In an August 8, 2009, game, Jim Heuser's first pitch sailed behind Greenberg, who yelled out to Heuser. Greenberg was then drilled by a 2–2 pitch and went to charge the mound, but pulled back. Both benches cleared and there was a shove or two in the middle of the pack. He had 53 steals, the team's single season record.\n\nGreenberg finished the 2010 season with the Bluefish batting .258 in 105 games, with a team-high 75 walks.\n\nHe played outfield for the Bluefish again in 2011, his fourth year with the team. He faced De Los Santos, who was pitching for the Long Island Ducks, the same pitcher who had hit him in the head in his sole Major League at bat, and this time he singled. Greenberg said: It was a big deal. As much as I might try to pretend it wasn't. It's been five and a half years, and to face him again in a game that meant something and get the result, to get a hit off him, it was a special moment. ... You have the what-if stuff, 'what if he threw that first pitch for a strike five and a half years ago?' Greenberg later went hitless in his seven remaining at bats against De Los Santos throughout the course of the season. He led the Bluefish in several categories in the 2011 season, including triples, walks and stolen bases.\n\nIn 2012, a Chicago Cubs fan started an online petition to get Greenberg another Major League plate appearance. The campaign succeeded when the Miami Marlins offered Greenberg a one-day contract to play in their October 2, 2012, home game against the New York Mets. The contract was worth $2,623, which will be donated to an organization that researches brain trauma in athletes. Prior to the game, Marlins manager Ozzie Guillén considered making Greenberg the leadoff hitter and starting him in left field, but then decided he would try to have him bat in the middle of the game and was not sure if he would allow him to run the bases.\n\nGreenberg led off the bottom of the sixth inning as a pinch hitter. The Aerosmith song \"Dream On\" was played through the stadium's public address system as Greenberg walked to home plate and the crowd gave him a standing ovation. He was struck out by Mets knuckleballer and eventual Cy Young Award winner R.A. Dickey on three pitches and was removed from the lineup at the end of the inning. Greenberg said after the game, \"It was magical. The energy that was in the stadium was something that I have never experienced in my life, and I don't know if I'll ever experience that again.\" He also said he wanted to continue his Major League career and hoped he would be invited to a team's spring training in 2013, ideally the Marlins.\n\nTopps made a Greenberg baseball card for their 2013 series.\n\nGreenberg played for the Israeli national baseball team during the 2013 World Baseball Classic qualifier. Greenberg entered the first game of the tournament as a defensive replacement for left field, and walked during his sole at bat. During the second game, Greenberg once again entered as a defensive replacement in left field, and did not have an at bat. Greenberg did not appear in the third and final game.\n\nGreenberg officially announced his retirement from baseball in February 2014.\n\nIn 2014, he was inducted into the National Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nIn April, 2018, Greenberg announced his candidacy for Connecticut's 12th Senate district as a Republican. Ted Kennedy Jr., son of former U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy, announced that he would not run for another term. He lost to Democrat Christine Hunter Cohen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259156", "title": "WSMV-TV", "text": "WSMV-TV\n\nWSMV-TV, virtual channel 4 (VHF digital channel 10), is an NBC-affiliated television station licensed to Nashville, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by the Meredith Local Media subsidiary of Des Moines, Iowa-based Meredith Corporation. WSMV's studios and transmitter are located on Knob Road in West Nashville.\n\nWSMV first signed on the air as WSM-TV on September 30, 1950, at 1:10 p.m. It was Nashville's first television station and the second in Tennessee, behind fellow NBC affiliate WMCT (now WMC-TV, then also on channel 4) in Memphis. As a result of the WSM-TV sign-on, WMCT was forced to switch to channel 5 to avoid co-channel interference. WSM-TV was owned by WSM, Inc., a subsidiary of the locally based National Life and Accident Insurance Company, which also owned WSM radio (650 AM and 95.5 FM); the AM station is renowned for broadcasts of the country music show \"The Grand Ole Opry\", which has been heard on the station since 1925. The station took its call letters from its parent's slogan, \"We Shield Millions.\"\n\nThe television station has been an NBC affiliate from its sign-on, although it also carried some programming from CBS, DuMont, and ABC. Its secondary affiliation with CBS ended in 1953, when WSIX-TV (channel 8, now WKRN-TV on channel 2) signed on as a primary CBS affiliate. WSM-TV shared ABC programming with WSIX-TV for a year until WLAC-TV (channel 5, now WTVF) signed on in 1954 as the market's new primary CBS affiliate, leaving WSIX-TV to take the ABC affiliation. During the first few years of operation, AT&T would not run telephone lines for WSM-TV to receive network programming until there was another TV station in town. This problem was solved by the station running a private microwave relay transmission from fellow NBC affiliate WAVE-TV in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nWSM-TV's studios were originally located at 15th Avenue South and Compton Avenue in south Nashville, near the present Belmont University. In 1957, the station attempted to a build a larger tower in west Nashville, near Charlotte Avenue. During the construction process, the new tower's supporting wires failed. This caused the tower to collapse, which took the lives of several people. Afterward, WSM-TV purchased its present property on Knob Road (farther west than the previous site, and allowable since WMCT, Memphis had switched to Channel 5 from Channel 4) and built a tower there in a forested section away from potential damage to life and property.\n\nWSM-TV shared its broadcast facilities with noncommercial station WDCN-TV (channel 2, now WNPT on channel 8) beginning in 1962. In 1963, National Life and Accident Insurance built new studios for WSM-AM-FM-TV adjacent to the transmission tower on Knob Road. This left WDCN-TV as the sole occupant of the south Nashville building, where that station remained until 1976. In 1974, NL&AI reorganized itself as a holding company, NLT Corporation, with the WSM stations as a major subsidiary.\n\nBeginning in 1980, Houston-based insurer American General–which owned the WLAC stations until 1975–began purchasing blocks of NLT stock, eventually becoming NLT's largest shareholder and setting the stage for an outright takeover. However, American General was not interested in NLT's non-insurance businesses. It opted to sell off the broadcasting interests, the \"Grand Ole Opry\", the then-decrepit Ryman Auditorium, and Opryland USA. Gillett Broadcasting (operated by George N. Gillett Jr.) bought WSM-TV on November 3, 1981 and changed the station's callsign to WSMV on the same day (officially modified to WSMV-TV on July 15, 1982. The new callsign allowed channel 4 to continue trading on the well-known WSM calls while at the same time separating it from its former radio sisters. The change was brought on due to an FCC rule in place at that time forbidding TV and radio stations in the same city but with different owners from sharing the same call letters. However, channel 4 would later engage in news department cross promotions with WSM-AM-FM.\n\nGaylord Entertainment Company purchased the remainder of WSM, Inc. nearly two years later, in 1983. Soon afterward, the radio stations moved out of the Knob Road facility into new studios on the Opryland Hotel campus.\n\nWSMV-TV was sold on June 8, 1989, to Cook Inlet Television Partners, an Alaska-based company which was a subsidiary of Cook Inlet Region, Inc., an Alaska Native Regional Corporation.\n\nCook Inlet sold WSMV on January 5, 1995 to the Meredith Corporation. WSMV was not part of the affiliation deal between several Meredith stations and CBS (however, Meredith's only other NBC affiliate at the time, WNEM-TV in Bay City, Michigan, was) because the purchase was announced seven months after the affiliation deal had been finalized. As a result, WSMV became the only NBC affiliate in Meredith's present-day station group.\n\nIn early March 2009, it was announced that WSMV's master control operations would be hubbed at Meredith-owned sister station WGCL-TV in Atlanta. The new hub operation launched in summer 2009.\n\nOn September 8, 2015, Media General announced that it would acquire Meredith for $2.4 billion, with the combined group to be renamed Meredith Media General. Because Media General owned WKRN-TV, and the two stations rank among the four highest-rated stations in the Nashville market in total day viewership, the companies would have been required to sell either WSMV-TV or WKRN to comply with FCC ownership rules as well as recent changes to those rules regarding same-market television stations that restrict sharing agreements. On January 27, 2016, Nexstar Broadcasting Group announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire Media General. This resulted in the termination of the acquisition of Meredith by Media General.\n\nWSMV-DT2 is the Escape-affiliated second digital subchannel of WSMV-TV, broadcasting in widescreen standard definition on VHF channel 10.2 (or virtual channel 4.2 via PSIP).\n\nThe subchannel launched in the summer of 2006 as an affiliate of NBC-owned Spanish-language television network Telemundo since the Nashville market lacked a standalone Telemundo affiliate of its own. The second subchannel was branded as Telemundo Nashville. The subchannel went defunct on December 31, 2010, leaving Nashville with only one Spanish-language television station, WLLC-LP (Channel 42), the area’s Telefutura (now UniMás) outlet. (WLLC-LP has since added Univision as their primary affiliation on 42.1, with UniMás moving to 42.2.) The subchannel's spectrum would be used for purposes other than over-the-air broadcasting once the subchannel went dark.\n\nWSMV-DT2 relaunched on November 1, 2012 when it became the flagship station of the new re-incarnation of The Nashville Network. This move reflected the history of WSM radio, the former radio sister of WSMV, as it was one of the original founders of the original pay-TV-exclusive TNN when it launched in 1983. The network was renamed Heartland in October 2013. WSMV-DT2 continued to serve as the flagship station of Heartland, with some of the operations of the network still based in Nashville, while the rest of the operations were based in Chattanooga, Tennessee (where Heartland's owner, Luken Communications, has their headquarters).\n\nOn November 1, 2016, WSMV's contract with Luken Communications to carry Heartland expired, and Heartland was replaced by Escape, a television channel aimed towards a female audience; the channel also shows crime drama programs & movies aimed towards women. WSMV-DT2 has cleared all of Escape's programming since the switch occurred. Escape can also be seen on Charter Communications cable channel 180, and Comcast Xfinity cable channel 230. The name changed to Court TV Mystery on September 29, 2019.\n\nWSMV-DT3 is the Cozi TV-affiliated third digital subchannel of WSMV-TV, broadcasting in 16:9 widescreen standard definition on VHF channel 10.3 (or virtual channel 4.3 via PSIP).\n\nOn March 23, 2015, the Web site TVNewsCheck.com reported that eight stations owned by Meredith Corp. had reached an agreement to add the NBCUniversal-owned Cozi TV to their multicast channels. Included in the list of stations was WSMV. The Web site Rabbitears.info indicates that WSMV is broadcasting Cozi TV on the DT3 subchannel, which began broadcasting on May 28, 2015. \n\nWSMV-DT4 is the Court TV-affiliated fourth digital subchannel of WSMV-TV, broadcasting in 16:9 widescreen standard definition on VHF channel 10.4 (or virtual channel 4.4 via PSIP).\n\nOn May 9, 2019, WSMV signed on a fourth subchannel to carry the recently relaunched Court TV.\n\nWSMV-DT5 is the Circle-affiliated fifth digital subchannel of WSMV-TV, broadcasting in 16:9 widescreen standard definition on VHF channel 10.5 (or virtual channel 4.5 via PSIP).\n\nIn January 2020, WSMV signed on a fifth subchannel to carry the country music and lifestyle multicast network Circle, a joint venture of Gray Television and Opry Entertainment Group.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWSMV-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 4, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition VHF channel 10. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 4.\n\nIn addition to the NBC network schedule, syndicated programs on WSMV include \"Tamron Hall\", \"Rachael Ray\" and \"Access Hollywood\", among others.\n\nThe WSM stations' close ties to Nashville's country music business has meant that the Knob Road facility and/or its personnel was, from time to time, used for the recording of network and syndicated programs featuring Nashville-based performers. This was especially the case during the 1960s and 1970s. Most if not all of these shows were packaged by Show Biz, Inc., headquartered in Nashville and a subsidiary of Holiday Inn. Show Biz, Inc. produced \"The Porter Wagoner Show\", \"That Nashville Music\", \"The Bill Anderson Show\", \"Dolly!\" and several other programs seen throughout the U.S., especially on stations in the Southern and rural Midwestern U.S. The company dissolved in the late 1970s when its president, Jane Grams, became vice president and general manager of WTVC-TV in Chattanooga, Tennessee. However, the Show Biz programs were seen on some stations well into the early 1980s.\n\nSince 2006, channel 4 airs any \"Sunday Night Football\" games that involve the market's NFL team, the Tennessee Titans. The station also airs Nashville Predators games via NBC's broadcast contract with the NHL.\n\nFrom 1987 until March 2002, WSMV-TV was the Nashville home to syndicated Southeastern Conference football and men's basketball games originating from Jefferson Pilot Sports, but sharing some broadcasts with WXMT (channel 30, now MyNetworkTV affiliate WUXP). Those games moved to WUXP in 2002, and stayed with that station until 2009, when Raycom Sports lost the syndication rights to ESPN Plus. WUXP carried ESPN Plus-oriented SEC TV until 2014, when the SEC Network was launched.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, WSMV dropped the \"Tonight Show\" to air sitcom reruns such as \"Three's Company\", \"Barney Miller\", and \"Family Ties\". NBC was able to get the show on in Nashville on then-independent station (now Fox affiliate) WZTV (channel 17).\n\nIn early 2006, WSMV attracted some attention by becoming the largest NBC affiliate in terms of market size to refuse to carry the controversial NBC show \"The Book of Daniel\" on its schedule, after the premiere episode. This action, along with that of several smaller affiliates in the Midwest and South, as well as low ratings, prompted NBC to cancel the series after only three episodes.\n\nWSMV-TV broadcasts 40½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 6½ hours each weekday and four hours each on Saturdays and Sundays); in regards to the number of hours devoted to news programming, it is the highest local newscast output among all broadcast television stations in the Nashville market.\n\nBeginning in the mid-1970s, WSM-TV developed a strong news division that, in the 1980s, won numerous regional and national awards (Peabody Awards among them) for in-depth and investigative reporting. Mike Kettenring was the news director for much of that period. For most of the last two decades, WSMV has been a solid runner-up to WTVF in the Nashville ratings. Generally speaking, the station takes a softer approach to news than WTVF. The reverse was true in the 1980s, as WSMV earned awards for hard-hitting investigative stories, while WTVF took a more cautious approach. While WTVF usually leads the way in the city of Nashville itself, WSMV generally leads in Nashville's more conservative suburbs, as well as outlying rural parts of the market, many of whose residents recall readily the station's past association with WSM-AM. In recent years, however, ABC affiliate WKRN has steadily increased their ratings, particularly in the evening and late newscasts. In the November 2017 sweeps, WKRN passed WSMV as runner-up in the 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. newscasts, and tied WSMV for second place in the 10 p.m. newscast.\n\nOn March 5, 1973, the Vanderbilt Television News Archive recorded off the air of WSM-TV a special broadcast of \"Today\" aimed toward veterans of the Vietnam War returning home to the U.S. Two months later, on May 1, another broadcast of \"Today\" was recorded concerning the Watergate scandal. On both of these broadcasts, Pat Sajak, who had recently joined the WSM radio and TV staff, anchored the five-minute cut-in local newscasts. As it was not the general policy of the Archive to record special programs such as these or local Nashville programming, these probably represent the only known broadcasts of WSM-TV news before 1980 or so available for public viewing, prior to the widespread popularity of video cassette recorders in the late 1970s. The only other ones were local cut-ins to NBC coverage of national elections. Because of the equipment at the time, though, the broadcasts were recorded in black and white. The Archive, prior to the advent of satellite technology in the 1980s, taped all NBC News broadcasts from the airwaves of WSM(V).\n\nIn September 1973, WSM-TV decided to fill the 6:30–7 p.m. time slot opened up by the Prime Time Access Rule in 1971 by expanding its 6 p.m. newscast to one hour. This has proven so successful that to this day WSMV programs a newscast from 6 to 7 p.m. (although it is now broken up into two 30-minute segments). Upon the success of the expanded 6 p.m. newscast on channel 4 (and after years of low-rated syndicated offerings in the 6:30 slot), WTVF followed suit in 1989 by expanding its 6 p.m. newscast to one hour. WSMV and WTVF are among the few stations in the Central Time Zone to run newscasts at 6:30 (stations elsewhere have attempted it since the 1970s with varying degrees of success). WKRN is the only traditional network affiliate in the Nashville market to run only a half-hour of news at 6 p.m., with \"Wheel of Fortune\" (hosted by former WSM personality Pat Sajak) airing at 6:30.\n\nIn the early 1980s, WSMV introduced the Snowbird character, a scarf- and earmuff-wearing anthropomorphic penguin, as a brand for its weather-related school closing reports. Snowbird appears on-air in both animated and puppet form. Snowbird reports are shown on the station primarily in the winter, but the branding is also used for unexpected school closings caused by other natural and man-made events, not necessarily limited to snow and ice. Due to the character's popularity, Snowbird serves as a year-round mascot for the station, with a -tall costumed version making appearances at community events and station promotions. The station has also engaged in giving away Snowbird-themed apparel and tchotchkes as prizes during sweeps promotions. The Snowbird character has since been licensed to television stations in other markets, including WMC-TV in Memphis, WRCB in Chattanooga, WBOY-TV in Clarksburg, West Virginia, and WTOV-TV in Steubenville, Ohio, all NBC affiliates.\n\nDuring the May sweeps period that began on April 26, 2007, WSMV debuted its own news helicopter known as \"Air 4\", becoming the second station in Nashville to do so (WTVF's news helicopter \"Sky 5\" debuted a year earlier, in 2006). On September 15, 2008, beginning with the 5:00 p.m. newscast, WSMV became the second television station in Nashville (after WTVF) to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition.\n\nOn May 26, 2011, WSMV debuted an hour-long 4 p.m. newscast, serving as a replacement for \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", which ended its 25-year run the day before; this came on the heels of the expansion of other non-news local programming such as \"More at Midday\" and \"Better Nashville,\" indicating a decreased reliance on syndicated programming. On January 25, 2014, WSMV was the first station to expand its weekend morning newscast to 5:00 a.m. in the Nashville TV market.\n\nOn July 17, 2017, WSMV changed their newscast branding from \"Channel 4 News\" to \"News 4\". In January 2018, the station's news graphics and music were updated.\n\nThe station's former staff include Pat Sajak (announcer and weekend weatherman from 1974 to 1977), Robin Roberts (sports anchor and reporter from 1986 to 1988), John Tesh (news anchor from 1975 to 1976), John Seigenthaler Jr. (weekend anchor in the late 1980s) and Huell Howser (features reporter in the 1970s).\n\nRalph Emery, the longtime country music disc jockey on WSM radio for many years, hosted morning (and at times, afternoon) shows on channel 4 from the mid-1960s until 1993; for much of that time, \"The Ralph Emery Show\" was the highest-rated locally produced early morning shows on American television. Although the show included regular news briefs, its main focus was on general entertainment, including a heavy emphasis on live country music performed in studio. It featured acts by prominent country stars like Tex Ritter and current star Lorrie Morgan; also, the studio band consisted of top-notch Music Row session musicians. Emery would achieve widespread fame by hosting a national version of the show, entitled \"Nashville Now\", weeknights on The Nashville Network from 1983 to 1993. Upon Emery's retirement, WSMV briefly produced a local version of NBC's \"Today\" to serve as a lead-in to the national show. As \"Nashville Today\" failed to live up to expectations, WSMV finally programmed full-scale newscasts in early mornings, becoming the last of the three major Nashville stations to do so.\n\nLarry Munson, WSM-TV's sports director from 1956 to 1967 and later known as the play-by-play announcer for radio broadcasts of Georgia Bulldogs football (and, for a time, the NFL's Atlanta Falcons), created and hosted a long-running hunting and fishing show called \"The Rod & Gun Club\". Paul Eells replaced Munson as sports director in 1967. Like his predecessor, Eells served as the voice of the Vanderbilt Commodores football team during his time at WSM. Eells left to become the sports director at KATV in Little Rock, Arkansas in 1978. There, he also served as radio play-by-play announcer for the Arkansas Razorbacks for 28 years until his death in 2006. Munson died in 2011.\n\nDan Miller was co-anchor of the main evening newscasts for nearly 40 years, except from August 1986 to March 1995. During this period, Miller spent time in Los Angeles as a news anchor at KCBS-TV, and as sidekick to friend and former WSM-TV colleague Pat Sajak on his short-lived CBS late-night talk show \"The Pat Sajak Show\". Miller returned to WSMV in 1992 to host \"5 O'Clock with Dan Miller\", which ran from 1992 to 1993. Miller returned to anchoring duties for the evening newscasts in March 1995, and continued until his sudden death in 2009.\n\nIn 1974, Bill Hall joined the staff as a weather reporter. He briefly worked as a weekend news anchor in 1976 before moving into his role leading the weather team in 1977. His unique style and personality made him one of Middle Tennessee's most well known local television personalities. He punctuated his weather discussions with comments about gardening, cooking, and hunting and fishing. During his channel 4 career, Hall also hosted \"Land and Lakes,\" an outdoors show focusing on local hunting and fishing adventures. Hall retired in 2005, and later died on December 23, 2011.\n\nRudy Kalis began anchoring the morning newscasts in 2014 after working in the sports department for 40 years. He was the second sportscaster in Nashville to move to anchoring the morning news in the past year. He retired in November 2017, after 43 years with channel 4.\n\nLongtime anchor Demetria Kalodimos was let go after her contract expired at the end of 2017.\n\n\nFor its first 60 years on the air, WSMV was the default NBC affiliate for the Bowling Green media market in south-central Kentucky. It had a decades long monopoly in providing NBC programming for that area from its September 1950 inception until March 27, 2001, when WKNT (now WNKY channel 40) in Bowling Green was forced to dropped its Fox network affiliation due to violation of the terms in their affiliation agreement. Immediately after losing Fox, WNKY signed up with NBC. The station remains on Mediacom cable systems serving the Morgantown (Butler County) and Brownsville (Edmonson County) areas. Even after WNKY switched to NBC in 2001, the Glasgow Electric Plant Board did not drop WSMV and its associated subchannels from their lineup until late 2017 when WNKY claimed market exclusivity on that system in terms of NBC and CBS affiliates.\n\nMediacom also carries WSMV on its systems in Hart and Metcalfe Counties (including Munfordville and Edmonton, respectively) \n\nIn addition to the stations cable coverage in south central Kentucky, WSMV-TV, and the other two \"big three\" stations are also carried in Murray, Kentucky, in the Paducah, KY/Cape Girardeau, MO/Harrisburg, IL media market, via Murray Electric Systems. WK&T Cable also carries both WSMV and WTVF on its cable lineup for its customers in Calloway County customers under the Flite label. WSMV, along with WTVF, are also available to Mediacom’s customers in Caldwell and Crittenden Counties, respectively including the communities of Princeton and Marion, along with the town of Fredonia. All of those areas are also within the Paducah/Cape Girardeau market, which is the home market to fellow NBC affiliate WPSD-TV.\n\nWSMV was also previously available in some southern areas of the Evansville, Indiana media market, mainly including northwestern Kentucky towns such as Madisonville, Central City, Beaver Dam, and Owensboro and their corresponding counties. The Owensboro \"Messenger-Inquirer\" still lists WSMV on their TV listings page. Cable systems in those areas have since dropped the station making Evansville NBC affiliate WFIE the sole NBC affiliate on cable and over-the-air in those areas.\n\nWSMV, along with WMC-TV in Memphis, was historically carried on cable systems in the Jackson, Tennessee market on EPlus Broadband Cable by the Jackson Energy Authority. In November 2014, WSMV was dropped from that cable system when WNBJ-LD signed on as that area's own NBC affiliate. WNBJ replaced WSMV on JEA channel 4, with WMC-TV being left intact. In spite of the existence of WNBJ-LD in Jackson, WSMV remains on WK&T Telecom's cable system in Gibson County, in the northernmost area of the Jackson market. WSMV is also still available on cable in Carroll County as well.\n\nWSMV, along with WTVF and WKRN, are also available in Fayetteville, in Lincoln County, the only Middle Tennessee county that is actually in the Huntsville, Alabama media market. At sometime from 1957 until the 1980s, cable systems in northern Alabama, including Knology (now Wide Open West) and TelePrompTer (later Group W Cable, now Comcast), once carried all of Nashville's Big three stations, only to be dropped due to the increase of new cable channels launching during the 1980s and early 1990s. The Nashville stations were once seen as far south as Decatur.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259158", "title": "Dikhil", "text": "Dikhil\n\nDikhil () is a town in the western Dikhil Region of Djibouti. Lying east of Lake Abbe, It is situated about southwest of Djibouti City and 12 km (7 mi) north of the border with Ethiopia. It serves as the administrative centre of the Dikhil Region, and is home to the Afar, and Somali ethnic groups. The town develops gardens and fruit trees. The climate in the city is characterized by high to very high temperatures (average maximum daily temperatures by month, between 25-37 °C).\n\nIn 1986, the survey work sites were performed by R. Joussaume and researchers ISERST. The engravings oldest discovered to date are from the fourth or third millennium BC, the most famous is the site of Handoga Dikhil near where the ruins of a village squares subcircular dry stone delivered different objects. Including ceramic shards matching vases used brazier, or containers that can hold water, several choppers and microliths, blades, drills, trenchers basalt, rhyolite or obsidian. Also a pearl orange coralline, three glass paste, etc.. No trace of metal object. The place-name literally means \"Water hole or a well\" in the Afro-Asiatic Somali language. The settlement may have evolved in the latter half of the 1800s as a settlement established near a water-stop used by nomadic stock-herders on the way to the town of Zeila or Tadjoura. When Wilfred Thesiger visited Dikhil in May 1934, he was struck by \"a most impregnable fort here\" recently constructed by the French colonial authorities. \"The walls are twenty feet high, loop-holed, and topped with broken glass and a barbed-wire entanglement. There are two large observation towers.\" He believed that garrison stationed there provided its only economic support, for had \"the site any real value it would have been used before this by the natives. In December 1942, British invasion of French Somaliland about 1,000 British troops and Free French troops occupied the town. Following the conclusion of the 1977-1978 Ogaden War, Dikhil, along with Ali Sabieh, accommodated three quarters of the 8,000 Issas who had fled from Ethiopia. In 1979, the first President of independent Djibouti Hassan Gouled Aptidon in Dikhil the party founded the People's Rally for Progress, which has since dominated the politics of Djibouti.\n\nDikhil is connected to other environs by National Highway 1. Public buses go from Djibouti City to Dikhil. It takes three hour to get to Dikhil. A contracted bus ride from Djibouti city to Dikhil can charge between 750 Djiboutian franc.\nThis is a summer tourist destination for Djibouti thanks to its healthy climate and its location on the road to Lake Abbe. Dikhil is located 12 kilometers from the Ethiopian border and approximately 100 kilometers beyond Djibouti City. It is a population center for the South west area, a frontier town with about 54,000 people.\n\nAs of 2009, the population of Dikhil has been estimated to be 24,886. The town inhabitants belong to various mainly Afro-Asiatic-speaking ethnic groups, but the Issa and the Afar are predominant. \n\nAs an inland area, Dikhil's transportation system is largely road-based. For air transportation, the city is served by the Dikhil Airport.\n\nDikhil is one of Djibouti's main agricultural areas, with the local economy largely centered around farming. The town serves as a commercial transit point for goods between Djibouti City and Ethiopia. The city was visited by more than 6,000 tourists over the years. Ethiopian trucks and traders frequently pass through the town.\n\nDikhil is located at an altitude of 507 meters above sea level in low-shrouded mountains and hills and the surrounding mountains.\n\nDikhil has a Semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification: \"BSh\"). Characterized by hot and dry summers, and mild to cool winters where most of the precipitation is concentrated (spring and autumn being pleasantly warm transitional seasons). However, due to the town's altitude and inland location, its climate features are the humidity is very low, and temperatures usually fall on 28 °C (82 °F) at night, which makes summer particularly pleasant compared to coastal cities. The rainy season extends from July to October. From November to February, the town experiences the cool winter season. It heats up from June to October, though the nights are pleasant. This elevation gives the settlement and the surrounding area a milder climate than the Djibouti city coastal area, where the weather is typically hot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259161", "title": "Giorgi Arveladze", "text": "Giorgi Arveladze\n\nGiorgi Arveladze is the former Georgian politician, the former member of the Cabinet of Georgia and the Ex-Minister of Economy of Georgia. He was appointed on November 20, 2006, following the resignation of his precursor Irakli Okruashvili.\n\nArveladze previously served as head of Administration of the President of Georgia. He has also been a member of parliament, served as the secretary general of the ruling United National Movement party, headed Georgia's Parliamentary permanent Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and been responsible for prison reform within the Ministry of Justice (at a time when the ministry was run by Mikheil Saakashvili\n\nA longtime ally and deputy of president Mikhail Saakashvili, Arveladze was a central actor in the Rose Revolution of November 2003. He was put in charge of President Saakashvili's PR campaign of January 5 Georgian presidential election. The incoming Prime Minister of Georgia Lado Gurgenidze replaced Arveladze with Ekaterine Sharashidze on the position of the Minister for Economics of Georgia. Giorgi Arveladze has returned to private business.\n\nIn 2012, after dropping out of public life for a time, Arveladze moved to Ukraine with his wife, a native Ukrainian. Two years later he resurfaced once again when he emerged as a member of former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko's party \"Batkivschina\" after his release from prison. Timoshenko introduced his party members on the TV program \"Shuster LIVE\" on October 24, 2014, and named Arveladze as a representative of Georgia's reformist government.\n"}
{"id": "2259162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259162", "title": "Weddings Parties Anything", "text": "Weddings Parties Anything\n\nWeddings, Parties, Anything. were an Australian folk rock band formed in 1984 in Melbourne and continuing until 1999. Their name came from The Clash song (\"Revolution Rock\") and musicologist Billy Pinnell described their first album as the best Australian rock debut since Skyhooks' \"Living in the '70s\".\n\nThe band was led by Mick Thomas, the only continual member throughout the group's history. The single \"Father's Day\" was nominated for Single of the Year as well as winning Song of the Year at the 1993 ARIA awards. They were renowned for their energetic live performances and in particular their annual Christmas shows at the Central Club Hotel in Swan Street, Richmond held in the lead up to Christmas Eve every year from the late 1980s to 1998.\n\nThe band have reunited to play live on a number of occasions since their original break up. In November 2012 the band were inducted into the EG Hall of Fame, with Mick Thomas stating that the show would be the last time the band performs.\n\nMick Thomas grew up in Geelong, Victoria, Australia, where he played in bush bands in his youth. In 1981 (at age 21) he moved to Melbourne and after a couple of years in Melbourne's pub rock scene with bands like Where's Wolfgang and Trial, Thomas formed the first version of Weddings, Parties, Anything. in late 1984. Thomas' idea behind Weddings Parties Anything was to combine that punk rock inspiration with his original love for the honest storytelling in folk music. The band was essentially based on a song he'd written, \"\"Away, Away\"\".\n\nIn early 1985 the group's original piano accordion player Wendy Joseph was replaced by Mark Wallace. Michael Thomas had placed an ad looking for an accordion player, but didn't receive any responses. He then looked through the phone book for music schools and lists of their past students. After four or five schools he came up with Mark \"Wally\" Wallace, who'd been playing in his dad's Scottish Club band. Wallace was also listening to rock bands such as The Violent Femmes and like Thomas he was keen to put the accordion into a modern context. Another inclusion to the line-up was guitarist Dave Steel (Strange Tenants and Fire Down Below).\n\nWith original drummer David Adams, it was this four piece Weddings, Parties, Anything. which released a four track self-titled EP on the group's own Suffering Tram label. By the time they released their version of Tex Morton's 'Sergeant Small' as a single, the line-up comprised Michael Thomas, Mark Wallace, Dave Steel, bassist Janine Hall (formerly of the band The Saints) and drummer Marcus Schintler returning to work with Thomas, after the two met at an audition as the rhythm section for Melbourne band Little Murders two years earlier. Clarke, Schintler and Thomas worked on early versions of Away Away and The River is Wide, never performing live. 'Sergeant Small' was written in the 1930s about the Queensland Railway Police, and was banned soon after its release in Australia.\n\nIn 1987 Weddings, Parties, Anything. released its first album, \"Scorn of the Women\". They recorded it as another independent release, but on the strength of the group's ever growing live following, the group ended up being offered a recording contract and the album was released by Warners. Janine Hall left the band following the release of the album, and was replaced by Peter Lawler, adding a mandolin to the band's repertoire. It was that line-up that produced 1988's \"Roaring Days\". 1988 also saw Weddings Parties Anything winning its first ARIA award for 'Best New Talent', which was followed by another ARIA in 1989 for 'Best Indigenous Release' (\"Roaring Days\"). Dave Steel left the band following a tour of North America, citing exhaustion as the chief reason. He also noted in several interviews, at the time of his departure (1988), that he was feeling frustrated not getting a lot of his material on the Weddings Parties Anything albums. He released his debut solo album, through WEA in 1989. He was replaced by Richard Burgman (The Sunnyboys, The Saints) for the band's 1989 release, \"The Big Don't Argue\", and accompanying tours. In 1989 the band won a third ARIA for Best Indigenous Release \"(The Big Don't Argue\"), the second such award with the nomination causing the band to boycott the awards for the second year running. In 1990 Weddings Parties Anything parted company with Warners.\n\nThe band spent a great deal of time touring over the next three years, and managed to release only one EP in 1990, titled \"The Weddings Play Sports (and Falcons)\", featuring cover versions of the bands The Sports, and Jo Jo Zep & The Falcons. The band resurfaced, in 1992, with the release of \"Difficult Loves\" and yet another guitarist, Paul Thomas (Huxton Creepers), replacing the departing Richard Burgman. It was only when the album was finished that at a new distribution deal was signed, with RooArt. The single \"Father's Day\" reached No. 29 on the ARIA charts and was nominated for 'Single of the Year' as well as winning 'Song of the Year' at the 1993 ARIA awards). This line-up (Michael Thomas, Paul Thomas, Mark Wallace, Marcus Schintler, and Peter Lawler) remained intact for another two years, producing another album, \"King Tide\" in October 1993, charting at No. 45, with the single \"Monday's Experts\" reaching No. 45. Following the world tour to promote that release, Marcus Schintler left the band for family reasons (later joining Sydney surf band The Wetsuits with Jon Schofield, Clyde Bramley, Stephen \"Bones\" Martin and Katrina Amiss). Schintler went on to pursue a career in Government as Chief of Staff to the NSW Minister for Industrial Relations and Aboriginal Affairs. Peter Lawler left a year later to pursue a solo career (later to work with Jimmy Barnes and Tim Rogers among others).\n\nThomas reformed the band, and by 1996, the new Weddings, Parties, Anything. lineup was ready for its first release, the independently produced \"Donkey Serenade\". The band now included Jen Anderson (violins, mandolin)(formerly of the band, The Black Sorrows), Michael Barclay (drums)[Paul Kelly & The Messengers, Little Murders], Stephen O'Prey (bass) (formerly of The Badloves), as well as Michael Thomas, Paul Thomas and Mark Wallace. The music style shifted somewhat from folk to a more alternative country sound. The band decided at this time to concentrate on the Australian market, and did less touring outside of their native Australia.\n\nThe band finished 1997 with a new release and what was to be its final studio album, \"Riveresque\" on a new label (Mushroom/Sony), and by 1998, the band decided to take a break and work on several solo projects, including Michael Thomas's musical Over In The West.\n\nWeddings, Parties, Anything. initially gained a reputation as a hot new band through their constant touring in their early days, however they never really became a commercial success. They did however, form a fanatical supporter base, known as the \"Wedheads\" that continued to sustain the band for years. Upon the conclusion of the band several members continued on to other projects, with Mick Thomas embarking on a solo career and eventually settled with a new band 'The Sure Thing', which went through many different lineups. He also established Croxton Records with friend Nick Corr. Thomas has also written or co-written plays \"Over in the West\" and \"The Tank\" and is an accomplished music producer and engineer.\n\nJen Anderson has composed live music for the black and white silent movie \"Pandora's Box\" and to accompany \"The Sentimental Bloke\" for the Melbourne International Film Festival. Anderson has toured with Tiddas, Paul Kelly and Archie Roach, and she has also composed the soundtracks for Clara Law's film \"The Goddess of 1967\" and the TV mini-series \"Simone de Beauvoir's Babies\". She has performed on albums for Dave Graney, Hunters and Collectors, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, and has produced recordings by Ruby Hunter and the Waifs.\n\nWeddings, Parties, Anything. reformed for the Community Cup Football match on July 2005 and also performed at the Corner Hotel in Melbourne as a warm-up show two nights prior. The band reformed again later the next year for a one-off performance at the Queenscliff Music Festival in November 2006.\n\nIn January 2008, Weddings, Parties, Anything. announced March/April dates for the band's Ten Year Reunion Tour 2008, including an international performance at the Astoria (formally The Mean Fiddler) in London on 25 April (ANZAC Day). They sold out four consecutive shows at Melbourne venue The Corner Hotel, adding a fifth to surpass the record previously held by the Hilltop Hoods from 2004.\n\nIn 2010, 2011 and 2012 the band played Grand Final Eve shows in Melbourne.\n\nOn 20 November 2012, the band were inducted into the EG Hall of Fame (Entertainment Guide – The Age). The band played at the event which was held at Billboard The Venue in Melbourne. Joined by original guitarist Dave Steel, they performed their first album ‘Scorn of the Women’ in its entirety. In the lead-up to the show, The Age newspaper reported that Mick Thomas had posted on his Facebook page stating that it would be the last time the band performs, using the show to say a heartfelt farewell to long-standing fans.\n\nOn 17 September 1997 the band performed on the RMITV show Under Melbourne Tonight.\n\nRenowned for their energetic live shows, Weddings, Parties, Anything. had a handful of live songs that were nearly always guaranteed to push the mosh pit into a frenzy, particularly \"A Tale They Won't Believe\", the story of Alexander Pearce, a cannibal in the convict days of Tasmania. Fans would traditionally have their coins ready to throw at the band as they sang the chorus of \"Ticket in Tatts\", while shielding their eyes. This was in reference to the lyrics concerning being \"ten cents short of a dollar\".\n\nThe legendary Christmas Shows were held at the Central Club Hotel in Swan Street, Richmond in the lead up to Christmas Eve every year from the late 1980s to 1998. Due to their increasing popularity and live reputation as a band, the number of concerts increased as the years progressed, culminating with 7 nights in a row for the last year in 1998. In the liner notes for the CD \"They Were Better Live\" – a live recording of the concerts from the final year, the bands main songwriter and singer Mick Thomas stated:\n\nVarious songs from the last shows in 1998 (and one track from 3 January 1999 at the Belvoir Amphitheatre near Perth, Western Australia) were recorded and released as a double live album They Were Better Live, which was nominated for an ARIA award in 1999 for 'Best Blues & Roots Album'). The last performance was also the basis of a play, \"A Party in Fitzroy\", by Victorian playwright Ross Mueller.\n\nMusically, Weddings, Parties, Anything. were a combination of Australian indie and garage rock, sixties folk, punk and (later) country and are usually described as being a folk rock band. The audience for the band was close to a mainstream rock crowd, their folk credentials were further evidenced by Celtic influences and an affinity for traditional Australian songs (\"Streets of Forbes\", \"Sergeant Small\"), plus original songs by Thomas which drew upon a similar repository of colonial folklore (\"A Tale They Won’t Believe\"). Canadian commentator Jeremy Mouat, concluded that their \"music is largely concerned with the connections between past and present, whether it be the bond of memory or an identification with tradition\". They led what later became known as the alt-country scene in Melbourne. The band were often compared to The Pogues, though the two bands were actually contemporaries rather than one following the other; the two bands toured Australia together in the early '90s.\n\nCurrent\n\nFormer members\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259170", "title": "Todd Brunson", "text": "Todd Brunson\n\nTodd Alan Brunson (born August 7, 1969) is an American professional poker player and the son of poker player Doyle Brunson. Doyle Brunson did not teach Todd how to play; it was not until he was studying law at Texas Tech University that he learned how to play on his own. Before his senior year, he dropped out of school to turn professional.\n\nMost of Brunson's years as a poker player have been spent playing cash games. He plays at the Bellagio in some of their biggest cash games. Brunson won a bracelet in Omaha High-Low at the 2005 World Series of Poker, making the Brunsons the first father-son combination to each win bracelets at the World Series. Todd Brunson also contributed to his father's book, \"Super System 2\", the 2005 sequel to Doyle Brunson's poker book Super/System, writing the Seven Card Stud High Low Eight or Better section.\n\nBrunson's nickname \"\"Darkhorse\"\" comes from a tournament he played early in his career, where he was reckoned to be a huge underdog, but outlasted the likes of poker legend Chip Reese.\n\nBrunson competed in the Poker Superstars 2 Grand Final against Johnny Chan.\n\nIn 2006, Brunson competed in the Poker Superstars 3 Grand Final against Antonio Esfandiari and defeated him by winning the first three matches in a best three out of five heads-up format. In the third round, he was down to 170,000 chips against 3,830,000 chips owned by Esfandiari and eventually won by getting more than five double ups. Brunson took home the $400,000 first prize\n\nIn 2006, Brunson competed in the Poker Superstars 2 quarter-finalists freeroll and took home the $500,000 first prize after defeating Ted Forrest in the final heads-up confrontation.\n\nBrunson won over $13.5 million in a two-day span in a heads-up, $50,000-$100,000 limit hold-em game, as chronicled in the 2005 book, \"The Professor, the Banker, and the Suicide King\".\n\nBrunson has also competed in the Ultimate Poker Challenge series. He has also appeared in the GSN series \"High Stakes Poker\".\n\nIn 2009, Brunson made a guest appearance on one of the final episodes of the series \"Stargate Atlantis\" (#519 \"Vegas\"), during a poker game set in Las Vegas.\n\nAs of January 2015, his total live tournament winnings exceed $4,000,000. His 47 cashes as the WSOP account for $1,507,822 of those winnings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259186", "title": "Lake Karum", "text": "Lake Karum\n\nLake Karum (also known as Lake Assale or Asale) is a salt lake in the Afar Region of Ethiopia. One of two salt lakes in the northern end of the Danakil Depression (the other one being Lake Afrera), it lies at relative to sea level. The volcano Erta Ale rises southwest of this lake.\n\nWerner Munzinger, who travelled through the Afar Depression in 1867, recorded that this lake was fed by four streams: the Didic, the Ala, the Rira Guddy, and the Ragali or Awra, which is the only permanent stream flowing into Lake Karum.\n\nNorth of Lake Karum is the former mining settlement of Dallol. The lake is extremely salty and is surrounded by a salt pan, which is still mined. The salt is transported by caravan to the rest of the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259195", "title": "Recognition of same-sex unions in China", "text": "Recognition of same-sex unions in China\n\nChina recognizes neither same-sex marriage nor civil unions. Since October 2017, China has granted same-sex couples various legal rights, including decisions about medical and personal care and property management, through a guardianship system. In addition, two rulings by the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal ensure that the same-sex partners of Hong Kong residents can receive spousal/dependent visas and spousal benefits.\n\nBeijing currently provides dependent residency status to the same-sex foreign partners of legal foreign residents. It is not clear whether this extends to the foreign partner of a local Chinese resident. \n\nIn 2013, beginning on 1 July, foreign same-sex partners (including married couples) of current residents became eligible for residency status in Beijing, under a \"dependent resident status\". This law only applies to the municipality of Beijing. The key beneficiaries were expected to be white-collar foreign expats whose partners and spouses were able to accompany them and gain residency status in Beijing as a result of the law.\n\nIn 2014, Hong Kong immigration officer Angus Leung Chun-kwong married his same-sex partner, Scott Adams, in New Zealand. After the wedding, Leung attempted to update his marital status with the Civil Service Bureau, which states that officers' benefits can extend to their spouses. The Bureau, however, rejected Leung's attempts to extend these benefits to Adams, prompting a legal challenge. On 28 April 2017, the Hong Kong High Court ruled in Leung's favour. In his landmark ruling, Mr Justice Anderson Chow Ka-ming called the Bureau's policy \"indirect discrimination\" and rejected its claim that it had \"to act in line with the prevailing marriage law of Hong Kong\" and that extending benefits to Leung's spouse would \"undermine the integrity of the institution of marriage\". The ruling was supposed to take effect on 1 September 2017 and would have offered the same-sex partners of government employees who married overseas the same benefits as heterosexual couples. In May, however, the Hong Kong Government appealed the ruling. The Court of Appeal began examining the case in December 2017, and ruled against the couple on 1 June 2018. The Court of Appeal ruled that there is \"legitimate aim\" to protect opposite-sex marriage, arguing that only straight couples should enjoy the \"freedom of marriage\" and that same-sex couples should have no marital rights whatsoever. The Court also stated that Leung and Adams could not pay taxes as a couple. The couple appealed the decision to the Court of Final Appeal. The appeal was heard on 7 May 2019. On 6 June 2019, the Court of Final Appeal reversed the ruling of the Court of Appeal, holding that both the Civil Service Bureau and the Inland Revenue Department had unlawfully discriminated against the couple.\n\nIn another case, a Hong Kong court ruled in late September 2017 that the British same-sex partner of an expatriate worker has the right to live in the territory as a dependent. The ruling was labelled \"a big win\" by Raymond Chan Chi-chuen, Hong Kong's first openly gay lawmaker. The Hong Kong Government appealed the ruling in November 2017, and it was upheld in July 2018 by the Court of Final Appeal. The ruling became effective on 19 September 2018.\n\nIn March 2017, the National People's Congress amended Chinese law so that \"all adults of full capacity are given the liberty of appointing their own guardians by mutual agreement.\" Previously, only those over the age of 60 or with reduced mental capacity could nominate a legal guardian. Specifically, article 33 of the amended law, which went into effect on 1 October 2017, states:\n\nThe system, variously called \"legal guardianship\" or \"guardianship agreement\" (, pinyin: ), permits same-sex partners to make important decisions about medical and personal care, death and funeral, property management, and maintenance of rights and interests. In case one partner loses the ability to make crucial decisions (i.e. mental or physical illness or accident), his or her guardian may decide for them in their best interest. Their legal relationship can also include wealth and inheritance, or pension, depending on which additional legal documents the couple decides to sign, such as a will.\n\nChinese LGBT activists have welcomed the move, calling it an \"important, positive first step\". Peng Yazi, director of LGBT Rights Advocacy China, said after having signed guardianship papers with his partner that \"If anything happens to one of us, we know our basic rights are protected\". As of August 2019, guardianship agreements have been signed in Jiangsu (the first one was registered in Nanjing in late 2017), Hunan, Sichuan, Guangdong, Shanghai, Hubei and Beijing, among others. The practice is more common among older same-sex couples or couples who have been in a relationship for several years.\n\nAccording to a 2019 online opinion poll on Sina Weibo, which garnered over 5 million responses, 85% of respondents were in favour of the guardianship system, while 5% were opposed; the rest being undecided.\n\nIn June 2018, arguing that her rights to privacy and equality had been violated, amounting to a breach of the Hong Kong Basic Law and the Hong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance, a lesbian, known as \"MK\", filed a lawsuit against the Hong Kong Government for denying her the right to enter into a civil partnership (, pinyin: ) with her female partner. The High Court heard the case in a preliminary brief 30-minute hearing in August 2018. In April 2019, a judge rejected a bid by a Hong Kong Catholic diocese and other conservative groups to join the litigation. The diocese had argued that the outcome of the court case could lead to \"reverse discrimination\", though the court rejected this argument on the basis that it was founded on social views and not law. The case was heard on 28 May 2019. During the hearing, Stewart Wong, a government lawyer, defended the existing law, saying: \"Not all differences in treatment are unlawful. You are not supposed to treat unequal cases alike. To recognise an alternative form of same-sex relationships which we say is tantamount to [marriage] is to undermine the traditional institution of marriage and the family constituted by such a marriage\". Arguing that civil partnerships carry the same legal rights as a marriage, but generally do not include the ceremony and exchanges of wedding vows, this would make marriage and civil unions effectively identical \"in substance\", the government lawyer added.\n\nThe High Court dismissed the case in October 2019. The court held that the issue of same-sex unions \"is beyond the proper scope of the functions or powers of the court\". Nevertheless, it stated that \"that there is much to be said for the Government to undertake a comprehensive review on this matter.\"\n\nIn November 2018, openly gay legislator Raymond Chan Chi-chuen proposed a motion to study civil unions for same-sex couples, but this was voted down by 27 to 24.\n\nIn modern times, the earliest known advocate of same-sex unions was the 19th to 20th century utopian reformer, Kang Youwei, who advocated temporary marriage contracts, lasting up for a year. These contracts would be for same-sex couples, as well as for heterosexual couples. However, he did not believe that China was ready for such a historic step, and deferred this policy until the future 'Datong' Utopia.\n\nThe Chinese term tongqi (, pinyin: ) describes women who have married gay men. According to certain estimates from 2010, about 80% to 90% of Chinese gay men were married to women. These marriages are sometimes called \"sham marriages\" and are mostly attributed to the fact that there is big social pressure from family to heterosexually-marry and to found a family with someone of the opposite sex. In most of these cases, the women are unaware of their husbands' sexual orientation. In 2012, a professor at Sichuan University committed suicide after her husband came out as gay. The news prompted public awareness of the issue and reinforced the need for same-sex marriage. In some cases, lesbians and gay men deliberately choose to marry. LGBT groups are urging gay men not to give in to social pressure and enter these \"sham marriages\", as they are \"a tragedy for both the gay men and the women.\"\n\nIn December 2017, a \"South China Morning Post\" editorial expressed support for the legalisation of same-sex marriage in Hong Kong, calling on the Government to show a greater commitment to equality. In July 2018, Chief Executive of Hong Kong Carrie Lam said that the Hong Kong Government has currently no plans to legalise same-sex marriage. In March 2019, following development in Taiwan on same-sex marriage, Lam reiterated her position, saying that the issue was still \"controversial\". In May 2019, Equal Opportunities Commission chairman Ricky Chu Man-kin expressed preference for a step-by-step approach, starting with anti-discrimination initiatives, and said he would not push for a legislative timetable on same-sex marriage, but urged the community to \"change tack\" in favour of a pragmatic step-by-step approach to break the \"eternal stalemate\" in the city's fight for LGBT rights. He said \"instead of focusing on abstract and ideological debates that we can never easily come to an agreement on, let's make small progress in tackling discrimination at the workplace, schools and public facilities.\"\n\nFollowing the legalisation of same-sex marriage in Taiwan, Chinese LGBT activists estimated that China is at least a decade away from legalising same-sex marriages, with the current priorities on introducing anti-discrimination laws, letting LGBT groups raise awareness without fear, and banning conversion therapy.\n\nOn 13 January 2010, the \"China Daily\" published a front-page splash photo of a Chinese couple, Zeng Anquan, a divorced architect aged 45, and Pan Wenjie, a demobilized PLA soldier aged 27, being married at a gay bar in Chengdu. The marriage is understood as having no legal basis in the country, and the families of both men reacted negatively to the news of their marriage.\n\nOn 5 January 2016, a court in Changsha, southern Hunan Province, agreed to hear a lawsuit filed in December 2015 against the Bureau of Civil Affairs of Furong District. The lawsuit was filed by 26-year-old Sun Wenlin, who in June 2015 had been refused permission by the bureau to marry his 36-year-old partner, Hu Mingliang. On 13 April 2016, with hundreds of same-sex marriage supporters outside, the Changsha court ruled against Sun, who said he would appeal. On May 17, 2016, Sun and Hu were married in a private ceremony in Changsha, expressing their intention to organize another 99 same-sex weddings across the country in order to normalize same-sex marriage in China.\n\nIn January 2019, two men launched legal challenges against Hong Kong's same-sex marriage ban, arguing that the refusal to recognize and perform same-sex marriages is a violation of the Basic Law. The Hong Kong High Court has given permission for the cases to proceed.\n\nThe \"Marriage Law of the People's Republic of China\" (, pinyin: ) explicitly defines marriage as the union between one man and one woman. No other form of civil union is recognized.\n\nLi Yinhe (), a sexology scholar well known in the Chinese LGBT community, proposed the \"Chinese Same-Sex Marriage Bill\" (, pinyin: ) as an amendment to the marriage law to the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2008. All four proposals failed because she was unable to find enough cosponsors for a placement on the agenda. Li Yinhe, however, pledged to \"continue proposing the bill until it is passed\". In 2008, supporters of LGBT rights launched a campaign to collect signatures calling for recognition of same-sex marriage. In 2012, Li Yinhe launched a new campaign to raise support for same-sex marriage legislation.\n\nIn addition to national recognition, there have been unsuccessful attempts made towards allowing same-sex marriage in the provinces. In early 2010, lawyer Zhu Lieyu submitted a plan to the Guangdong People's Congress in an attempt to legalize same-sex unions in the province, however, the bill was never carried to a vote.\n\nThere are proposals to include provisions legalising same-sex marriage in the revisions of the Civil Code which are expected to be passed by 2020. However, in August 2019, a parliament spokesman said that \"limiting marriage to a relationship between a man and a woman will remain China's legal position.\" As of early December 2019, LGBT activists had gathered over 200,000 signatures in favor of same-sex marriage. Later that month, Yue Zhongming, spokesman for the Commission for Legislative Affairs of the National People's Congress Standing Committee, said that the National People's Congress will review the possibility of opening marriage to same-sex couples in March 2020. Several government-related Sina Weibo accounts launched online opinion polls to gauge public support for same-sex marriage, with results as of 22 December being a ratio of 6 to 4 in favor. Results of an online Phoenix Network Information survey, which had garnered close to 10 million votes, showed a 67% majority in favor of same-sex marriage.\n\nThe attitude of the Chinese Government towards homosexuality is believed to be \"three nos\": \"No approval; no disapproval; no promotion.\" The Ministry of Health officially removed homosexuality from its list of mental illnesses in 2001, but same-sex marriage is still not considered. A government spokesperson, when asked about Li Yinhe's same-sex marriage proposal, said that same-sex marriage was still too \"ahead of time\" for China. He argued that same-sex marriage was not recognized even in many Western countries, which are considered much more liberal in social issues than China. This statement is understood as an implication that the Government may consider recognition of same-sex marriage in the long run, but not in the near future.\n\nIn addition, the Chinese Government requires parents adopting children from China to be in heterosexual marriages.\n\nThe Chinese Government did invite Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, then Prime Minister of Iceland, and her wife Jónína Leósdóttir on an official state visit in April 2013. Jónína was largely absent from official media coverage of the visit but she was fully recognized as the wife of the Prime Minister and was received as such at official functions, official residences and a reception at Beijing Foreign Studies University.\n\nAfter the Taiwanese Constitutional Court ruled in May 2017 that banning same-sex marriage is unconstitutional, attitudes towards the legalisation of such marriages were largely positive on the popular Chinese social media site of Sina Weibo. Li Yinhe, a sociologist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, claimed that a majority of Chinese under the age of 35 approve of same-sex marriage. Pointing out that the average age of members of the National People's Congress is 49, she concluded that same-sex marriage is \"only 14 years away\". However, the Chinese Government moved to censor any news of the court ruling, not because of the issue of same-sex marriage, but because of the \"alleged illegality of Taiwan's courts\".\n\nDays after the same-sex marriage law came into effect in Taiwan, the \"People's Daily\", the Communist Party's newspaper, posted a celebratory tweet, \"local lawmakers in Taiwan, China, have legalized same-sex marriage in a first for Asia.\" The tweet, which included a rainbow-colored GIF that read \"love is love\" angered the Foreign Minister of Taiwan, Joseph Wu, who retaliated, \"WRONG! The bill was passed by our national parliament & will be signed by the president soon. Democratic #Taiwan is a country in itself & has nothing to do with authoritarian #China. @PDChina is a commie brainwasher & it sucks. JW.\" The \"Global Times\", a state-run tabloid, posted a video showcasing and praising gay social life in Beijing. The three-minute clip features interviews with local advocates as well as foreigners praising the Chinese capital's inclusive culture, complete with footage of drag queen performances. Nonetheless, Chinese authorities signaled that it would not follow Taiwan's example on same-sex marriage. An Fengshan, spokesman for China's Taiwan Affairs Office, said the Chinese Government \"noted reports on the island\" about same-sex marriage and that \"the mainland has a marriage system of one man, one woman\".\n\nA poll conducted in 2009 showed that over 30% of the Beijing population supported same-sex marriage, while the rest were unsure or opposed.\n\nA 2014 survey found that 74% of Hong Kong residents supported granting same-sex couples either all or some of the benefits associated with marriage.\n\nA 2015 Ipsos opinion poll found that 29% of Chinese supported same-sex marriage, and another 29% supported civil unions or partnerships which would offer some of the rights of marriage. 21% were against any legal recognition for same-sex couples. The poll, however, reflects the online population which tends to be more urban.\n\nA 2017 University of Hong Kong poll found that 50.4% of Hong Kong residents supported same-sex marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259200", "title": "Qwara dialect", "text": "Qwara dialect\n\nQwara, or Qwareña (called \"Falasha\" (Hwarasa) in some older sources), was one of two Agaw dialects, spoken by a subgroup of the Beta Israel (Ethiopian Jews) of the Qwara area. It is a dialect of Qimant. It is nearly extinct. Several early Falashan manuscripts, using the Ge'ez alphabet, exist; in more recent times, the language has been recorded by several linguists and travellers, starting with Flad in 1866.\n\nThe language was on the decline in the early 20th century, as it was being replaced by Amharic. During Operation Solomon, most of its remaining speakers were airlifted to Israel, where it continues to lose ground to Hebrew.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259211", "title": "Goda Mountains", "text": "Goda Mountains\n\nThe Goda Mountains lie northwest of the Gulf of Tadjoura, Tadjoura Region in Djibouti. They rise to above sea level and are the nation's largest heavily vegetated area and is the second highest point in Djibouti. The name Goda in Afar means \"twisted\" or \"devoured\" and refers to a ridge. A part of the mountains is protected within the Day Forest National Park, Djibouti's only national park. The ecology of this landform is considered an isolated outlier of the Ethiopian montane forest ecological zone, an important island of forest in a sea of semi-desert.\n\nThe Goda Mountains and the nearby Mabla Mountains are the last remaining refuge for the Djibouti spurfowl. It is also one of the few remaining habitats of the East African juniper, which was once the dominant tree species of the forest. The population of juniper trees in the area has sharply declined, with approximately 50% of the trees dying even in the healthiest regions. Instead, boxwood has become more common. Subsequently, the antelope population is seeing a rapid decline, desert warthogs have all but disappeared, and leopards have not been sighted since the 1980s. Climate change is one of the main factors contributing to this loss of species. The Goda Mountains continue to see longer periods of heat and drought in the region, compounded by grazing (especially of seedlings) and trampling by cattle. Hunting and the cutting of trees also play a subordinate role.\n\nThe inhabitants of the nine surrounding villages consists of five different clans of the Afar. Once a nomadic population, they now mostly lead sedentary lifestyles. Their pastoral livelihoods are highly dependent on the regularity of rainfall. In 2003, wells with pumps were introduced to the village to ensure a consistent, though limited water supply. The cutting of live trees for firewood is traditionally prohibited; thus only dead wood may be used. Drought is largely held responsible for the forest degradation, with only 4% attributing this to cattle grazing. With the initiative of the local organization Djibouti Nature, residents have built stone walls and fences out of dead wood to help protect areas of the forest from cattle. This initiative has had a visible, positive impact on the condition of the forest. According to the same survey, nearly a quarter of the residents believe that nothing can be done about the damage to the forest, 15% are unsure, 23% believe the wooden fences would further the preservation of the forest, 8% suggest the planting of trees, and 29% believe in a combination of both tree planting and fencing. The establishment of a tree nursery in the village Day is just one of the efforts the organization has made to help combat the further depletion of the forest.\n\nThe climate of Goda Mountains is a subtropical highland climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Cwb\"), with the influence of mountain climate, with hot and dry summers and cold winters. This is attributed to the fact that Goda Mountains is located on a plain surrounded by mountains and to its distance to the sea and its effects. In the presence of fog, condensation is sometimes considerable. Ground moisture allows plants and trees to survive despite irregular rainfall. Elevation is the major factor affecting temperature levels, with the higher elevated areas being on average 11°C (20°F) cooler than the lower areas. Overnight temperatures can drop as low as 50–54 °F (10–12.2 °C), especially during the December to March winter months.\n"}
{"id": "2259212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259212", "title": "Mel Judah", "text": "Mel Judah\n\nMel Judah (born 8 October 1947 in Kolkata, India) is an Australian professional poker player, also known as \"The Silver Fox\" (a nickname he shares with fellow poker player Peter Costa). He learned poker at the age of 14 by watching his father play 5-card draw.\n\nHe has had several noticeable finishes in the World Series of Poker (WSOP) and the World Poker Tour (WPT). He won his first World Series of Poker bracelet in the 1989 in the $1,500 Seven Card Stud event. Judah won his second bracelet at the 1997 $5,000 Seven Card Stud event, defeating Vasilis Lazarou who has also won two WSOP bracelets in seven card stud tournaments.\n\nHe was also at the final table of the 1997 World Series of Poker main event, won by Stu Ungar, eventually coming in third place, and earning $371,000.\n\nJudah also claimed the 2003 Legends of Poker title on the World Poker Tour, winning $579,375. He defeated a strong final table that included professional poker players Phil Laak, Farzad Bonyadi, Chip Jett, T. J. Cloutier, and Paul Phillips, whom he defeated in heads-up play to win the tournament.\n\nHe qualified for the final table of the 2006 Poker Million, finishing in fourth place. In January 2009, Judah won the $1,100 Omaha Hi-Lo tournament at the Aussie Millions in Melbourne Australia. In recollection of the respect Judah had generated within the game, he was asked to direct the new European Poker Masters tour in September 2006, Europe's first ever independent poker tour that was produced by the team behind The Poker Channel. Judah worked as a hairdresser for several years, which he believes has allowed him to understand players' psychology better. He now lives in Sydney, Australia.\n\nAs of 2009, his total live tournament winnings exceed $3,100,000. His 36 cashes at the WSOP account for $1,299,630 of those winnings.\n\nJudah was an inaugural inductee into the Australian Poker Hall of Fame in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259216", "title": "Paul Campos", "text": "Paul Campos\n\nPaul F. Campos is a law professor, author and blogger on the faculty of the University of Colorado Boulder in Boulder. Campos received his A.B. (1982) and M.A. in English (1983) from the University of Michigan and in 1989 his J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School. Campos worked at the law firm Latham & Watkins in Chicago from 1989-1990 and became an associate professor at the University of Colorado in 1990, where he teaches classes on property, punishment theory, jurisprudence and legal interpretation.\n\nCampos is perhaps best known for his 2004 book \"The Obesity Myth\" (later published as \"The Diet Myth\") which reviews medical research on the association between higher body mass and health. Campos's contentions that obesity is healthy were praised by some sociologists and critical theorists, and overwhelmingly criticized by medical, epidemiological and statistical researchers with professional training in empirical research.\n\nSoowon Kim and Barry M. Popkin praised Campos for \"bringing attention to some of the complexities in overweight/obesity and health relationships and covert financial interests involved in obesity research\" but criticized him for \"selective use of research\", \"fallacious interpretation of literature\" and \"misunderstanding of basic epidemiological principles\" and thereby \"harm[ing] the most vulnerable subgroups in the population.\" Neville Rigby criticized Campos's lack of relevant academic qualifications and poor grasp of scientific research, noting that: \"It is unusual to find academics concerned chiefly with legal, social, political, and educational issues seeking to challenge the whole arena of the epidemiology, clinical, and public health aspects of the obesity problem. To start from scratch to deal with all their spurious statements in this response is hardly appropriate. The suggestion that there is growing ‘concern’ about the validity of the serious health issues associated with obesity is really quite bizarre, as there has been the most remarkable and growing consensus among an extensive range of governments, academics, health economists, and policy makers relating to the impact of excess weight gain.\" June Stevens, Jill E. McClain and Kimberly P. Truesdale countered specific claims about the state of scientific research made by Campos. Campos's obesity work was praised by sociologist Susie Orbach for discussing unhealthy body image issues related to an emphasis on extreme thinness.\n\nOther obesity skeptics have cited Campos's work as support for their own views. For example, in his 2010 book \"The End of the Obesity Epidemic\", Michael Gard, an Honorary Associate Professor at the School of Human Movement studies of University of Queensland, identified Campos as one of three scholars (along with University of Chicago political scientist J. Eric Oliver and Arizona State University exercise physiologist Glenn Gaesser) who have led the way in constructing a counter-narrative to the claims of those who argue higher body weight represents a major public health crisis: \"Together, these [three authors] have helped popularize obesity skepticism as a legitimate intellectual position ... Most crucial of all, they have each contributed to building the case against seeing obesity per se as a disease, demonstrating that the health risks of fatness are, at the very least, highly debatable ... More recently, Campos has been a tireless, acerbic, and superbly articulate warrior in his extensive print and electronic media work.\"\n\nTwo years later, in 2012, Gard criticized Campos for overstating the empirical case for obesity skepticism, and for relying too much on criticisms of the motives of certain obesity researchers. In 2012, Gard wrote: \"Paul Campos ... constantly use[s] words like 'myth', 'truth', 'lies' and 'liars' when writing about mainstream obesity science ... Obesity scientists are not 'liars', involved in a 'con' and they are not, by and large, hysterical. How easy it is to dismiss those with whom we disagree by calling them bad and mad.\" In 2012, Gard also concluded that Campos and other obesity skeptics have \"had little if any impact on mainstream scientific and popular 'obesity crisis' discourse.\"\n\nCampos's writing appears on the blog \"Lawyers, Guns and Money\". In August 2011, Campos began a second blog, \"Inside the Law School Scam\". Initially posting anonymously, he criticizing other law school professors for not knowing enough doctrinal law or having much practical experience in legal practice. Knowing that his identity was soon to be outed, he claimed responsibility for the blog on August 20.\n\nThe blog has attracted criticism from legal scholars, including Brian Leiter of the University of Chicago Law School. According to Leiter, Campos's blog contained misleading, inaccurate, and inflammatory statements. Leiter also criticized Campos more broadly for allegedly shirking his job responsibilities through poor scholarship and poor teaching.\n\nCampos's blog attracted support from Deborah Jones Merritt of The Ohio State University law school, who joined him as a co-blogger on \"Inside the Law School Scam\", as well as from Walter Olson at the libertarian Cato Institute. Merritt accused law professors of being \"greedy,\", counseled students on whether to apply to or stay in law school, satirized the federal loan system, and suggested that law school administrators should be held accountable for unethical conduct. Olson has criticized law schools for being sources of influential liberal ideas and training grounds for future liberal political leaders. Another Campos supporter, Brian Tamanaha at Washington University, has also accused law professors, especially liberal law professors, of hypocrisy and greed.\n\nIn 2012, Campos self-published a book on law school, \"Don't Go to Law School (Unless)\".\n\nIn the spring of 2013, Campos, Tamanaha, and Merritt signed a letter to ABA Task Force on the future of legal education about the cost of legal education and the employment outcomes new law graduates. The letter was also signed by several dozen other law professors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259217", "title": "Richard Harry Graves", "text": "Richard Harry Graves\n\nRichard Harry Graves (17 July 1897 – 3 February 1971) was an Irish-born Australian poet and novelist.\n\nHe was born in Waterford, the home city of his father, Christen Gerald Graves. His father emigrated to Australia in 1909 and Richard followed him in 1911. He served in the First World War with the 25th Infantry Battalion of the Australian Imperial Force and was wounded at Gallipoli.\n\nIn the Second World War, Graves founded and led the Australian Jungle Rescue Detachment of 60 soldiers, which was attached to the Far East American Airforce. These men conducted over 300 rescues, all of which were completed successfully and without losses. After the war he ran a bushcraft school for over twenty years.\n\nAside from poetry and adventure novels for children, he wrote ten classic books on camping and bushcraft, now published in a single volume. He was a cousin of the English writer Robert Graves.\n"}
{"id": "2259227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259227", "title": "Airways Airsports", "text": "Airways Airsports\n\nAirways Airsports is based at Darley Moor Airfield, Derbyshire, is the only airpark in the United Kingdom offering hang gliding, paragliding, paramotoring and microlight training and flying. It is a British Hang Gliding and Paragliding Association and British Microlight Aircraft Association (BMAA) recognised school. Instructors include a three-times world champion, world record holders, British cross country champion, British distance record holder, Royal Aeroclub gold medal winner and members of the British hang gliding and paragliding team.\n\nAirways also teach paragliding, hang gliding, paramotoring and microlight flying at BHPA and BMAA schools in the Alps.\n\nHang gliding teaching is primarily through tandem aerotow flights with take off and landing both on wheels. The student and instructor clip into a tandem glider side by side and attach themselves and the glider to a tow line pulled by a high powered 'tug' microlight. The tandem hang glider is then towed to around 3000' with the instructor and student keeping in line behind the microlight. At the top of the tow the line is released and the student is taken through a number of exercises before landing the glider under instruction. Once the student has completed a number of exercises and demonstrated an ability to keep the glider in line behind the microlight on tow, and land safely, then the student progresses on to a solo, wheeled hang glider. Once a student has completed a number of solo flights and demonstrated safe tows and landings solo then they are awarded their Club Pilot Certificate (aerotow) and can progress to flying in a club rather than a school environment. Airways have developed a wheeled solo glider for the initial solo flights.\n\nAirways train pilots using a static winch for paragliding training. Compared to training on the hill this is a faster and less physically demanding way to try out paragliding as Darley Moor airfield is big enough for the winch to be moved around if the wind changes.\n\nThe course or taster starts with a full demonstration/walkthrough of the equipment, the winch commands/release etc. and how to use the radio. Students are then trained to ground-handle the wing, then the flying starts with some short low level flights before progressing to basic manoeuvres and on to high flying circuits.\n\nBy using a combination of aerotow and winch for training, pilots gain the skills necessary for flying in a club environment with winch or aerotow launching. With a hill conversion course pilots can be trained to fly from hills. Airways primarily use the Derbyshire Soaring Club sites. There are hills to suit all wind directions for both hang gliding and paragliding.\n\nParamotoring training starts with standard paragliding training on the winch before the introduction of the engine and training with power. Similarly training for powered hang gliding involves learning to fly a hang glider first before conversion to power.\n\nEither flying with a paragliding wing in a wheeled, powered buggy or in a single seat wheeled powered hang glider.\n\nThe school aircraft available for training are as follows;\n\nThe airfield has ample parking with full wheelchair and vehicle access. In the clubhouse there are male, female and disabled, showers, light refreshments, a shop and in 2011 a brand new hangar has been built.\n\nThe school offers the widest range of disabled free flight facilities of any school in the UK, using specially modified equipment to fly hang gliders, paragliders and microlight aircraft. The school has close links with the Aerobility (formerly the British Disabled Flying Association) and Flyability – charities offering support, advice and scholarships to disabled people wishing to experience or learn to fly.\n\nAirways Airsports has been chosen by the press to fly or teach presenters and journalists\n\n(2003) \"Blue Peter\" presenter Matt Baker taught to fly and makes successful tandem world record breaking flight with Airways instructor Judy Leden.\n\n(2006) An extract from BBC's Great British Summer. Airways instructor Judy Leden flying Tandem with Cloud Appreciation Society founder Gavin Pretor-Pinney, showing him what its like to fly through the clouds on a hang glider.\n\n(2010) Geologist Iain Stewart flown over a waterfall in a paramotor buggy by Airways CFI Chris Dawes.\n\n(2010) \"Country Tracks\" presenter Ellie Harrison flew above Derbyshire with Airways instructor Andy Snell.\n\n(2010) \"Blue Peter\" presenter Joel Defries learnt to fly with Airways instructor Judy Leden with the aim of flying with Lucy the peregrine falcon.\n\n(2010) \"BBC Breakfast\" sports presenter Mike Bushell and \"BBC Disability Sport\" reporter Tony Garrett flew tandem with Airways instructor Judy Leden to experience hang gliding and to demonstrate the benefits of aerotowing for disabled students.\n\n(2011) \"The Gadget Show\" presenter, Jon Bentley, flew with Judy Leden, competing with a peregrine falcon to track a lure\n\n(2011) Judy Leden takes BBC Breakfast Weather reporter Carol Kirkwood flying in a hang glider to see a cloud close up and weight it, for BBC's The Great British Weather Show.\n\n(2011) Gethin Jones gets taken up flying in a microlight by Airways CFI Chris Dawes in a microlight for ITV's \"The Adventurer's Guide to Britain\", to get a unique birds eye view of the Peak District.\n"}
{"id": "2259232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259232", "title": "Solarbabies", "text": "Solarbabies\n\nSolarbabies (also known as Solarwarriors and Solarfighters) is a 1986 American science fiction film, made by Brooksfilms and released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was the second and final film directed by Alan Johnson, who is better known for his work as a choreographer.\n\nIn a bleak post-apocalyptic future, most of Earth's water has been placed under containment by the Eco Protectorate, a paramilitary organization, who governs the planet's new order. Orphan children, mostly teenagers, live in orphanages created by the Protectorate, designed to indoctrinate new recruits into their service. The orphans play a rough sport which is a hybrid of lacrosse and roller-hockey. Playing is the only thing that unites them other than the futile attempts of the Protectorate to control them. These orphans are Jason, the group's leader (Jason Patric), Terra (Jami Gertz), Tug (Peter DeLuise), Rabbit (Claude Brooks), Metron (James LeGros), and a young deaf boy named Daniel (Lukas Haas).\n\nWhile hiding in a cave, Daniel finds a mysterious orb with special powers. The orb is an alien intelligence called Bodhi, who miraculously restores Daniel's hearing and has other powers, such as creating rain indoors. Another orphan, Darstar (Adrian Pasdar), takes the orb, hoping that he will be able to use it. He leaves the orphanage on roller skates and Daniel soon follows. The rest of the group chase after Daniel. The E-police learn of Bodhi while chasing the teens and catch Darstar with the sphere. The teens are eventually rescued by a band of older outlaws called the Eco Warriors. They have retired from fighting and are led by Terra's long-lost father, Greentree (Frank Converse). The teens leave the Eco Warriors and using their roller skating skills, break into the Protectorate's high security Water Storage Building. The teens discover the E-Police are trying to destroy Bodhi and they manage to recover the alien, but as soon as they do the sphere dematerializes and destroys the facility, releasing the water back to where it belongs as they rush out. As they all gather on a nearby hillside, Bodhi sparks the first thunderstorm the teens have ever seen and returns to space, but not without leaving a bit of himself behind in each of them.\n\nUltimately, in the closing credits, the orphans are seen swimming together in the newly-restored ocean, Darstar being fully accepted into the group and Jason and Terra sharing a kiss.\n\n\nExecutive producer Mel Brooks explained how \"Solarbabies\" was made in an episode of the podcast \"How Did This Get Made?\" Co-writer Metrov was also interviewed for a \"How Did This Get Made?\" article for Slashfilm.\n\nMetrov was inspired by the \"guerrilla filmmaking\" methods of his friend Abel Ferrara to create a low-budget film of his own. He subsequently wrote a 32-page treatment for a science fiction film about a group of children he dubbed the \"Little Rascals of the future.\" The treatment caught the attention of veteran screenwriter Walon Green, and Mark Johnson, an employee for Mel Brooks. To pitch the film to potential investors, Metrov filmed a 12-minute slideshow with random kids playing the parts.\n\nMetrov's presentation caught the attention of Brooks, who agreed to make it in Spain due to the lack of unions and cheaper production costs. Brooks also gave Metrov the director's chair. The production was greenlit with a $5 million budget, but Brooks was persuaded by his colleagues to increase the budget under the belief that it had greater potential. An additional $20 million was eventually required to complete the film. Because Metrov had no experience directing a big-budget film, Alan Johnson was hired as a replacement.\n\nThe beginning of the shoot encountered delays because of unexpected heavy rains. Later, director Alan Johnson and the cast had so many disagreements that Brooks flew to the set and ordered the cast to get back to work or be fired. Brooks recounted how a number of sequences Johnson shot didn't make sense, or had poor coloration, and more money was needed for additional filming. Finally, more money was needed at the end for special effects.\n\nWhen production began, Brooks had invested approximately $1.5 million of his own money. As production delays mounted, he invested more, eventually taking out a second mortgage on his home. Brooks was forced to raise an additional $15 million through banks.\n\nBrooks was worried the movie could not be saved, so he cut together a 10-minute trailer for the movie in a sci-fi style similar to \"Star Wars\" in order to sell to distributors. When Brooks approached Paramount, Michael Eisner showed interest, but Jeffrey Katzenberg said no. Eventually, Alan Ladd Jr. at MGM agreed to distribute the movie, and connected Brooks with international distributor UIP. The distributor purchased the movie from Brooks for $14 million.\n\nAfter paying back investors and loans, Brooks estimates he had lost about $9 million of his own money at the time. However, Brooks claimed that over the years since its release, the movie finally did break even, most likely through home video and DVD. Brooks called it a \"miracle.\"\n\nReviews for \"Solarbabies\" were very poor, with film historian Leonard Maltin describing it thus: \"An appalling stinker; the 1980's teen jargon doesn't exactly capture the futuristic mood of this junk.\" The film is given a BOMB rating in his annual TV Movies publication.\n\nJoe Kane, the \"Phantom of the Movies\", called the picture \"A pathetic \"Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome\" rip-off, working from a script which must have been scrawled in Crayola, with every futuristic cliche you could possibly imagine. Lacking in originality, but rich in brain-dead dialogue; when Jami Gertz snarls, 'Get out, you creature of filth!', consider that a subliminal message.\"\n\nMike Clark, reviewing the film for \"USA Today\", had this message for the filmmakers: \"Better pray for a pox on Spock, guys, and fast\" (the film was released on the same day as \"\"), and added \"...we see in a couple of scenes that movies still exist. I'd have thought both civilization \"and\" the movies would have been wiped out by '41 [the year in the future the movie is set], thanks to atrocities like \"Solarbabies\".\"\n\nGene Siskel, on his syndicated film review show \"Siskel & Ebert,\" called the film \"trash.\"\n\nIt was released on DVD on March 6, 2007. The movie was later given a Blu-ray release, first in Germany on September 25, 2014 by Koch Media and in the US on May 10, 2016 by Kino Lorber.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259236", "title": "Oxford (cloth)", "text": "Oxford (cloth)\n\nOxford is a type of woven dress shirt fabric, employed to make a particular casual-to-formal cloth in dress shirts that may be called \"Oxford shirts\".\n\nOxford cloth has a basketweave structure and a lustrous aspect making it a popular fabric for a dress shirt.\n\nPlain Oxford and Pinpoint Oxford are commonly used for casual shirt designs such as a button-down collar. Pinpoint Oxford is made from finer yarn and has a tighter weave than plain Oxford. It shows a \"pin\" or \"dot\" effect in the texture. Royal Oxford is considered a more formal option. It is a versatile weave that is suited to business or sporty dress codes.\n"}
{"id": "2259245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259245", "title": "Barbi Benton", "text": "Barbi Benton\n\nBarbi Benton (born Barbara Lynn Klein; January 28, 1950) is an American retired model, actress, television personality and singer. She is known for appearing in \"Playboy\" magazine, as a four-season regular on the comedy series \"Hee Haw\", and for recording several modestly successful albums in the 1970s. She retired from show business in the 1980s to raise her children.\n\nBenton was born Barbara Lynn Klein in New York City, to a Jewish family. Her father was a gynecologist and her mother worked as an investment counselor.\n\nShe grew up in Sacramento and attended Rio Americano High School and took all kinds of lessons – from scuba diving to piano – and even did some \"tearoom modeling\" while in school. She enrolled into UCLA to become a veterinarian, but had to give up that career option as she could not stand the sight of blood.\n\nAt the age of 16, she began to model. Following high school, she attended UCLA, and at age 18 took a job with \"Playboy\" to appear on their entertainment show \"Playboy After Dark\". She initially started as an extra on the show, but after host Hugh Hefner fell in love with Benton, her role was quickly elevated to co-host. After recording two episodes, Hefner asked the young co-ed for a date. Upon being asked, she reportedly demurred to the then-42-year-old Hefner: \"I don't know, I've never dated anyone over 24 before.\" To which Hefner replied, \"That's all right, neither have I.\" The two began a relationship that lasted several years, and placed Benton in the center of the Playboy enterprise. Hefner convinced her to change her name from Barbara Klein to the more marketable Barbi Benton. She is credited with convincing Hugh Hefner to buy the Playboy Mansion in Holmby Hills in 1974.\n\nBenton (initially credited as Barbi Klein) appeared on the cover of \"Playboy\" four times: July 1969, March 1970, May 1972, and December 1985 and in additional nude photo layouts in the December 1973 and January 1975 issues. Though she was featured in a number of photo-essays, she was never a Playmate of the Month. She landed a spot on television's \"Hee Haw\" doing short comedy sketches, and subsequently enjoyed a career as a country singer. She also began acting, and appeared in the West German comedy film \"The Naughty Cheerleader\" (1970), before appearing as a featured repeat performer on a number of popular television series, including \"The Bobby Vinton Show\" in 1976,\"The Love Boat\" and \"Fantasy Island\". Benton lived with Hefner from 1969 until 1976 and is known for discovering the Playboy Mansion West, where Hefner resided until his death in 2017. Years later, when the television series \"The Girls Next Door\" visited her in Aspen, Colorado, she expressed gratitude that the two had remained friends.\n\nBenton left \"Hee Haw\" after four seasons to concentrate on a more Hollywood-oriented career. She also starred in the short-lived 1977 ABC-TV comedy series \"Sugar Time!\", about an aspiring female rock group and in films including the slasher \"Hospital Massacre\" (1982).\n\nBenton achieved some success as a recording artist. Her record \"Brass Buckles\" (1975) was a top-five hit on \"Billboard's\" country singles chart. Benton has recorded eight albums, the last of which she personally produced in 1979. She also composed the songs, sang them, and played piano. One of her better-known songs was \"Ain't That Just the Way\" (1976). It was a number one hit in Sweden for 5 weeks, was also a major hit for Lutricia McNeal in 1996, and was recorded by the Dutch singer Patricia Paay under the title \"Poor Jeremy\" in 1977.\n\nBenton married real estate developer George Gradow on October 14, 1979. They have two children, Alexander (born August 23, 1986) and Ariana (born July 13, 1988). They divide their time between homes in Aspen and Los Angeles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259250", "title": "Salvadora persica", "text": "Salvadora persica\n\nSalvadora persica (arak, jhak, pīlu, Salvadora indica, toothbrush tree, mustard tree), is a species of \"Salvadora\". Used for centuries as a natural toothbrush, its fibrous branches have been mentioned by the World Health Organization for oral hygiene use.\n\n\"Salvadora persica\" is a small tree or shrub with a crooked trunk, typically in height. Its bark is scabrous and cracked, whitish with pendulous extremities. The root bark of the tree is similar in colour to sand, and the inner surfaces are an even lighter shade of brown. It has a pleasant fragrance, of cress or mustard, as well as a warm and pungent taste. The leaves break with a fine crisp crackle when trodden on. The tree produces small red edible fruits, juicy but pungent, in clusters.\n\nFound on desert floodplains, riverbanks, and grassy savannahs, the plant is native to the Middle East and Africa. \n\n\"Salvadora persica\" stick, known as miswak, is popular for teeth cleaning throughout the Arabian Peninsula, as well as the wider Muslim world. The fresh leaves can be eaten as part of a salad and are used in traditional medicine. The flowers are small and fragrant and are used as a stimulant and are mildly purgative. The berries are small and barely noticeable; they are eaten both fresh and dried. The wood of the \"Salvadora persica\" can be used for charcoal and firewood. In Namibia, the mustard bush is used as drought-resistant fodder for cattle. The seeds can be used to extract a detergent oil.\n\nAs of 2009, Botanic Gardens Conservation International has a total of eight \"Salvadora persica\" plants in conservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259253", "title": "Padraig Parkinson", "text": "Padraig Parkinson\n\nPadraig Parkinson (born 1957 in Galway) is an Irish professional poker player. He is chiefly recognised as the grand final winner of Late Night Poker series 5 (where he defeated Korosh Nejad) and as the third-place finisher of the 1999 World Series of Poker, where he lost to fellow countryman Noel Furlong.\n\nOriginally, Parkinson refused to play in Late Night Poker, as he did not wish to have his cards shown to the audience. His mood changed when money was added to the prize pool, and sponsorship also became a factor. In his heat, he was actually the favourite with 2/1 odds against series 3 champion Phil Hellmuth's 5/2 odds. Despite this, Parkinson bet on Ken Lennaárd (who finished 2nd) at 6/1. Despite the fact that Hellmuth admitted he could see Parkinson's cards during the heat, Parkinson went on to win.\n\nParkinson still plays numerous tournaments and has money finishes in both the World Poker Tour and European Poker Tour. In December 2009, he was the winner of the inaugural event of the United Kingdom & Ireland Poker Tour in his home town of Galway for €125,000. He also finds time to commentate on poker events including the Poker Nations Cup and the PartyPoker.com Football & Poker Legends Cup.\nHe has been voted into the Irish Hall Of Fame, having captained Ireland to victory in Poker Nations Cup (Europe) and in 2013, he won a WPT PLO event in Paris winning €77,000 at the now-defunct Aviation Club de Paris.\n\nAs of 2019, his total live tournament winnings are $1,870,474. His 17 cashes at the WSOP account for $882,460 of those winnings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259259", "title": "Richard Lewis (tenor)", "text": "Richard Lewis (tenor)\n\nRichard Lewis CBE (10 May 191413 November 1990) was an English tenor of Welsh parentage.\n\nBorn Thomas Thomas in Manchester to Welsh parents, Lewis began his career as a boy soprano and studied at the Royal Manchester College of Music (now merged into the Royal Northern College of Music) from 1939 to 1941, and later at the Royal Academy of Music. He made his operatic debut in 1939, and from 1947 onwards, sang at the Glyndebourne Festival Opera and at Covent Garden (London). He made his debut in the United States in 1955.\n\nLewis made a number of recordings, including \"Messiah\" (Handel), \"L'incoronazione di Poppea\" (Monteverdi), \"Idomeneo\" (Mozart), \"Liebeslieder Walzer\" and Neue Liebeslieder Walzer (Brahms), Coleridge-Taylor's \"The Song of Hiawatha\", Elgar's \"The Dream of Gerontius\", Benjamin Britten's Spring Symphony (with Leonard Bernstein), scenes from William Walton's \"Troilus and Cressida\", and four different performances of Mahler's \"Das Lied von der Erde\", two with Maureen Forrester, (Reiner/Walter) one with Kathleen Ferrier (Barbirolli), and a fourth with Lili Chookasian (Ormandy). There is also a live recording with George Szell and the Cleveland Orchestra.\n\nIn 1963 he was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE). He died in Eastbourne.\n\nFollowing Lewis's death in 1990 his widow, Elizabeth Lewis established the Richard Lewis/Jean Shanks award at Glyndebourne, made possible by funding from the pathologist Dr Jean Shanks (Princess Galitzine). In 2000 Elizabeth moved the award to the Royal Academy of Music wishing to help young singers at that more vulnerable time in their careers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259260", "title": "Gary Doherty", "text": "Gary Doherty\n\nGary Michael Thomas Doherty (born 31 January 1980) is a retired Irish professional footballer. He played as a defender, having previously also played as a centre forward, and gained international honours for the Republic of Ireland.\n\nHe began his career at Luton Town before having a spell with Tottenham Hotspur in the Premier League, however, most of his career was with Norwich City, for whom he won the player of the year award. He finished his career with Wycombe Wanderers followed by a brief but successful stint at San Jose Earthquakes.\n\nDoherty started his league career with Luton Town in 1997. He made 88 appearances in total over less than three seasons with the Hatters and became a Republic of Ireland international.\n\nHe was bought by Luton old boy David Pleat then Director of Football at Tottenham Hotspur for £1million in March 2000. The player made his Spurs debut as a substitute in a 3–1 defeat at Manchester United in May 2000. He played in the team regularly during the 2000/01 season and scored his first goal against Newcastle United on 2 January 2001. Other highlights that season include a late winner against Leyton Orient in the FA Cup, giving his team the lead against North London rivals Arsenal in the FA Cup semi final and scoring twice as Spurs came back from 2–0 down away to Sunderland to win 3–2. However, the following season started badly when he broke his leg in a League Cup match against Torquay United in September following a challenge from Eifion Williams. He returned before the end of the season but found it hard to break back into the side.\n\nAt Tottenham, Doherty eventually settled into a defensive role, and although he enjoyed probably his best spell after the turn of the year in 2003–04, he did not manage to consistently reach the form he exhibited before breaking his leg. He was eventually sold by Tottenham's new management team of Frank Arnesen and Jacques Santini at the start of the 2004–05 season to newly promoted Norwich City for an undisclosed fee.\n\nAt Norwich City his career started well, with him having a regular place at the heart of the defence, but he lost his place in February to Jason Shackell and Norwich were eventually relegated. The following season, however, saw Doherty established as a regular choice at centre-back and his form and consistency improved considerably. Although Norwich had a difficult and disappointing 2005–06 season, the supporters recognised Doherty's contribution by voting him Norwich City player of the year.\n\nDoherty signed a new contract at Carrow Road until summer 2008. The 2007–08 season also started off poorly for Doherty and was injured for 2 months in October. Doherty's contract expired, but he signed a new two-year deal on 1 July. He subsequently announced that his new squad number, 12, instead of 27 is intended to bring him luck:\n\n\"It's all about superstition. Since I came to Norwich, my goal tally's been rubbish really. I used to wear 12 at Luton and Tottenham, and I used to be quite free-scoring during those times.\"\nDuring the Canaries' 2008–09 pre-season tour, Doherty picked up an ankle injury that ruled him out for the first three months of the season. Having returned to the side, he scored his first league goal for more than three years on Boxing Day 2008 in a 3–1 defeat to Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park.\n\nAlthough Doherty was given the captaincy at the start of the 2009–10 season by Bryan Gunn, new manager Paul Lambert dropped him from the role immediately; and he was told he had no long-term future at the club. However, due to injuries Lambert was forced to recall Doherty to the side, and after this Doherty remained in the side for the rest of the season. He formed tight defensive partnerships with both Michael Nelson and Jens Berthel Askou and also scored seven goals in the process helping Norwich City to the League one title.\n\nDoherty was named \"man of the match\" following Norwich's game against Leeds United on 27 March 2010.\n\nAt the end of the 2009–10 season, Doherty was named third in the player of the season award list, but on 14 May 2010 it was announced that he had been released by Norwich City. His agent Brendan Keyes was in talks with New York Red Bulls to bring Gary to MLS and a deal looked imminent but with terms not agreed Doherty stayed in England.\n\nOn 5 July 2010, it was announced that Gary Doherty had signed for Charlton Athletic after being released on a free transfer from Norwich City. Doherty became a regular in the Charlton side during the 2010–11 season but only made three appearances for the club in the 2011–12 season.\n\nOn 24 February 2012 Doherty moved alongside Charlton teammate Paul Hayes to Wycombe Wanderers, who at the time, sat bottom of League 1. He was one of 4 new loanees that featured in the 5–0 win over Hartlepool. Doherty scored in the game to cap an impressive debut. He was later awarded with the Sponsor's Man of the Match.\n\nOn 3 July 2012, Doherty signed for Wycombe Wanderers on a two-year contract after being released from Charlton. On 9 July 2012, Doherty was given the captain's armband. After two seasons with Wycombe, Doherty was forced to retire due to a knee injury sustained in the 2014–15 pre season.\n\nDoherty moved with his family to Luton in England at the age of six, but he came through the youth system of his native country, playing for the Republic of Ireland national under-19 football team in the 1997 UEFA European Under-18 Football Championship finals in Iceland scoring against France. He was also part of the UEFA Under-18 Championship winning side in 1998, and the Under-20 side that got to the quarter-finals of the 1999 FIFA World Youth Championship.\n\nDoherty primarily played as a forward for his country, making his international debut against Greece in April 2000. He was becoming a regular in the squad when he broke his leg in September 2001. He recovered in April 2002, scoring his first international goal against the United States, but he missed out on the squad for the 2002 FIFA World Cup finals. Doherty returned to the team for Ireland's unsuccessful Euro 2004 qualifying campaign, where he top scored with three goals. He played centre half numerous times for Ireland\n\nStats updated on 30 November 2016.\nDoherty is affectionately known by many fans as either \"The Doc\" or \"Ginger Pelé\" (which was immortalised by the publication of the football song/chants book: \"One Ginger Pele\").\n\nThe 2010 song \"Gary Doherty\", by Norfolk band \"We Can't Dance\", makes reference to newspapers giving Doherty a hard time and has a chorus consisting of his name, ending with the line \"I don't care what they say about you anyway\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259262", "title": "Lake Abbe", "text": "Lake Abbe\n\nLake Abbe, also known as Lake Abhe Bad, is a salt lake, lying on the Ethiopia-Djibouti border. It is one of a chain of six connected lakes, which also includes (from north to south) lakes Gargori, Laitali, Gummare, Bario and Afambo. The river Awash flows into the no-drain lake. The Lake Abbe is the center of the Afar Depression. The Lac Abbe is considered one of the most inaccessible areas of the earth. The water itself is known for its flamingos. The scenery is unique. \n\nLake Abbe is the ultimate destination of the waters of the Awash River. It lies at the Afar Triple Junction, the central meeting place for the three pieces of the Earth's crust, a defining feature of the Afar Depression. Here three pieces of Earth's crust are each pulling away from that central point, though not all at the same speed. \n\nOn the northwest shore rises Mount Dama Ali (1069 m), a dormant volcano, while along the southwestern and southern shores extend vast salt flats, 10 km in width. Besides the Awash, seasonal affluents of Lake Abbe include two wadis, the Oleldere and Abuna Merekes, which enter the lake from the west and south, crossing the salt flats. Although the present area of the lake's open water is , recent droughts and extraction of water from the Awash River for irrigation has caused the water level of the lake to fall. By 1984, the surface area of the lake had decreased to two thirds of what it was in 1940. During this period about of saltflats had formed to the southwest of the lake. Lake Abbe is a hypersaline lake; water containing mineral salts flows in but there is no outflow, and pure water evaporates from the surface. It is also known as an \"amplifier lake\", the water level fluctuating dramatically in response to quite small changes in climate.\nThe Afar people have established a settlement near the lake's shore. Lake Abbe is known for its limestone chimneys, which reach heights of and from which steam spews forth. These carbonate chimneys are formed by the mixing of lake water and a deeper geothermal fluid. Flamingos can also be found on the waters.\n\nThe Lake Abbe's climate offers year-round sunny skies and dry air. It has less than mean annual rainfall and a summer average temperature between . Winter average temperatures range between .\n\n"}
{"id": "2259277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259277", "title": "Clothing bin", "text": "Clothing bin\n\nA clothing bin is a container in which clothing is placed to be donated to charity organizations (e.g., the Salvation Army or The Smith Family) or for recycling in other ways. They are typically provided by the charities themselves or by local authorities. \n\nBins are often vandalised or filled with unsuitable materials (including rubbish). These are costly for the organizations concerned to dispose of, and this misuse has at times lead to bins being withdrawn. On-the-spot fines are often threatened through signs on the bins.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259284", "title": "Isfahan International Airport", "text": "Isfahan International Airport\n\nIsfahan International Airport ( – \"Farūdegāh-e Eşfahān\") is an international airport serving the city of Isfahan, Iran.\n\nThe airport is named in honor of Shahid Beheshti. For administrative and census purposes, it is considered a village in Qahab-e Shomali Rural District, in the Central District of Isfahan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. The airport has two terminals, one for domestic flights and one for international flights. Just adjacent to the airport is Khatami Air Base, which was built in the 1970s specifically to cater to Iran's fleet of F-14 Tomcat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259285", "title": "Port Huron Flags", "text": "Port Huron Flags\n\nThe Port Huron Flags were a minor league professional ice hockey team located in Port Huron, Michigan. The Flags competed in the International Hockey League between 1962 and 1981. For three of those seasons from 1971 to 1974, Port Huron was a farm team of the Detroit Red Wings, and were known as the Port Huron Wings. Port Huron won the International Hockey League playoff title, known as the Turner Cup, in 1966, 1971, and 1972.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259291", "title": "Admiral's Cup", "text": "Admiral's Cup\n\nThe Admiral's Cup was an international yachting regatta. For many years it was known as the unofficial world championship of offshore racing.\n\nThe Admiral's Cup regatta was started in 1957 and was normally a biennial event (occurring in odd-numbered years) which was competed for between national teams. However the event was not staged in 2001 and was last held in 2003. It was cancelled at short notice in 2005.\n\nThe 2003 event did not follow the normal format and allowed entries from any yacht club affiliated to a national authority, thus allowing the possibility of several teams per country.\n\nThe regatta was based at Cowes on the Isle of Wight off southern England and was organised by the Royal Ocean Racing Club.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1999 the cup was competed for between national teams, each having three boats. Initially only Great Britain and the United States took part but, in later years, many other teams also participated. The Fastnet race was part of the Admiral's Cup during this time.\n\nThe Australians won for the first time in 1967, the winning boat—Mercedes III—designed by Ted Kaufman and Bob Miller (later Ben Lexcen), who went on to success in the America's Cup.\n\nIn 1971 the British Prime Minister, Edward Heath, captained one of the winning boats.\n\nThe 2003 event, the last held, was planned to be based in Dún Laoghaire in Ireland, but this was changed at short notice for reasons that are still unclear. In addition, instead of being a competition between national teams, the event was competed between yacht clubs, each with two boats.\n\nThe 2005 event was cancelled only months before the event was to be held, after only two teams had entered.\n\nAlthough the RORC was looking into reviving the event for 2011, this did not happen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259292", "title": "Without a Sound", "text": "Without a Sound\n\nWithout a Sound is the sixth studio album by alternative rock band Dinosaur Jr., released on August 23, 1994. It is the first Dinosaur Jr. album not to feature Murph on drums, who is replaced by vocalist and guitarist J Mascis. It is also their most commercially successful album, peaking at number 44 on the Billboard Top 200. \"Feel the Pain\" and \"I Don't Think So\" were released as singles, with \"Feel the Pain\" reaching number 4 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart, becoming one of their biggest hits. Mascis later admitted that his father's death affected his writing and performance on this album, and he took three years to deliver the next Dinosaur Jr. LP, 1997's \"Hand It Over\".\n\n\"Feel the Pain\" is a playable track in the video games \"Guitar Hero World Tour\" and \"Rock Band 2\".\n\nJ Mascis said he had a hard time writing the album because his dad had died around the time they were making the album. The cover artwork is a painting by former pro skateboarder Neil Blender, an early fan and friend of the band. The album title comes from a lyric in the song \"Even You\".\n\nIn July 2014, \"Guitar World\" put \"Without a Sound\" in their \"Superunknown: 50 Iconic Albums That Defined 1994\" list.\n\nThe closing song \"Over Your Shoulder\" was frequently used on the Japanese boxing reality show \"Gachinko Fight Club\". In February 2019, 25 years after the album's release, \"Over Your Shoulder\" unexpectedly charted at #18 on the \"Billboard\" Japan Hot 100 based on digital streaming. The phenomenon was credited to YouTube postings of clips from \"Gachinko Fight Club\" registered as containing the song. For a period, clips from the series — which was a segment of a Japanese variety show — had frequently been favored by YouTube's algorithmic suggestions in Japan for unknown reasons.\n\nAll songs by J Mascis.\nIn 2019, the album was reissued as an expanded 2-CD deluxe edition that contained bonus tracks, including a recording of a full live performance at Brixton Academy on October 8, 1994. A double vinyl version was also released, albeit with a smaller selection of bonus tracks.\n\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\nSingles - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2259299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259299", "title": "Tennis at the Summer Olympics", "text": "Tennis at the Summer Olympics\n\nTennis was part of the Summer Olympic Games program from the inaugural 1896 Summer Olympics, but was dropped after the 1924 Summer Olympics due to disputes between the International Lawn Tennis Federation and the International Olympic Committee over how to define amateur players. After two appearances as a demonstration sport in 1968 and 1984 (with a U-21 age limit), it returned as a full medal sport at the 1988 Summer Olympics open for all players regardless of their age and status and has been played at every edition of the Games since then.\n\nIn 1896, 1900, 1904, 1988, and 1992, semifinal losers shared bronze medals. In all other years, a playoff match for the bronze medal was staged.\n\nIn the past, results from the Olympics used to have ranking points that the ATP and WTA added to their players annual totals in singles for that calendar year. This occurred from the 2004 Athens until the 2012 London editions. No points were awarded for the editions prior and for the 2016 Rio Olympics. While the ranking points amount did not equate with those given at the Grand Slam tournaments, the Olympic tournaments have increased in perceived importance since their reintroduction, with some players, critics and sports pundits considering winning the gold at the Olympics just as prestigious as winning a Grand Slam title.\n\nSerena Williams and Venus Williams have each won a record four gold medals, three each as a doubles pairing, the only players to win the same Olympic event on three occasions. Kathleen McKane Godfree (one gold, two silvers, and two bronzes) and Venus Williams (four gold, one silver) are the all-time record holders for the most Olympic medals in tennis. Andy Murray is the only player to have won two singles gold medals, and the only singles player to have retained the Olympic title. Gigi Fernández and Mary Joe Fernández and Serena and Venus Williams achieved this feat in women’s doubles in 1992 and 1996, and 2008 and 2012 respectively.\n\nA player who wins an Olympic gold medal and all four Grand Slam events in the same year is said to have won a Golden Slam. As of 2016, Steffi Graf is the only player to have completed this achievement.\n\nThe playing surface of the court varies between Olympic Games. It has been on hard court for every game since 1984 except for the 1992 Olympics (which was on a clay court) and the 2012 Olympics (which was played on a grass court). The changing playing surface gives certain players different advantages and disadvantages not seen in most other Olympic sports.\n\n\"(d) = demonstration event, (e) = exhibition event\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259305", "title": "Bjarne Reuter", "text": "Bjarne Reuter\n\nBjarne Reuter (born 29 April 1950) is a Danish writer and screenwriter, best known for children's and young adult books.\nMany of his works are set in the 1950s and 1960s, the time period of his childhood and adolescence. Many also feature the Copenhagen area, where he was born in Brønshøj. Reuter is the screenwriter of the popular Danish television series and movie \"Busters verden\" (\"Buster's World\"). \n\nIn 1977 he was awarded with the Danish Ministry of Culture's children book prize. He won the Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis for best children's book in 2000, recognising the German-language edition of \"En som Hodder\" (1998), and was a finalist for the youth book prize in 2003, for the work published in English as \"The Ring of the Slave Prince\" (2004).\n\nFor his lasting contribution as a children's writer, Reuter was a finalist for the biennial, international Hans Christian Andersen Award in both 2002 and 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259324", "title": "The Party Animal", "text": "The Party Animal\n\nThe Party Animal is a movie written and directed by David Beaird. Since its inauspicious debut in 1984, it has become a minor cult classic.\n\n\"The Party Animal\" is a documentary-style comedy about a sex-starved man, Pondo Sinatra, a 22-year-old college student whom everyone agrees is doomed to die a virgin. Desperate to break what seems to be a cosmic curse, he tries ever more bizarre schemes to seduce one of the sexy, scantily-clad women who seem to be everywhere, taunting him and enjoying his misery. Despite his best efforts, however, he is rejected everywhere, even at the local cathouse. When Pondo threatens to kill himself, Studley, his ladykilling best friend, tries to help him in his quest to \"get him a little\", as does Studley's mentor, a wise old janitor named Elbow. The attempts include: a Cyrano de Bergerac-type seduction wherein Studley tells Pondo what to say to a girl via a remote microphone; sending Pondo to buy elegant new clothes (he goes to the Punk store by mistake and leaves looking like Quasimodo); taking massive quantities of drugs because, \"Women love drugs\"; and using the world's biggest vibrator, the Moby-M5 (the M-5 episode provides a pretext for a scene where two porn store employees discuss strategic arms limitation treaties, using various dildos as props).\n\nAfter one of these dating debacles, Pondo frightens Studley by shouting: \"I'D SELL MY SOUL FOR A PIECE OF ASS!\" A nearby goddess (Suzanne Ashley) – a mysterious woman who has been observing Pondo's struggles for some time – hears his cry and cryptically acknowledges it. Some time afterward, Pondo accidentally creates a chemical compound that makes him irresistible to women. At first he revels in his new \"party animal\" prowess; later, exhausted and terrified, he takes to barricading himself in his room to escape the mobs of horny women who pursue him everywhere. \"I have been greedy,\" he confesses despairingly to Studley; \"I am like King Midas; everything I touch turns to poontang!\" He later creeps out, full of fear, to wash his clothes, and is killed by a group of fat middle-aged women who jump him at the laundromat.\n\n\nThe film contains numerous songs by The Fleshtones, Buzzcocks and The Untouchables.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259339", "title": "The Pet Sounds Sessions", "text": "The Pet Sounds Sessions\n\nThe Pet Sounds Sessions is a 4-CD box set released in 1997 which compiles tracks from the Beach Boys' 11th studio album \"Pet Sounds\" (1966) and its 1965–66 recording sessions. The entire album is included in its original mono mix, as well as a specially-created digital stereo mix. The set also contains instrumental tracks, vocals-only tracks, alternate mixes, and edited highlights from the recording sessions for many of the album's songs, along with several tracks not included on the album.\n\nThe box set was nominated for Best Historical Album at the Grammy Awards of 1999. In 2011, it was followed by \"The Smile Sessions\", a similar compilation devoted to the recording of the Beach Boys' unfinished \"Smile\" project.\n\nOriginal producer Brian Wilson writes in the liner notes to \"The Pet Sounds Sessions\": \"It was a heart and soul album; I worked very, very hard on it. The thing is, I’m glad we’re doing this new \"Pet Sounds\" reissue because the \"Pet Sounds\" box set is going to be very revealing to the public as to just what sort of music makers we really are. ... When we were making \"Pet Sounds\" we were absolutely positive we were cutting a milestone record. Carl [Wilson] and I knew for sure we were into something heavier than hell, and we just went with it.\"\n\nCompiler David Leaf explains the purpose of the new compilation: \"The first three CDs of this box set are designed to give you a sense of how Brian and the studio musicians cut the tracks [from \"Pet Sounds\"] and also to give you a unique glimpse into the harmonic magic of the Beach Boys singing.\" He adds: \"It is not hyperbole to say that for every pop and rock group that followed in the Beach Boys wake, \"Pet Sounds\" became an audio benchmark. ... Since that time, nothing has really changed.\"\n\n\"Pet Sounds\" was first released in 1966 in monaural and duophonic formats. Overseen by Brian Wilson and engineered by Mark Linett, the set includes the first stereo mix of \"Pet Sounds\". These new mixes were made possible by the survival of the original \"Pet Sounds\" multitrack tapes. Advances in recording technology allowed the compilers to digitally sync multi-track stems that had been ping-ponged numerous times prior to their final mono mixdown.\n\nThe new mixes created for the box set were made in January–February 1996. Linett wrote: \"In mixing \"Pet Sounds\" in stereo, every attempt was made to duplicate the feel and sound of the original mono mixes. Vocal and instrumental parts that Brian left off the record in 1966 were noted and duplicated, as were the fades.\" To this end, a Scully model 280 4-track was used to transfer the analog reels to digital multi-tracks – the same model used for \"Pet Sounds\". The mix was then processed through an original tube console from United Western Recorders in the 1960s.\n\nSome exceptions remain, and so the stereo mix of \"Pet Sounds\" does contain some differences from the original mono mix. Among them, alternate vocal parts used for the bridge of \"Wouldn't It Be Nice\" and the end of \"God Only Knows\" due to the original tracks no longer existing. \"You Still Believe in Me\" features a single tracked vocal instead of the doubled vocal of the original due to a missing tape. In the mono version, chatter can be heard buried in various tracks; instances of them were omitted from the stereo version at Brian's request.\n\nThere was a minor controversy regarding a significant 18-month delay in the release of the box set (originally planned for May 1996 to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the album's original issue). Reportedly, Mike Love was dissatisfied with the accompanying essays that allegedly understated his involvement in the album's making. The original liner notes had featured none of his comments, even though other band members were interviewed, and new notes were subsequently commissioned to Dennis Diken. Biographer Timothy White said that \"The Beach Boys apparently didn't get the track selections until late in the production phase, and they all had misgivings about how Capitol envisioned it.\"\n\nAllMusic calls the compilation \"a fascinating, educational listen, even if it's not necessarily indispensable.\" \"Q\" gave the \"enlightening\" box set a perfect score and wrote that \"the backing music tracks sans vocals opens your ears to a bevy of awe-inspiring nuances previously obscured by singing. At the same time, the isolated vocal tracks are nothing less than spiritual in their emotive wallop.\" \"The New York Observer\"s D. Strauss called the stereo mix \"pointless\", adding, \"I must admit that, as a music geek, listening to Mr. Wilson hold myriad consultations on when to beep the bicycle horn in 'You Still Believe in Me' carries a portentous thrill\".\n\nThe compilation was pivotal to the inception of the Brian Wilson biopic \"Love & Mercy\", as director Bill Pohlad enthuses: \"It's just so beautiful and impactful for me to listen to that. So the idea of trying to capture that on film was certainly a big part of my interest in making the movie.\"\n\n13 years later, the box set was followed up with \"The Smile Sessions\", a similar collection devoted to \"Smile\", the Beach Boys' album intended to follow \"Pet Sounds\".\n"}
{"id": "2259343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259343", "title": "Wellington, Ontario", "text": "Wellington, Ontario\n\nWellington is an unincorporated place and community in Prince Edward County in eastern Ontario, Canada. It has a population of 1,860 (2011 Census) and is estimated to grow by 2032 to double that figure. The community is on the shore of both Lake Ontario and West Lake in the southwest of the county, and is a geographic hub for exploring much of Prince Edward County's wine region.\n\nThe renowned Sandbanks Beach, the northernmost of Sandbanks Provincial Park's beaches, lands in the Village of Wellington, where it is called Wellington Rotary Beach. It is separated from the Sandbanks Provincial Park by a canal through the beach to Wellington Harbour. Wellington Rotary Beach, completed in 2009, has a boat launch, boardwalk, picnic tables, sun shelter, washrooms, changerooms and an interpretive walkway.\n\nOne of Prince Edward County's earliest residents, Daniel Reynolds, first came to the area in the 18th century and settled in Wellington where his house remains today along Main Street. Reynolds was nicknamed Old Smoke by local First Nations, hence the community was first known as Smokeville. When a post office was established in the 1830s, the village was renamed Wellington after the Duke of Wellington.\n\nThe Wellington Heritage Museum with exhibits on local history is located in the heart of the Village and was built in 1885 as a Quaker Meeting House. A key exhibit is the Douglas A. Crawford Canning Industry Collection, as more than 75 canning factories operated in Prince Edward County from 1882 to 1996.\n\nThe Wellington Farmers' Market is the largest open air market in the region and is open from Victoria Day to Labour Day.\n\nThe Toronto boutique hotelier The Drake Hotel opened a location in Wellington in the fall of 2014.\n\nThe Wellington Dukes of the Ontario Junior Hockey League (Junior A) play at the Essroc Arena (capacity 1,600), part of the Wellington and District Community Centre. The Prince Edward County Minor Baseball Association plays all its games in Wellington, and the rep teams of the Quinte Royals Baseball Club (Midget and Minor Midget age group teams) play their homes games at the Wellington Field of Dreams. There is also a skating club and an equestrian centre in the community.\n\nThe main road in the community is County Road 33 (formerly Ontario Highway 33), known as the Loyalist Parkway. The road goes northwest to Trenton (part of Quinte West) and east to Picton.\n\nThe Prince Edward County Railway from Picton to Trenton ran through the community. It was opened in 1879, was extended to form the Central Ontario Railway in 1882, became part of the Canadian National Railway in 1923, and operated until 1985. The route through the community today forms a rail trail portion of the Millennium Trail.\n\n\nEnglish language public elementary education from JK to Grade 8 is offered at C.M.L. Snider Public School in the Hastings & Prince Edward District School Board. Students must travel to nearby schools in Belleville for separate school French Immersion education, or to Picton for French-language public elementary education. Both Belleville and Quinte West are about 25 minutes by car north of Wellington. Picton is about 20 minutes east of Wellington.\n\nSecondary students travel to Prince Edward Collegiate in Picton for English language public secondary education, or to Bayside Secondary School in Quinte West for French Immersion public secondary education.\n\nSince 1992, the community has been served by the independent \"Wellington Times\" newspaper. The paper is available at over 50 retail locations across the County and has a circulation of approximately 4,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259349", "title": "Fallen Angel (1945 film)", "text": "Fallen Angel (1945 film)\n\nFallen Angel is a 1945 black-and-white film noir directed by Otto Preminger, with cinematography by Joseph LaShelle, who had also worked with Preminger on \"Laura\" a year before. The film features Alice Faye, Dana Andrews, Linda Darnell and Charles Bickford. It was the last film Faye made as a major Hollywood star and she did not make another film until \"State Fair\" (1962).\n\nEric Stanton (Andrews), a down-on-his-luck drifter, gets pulled off a bus in the hamlet of Walton because he does not have the $2.25 extra fare to take him to San Francisco. He finds a greasy spoon called Pop's Eats, where Pop (Percy Kilbride) is worried about waitress Stella because she has not shown up for work for days. Ex-New York cop Mark Judd (Bickford) tells him not to worry. Sure enough, the sultry Stella (Darnell) soon returns. Stanton (like the others) is attracted to her but she is unimpressed by his smooth talk and poverty.\n\nStanton cons his way into a job with Professor Madley (John Carradine), a traveling fortune-teller. No one is willing to buy tickets to the \"spook act\" because an influential local spinster, Clara Mills (Anne Revere), disapproves. Stanton gets to Clara through her inexperienced younger sister June (Faye) and persuades them to attend the performance.\n\nMadley stages an entertaining séance, channeling Abraham Mills, the deceased father of Clara and June. Using information secretly dug up by his assistant Joe Ellis (an uncredited Olin Howland), Madley brings up the sisters' financial problems. The two leave quite upset.\n\nStanton gets to know Stella, watching her steal from the cash register and go out with men. Stanton falls in love with her; she makes it clear that she wants a man who is willing to marry her and buy her a home. He is so obsessed that he agrees to her terms.\n\nTo raise the money, Stanton romances and marries June, planning to divorce her as soon as he can. Clara, who has been victimized by a man of Stanton's type, is unable to prevent their marriage. Stanton cannot stay away from Stella even on his wedding night. Instead of sleeping with his wife, he goes to Stella, who has given up on him. He explains his odd scheme to her. By the time he returns to his wife, she has fallen asleep.\n\nThe next day, Stella turns up dead. Judd is asked by the local police chief to investigate. He first tries to beat a confession out of Dave Atkins (Bruce Cabot), Stella's latest boyfriend, but Atkins has an airtight alibi. Stanton is also a strong suspect, having been seen quarreling with Stella shortly before her death. Judd tells him not to leave town.\n\nStanton flees to a seedy hotel room in San Francisco with June. He tells her all about his drifter's life of failed schemes. June tells Stanton that she loves him. The next day, June is taken into custody when she goes to the bank to withdraw her money.\n\nStanton returns to Pop's Eats, where Judd is waiting for him. Stanton proves Judd is the killer. Judd found out that Stella had agreed to marry someone else rather than wait for his wife to give him a divorce. Judd pulls out his gun, but Pop wrestles it away, and Judd is arrested. Outside, when June asks Stanton where they are going, he tells her, \"Home.\"\n\nThe source of the film was the Marty Holland novel of the same name. She also wrote another story that was adapted for the film noir screen, \"The File on Thelma Jordon\" (1949). According to the British Film Institute, \"Hardly anything is known about Marty Holland except that ‘he’ was a she called Mary, who wrote two or three best selling pulp novels and then in 1949—to all intents and purposes—vanished, there being no further record of her at all.\"\n\nHolland faded into obscurity after her last published writing credit in 1952 until the 70th anniversary of crime drama imprint \"Série noire\". \"Contradicting the consensus theory that Holland changed her name from Mary to Marty to hide her gender and come off as 'more masculine,' her photo is on the back cover of first editions of \"Fallen Angel\", and all reviews and news of the time referred to her as 'Miss Holland' or 'Miss Marty Holland.' Perhaps Marty, that gender-neutral name, sounded more hardboiled than did Mary.\" Holland lived in Los Angeles for the remainder of her life until her death from cancer in 1971.\n\nThe filming locations were in Orange, California.\n\nBosley Crowther, film critic at \"The New York Times,\" liked the acting in the film but was disappointed by the story. He wrote, \"As the frustrated adventurer, Dana Andrews adds another excellent tight-lipped portrait of a growing gallery. Linda Darnell is beautiful and perfectly cast as the sultry and single-minded siren, while Miss Faye, whose lines often border on the banal, shoulders her first straight, dramatic burden, gracefully. Charles Bickford, as a dishonorably discharged cop, Anne Revere, as Miss Faye's spinster sister, and Percy Kilbride, as the lovesick proprietor of the diner in which Miss Darnell works, are outstanding among the supporting players. But for all of its acting wealth, \"Fallen Angel\" falls short of being a top flight whodunit.\"\n\nCritic Tim Knight, at Reel.com, notes that if the viewers can forget the \"headlong dive into preposterousness, it's still a lot of fun\". His review adds, \"... the movie does have much to recommend, from Joseph La Shelle's atmospheric, black-and-white cinematography to Preminger's taut direction to the juicy, hard-boiled dialogue. Veteran character actors Charles Bickford, John Carradine and Percy Kilbride (of \"Ma and Pa Kettle\" fame) lend strong support to the sizzling twosome of Andrews and Darnell, who made only one more film together, when they were both past their prime: 1957's \"Zero Hour!\", a forgotten grade-Z thriller.\"\n\nCritic Fernando F. Croce wrote of the film, \"\"Fallen Angel,\" the director's follow-up to his 1944 classic, is often predictably looked down as a lesser genre venture, yet its subtle analysis of shadowy tropes proves both a continuation and a deepening of Preminger's use of moral ambiguity as a tool of human insight...Preminger's refusal to draw easy conclusions—his pragmatic curiosity for people—is reflected in his remarkable visual fluidity, the surveying camera constantly moving, shifting dueling points-of-view in order to give them equal weight. \"Fallen Angel\" may not satisfy genre fans who like their noir with fewer gray zones, but the director's take on obsession remains no less fascinating for trading suspense for multilayered lucidity.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2259359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259359", "title": "Weightlifting at the Summer Olympics", "text": "Weightlifting at the Summer Olympics\n\nWeightlifting has been contested at every Summer Olympic Games since the 1920 Summer Olympics, as well as twice before then. It debuted at the 1896 Summer Olympics, in Athens, Greece, and was also an event at the 1904 Games.\n\nIn the early Games, all lifters competed in the same events, regardless of their individual body weights.\n\nWhen the sport returned to the Olympic Games in 1920, the competition was structured as a set of weight classes. The number of classes and weight limits for each class have changed several times, as shown in the following table.\n\nWomen's weightlifting made its Olympic debut at the 2000 Games in Sydney, with seven weight classes.\n\n\"As of the 2016 Summer Olympics\"\n\nThe table shows those who have won at least 2 gold medals. Boldface denotes active weightlifters and highest medal count among all weightlifters (including these who not included in these tables) per type.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259361", "title": "Freman Hendrix", "text": "Freman Hendrix\n\nFreman Hendrix (born October 12, 1950) is an American politician from the state of Michigan. A Democrat, Hendrix served as Deputy Mayor for former Detroit Mayor Dennis Archer from 1997 to 2001. He ran twice, unsuccessfully, as a mayoral candidate in the city of Detroit: in 2005 against Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, and for the 2009 special election called to replace the ousted Kilpatrick.\n\nThe son of a black Army veteran, Emmanuel Freman Hendrix, and an Austrian-born woman, Rudolfine Ernegger, Hendrix was born in Inkster, Michigan, graduated from Inkster High School. He earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from Eastern Michigan University in 1982, became a member of Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity, and was initiated into the Delta Nu chapter at EMU; Hendrix served in the U.S. Navy for four years.\n\nHe later worked in the administration of former Wayne County Executive Edward H. McNamara, and was himself elected to a two-year term as Assistant County Executive for Wayne County in 1991. He worked for Bill Clinton's presidential campaign in Michigan and managed Dennis Archer's successful mayoral campaign in 1994, serving as chief of staff from 1994 to 1997 and as deputy mayor of Detroit during Archer's second term. Mayor Archer concurrently named Hendrix chairman of the appointed Detroit School Board in 1999. He was among the 18 presidential electors chosen to cast Michigan's votes in the Electoral College for Democratic Party nominee Al Gore in 2000.\n\nThe city's major daily papers, the \"Detroit News\" and the \"Detroit Free Press\", endorsed Hendrix. The alternative weekly, \"Metro Times\", somewhat reluctantly endorsed Hendrix. Its editors deem Hendrix \"has served the public without the taint of scandal, although soiled somewhat by his associations,\" and claims that as Archer's deputy, Hendrix bears some responsibility for the problems of the city that were still unsolved at the end of Archer's term. Interviewers from \"The South End\" asked Hendrix if he would consider a partnership of the city with the colleges of Detroit, to which he answered, \"The short answer to that is yes, of course.\"\n\nHendrix won the August 2 primary election by a comfortable margin, with incumbent Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick coming in second. After a successful campaign by incumbent Kwame Kilpatrick, in which commercials that exposed Hendrix support of a state takeover of the Detroit Public Schools were run, Hendrix lost support throughout the Detroit Community. He ultimately lost to Kilpatrick in the controversial November 8, 2005, election by a margin of 47% to 53%.\n\nHendrix was named chief operating officer of Strategic Staffing Solutions and joined EMU in August 2006 as chief government relations officer, focusing on strengthening relationships with legislators in Lansing and Washington, D.C.\n\nHendrix officially announced a second formal campaign for mayor of Detroit at the EMU Student Government meeting on October 7, 2008. After an inquiry by Student Body Vice-President Robert Philip Kull about his plans, Hendrix revealed his plans as a way of pushing for \"honesty, transparency, and accountability\". Others who announced their candidacy were interim Mayor Ken Cockrel Jr., Sharon McPhail, Coleman Young II, Nicholas Hood III, and Dave Bing; Hendrix ultimately came in third in the February 24, 2009, primary behind Cockrel and Bing (who was elected mayor).\n\nHendrix was the top vote getter in the August 4, 2009 primary for a post in the Charter Revision Commission, receiving 11% of the vote. He resigned, however, from the commission on September 14, 2010, to join the Greektown Casino Hotel Board of Directors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259363", "title": "Petra Procházková", "text": "Petra Procházková\n\nPetra Procházková (; born October 20, 1964 in Český Brod) is a Czech journalist and humanitarian worker. She is best known as a war correspondent from conflict areas of the former Soviet Union.\n\nProcházková studied journalistics at Charles University in Prague (graduated in 1986). In 1989 she started to work in the re-established newspaper Lidové noviny. In 1992 she became Lidové noviny's Moscow correspondent. Here she began covering conflict areas—Abkhazia being the first. During Russian constitutional crisis of 1993 she was the only journalist staying in the besieged Russian White House. In 1994, together with fellow journalist Jaromír Štětina, Procházková founded the independent journalism agency \"Epicentrum\" dedicated to war reporting. In following years they covered events in Chechnya, Abkhazia, Ossetia, Georgia, Tadjikistan, Afghanistan, Nagorny Karabakh, Kurdistan, Kashmir and East Timor. Her work has won her several journalistic awards.\n\nFor several years, Procházková concentrated on wars in Chechnya and was in Groznyi when it was bombed for the first time. In June 1995, during the hostage-taking raid at Budyonnovsk in southern Russia, she offered herself in exchange for hostages taken from the hospital. Procházková reported the horrors of both the first and second Chechen War, often to the dismay of Russian authorities. During that time, she started to organize relief efforts for families ravaged by war. In 2000 she limited her work as a journalist and dedicated herself to humanitarian work, establishing a shelter for orphans in Groznyi. Her critique of Russian politics in Chechnya brought punishment—in 2000 she was forbidden to stay in Russia for a period of several years (and returned there only in late 2011).\n\nAfter return from Russia to the Czech Republic, Procházková founded a small humanitarian organisation \"Berkat\" which concentrates on aid mainly to Chechnya and Afghanistan. Adding to the list of volatile regions she has worked in, she began covering the situation in Afghanistan, and was the last journalist to speak with Ahmed Shah Massoud before he was killed.\n\nProcházková's second husband, Ibragim Zyazikov, an Ingushethian from the teip of Murat Zyazikov who worked as security guard for the People in Need organization, was kidnapped in Chechnya in February 2003 and disappeared without trace. In 2006, her son Zafar (named after her third husband, Zafar Paikar, a photographer from Afghanistan) was born.\n\nIn 2001, the cash prize of the Hanno R. Ellenbogen Citizenship Award was passed on to her by Madeleine Albright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259365", "title": "Stanley Theater (Utica, New York)", "text": "Stanley Theater (Utica, New York)\n\nThe Stanley Theatre is a historic Baroque movie palace in Utica, New York. Over the years, it has gone through several changes of ownership, but has always been affiliated with Warner Brothers Pictures.\n\nOriginally owned by the Stanley-Mark Strand Corporation chain (founded by brothers Mitchel H. Mark and Moe Mark), the Stanley Theatre (and entire movie theatre chain) was purchased three days before opening by Warner Brothers. The company was eager to showcase its products on as many screens as possible. The theatre opened on September 10, 1928, with the silent movie \"Ramona\" starring Dolores del Río.\n\nThomas W. Lamb, a prolific theatre architect, designed the 2,963 seat cinema for the Mastbaum chain of theatres. The theatre was named for Stanley, one of the Mastbaum brothers. While Lamb and his firm designed over 300 theatres worldwide, he is considered to be somewhat of a local, having owned a camp in the Adirondacks. (His great grandson lives in the Albany area today.)\n\nThe Stanley was built in less than 13 months on the expanding southern edge of downtown, some four blocks away from Utica's theatre district. Unfortunately, all the theatres located there were razed during the Urban Renewal era of the 1960s and 70s. The Stanley remained open through all of this, though it suffered many years of benign neglect. In 1974, when the threat of destruction became very real, the Central New York Community Arts Council (renamed Stanley Center for the Arts in 2008) spearheaded a campaign to acquire the property, which it did for $135,000.\n\nThe design motif of the Stanley Theatre is dubbed “Mexican Baroque” because of its unique blend of styles. The terra cotta and tiled mosaic exterior shows the Mexican influence, while Habsburg lions, Indian faces, and a multitude of angels and cherubs grace the lavish gold leaf Baroque theatre interior. Moorish influence is also evident in the star-splashed ceiling and twisted columns flanking the stage. Legend has it that the grand entry staircase was designed to resemble the main staircase on the Titanic ocean liner.\n\nWhile the Stanley Theatre continued to be primarily a movie house, it introduced live events early in its history. Today it is host to the Munson-Williams-Proctor Arts Institute Great Artists Series (over 75 years); Broadway Theatre League (50 years); Utica Symphony (over 60 years); and the Mohawk Valley Ballet (over 25 years).\n\nNotable early performers included legendary singers Marian Anderson, Ezio Pinza, Lily Pons, Jeanette MacDonald, and Gene Autry. Later illustrious entertainers included Chuck Mangione, Conway Twitty, Third Eye Blind, Diana Ross, Barry Manilow, and Harry Connick Jr. The Stanley was also host to multiple appearances by Jerry Seinfeld, Wynton Marsalis, George Carlin, Itzhak Perlman, Bob Weir & RatDog!, and B.B. King. More recent performances include Aretha Franklin and legendary songwriter Burt Bacharach. The Broadway Theatre League brought in National Touring productions of \"Cats\", \"Annie\", \"Evita\", \"\", and \"Barnum\".\n\nThe theater was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1976. It is significant for its relationship to the early movie industry and its distinctive architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259370", "title": "Grand Prix 2", "text": "Grand Prix 2\n\nGrand Prix 2, released in the American market as Grand Prix II, is a racing simulator released by MicroProse in 1996. It's a sequel to \"Formula One Grand Prix\". It was made under an official FIA license that featured the Formula One 1994 season, with all of the circuits, teams, drivers and cars. The cars were painted with liveries reflecting the races that did not allow tobacco and alcohol sponsors (e.g. 1994 German Grand Prix).\n\nIt had 3D texture mapping and SVGA graphics, as well as an early 3D physics engine. A large community of GP2 enthusiasts formed following the game's release. \"Grand Prix 2\" is recognized as one of the definitive racing simulations of its era.\n\nThe game is a simulation of the 1994 Formula One season with all 16 circuits from the 1994 season and 28 drivers in their 14 teams. Unlike the real 1994 season, where teams changed drivers and sponsorship liveries repeatedly, the game has a consistent driver list and set of liveries throughout, which reflects that of the 1994 German Grand Prix. As a result, Ayrton Senna and Roland Ratzenberger, who both were killed during the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix are not present in the game. The liveries for each of the cars are also based on their appearance at the 1994 German Grand Prix, where all teams ran non-tobacco livery. It includes all parts of a Formula One weekend, including practice, qualifying and racing. It also included a championship mode which simulated the entire season.\n\nThere was no \"arcade\" mode in Grand Prix II, per se, but it included the ability to turn on and off seven \"driving aids\": steering help, braking help, automatic turn-around (has the car face forward after a crash), indestructibility, racing line help, automatic shifting and traction control. The game had five levels of difficulty one could choose from, and the higher the level, the less options for driving aids one could turn on or off.\n\nThere also is a \"Quickrace\" function that lets the player jump into a race without having to go through the perfunctory qualifying session. The quickrace option was customizable, allowing a player to race as many laps as desired and allow the player to set their grid position.\n\nThe player selects the car they will drive among the 28 seats available, supplanting the driver who originally raced in that vehicle.\n\nThe game had multiple camera angles, including a simulated TV coverage angle. A player can control his or her car from any of them, but the primary angle used was the first-person cockpit angle.\n\nThe game can be played using the keyboard, mouse or joystick depending on the player's preference.\n\nThe cars can be customizable in myriad ways through the setup function. Car setups could be modified to high detail with a high degree of accuracy and attention to detail.\n\nIn addition to the single player modes, the game also offered hotseat and modem-linked LAN multiplayer modes.\n\nA race can be played in turns, with different players driving different cars in the race. Gameplay in this mode has one player at a time driving their car in the race. Instead of a split screen game, The computer simulates the driving for the other players' cars when they are not being controlled by one of the players waiting their turn.\n\nThe game also featured a replay function and save game feature. The replay function showed the last ~30 seconds of racing and included the ability to save replays. It did not include an edit function.\n\nThe save game feature allowed players to save their progress in the game\n\nThe game also replicated engine, gearbox and electronic failures. This meant cars not only could crash, but also have flames or smoke shoot out of the backs of their cars from engine failure, to which they raced around the circuit damaged for a limited time before parking at the side of the road or in the pits. This was the first to simulate visual car failures; as in 1989's \"\" cars fell out of the race but went to the pits and parked permanently when a car failure was present.\n\n\"Grand Prix II\" did not include wet weather conditions. There also was the lack of a 'black flag' system replicating Formula One regulation penalties for course cutting, instead slowing the car down for a limited period of time if the course is cut through.\n\nThe game was developed by Geoff Crammond as a follow up to 1991's \"Formula One Grand Prix\" (which was known as \"World Circuit\" in the US). In a time when the gaming industry had become dominated by development teams, it was a rare instance of an essentially one-man-project.\n\nIt was the first serious racing simulation programmed with all three axes in it—i.e. the ability for vehicles to get airborne in the game. (1990's \"Stunts\" and \"Stunt Driver\" featured this ability, but were not racing simulations of a series.) However, GP2 lacked the feature of having a car flip over entirely, which not yet was seen in hardcore racing simulations. In some cases, the game would crash if the car was about to overturn. Microsoft's \"Monster Truck Madness\" (1996), simulating monster truck racing, may have been the first to have that feature.\n\nIt included more extensive physics and included image mapping over the 3D model of the car to show vehicle liveries, a feature that emerged in racing simulations with Papyrus Design Group's 1993 \"IndyCar Racing\".\n\nFollowing \"Grand Prix 2\"s release in July 1996, its global sales reached 500,000 copies in September. This number rose to 750,000 copies by mid-January 1997, driven in large part by European purchases. In August 1998, the game received a \"Platinum\" sales award from the Verband der Unterhaltungssoftware Deutschland (VUD), indicating sales of at least 200,000 units across Germany, Austria and Switzerland. \"Grand Prix 2\" sold 1.5 million copies worldwide by late 2000. That year, Andy Mahood of \"PC Gamer US\" described the entire \"Grand Prix\" series as \"one of the most successful PC racing franchises in history.\"\n\nCritics hailed \"Grand Prix II\" as stunning and the class of the field for Formula 1 simulations. Jim Varner of \"GameSpot\" particularly applauded the way it breaks the convention of racing games always falling into either simulation-style or arcade-style, through the use of adjustable \"driving aids\", which when turned off make \"Grand Prix II\" a phenomenally complex and realistic driving sim, and when turned on make it one of the most fun and exciting arcade-style racers ever made. Calling it \"unquestionably the best racing game yet made for the PC\", he gave it a 9.5 out of 10. PC Zone gave the game 95%. The game was rated outstanding by CNet.\n\n\"Grand Prix 2\" was nominated as \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\"s 1996 \"Racing Simulation\" of the year, although it lost to \"NASCAR Racing II\".\n\nThough they never published a review of \"Grand Prix 2\", shortly after its release \"Next Generation\" named it the 46th best game of all time, calling it \"Perhaps the most sophisticated and realistic driving game ever created\". \"Grand Prix 2\" and its predecessor, collectively, were named the seventh best computer game of all time by \"PC Gamer UK\" in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259371", "title": "Haberl", "text": "Haberl\n\nHaberl is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259372", "title": "The Saddletramps", "text": "The Saddletramps\n\nThe Saddletramps were an alternative country band from Toronto, Ontario in the 1980s and 1990s. Core members of the band included Ken Horne, Andrew Lindsay, John DeHaas and Brian Duguay.\n\nIn the early 1980s several Fanshawe College students from the Greater Toronto Area who shared a rented house in London, Ontario got together to form the band Tin Mitten. Their first gig was opening for another established local band, The Waiting. Friends of the band members chanted \"No Waiting, Mitten Now\" and pelted the band with mittens. The band was soon renamed The Saddletramps, and performed in various Toronto venues. \n\nLindsay met seventeen-year-old Sarah Harmer while working at Sunrise Records in Burlington, and she joined the band, later commuting to Toronto to perform on weekends while attending Queen's University. \n\nIn 1989 the Saddletramps released their first album, \"The Saddle Tramps\", on cassette tape, with Dehaas on bass, Duguay on lead guitar and vocals, Harmer on vocals, Horne on percussion, Lindsay on vocals and guitar. Mike Northcott also contributed some instrumental work. The album was recorded at Grant Ave and Axon Studios, and all but one of the songs were written by the band members.\n\nIn 1990 the band released a second cassette album, \"Yardsale\". Harmer left to concentrate on her studies; she later fronted her own band, Weeping Tile.\n\nThe Saddletramps disbanded in 1995. \n\nIn 1999, Harmer began a solo career; her solo album \"You Were Here\" included a new recording of \"Don't Get Your Back Up\", which she had originally recorded with The Saddletramps on \"Yardsale\". Lindsay, Duguay, and Dehaas formed a new band called Loomer along with Michael Taylor, Iain Thomson, and Scott Loomer. The band released an album, \"Love Is A Dull Instrument\" in 2004. In 2006, Harmer sang \"Only Lovers\" on the band's second album, \"Songs of the Wild West Island\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2259376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259376", "title": "Rhode Island Route 120", "text": "Rhode Island Route 120\n\nRoute 120 is a numbered state highway running in the U.S. state of Rhode Island. It runs along the Nate Whipple Highway for its entire length. Its western terminus is at Route 122 in Cumberland and the eastern terminus is at the Massachusetts border where it continues as Massachusetts Route 120.\n\nRoute 120 takes the following route through the State:\n\n\nMany maps erroneously show Route 120 extending west from Route 122 to Route 146. Signage very clearly shows this to be incorrect. The routing shown on most maps continues Route 120 north on Route 122 for about one block, then heading southwest on Manville Hill Road to Route 126, where it travels north with Route 126 to Sayles Hill Road, then southwest on Sayles Hill Road to Route 146.\n\nThough Route 120 does not extend past Route 122, a state-maintained road continues past an interchange with Route 99 to Route 146.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259378", "title": "Bajuni Islands", "text": "Bajuni Islands\n\nThe Bajuni Islands (, also known as the Bajun Islands or Baajun Islands) are an archipelago that is part of Jubaland in the Somali sea. They are situated on the southern coast of Somalia, from Kismayo to Ras Kiyamboni (not to be confused with Ras Kamboni). They lie at the northern end of a string of reefs that continues south to Zanzibar and Pemba.\n\nAdministratively, the islands are within the Lower Juba region of Somalia.\n\nThere are six main islands:\nChula with the village of Ndowa is the only island with a significant population.\n\nOther islands of minor importance are: Kandha Iwu, Fuma, Ilisi and the island of Kismayo (actual Kismayo harbor), the latter of which was attached to the coast in 1961 during the construction of Kismayo Port.\n\nThe islands, as well as the extreme southern area of present-day Somalia, were part of British East Africa prior to World War I. They were later transferred to Italy after the war. According to C. Wightwick Haywood, then a British official in Kismayo, who visited the islands in 1913, the only inhabited islands in the chain were Tovai (i.e., Chovaye - the biggest island in the chain) and the nearby Tula (i.e. Chula). Each of these two islands were no more than 3 miles long and a mile across.\n\nOn his 1913 trip, Haywood saw ruins of what he described as a \"fair-sized town\" on the Tovai (Chovaye) Island. He was impressed He mentioned that somewhat similar stone scrollwork could also be seen on houses in the Lamu Islands in present-day Kenya. Until 1925, the Bajuni Islands had for decades formed a constituent part of British Jubaland, until the adjacent mainland territory was ceded and British Jubaland ceased to exist.\n\nThe islands are today mainly inhabited by the eponymous Bajuni people and Marehan. All Bajuni inhabitants of Koyama island belong to the Nowfali sub-clan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259385", "title": "Ballard Elementary School District", "text": "Ballard Elementary School District\n\nBallard Elementary School District is located in the rural town of Ballard, California serving residents of the Santa Ynez Valley.\n\nThe district was founded in 1882 and was the first school in the valley. There is one school in this district, Ballard Elementary. Ballard Elementary is a Kindergarten through 6th grade school originally built in 1886 as a one-room schoolhouse. The \"little red schoolhouse\" is still used today by the Kindergarten and 1st grades. 128 students attend this school. Ballard School has become renowned for its quality of instruction, achieving second place among 43 school district results for Santa Barbara County, in the 2006 No Child Left Behind testing program.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259388", "title": "Session 9", "text": "Session 9\n\nSession 9 is a 2001 American psychological horror film directed by Brad Anderson, written by Anderson and Stephen Gevedon, and starring David Caruso, Peter Mullan, Gevedon, Paul Guilfoyle, Josh Lucas, and Brendan Sexton III. It follows an asbestos abatement crew who begin to experience growing tensions while working in an abandoned mental asylum; this is paralleled by the gradual revelation of a former patient's disturbed past through recorded audio tapes of her regression sessions.\n\nThe film takes place in and around the Danvers State Mental Hospital in Danvers, Massachusetts, which was partially demolished five years after the film was made. While the film was not a financial success, \"Session 9\" was moderately well-received critically and is considered a cult film.\n\nGordon Fleming, the owner of an asbestos abatement company in Massachusetts, makes a bid to remove asbestos from an abandoned psychiatric hospital. Desperate for money, he promises to complete the job in one week. His crew includes Mike, a law school dropout who is knowledgeable about the asylum's history; Phil, who is dealing with his grief over a recent breakup by chain-smoking marijuana; Hank, a gambling addict; and Jeff, Gordon's nephew with a pathological fear of the dark.\n\nWhile surveying the job site, Gordon hears a disembodied voice that greets him by name, but ignores it. As the men begin their job, Mike discovers a box containing nine audio-taped sessions with Mary Hobbes, a patient who suffered from dissociative identity disorder. Mike begins listening to the tapes in the ensuing days, which contain sessions in which Mary's psychologist attempts to unveil details surrounding a crime she committed at her home two decades prior; in the sessions, Mary exhibits numerous personalities who have unique voices and demeanors. Meanwhile, while removing asbestos from tunnels running beneath the hospital, Hank discovers a cache of antique silver dollar coins and other valuables scattered from the crematory. Late that night, Hank covertly returns to the hospital to retrieve the items, and discovers a lobotomy pick among them. Hank becomes frightened by a series of noises, and witnesses a shadowy figure in the tunnel. As he flees, he is confronted by an unknown assailant.\n\nWhen Hank fails to show up to work the next day, the others learn he broke up with his girlfriend, and speculate he may have won money gambling and left town. An additional worker, Craig McManus, is hired to take Hank's place. During working hours, Gordon repeatedly attempts to contact his wife, Wendy, but she screens his calls. He confides in Phil that he slapped her after she inadvertently splashed him with a pot of boiling water, and that she refuses to answer his calls or let him see their infant daughter. In a stairwell in the hospital, Jeff witnesses Hank staring out a window wearing sunglasses, talking to himself. When Jeff retrieves the others, Hank has vanished.\n\nThe men split up to search for Hank, while Mike instead is compelled to continue listening to the tapes. Jeff and Phil separately descend into the tunnels to search for Hank; Phil finds him, half-nude, still wearing sunglasses, and muttering to himself. Shortly after, the generator runs out of fuel, leaving Jeff trapped in absolute darkness. Mike restores the electricity and continues listening to the ninth session tape, which reveals that one of Mary's malignant personalities, \"Simon,\" was responsible for her stabbing her little brother and parents to death. Meanwhile, Phil finds Gordon in Mary's former hospital room, staring at photos from his daughter's baptism which he has pasted to the wall. Jeff subsequently emerges from the tunnels, resurfacing in an outbuilding, and is attacked by an unseen assailant at the company van.\n\nThe following day, Gordon arrives at the hospital and finds Hank wrapped in plastic sheeting in one of the rooms, the lobotomy pick protruding from his eye. Gordon is confronted by Phil, who repeatedly tells him to \"wake up\" before vanishing in front of him. Craig enters the room and witnesses Gordon standing over Hank, who is barely alive. Gordon attacks Craig, forcing him in a headlock before pulling the lobotomy pick from Hank's eye socket and stabbing it into Craig′s. Gordon, in a dissociated state, proceeds to find the bodies of each of his crew members lain out in various rooms in the hospital, and recounts his murdering each of them. He also recalls his killing Wendy, his infant daughter, and dog after Wendy spilled the boiling water on him.\n\nDistraught, Gordon confusedly attempts to call his home to apologize to Wendy. As he stares at the bloody scene, an excerpt from the ninth session tape plays: During it, Mary's doctor asks her, \"And where do you live, Simon?\" to which \"Simon\" responds: \"I live in the weak and the wounded, Doc.\"\n\nIn reviewing the film for the 2003 edition of \"The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror\", Edward Bryant contends that Simon is not necessarily an alternate personality of the former patient Mary, but rather a malignant genius loci. He also points out that the deleted scenes included on the DVD help fill out the narrative. Critics have also pointed out similarities and references to Stanley Kubrick's \"The Shining\" (1980).\n\nScholar Heike Schwarz states that \"Session 9\" \"refers to MPD [multiple personality disorder] and a possible possession with a demonic personality.\" \nM. Scott Peck also saw evil originating from weakness or cowardice.\n\n\"Session 9\" was director Brad Anderson's first horror film, after directing two romantic comedy films, \"Next Stop Wonderland\" (1998) and \"Happy Accidents\" (2000). Anderson describes \"Session 9\" as an \"American tragedy\", and states that he and screenwriter Stephen Gevedon aimed \"to subvert the conventions of the so-called horror genre that exists now\", which he describes as \"less horror than it is teen thriller.\" \n\nThe film's plot was inspired by the Richard Rosenthal case, a murder that took place in Boston, where Anderson grew up, in the mid-1990s, in which a man supposedly killed his wife after she accidentally burnt his dinner, then cut out her heart and lungs and put them in his backyard on a stake. Anderson states that it was also \"as you imagine, very much inspired by the location\", Danvers State Asylum. \n\n\"Don't Look Now\", directed by Nicolas Roeg, was one inspiration for the film, for its sense of place and because the lead character realizes in the climax that he is at the heart of the mystery. Anderson has stated that he aimed to use sound to convey the plot as well as to generate \"a creepy tone\"; the sound design incorporated the subliminal use of animal and mechanical noises. \n\nMost of the film was shot in a small section of the Danvers Asylum; according to actor David Caruso, the rest of the building was \"unsafe\" for shooting. Caruso also claims the sets did not need to be dressed as all the props featured in the film were already there inside the building. Elaborating Caruso said:\n\nIt was one of the first motion pictures to be shot in 24p HD digital video, which shoots at 24 frames-per-second like film, as opposed to regular digital video which shoots at 30 frames-per-second.\n\n\"Session 9\" premiered at the Fantasia Festival in July 2001. It was released to theaters on August 10, playing on 30 screens. It ended its American theatrical run on October 18, grossing a total of $378,176. The film was a greater financial success abroad, earning $1.2 million internationally.\n\n\"Session 9\" received mixed to positive reviews from critics. The film currently holds a 63% approval rating on movie review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on sixty-seven reviews, with a weighted mean score of 6.2/10.\n\nSome critics praised the film's dark, eerie atmosphere and lack of gore. \"Entertainment Weekly\" called the film \"a marvel of vérité nightmare atmosphere.\" \"Rolling Stone\" called it \"a spine-tingler\", and praised Brad Anderson's direction. \"Los Angeles Times\" said of the film: \"\"Session 9\" is so effective that its sense of uncertainty lingers long after the theater lights have gone up.\" Bloody Disgusting ranked the film fifth in its list of the twenty best horror films of the 2000s, writing, \"\"Session 9\" isn't just a cheap, hack 'n' slash, instantly-forgettable type horror film, but a psychologically probing, deeply unsettling journey off the edge and into the abyss of the human mind.\" \"Slant Magazine\" favorably compared it to the 1973 film \"Don't Look Now\", writing, \"Anderson's creeper is nowhere near as profound, but the film's old-fashioned pacing and revelatory camerawork bring to mind [Nicolas] Roeg's uniquely terrifying dreamworlds.\"\n\nSome reviewers criticized the film's ending. A negative review came from \"Variety\", which wrote, \"while pic works up a nervously eerie paranoia, it finally doesn't know what to do with what it sets up.\" \"San Francisco Chronicle\" said, \"the story doesn't quite pay off, characters are underwritten and the surprise ending is contrived and unconvincing.\" \"The Village Voice\" wrote, \"the script for \"Session 9\" is so underwritten that even such lively character actors as David Caruso, Peter Mullan and Brendan Sexton III are left stranded.\" Dave Kehr, in a mixed review for \"The New York Times\", praises the \"impeccable\" performances and the dialogue's \"authentic working-class snap\", but criticizes the pacing which \"often feels long and aimless\", and concludes that the film \"loses any sense of urgency or structure\" because of Anderson's choice to leave the connections between events unstated.\n\nUSA Films and Universal Home Entertainment released a DVD of \"Session 9\" on February 26, 2002. A Blu-ray edition was released in August 2016 by Scream Factory.\n\nThe score to \"Session 9\" was composed by Seattle, Washington-based experimental band Climax Golden Twins. The score is in an ambient and dark ambient vein. The soundtrack was released on August 21, 2001, through Milan Records. \"Choke Chain\" by Sentridoh is played over the closing credits of the film, but is not featured on the album.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259390", "title": "Stanley Theater", "text": "Stanley Theater\n\nStanley Theater may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2259393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259393", "title": "Christmas and the Beads of Sweat", "text": "Christmas and the Beads of Sweat\n\nChristmas and the Beads of Sweat is the fourth album by New York-born singer, songwriter, and pianist Laura Nyro. The album was released on the Columbia Records label in November 1970 after Nyro had recorded it in the early summer with producers Felix Cavaliere and Arif Mardin. Whilst Nyro had handed over production reins, she was still in control of the project and co-arranged her compositions.\n\nThe album is the closing part of a Laura Nyro trilogy that also comprises 1968's \"Eli and the Thirteenth Confession\" and 1969's \"New York Tendaberry\". Musically, the album is a bridge between the two, balancing the lighter and more joyful tones of \"Eli\" with the dark, sensual, and piano-dominated \"Tendaberry\".\n\nThe presence of The Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section on side one lends the album a more easygoing, rock-inspired sound, but this is countered by Nyro's evocative lyrics and moody piano delivery. Nyro had by this time built up a strong reputation as a songwriter, and the album features star turns from Duane Allman, who adds a guitar solo to the driving \"Beads of Sweat,\" and Alice Coltrane, who adds harp to side two.\n\nThe album, buoyed by Nyro's popularity as a songwriter, became her second commercially successful album in succession, peaking at #51 on the \"Billboard\" 200, known as the Pop Albums chart. The album is also responsible for spawning Nyro's sole chart hit single, with a cover of Gerry Goffin and Carole King's \"Up on the Roof,\" which peaked at #92 on the Pop Singles chart, now known as the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nAll songs written by Laura Nyro, except where noted.\n\n\n\nMichele Kort's biography \"Soul Picnic: The Music and Passion of Laura Nyro\" ()\n\n"}
{"id": "2259396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259396", "title": "Caroline Spurgeon", "text": "Caroline Spurgeon\n\nCaroline Frances Eleanor Spurgeon (24 October 1869, India – 24 October 1942, Tucson, Arizona) was an English literary critic. In 1913, she was appointed Hildred Carlisle Professor of English at the University of London and became head of the Department of English at Bedford College, London. She was the first woman to be awarded a chair at the University of London, and only the third in Britain (after Edith Morley and Millicent Mackenzie). She co-founded the International Federation of University Women with Dr Virginia Gildersleeve.\n\nCaroline Spurgeon was educated at Cheltenham Ladies' College, Dresden and at King's College London and University College London.\n\nShe is known as the first female university professor in London, the second in England. She was the first female professor of English Literature (Edith Morley was given the inaccurate title 'Professor of English Language'). From May 1900 she lectured on English Literature in London. She became a member of the staff of Bedford College, London, in 1901, and successfully competed for the newly created chair for English literature in 1913. \n\nShe was an expert on William Shakespeare and Geoffrey Chaucer. Her thesis, published in 1911 in Paris, was on \"Chaucer devant la critique\", and in 1929 in London on \"500 years of Chaucer criticism and allusion\". Her most famous work, \"Shakespeare's Imagery and What it Tells Us\" (1935) is a methodologically innovative compendium and analysis of poetic images. In 1936 she settled in Tucson, Arizona, where she died, on her 73rd birthday from cerebral arteriosclerosis. After WWII, her 'intimate friend' Dr Virginia Gildersleeve moved her body to be buried alongside her long time companion Lilian Mary Clapham (1871 – December 21, 1935) at Alciston Parish Church, Alciston, United Kingdom.\n\nSmart networking in the British Federation of University Women and with female counterparts in the more progressive United States helped her gain leadership positions in the restructuring of English studies in Britain (e.g., the English Association) as well as in the launching of the English literature curriculum at the University of London. Through her various professional activities inside her own department, she participated in the academic literary-critical renaissance of the 1920s and early 1930s. She was also an active militant in favour of women's eligibility to academic degrees. She advocated for more opportunities for foreign women in British Universities. Her own appointment to a professorial chair marked a turning point in the history of women's higher education.\n\nSpurgeon's 1911 Paris doctoral dissertation, \"Chaucer devant la critique en Angleterre et en France depuis son temps jusqu' nos jours\", which she published in three volumes in English in 1929, \"Five Hundred Years of Chaucer Criticism and Allusion, 1357–1900\", secured her a lasting place in the history of scholarship on the Middle English author. The study made available to her colleagues the rich tapestry of the reception of the father of English poetry.\n\nIn 1935, Spurgeon wrote the pioneer study on the use of images in William Shakespeare's work, called \"Shakespeare's Imagery, and what it tells us\". It has been reprinted several times. In it she analyses the different types of images and motifs that he uses in his plays. She also shows that there is a \"cluster\", or there are several \"clusters\", of images in each of the major plays, for instance, illness and injury images in \"Hamlet\", and light and darkness images in \"Romeo and Juliet\".\n\nSome examples may here suffice:\n\nThe study of \"imagery\" can, apart from helping to understand the meaning of the play, give some insight into the poet's mind, because it shows what ideas come to his mind when in need of poetic expression, thus giving some clues as to his background, his upbringing, his social position, and so on.\n\nIt can also often help to distinguish his style from that of other authors, and thus is a vital instrument in disproving for example the theory that Francis Bacon may be the author of \"Shakespeare's\" plays, since a statistical comparison between the fields of imagery in both authors shows revealing differences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259412", "title": "Ilex aquifolium", "text": "Ilex aquifolium\n\nIlex aquifolium, the holly, common holly, English holly, European holly, or occasionally Christmas holly, is a species of flowering plant in the family Aquifoliaceae, native to western and southern Europe, northwest Africa, and southwest Asia. It is regarded as the type species of the genus \"Ilex\", which by association is also called \"holly\". It is an evergreen tree or shrub found, for example, in shady areas of forests of oak and in beech hedges. In the British Isles it is one of very few native evergreen trees. It has a great capacity to adapt to different conditions and is a pioneer species that repopulates the margins of forests or clearcuts.\n\n\"I. aquifolium\" can exceed 10 m in height, but is often found at much smaller heights, typically tall and broad, with a straight trunk and pyramidal crown, branching from the base. It grows slowly and does not usually fully mature due to cutting or fire. It can live 500 years, but usually does not reach 100.\n\n\"Ilex aquifolium\" is the species of holly long associated with Christmas, and previously the Roman festival of Saturnalia. Its glossy green prickly leaves and bright red berries (produced only by the female plant) are represented in wreaths, garlands and cards wherever Christmas is celebrated. It is a subject of music and folklore, especially in the British tradition. It is also a popular ornamental shrub or hedge, with numerous cultivars in a range of colours.\n\n\"Ilex aquifolium\" grows to tall with a woody stem as wide as , rarely or more, in diameter. The leaves are 5–12 cm long and 2–6 cm broad; they are evergreen, lasting about five years, and are dark green on the upper surface and lighter on the underside, oval, leathery, shiny, and about 5 to 9 cm long. In the young and in the lower limbs of mature trees, the leaves have three to five sharp spines on each side, pointing alternately upward and downward, while leaves of the upper branches in mature trees lack spines.\n\nThe flowers are white, four-lobed, and pollinated by bees. Holly is dioecious, meaning that there are male plants and female plants. The sex cannot be determined until the plants begin flowering, usually between 4 and 12 years of age. In male specimens, the flowers are yellowish and appear in axillary groups. In the female, flowers are isolated or in groups of three and are small and white or slightly pink, and consist of four petals and four sepals partially fused at the base.\n\nThe fruit only appears on female plants, which require male plants nearby to fertilise them. The fruit is a drupe (stone fruit), about 6–10 mm in diameter, a bright red or bright yellow, which matures around October or November; at this time they are very bitter due to the ilicin content and so are rarely eaten until late winter after frost has made them softer and more palatable. They are eaten by rodents, birds and larger herbivores. Each fruit contains 3 to 4 seeds which do not germinate until the second or third spring.\n\nToday, holly is found in western Asia and Europe in the undergrowth of oak forest and beech forest in particular, although at times it can form a dense thicket as the dominant species. It requires moist, shady environments, found within forests or in shady slopes, cliffs, and mountain gorges.\n\nAlong the west coast of the United States and Canada, from California to British Columbia, non-native English Holly has proved very invasive, quickly spreading into native forest habitat, where it thrives in shade and crowds out native species. It has been placed on the Washington State Noxious Weed Control Board's monitor list, and is a Class C invasive plant in Portland.\n\nDuring the Cenozoic Era, the Mediterranean region, Europe, and northwest Africa had a wetter climate and were largely covered by laurel forests. Holly was a typical representative species of this biome, where many current species of the genus \"Ilex\" were present. With the drying of the Mediterranean Basin during the Pliocene, the laurel forests gradually retreated, replaced by more drought-tolerant sclerophyll plant communities. The modern \"Ilex aquifolium\" resulted from this change. Most of the last remaining laurel forests around the Mediterranean are believed to have died out approximately 10,000 years ago at the end of the Pleistocene.\n\nHolly is a rugged pioneer species that prefers relatively moist areas, and tolerates frost as well as summer drought. The plant is common in the garrigue and maquis and is also found in deciduous forest and oak forest.\n\nPure stands of hollies can grow into a labyrinth of vaults in which thrushes and deer take refuge, while smaller birds are protected among their spiny leaves. After the first frost of the season, holly fruits become soft and fall to the ground serving as important food for winter birds at a time of scarce resources.\n\nThe flowers are attractive as nectar sources for insects such as bees, wasps, flies, and small butterflies. The commonly-encountered pale patches on leaves are due to the leaf-mine insect \"Phytomyza ilicis\".\n\nIt is an invasive species on the West Coast of Canada and the United States as well as in Hawaii.\n\n\"Ilex aquifolium\" is widely grown in parks and gardens in temperate regions. Numerous cultivars have been selected, of which the following have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit:- \n\nThe hybrid \"Ilex\" × \"altaclerensis\" was developed at Highclere Castle in Hampshire, England, in 1835, a cross between \"I. aquifolium\" and the tender species \"I. perado\". The following cultivars have gained the RHS AGM:-\n\nHollies are often used for hedges; the spiny leaves make them difficult to penetrate, and they take well to pruning and shaping.\n\nHolly berries contain alkaloids, caffeine, and theobromine, saponins, caffeic acid, and a yellow pigment, ilixanthin. The berries are generally regarded as toxic to humans. Accidental consumption may occur by children or pets attracted to the bright red berries. The berries are emetic, possibly due to the compound, ilicin, though caffeine and theobromine found in the plant are toxic generally to dogs and cats. The leaves of yerba mate, also in the genus \"Ilex\", are used to make a caffeinated beverage, called mate or Paraguayan tea.\n\nIn traditional medicine, holly is supposed to be diuretic, a relief from fever, and a laxative.\n\nBetween the thirteenth and eighteenth centuries, before the introduction of turnips, \"Ilex aquifolium\" was cultivated for use as winter fodder for cattle and sheep. Less spiny varieties of holly were preferred, and in practice the leaves growing near the top of the tree have far fewer spines, making them more suitable for fodder.\n\n\"Ilex aquifolium\" was once among the traditional woods for Great Highland bagpipes before tastes turned to imported dense tropical woods such as cocuswood, ebony, and African blackwood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259415", "title": "Mors Kochanski", "text": "Mors Kochanski\n\nMors Kochanski (November 10, 1940 – December 5, 2019) was a Canadian bushcraft and wilderness survival instructor, naturalist, and author. He acquired an international following and instructed for both military and civilians in Canada, the US, the UK and Sweden. He died from peritoneal mesothelioma in 2019.\n\nThe Kochanski family immigrated to Canada from Poland in 1938. Mors, the fifth of six children, was born in 1940. His mother named him \"Morris\" but, because of a misunderstanding due to her Polish accent, the midwife wrote \"Mors\" on the birth certificate.\n\nKochanski was brought up on a farm in Saskatchewan, where he worked and assisted his father, who had been a windmill carpenter in Poland and who fought for the Polish military during World War I. In his early school years, he travelled seven miles to and from school on a bush road. In 1954 his family moved to Prince Albert, where he frequented the local library and took particular interest in two books: an old Boy Scout manual, and \"The Ashley Book of Knots\". Kochanski lasted only one year as a Scout, due to disappointment in what he perceived as a lack of seriousness on the part of his fellow scouts and the Scout Master's aversion to camp craft skills.\n\nKochanski was a Sea Cadet for three years. He chose the Navy as a career and received a scholarship to the Canadian Services College, Royal Roads. While enrolled, he traveled by ship through the Panama Canal in the summer of 1959. He was hospitalized for five weeks during his studies due to mumps. This contributed to an honourable discharge in his second year after failing too many subjects on the way to his chemical engineering degree. From 1960 to 1964 he studied arts and sciences at the University of Saskatchewan, taking classes in anthropology, psychology, geology and writing. His lack of participation in a recognised degree program resulted in a suspension from the university after four years due to \"a complete lack of direction.\"\n\nAfter his departure from university, Mors resolved to become a specialist in outdoor subjects focused on wilderness living skills and the lifestyles of native peoples. However, he took many jobs before finding his opportunity to become an instructor, including concrete technician, geologist assistant, engineering technician, surveyor, social worker, and draughtsman, a job at which he updated the street plans of Prince Albert after the installation of gas mains. It was also around this time that he received a pilot's license.\n\nIn 1968, Blue Lake Centre (near Hinton, Alberta) began operating outdoor education programs. Mors, now 28 years of age, offered his services. At the same time, he met his friend and mentor, Tom Roycraft. At the time, Tom was the senior civilian survival instructor at a Department of National Defence survival school.\n\nDuring the 1970s Mors became an associate professor at the University of Alberta Faculty of Physical Education, editor of \"Alberta Wilderness Arts and Recreation\" magazine, and a freelancer for various agencies. In 1986, he was approached to write a book on survival and wilderness skills for the Canadian boreal forests which was originally titled \"Northern Bushcraft\". The book became a Canadian bestseller. The original title 'Northern Bushcraft' was in reference to an earlier publication \"Bushcraft\" by Richard Harry Graves, which covered survival and wilderness living skills in the Australian environment. Eventually, the publishers later shortened the title to \"Bushcraft\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259423", "title": "Wrestling at the Summer Olympics", "text": "Wrestling at the Summer Olympics\n\nWrestling had been contested at the Summer Olympic Games since the sport was introduced in the ancient Olympic Games in 708 BC. When the modern Olympic Games resumed in Athens in 1896, wrestling (in the form of Greco-Roman wrestling) became a focus of the Games, with the exception of the 1900 Summer Olympics when wrestling did not appear on the program. Freestyle wrestling and weight classes both made their first appearance in 1904. The women's competition was introduced in 2004. \n\nIn February 2013, the IOC voted to drop wrestling from the Summer Olympic programme, effective 2020. The president of the sport's governing body, FILA (now United World Wrestling), resigned after a subsequent motion of no confidence. Following changes in leadership, and revisions to the programme for 2016 (including rule changes and additional women's competitions), wrestling successfully campaigned to be readmitted to the Summer Olympic program.\n\nIn an effort to control the size and costs of the Summer Olympics, and make the Games \"relevant to sports fans of all generations\", the IOC evaluated the Olympic event programme in place for the 2016 Summer Olympics, and voted on 25 \"core\" sports that would comprise the programme of the 2020 Summer Olympics. One vacancy was to be left open for a new sport. In February 2013, IOC members voted to remove wrestling from the Olympic programme; \"The New York Times\" cited several potential factors in the decision, including the lack of universally-known talent unlike other sports, and concern for the lack of women's competitions in wrestling (having only introduced women's freestyle competitions in 2004). FILA (now United World Wrestling), the governing body of Olympic wrestling, immediately criticized the decision. The organization cited wrestling's long-standing history as an Olympic event, which dates as far back as the ancient Olympic Games.\n\nThe decision resulted in immediate backlash; Armen Nazaryan and Sagid Murtazaliev both returned gold medals to the IOC in protest, while Nazaryan also staged a hunger strike until the 2013 European Wrestling Championships. FILA president Raphaël Martinetti resigned after a vote of non-confidence by the organization's staff. \n\nMartinetti was replaced as acting president by Nenad Lalovic. Under his leadership, the organization began to make changes to its Olympic programme for 2016, including rule changes designed to make bouts faster and encourage more aggression, as well as additional women's weight classes. These changes were intended to help improve audience interest, and address the shortcomings that likely led to the removal of the sport; wrestling joined baseball/softball, as well as squash, on a final shortlist of three sports to be included in the core Olympic programme for 2020. On 8 September 2013, at the 125th IOC Session, the IOC selected wrestling to be reinstated in the Olympic program for 2020 and 2024. Lalović was largely credited for his role in the reinstatement; he remarked that \"normally this is done in a few years, we did it in a few months. It was a question of our survival.\"\n\nThe following nations have taken part in the wrestling competition. The numbers in the table indicate the number of competitors sent to that year's Olympics (X means qualified wrestlers for the next Olympics).\nSource: Wrestling Freestyle Olympics Medal Table at olympicmedals.com\n\n"}
{"id": "2259426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259426", "title": "Juggling notation", "text": "Juggling notation\n\nJuggling notation is the written depiction of concepts and practices in juggling. Toss juggling patterns have a reputation for being \"easier done than said\" – while it might be easy to learn a given maneuver and demonstrate it for others, it is often much harder to communicate the idea accurately using speech or plain text. To circumvent this problem, various numeric or diagram-based notation systems have been developed to facilitate communication of patterns or tricks between jugglers, as well the investigation and discovery of new patterns.\n\nA juggling notation system (based on music notation) was first proposed by Dave Storer in 1978 and while the first juggling diagram (a ladder diagram), by Claude Shannon around 1981, was not printed till 2010, the first printed diagram and second oldest notation system were proposed by Jeff Walker in 1982.\n\nWhile diagrams are the most visual and reader-friendly way to notate many juggling patterns, they rely on images, so are complicated to produce and unwieldy to share via text or speech.\n\n\nThe following notation systems use only numbers and common characters. The patterns can easily be communicated by text. Most numeric systems are designed to be processed by software juggling simulators — for example, to view juggling patterns as computer animations.\n\nDeveloped by mathematically inclined jugglers Bengt Magnusson and Bruce Boppo Tiemann in 1985, siteswap is by far the most common juggling notation.\n\nA given juggling pattern is represented by a sequence of digits, like \"333\", \"97531\", or \"744\". Each digit represents the number of throws that occur by the time that same prop will be caught. For example, \"333\" represents a common three-ball cascade, where three props are thrown before the same prop will be caught and thrown again. Within the \"531531\" pattern, the prop thrown first, the '5' throw, will not be caught until five throws have been made, including itself, where it will be thrown again as a '1'. The prop thrown next, the '3', will be thrown again on the third throw afterwards, the next '3'. And the next prop is thrown with a '1' throw, which is a direct pass to the other hand and will be thrown on the very next throw as a '5'. \n\nBecause the number represents the number of throws that occur before that prop will be caught, it also can be thought to describe how high one throws the prop, or how long it remains in the air relative to the other throws, where even numbers inevitably come back to the same hand and odd numbers cross over to the other hand.\n\nThe number of props in a given juggling pattern can be determined by the average of one repeating group. \"633633633\", therefore describes a four-prop pattern, while \"414414414\" describes a three-prop juggling pattern.\n\n\"Vanilla\" siteswap is the most basic form of siteswap and uses only a simple string of digits to describe patterns that throw only one prop at a time, alternating between hands. For slightly more complicated patterns, extra rules and syntax are added to create the following two siteswap extensions:\n\n\nVanilla, synch, and multiplex siteswap are the \"standard\" forms of siteswap. Not only are they understood by jugglers, there are also many computer programs capable of animating juggling patterns entered in siteswap notation.\n\nOther extensions to siteswap have been developed for specific purposes. These are far less common than the \"standard\" forms of siteswap, understood by far fewer jugglers and only specialized software.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259436", "title": "Lord Grizzly", "text": "Lord Grizzly\n\nLord Grizzly is a 1954 biographical novel by Frederick Manfred. It describes the survival ordeal of a real mountain man, Hugh Glass, who was attacked by a bear and abandoned in the wilderness by his companions (a young Jim Bridger and John S. Fitzpatrick), on the assumption he could not possibly live. Glass, with a broken leg and open wounds, had to crawl most of the way to Fort Kiowa to reach safety. When crawling back, Hugh could only dwell on revenge to the men who abandoned him.\n\n\"Lord Grizzly\" was Manfred's most successful book, and a finalist for the National Book Award in 1954.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259443", "title": "Polish Baltic Philharmonic", "text": "Polish Baltic Philharmonic\n\nPolish Baltic F.Chopin Philharmonic in Gdańsk (full name in Polish: \"Polska Filharmonia Bałtycka im. Fryderyka Chopina w Gdańsku\") is a concert hall located in Ołowianka, Gdańsk.\n\nPolish Baltic F.Chopin Philharmonic was founded in 1945 as Gdańsk Symphony Orchestra. The inaugural concert took place on September 29 in Sopot. In 1949 it changed its name to Polish Baltic Philharmonic. In 1953 it was combined with opera department and changed into Polish Baltic Opera and Philharmonic (POiFB). After forming a new symphony orchestra in 1974, Baltic Philharmonic was transformed into independent Polish Baltic F.Chopin Philharmonic in 1993.\n\nProf. Roman Perucki, the artistic director of Polish Baltic F.Chopin Philharmonic in Gdańsk, is a well-known organ virtuoso as well as the winner of numerous international prizes. He performs all over the world and is considered to be the founder of the International Organ Music Festival at the Oliwa Cathedral, which is Poland's oldest festival of its kind.\n\nIn September 2008, Kai Bumann became the new artistic director of the F.Chopin Baltic Philharmonic. Berlin -born Kai Bumann the Artistic Director, was previously the artistic director of the Kraków Opera during the 1997/1998 season.\n\nThe building, which houses the Baltic Philharmonic Hall today was constructed in 1897-1898 as a power station with a neo-Gothic façade.\n\nThe seat of the Polish Baltic Philharmonic is a complex of buildings at the former plant of the late nineteenth century, located on the island of Ołowianka in Gdańsk. After the plant was closed in 1996, it was subsequently adapted between 1996-2005 as a concert hall.\n\nThis urban power station was built between 1897-1898 by the Berlin firm of Siemens & Halske, with further expansion continuing through 1913. This brick building with its elegant neo-Gothic façade is decorated with rosettes, turrets and even two tower. During the final months of World War II, the complex suffered severe damage. Launched back in August 1945 the power plant operated until its closure in 1996. Th reconstruction, development and adaptation of these buildings was done by the architectural studio of Martin Kozikowski and KD Kozikowski Design . The Baltic Philharmonic is composed of seven segments, including:\n\nIn 2007, a bronze bust of Frédéric Chopin, the patron of the Baltic Philharmonic, by sculptor Gennady Jerszow was placed in the Philharmonic.\n\nMain concert hall has 1,000 seats. Its acoustics designed by Witold Straszewicz along with Eve Więckowska-Kosmala.\nIt is equipped with the latest lighting and sound system, simultaneous interpretation, hearing assistance system and a system of static and dynamic projection. A specially designed movable ceiling screens and room finishes allow for easy customization of acoustics. It also operates a modern system combines fiber allowing radio and television broadcasts. The main auditorium has 1,100 seats.\n\nThe Philharmonic was the venue for the Wikimania 2010 international conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259448", "title": "Felix Cavaliere", "text": "Felix Cavaliere\n\nFelix Cavaliere (born November 29, 1942) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and musician.\n\nAlthough he was a member of Joey Dee and the Starliters, best known for their hit \"Peppermint Twist\", he is best known for his association with The Young Rascals during the 1960s. The other members of The Rascals were Eddie Brigati, Dino Danelli and Gene Cornish. Cavaliere sang vocals on six of their successful singles and played the Hammond B-3 organ.\n\nCavaliere was born to an Italian American family in 1942. At an early age, he studied piano at his mother's behest from age 6 until her death when he was 14. He joined The Stereos, and moved on to form The Escorts, while attending college. He later produced albums by other artists such as Laura Nyro and Jimmie Spheeris.\n\nFollowing a pair of solo efforts, Cavaliere recorded under the band name Treasure and released a self-titled AOR-styled album in 1977 which featured future Kiss member Vinnie Vincent on guitar. Cavaliere had a solo hit with \"Only a Lonely Heart Sees\" (1980), which reached No. 36 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and No. 2 on the Adult Contemporary chart. Cavaliere and former Rascals bandmate Dino Danelli joined Steve Van Zandt to record Little Steven and the Disciples of Soul's album, \"Men Without Women\" (1982). However, Cavaliere strongly disputes this and claims that he was never a member of Little Steven's band.\n\nHe recorded \"Dreams in Motion\" in 1994, produced by Don Was. During 1995, Cavaliere was a touring member of Ringo Starr's third All-Starr Band. Cavaliere can be seen playing keyboard in the official video for \"Hey Girl\" by Billy Joel, a cover version of the Carole King song, recorded by Billy Joel in 1997 to add to his \"Greatest Hits Volume III\" compilation. The track was released as a single, but Cavaliere was not playing on the recording.\n\nOn October 15, 2006, he inducted Vanilla Fudge into the Long Island Music Hall of Fame. In 2008, he recorded an album with Steve Cropper, \"Nudge it Up a Notch\", which was released July 29, 2008. He continues to tour as Felix Cavaliere's Rascals, and on June 18, 2009, Cavaliere, along with former writing partner Eddie Brigati, was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. On April 24, 2010, all four members of the Rascals reunited for the Kristen Ann Carr benefit, which was held at New York's Tribeca Grill.\n\nCavaliere recently reunited with his bandmates. The Rascals appeared at the Capitol Theater in Port Chester, NY for six shows in December 2012 and for fifteen dates at the Richard Rodgers Theatre on Broadway (April 15 – May 5, 2013). Their current production, entitled \"Once Upon A Dream\", is currently touring North America (Toronto, Los Angeles, Phoenix, Chicago, Detroit, Rochester, and New York City). It is produced by long-time Rascals' fans Steven Van Zandt and his wife Maureen.\n\nIn 2014, Cavaliere was inducted into the Hammond Hall of Fame.\n\nHe appeared with Billy Joel at Madison Square Garden on May 28, 2015.\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, Cavaliere was a spokesperson in a television infomercial for the Time Life The 60s music CD collection.\n\nCavaliere was inducted into the Musicians Hall of Fame and Museum in 2019.\n\nCavaliere was married to Mary Theresa (Thompson) Cavaliere for approximately 30 years and had three daughters with her. He also has four grandchildren. He lives in Nashville, TN, with his current wife Donna Lewis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259450", "title": "J. Alexander (model)", "text": "J. Alexander (model)\n\nAlexander Jenkins (born April 12, 1958), known as J. Alexander or Miss J, is an American reality television personality and runway coach best known for his work on \"America's Next Top Model\". He travels extensively for the fashion and modeling industries. Alexander lives in Paris and New York City.\n\nAlexander was born in the South Bronx, New York City to Julius and Mary Jenkins and cites his mother as the first person to introduce him to fashion.\n\nAs a teenager, he turned to modeling when he met the president of Elite Model Management, Monique Pillard. Pillard was so impressed with his look that she signed him to her agency, and he walked for designer Jean Paul Gaultier in New York City. Alexander is openly gay. \nAlexander met Tyra Banks backstage at a runway show, and he began to give Banks walking lessons. Banks coined Alexander's title \"Queen of the Catwalk\".\n\nAlexander's career as a runway coach began accidentally; he would coach models backstage and eventually became recognized for his skills as a coach. He has been coaching and casting since 1991. He rose to prominence in this field when he coached supermodel Naomi Campbell and model Kimora Lee Simmons. He has also worked with Nadja Auermann, Claudia Mason and Julia Stegner.\n\nAfter a modeling stint in Tokyo, he eventually decided to settle in Paris and since 1991, has helped with casting and coaching models for well-known designers such as Hervé Léger, Lars Nilsson, Bill Blass, Valentino, John Galliano, Chanel, Alexander McQueen, and Nina Ricci.\n\nAlexander travels globally for charity events and modeling competitions. His expertise is frequently sought after by journalists.\n\nAlexander appeared on every cycle of the television program \"America's Next Top Model\" as the runway coach to the contestants. He was made a judge starting with Cycle 5. As of Cycle 14 of the show, Alexander was replaced as a permanent judge on the panel by \"Vogue\" editor at large André Leon Talley. Alexander stayed on as the show's runway coach and has appeared in many of the international versions of the show.\n\nAlexander's nickname \"Miss J\", or \"Siss' J\" after the word \"sister\", came from Cycle 1 contestant Robin Manning, who often confused Alexander and Jay Manuel and on several occasions referred to Alexander as \"Miss J\" by accident because of his flamboyant clothing (Alexander often dresses in drag and usually wears a skirt and high heels during runway walking training) and personality. Accordingly, Jay Manuel is referred to as \"Mr. Jay\", and \"ANTM\" contestants often call them \"The Jays\", \"The Two Jays\" or \"Mr. and Ms. Jay\" when they appear together. In 2008, the Jays were cast in \"Operation Fabulous\", a show to makeover \"plain Janes\" similar to \"Queer Eye For The Straight Guy\", also produced by Tyra Banks.\n\nHe has also appeared on international versions of \"Top Model\", such as \"Canada's Next Top Model\", \"Holland's Next Top Model\", \"Korea's Next Top Model\", \"Estonia's Next Top Model\" and \"Scandinavia's Next Top Model\". Alexander appeared on the 4 May 2008 episode of Finland's version of \"ANTM\" \"Suomen huippumalli haussa\". In 2009 and the 2011 final, Alexander appeared on \"Britain's Next Top Model\".\n\nOn April 20, 2012, Alexander was fired from \"America's Next Top Model\" by Banks after 18 seasons due to the show's plummeting ratings. Alexander was fired together with Nigel Barker, and Manuel, though it was confirmed on February 14, 2014, that he would return to the judging panel for Cycle 21 following the firing of Rob Evans.\n\nIn May 2020, Alexander and his \"America's Next Top Model\" colleague, Jay Manuel, began a weekly Instagram Live series, later syndicated to Facebook and YouTube, based on their experiences working on the show.\n\nAlexander is also interested in designing and has handmade all his clothes on \"America’s Next Top Model\" with the exception of the nurse’s outfit: \"I did make the hat and the bag.\" \"All the dresses that you see me wear at the challenges, I actually sit down with a needle and thread, not even with a sewing machine, and make them all by hand. I made the ruffles and everything.\"\n\nAlexander has stated on \"The Tyra Banks Show\" that he has a son named Boris. Both Alexander and his ex-boyfriend donated sperm to a French lesbian who wanted a child, and Alexander's ex is the biological father. Alexander has said that he has a \"very active role\" in Boris' life. He has even joked that his \"fashion genes\" must have rubbed off on Boris.\n\nIn 2010, Alexander wrote \"Follow the Model: Miss J's Guide to Unleashing Presence, Poise, and Power\", which \"shares his story and offers tips on how to be more confident\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259451", "title": "P.R. (TV series)", "text": "P.R. (TV series)\n\nP.R. was a Canadian television sitcom, which aired on CBC Television in 2000. The show starred Diane Flacks as Alexandra Reed and Ellie Harvie as Jill Hayes, partners in a public relations firm. Fiona Reid also starred as office manager Dierdre Duncan, a mysterious older British woman in the vein of \"The Avengers\"’ Emma Peel, who frequently hints at a shady past.\n\nThe show was widely characterized in the media as a Canadian adaptation of \"Absolutely Fabulous\", although its humour was much less campy.\n\nThe show ended after 13 episodes.\n\n\"P.R.\" stars Diane Flacks, Ellie Harvie, and Fiona Reid, as high-profile public relations representatives in this behind-the-scenes look at the industry people love to hate. Alex Reed (Diane Flacks) is a fast-talker, liar, partier, and owner of Alexandra Reed & Associates, an up-and-coming metropolitan public relations firm. She and her partner (Ellie Harvie) create news and hype events to publicize an elite list of actors and celebrities. As their careers spin out of control, their personal lives do, as well, leading to many quirky misadventures.\n\n\n\nThe whole series was released on DVD by the show's production company Sullivan Entertainment. It can be purchased on the production company's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259467", "title": "List of Karen", "text": "List of Karen\n\nList of notable Karen people:\n"}
{"id": "2259470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259470", "title": "Billy Gonsalves", "text": "Billy Gonsalves\n\nAdelino William \"Billy\" Gonsalves (August 10, 1908 – July 17, 1977) was an American soccer player, sometimes described as the \"Babe Ruth of American Soccer\". He spent over 25 years playing in various American professional leagues and was a member of the U.S. squad at the FIFA World Cup in 1930 and 1934. He is a member of the National Soccer Hall of Fame.\n\nGonsalves was the seventh of nine children born to Augustine and Rose Gonsalves. His parents had immigrated from Portugal two years before his birth. Although born in Portsmouth, Rhode Island, Gonsalves grew up in Fall River, Massachusetts. An excellent athlete, Gonsalves boxed and played both baseball and soccer as a boy. When he was fourteen, Gonsalves began playing for Pioneer, a local amateur team. He then went on to play for Charlton Mill and Liberal. Gonsalves grew in prominence in the local leagues. In 1926, he signed with Lusitania Recreation Club of East Cambridge, Massachusetts. In 1927, Lusitania won both the Boston city and District League titles.\n\nIn 1927, Boston Soccer Club of the American Soccer League (ASL) signed Gonsalves. Nineteen years old at the time, Gonsalves joined a team which had taken second in the ASL the previous season and was stocked with talented international players. Finding it difficult to break into the starting lineup, Gonsalves did not play a game with Boston until Christmas Eve. However, given the chance, he grabbed it and scored a goal two minutes later. He went on to find the net six times in his next twenty games. That season the Wonder Workers also took the league title.\n\nGonsalves spent one more season with the Wonder Workers before moving to the Fall River Marksmen of his hometown in 1929. From the time he joined the Marksmen until the team merged with the New York Soccer Club in the summer of 1930 to form the New York Yankees, Gonsalves played seventy-five games and scored forty-nine goals. Additionally, he was the team's assists leader.\n\nWhile playing with the Marksmen, Gonsalves formed a lethal striking partnership with another local player, Bert Patenaude. The two led Fall River to the National Challenge Cup title in 1930 and 1931. Overall, Gonslaves won the tournament a record eight times.\n\nThe onset of the Great Depression and the \"Soccer Wars\" had taken a toll on the ASL and teams began to merge or fold. The Marksmen, one of the strongest ASL teams, had merged with the New York Soccer Club to form the New York Yankees in 1930. Then in 1931, the Yankees moved to New Bedford, Massachusetts where the team took up the name of the defunct New Bedford Whalers. In 1932, the team moved, this time back to Fall River where it was known as Fall River F.C..\n\nBy this time the American Soccer League was collapsing and Gonsalves began looking for other playing opportunities. In 1933 Alex McNab, a former teammate who was coaching Stix, Baer and Fuller F.C. of the St. Louis Soccer League contacted Gonsalves and offered him a contract. Gonsalves took the opportunity and moved west. That year, Gonsalves added another National Cup title to his resume, this time with his new team. Gonsalves spent the 1933-1934 season with Stix, Baer and Fuller, winning the league title. At the end of the season, he joined the U.S. national team for the 1934 FIFA World Cup in Italy.\n\nOn his return to St. Louis, Gonsalves found that McNab had moved to a new team, St. Louis Central Breweries F.C.. Gonsalves made the move as well and spent the 1934-1935 season with Central Breweries, winning the league title and the 1935 National Cup. In 1935, Gonsalves moved, this time to the St. Louis Shamrocks. The Shamrocks went to both the 1936 and 1937 National Cup championships, but lost both times. In October 1937, Gonsalves quit the Shamrocks and signed with St. Patrick's. However, Shamrocks sued St. Patrick's and St. Patrick's settled out of court by agreeing to a player trade. Despite the agreement, Gonsalves decided not to play for either team and instead signed with Beltmars in the semi-professional second division St. Louis Municipal League. In February 1938, Gonsalves was back in the SLSL with South Side Radio. He finished the season with the South Siders before moving to Chicago Manhattan Beer. Then in 1940, he moved back east, joining Healy F.C. of the National Soccer League of New York, winning the 1941 league title. In 1941, he moved, this time to the Kearny Scots of the second American Soccer League (ASL) which was created in 1933 following the collapse of the first ASL. Gonsalves spent only one season with the Scots before moving to Brooklyn Hispano. Uncharacteristically for him, Gonsalves spent the next five seasons with Brooklyn. In his first season with Brooklyn, he scored eight goals in sixteen games. Brooklyn also won the National Challenge Cup in 1943 and 1944.\n\nIn 1947, Gonsalves left Hispano to play for the Newark Germans of the lower division German American Soccer League. In 1948, the team became known simply as Newark F.C. Gonsalves remained with the team until his retirement from playing professionally in 1952.\n\nAccording to Steve Holroyd, in a professional career spanning twenty-five years, \"Gonsalves was also the consummate gentleman on the pitch: legend has it he was never cautioned or ejected from any match for rough play or ungentlemanly conduct.\"\n\nGonsalves played six times for the United States, including the first two FIFA World Cups in 1930 and 1934. He scored one goal for the US.\n\nGonsalves was part of the inaugural induction class into the United States National Soccer Hall of Fame in 1950.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259474", "title": "Stanley Theater (Jersey City, New Jersey)", "text": "Stanley Theater (Jersey City, New Jersey)\n\nThe Stanley Theater at Kennedy Boulevard and Pavonia Avenue is near Journal Square in Jersey City, New Jersey.\n\nThe theater opened to the public on March 24, 1928. Mayor Frank Hague attended the ceremonies that evening and, with the audience, was greeted on the screen by actress Norma Talmadge. An orchestral performance, a stage show called \"Sky Blues,\" a newsreel, and a musical piece on the Wurlitzer organ, preceded the showing of \"The Dove\" starring Talmadge and Gilbert Roland.\n\nThe Stanley was designed by architect Fred Wesley Wentworth (1864-1943), who is noted for designing many buildings in Paterson following the 1902 fire. When it opened, its 4,300 seats earned it the rank of the second largest theater on the East Coast, behind only New York City's Radio City Music Hall. It was fourth in the country in number of seats in a one-screen theater, behind Radio City, and the Detroit and St. Louis Fox theaters. It was an elegant and popular venue into the 1960s. Stage shows at the theater reflected the popular culture of the times with entertainers ranging from The Three Stooges and Jimmy Durante to Tony Bennett, Janis Joplin, Dolly Parton, and the Grateful Dead. During the 1970s, however, movie attendance suffered and the theater fell into disrepair, and became an RKO (Radio-Keith-Orpheum Pictures) grindhouse. The once beautiful metalwork throughout the building was painted dark blue, and the Wurlitzer organ was removed in the 1970s. It finally closed as a movie theater April 20, 1978.\n\nIn 1983, the building was purchased by the Watch Tower Society for use as a convention and assembly hall for Jehovah's Witnesses. Thousands of Witness volunteers worked over a nine-month period to renovate the theater. Beginning in October 2012, the theater underwent further renovation by over 2,000 Witness volunteers from across the United States.\n\nA glittering copper marquee spans the entrance, overhanging the solid brass doors. Over the marquee are three large arched windows. Building materials include marble from Italy, Vermont and Texas, limestone from Indiana, and granite from Maine to face the Corinthian columns.\n\nThe interior has a three-story lobby adorned with columns, a broad center staircase with trompe l'oeil alabaster handrails and balusters, lamps, velvet drapes, and stained glass windows of faux \"Chartre Blue\" in the foyer. Allegorical paintings by Hungarian muralist Willy Pogany originally adorned the ceiling and walls.\n\nThe larger of two crystal chandeliers, suspended from the second floor, is from the New York's original Waldorf Astoria of the 1880s; it is thirteen feet tall and ten feet wide, and illuminated by 144 bulbs that reflect onto 4,500 hanging crystal teardrops.\n\nThe grand staircase is the main feature of the three-story lobby. During the day, sunlight streams in, illuminating the lobby. An immense crystal chandelier shines after the sun sets. On three sides of the lobby, stands a formation of marble columns topped by a balcony. A nearly celestial ceiling actually had machine generated clouds and points of light that twinkled like stars.\n\nMovie palace architect John Eberson contributed the design for the auditorium. Here theatergoers enter the environment of an evening in Venice with a replica of the Rialto Bridge spanning the stage. Above the seating is an eighty-five foot ceiling that permits an open sky effect with stars and moving clouds originally effected by a projecting device called a \"Brenkert Brenograph,\" costing $290 (in 1920s dollars). Lighted stained glass windows line the walls with grottoes, arches and columns simulating the courtyard motif.\n\nOn September 27, 1972, the Grateful Dead played a concert at the Stanley Theater, which was later released as Dick's Picks volume 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259476", "title": "Megleno-Romanian language", "text": "Megleno-Romanian language\n\nMegleno-Romanian (known as \"Vlăhește\" by its speakers, and Megleno-Romanian or Meglenitic and sometimes Moglenitic or Meglinitic by linguists) is a Balkan Romance language, similar to Aromanian or a dialect of the Romanian language. It is spoken by the Megleno-Romanians in a few villages in the Moglena region that spans the border between the Greek region of Macedonia and North Macedonia. It is also spoken by emigrants from these villages and their descendants in Romania and by a small Muslim group in Turkey. It is considered an endangered language.\n\nMegleno-Romanian is a member of the family of Romance languages. More specifically, it is an Eastern Romance language, a language formed after the retreat of the Roman Empire from the Balkans. Due to the fact that it is spoken by very few people and because of its similarities with the Aromanian, modern Romanian and Istro Romanian languages, some linguists consider it to be an intermediary between Romanian and Aromanian, often being considered either a dialect of Romanian, a dialect of Aromanian, or an independent language. It is closer to standard Romanian than the Aromanian language, suggesting that it split from Proto-Eastern Romance later than Aromanian. Megleno-Romanian has been strongly influenced by the neighbouring South Slavic varieties.\n\nThe term \"Megleno-Romanian\" has been used by linguists (mainly Romanian), who noticed the similarity to the Romanian language. The Megleno-Romanians identify themselves as \"Vlahi\" (see Etymology of Vlach for more on this term).\n\nMegleno-Romanian is spoken in several villages in the Pella and Kilkis regional units of Macedonia, Greece, as well as in a handful of villages across the border in North Macedonia. In one village, Huma, the language is spoken by most inhabitants. Some people of Megleno-Romanian origin who live in the cities of Gevgelija and Skopje have preserved their native language. After World War I, some Megleno-Romanians moved to Romania, many of them settling in the village of Cerna in Tulcea County, where about 1,200 people continue to speak Megleno-Romanian. In 1940, about 30 families moved from Cerna to the Banat region of Romania in the villages of Variaş, Biled and Jimbolia. Some speakers who were identified as Muslims were moved to Turkey from Greece as part of the population exchange of the 1920s.\n\nMegleno-Romanian has some unique phonetic characteristics, not found in the other Eastern Romance languages:\n\nMuch of the vocabulary is of Latin origin and much of its phonetics and semantics is shared with Aromanian and Romanian: (n.b.: MR=Megleno-Romanian, DR=Daco-Romanian, i.e. Romanian)\n\n\nMegleno-Romanian also contains some words that have cognates with Albanian. These words are present in Daco-Romanian too:\n\n\nThere are also some words which are of Slavic origin and which can be found in all the Eastern Romance languages:\n\n\nThere are a number of Byzantine and Modern Greek words, several dozens of which are also found in Daco-Romanian (Romanian language) and Aromanian and about 80 words that were borrowed via Macedonian and Bulgarian languages and other languages of the Balkans. Prior to the creation of the modern state of Greece, Megleno-Romanian borrowed very few words directly from Greek.\n\n\nThe most important influence on Megleno-Romanian was the East South Slavic languages, this influence being more profound than that exerted by Greek on Aromanian. Most Slavic terms are of Macedonian and Bulgarian origins. The linguist Theodor Capidan argued that the words borrowed show some phonetic features of the Bulgarian language dialect spoken in the Rhodope Mountains. There are many instances where basic words of Latin origin that can still be found in Daco-Romanian and Aromanian were replaced by Slavic words. In some cases, standard Romanian also independently borrowed the same word.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259482", "title": "Jules Van Nuffel", "text": "Jules Van Nuffel\n\nJules Van Nuffel (21 March 1883 – 25 June 1953) was a Belgian priest, musicologist, composer, and a renowned expert on religious music.\n\nBorn on 21 March 1883 in Hemiksem, Belgium, Van Nuffel studied at the Grand Seminary of Mechelen for the priesthood, in addition to piano, violin, organ, harmony and counterpoint. He was ordained priest by Cardinal Mercier on 25 May 1907. As a cantor at Mechelen Cathedral, he founded the cathedral choir, and directed it until 1949. In this connection, he collaborated with the organist at the cathedral, the renowned Flor Peeters. Also, from 1918 until his death (in Wilrijk, Belgium), on 25 June 1953, Van Nuffel directed the Lemmens Institute in Leuven.\n\nA nationally prominent composer of liturgical works (though little known outside his native land), Van Nuffel numbered among his favorite composers Bach, Wagner and Debussy. The numbering of the psalms, which he composed for the liturgy, follows the Latin Psalter.\n\nOne of his crowning achievements was the creation of the \"Nova Organi Harmonia\". This was an eight-volume collection of Gregorian accompaniments, composed by Van Nuffel himself, along with Peeters, Jules Vyverman, Marinus de Jong, and other professors at the Lemmens Institute. The \"Nova Organi Harmonia\" was reprinted in many editions after World War II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259484", "title": "Fall River F.C.", "text": "Fall River F.C.\n\nFall River Football Club, also referred to as Fall River Field Club, was the name used by two United States soccer clubs, based in Fall River, Massachusetts. Both played in the American Soccer League during the early 1930s. The name is often used incorrectly to refer to Fall River Marksmen, another soccer team. Although both these teams shared some common history with the Marksmen, they were separate clubs.\n\nBetween 1924 and 1930 the first Fall River F.C. played in the American Soccer League as Providence Clamdiggers and then as Providence Gold Bugs. However, in 1931, after Sam Mark, owner of the Fall River Marksmen, relocated his team to New York and renamed them the New York Yankees, he made their former home ground, Mark's Stadium, available to anybody willing to place a team there. A group of Fall River businessmen, led by an ex-Marksmen player Harold Brittan, then bought Providence Gold Bugs, moved them into Mark's Stadium and renamed then Fall River F.C. The new club played for just one season, Spring 1931, eventually finishing fifth. However, during their short existence they did win two notable prestige friendlies. On February 22, 1931, they beat Vélez Sársfield 5-2. Then on May 31 with a team that included Joe Kennaway, Bill Paterson and Tom Florie they beat Celtic 1-0. Kennaway subsequently signed for Celtic after impressing them with his performance in goal.\n\nBy early 1931 the Great Depression had severely effected the stability of the ASL and several teams relocated, merged and even disappeared. On April 19, 1931, Fall River absorbed New Bedford Whalers before they themselves were absorbed by New York Yankees during the summer. This new team then revived the New Bedford Whalers name for the Fall 1931 season.\n\nA second Fall River F.C. played during the Fall 1932 American Soccer League season. The exact origins of this team are unclear. New Bedford Whalers, the successor team of both the earlier Fall River F.C. and Fall River Marksmen, also began the Fall 1932 season but they only survived for six games before folding. However one of their former players, Billy Gonsalves finished the season at the new Fall River club, scoring 7 goals in 12 games, as he helped them win the league title.\n\nFall River F.C. II\n\n"}
{"id": "2259489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259489", "title": "Fall River Marksmen", "text": "Fall River Marksmen\n\nFall River Marksmen was an American soccer club, based in Fall River, Massachusetts. They originally played as Fall River United before becoming known as the Marksmen after their owner, Sam Mark. During the 1920s and early 1930s they were one of the most successful soccer clubs in the United States, winning the American Soccer League on six occasions. They also won the National Challenge Cup four times. In 1924 they won the first ASL / Challenge Cup double and were subsequently the American soccer champions three times in succession. Between 1928 and 1930 they won a further three titles in a row. In 1930 they completed a treble, winning the ASL title, the Challenge Cup and the Lewis Cup. The same year they also toured Central Europe.\n\nThe Marksmen played their home games at Mark's Stadium, one of the earliest examples of a soccer-specific stadium in the United States. In 1931 the franchise relocated and merged twice. They first moved to New York, where they merged with New York Soccer Club and became the New York Yankees. They actually won their fourth National Challenge Cup after they became the Yankees, but due to complications following the merger it was credited to the Marksmen. The Yankees later moved to New Bedford, Massachusetts where they merged with Fall River F.C. to become the New Bedford Whalers.\n\nIn 1921 the Southern New England Soccer League and the National Association Football League effectively merged to form the American Soccer League. As a result of this merger Fall River Rovers of the SNESL were disbanded and a new team Fall River United were formed to enter the ASL. During the inaugural season United struggled, finishing sixth out of eight, and were on the verge of folding. However, in 1922 the club was taken over by Sam Mark and subsequently became known as the \"Fall River Marksmen\".\n\nMark was willing to invest in the club and one of his first moves was to build the team its own stadium. Mark's Stadium was located in North Tiverton, Rhode Island, just over the Massachusetts border from Fall River. As a result, the club was now able circumvent the Massachusetts' Blue Laws and play on a Sunday. Crucially, Mark also managed to recruit Harold Brittan from Bethlehem Steel. During the 1922–23 season Brittan scored 19 goals in 23 games and subsequently went on to serve the Marksmen for nearly a decade as a player, coach and manager. Other notable signings included winger James White and full-back Tommy Martin, both from Motherwell, full-back Charlie McGill from Third Lanark and wing-half Bill McPherson from Beith. Together with goalkeeper Findlay Kerr, who joined the following season, White, McGill and McPherson would become the backbone of the Marksmen team throughout its short history.\n\nThe 1920s and early 1930s are sometimes described as the \"Golden Era\" of U.S. soccer and it was the Fall River Marksmen that emerged as the era's dominant team. During the 1923–24 season the Marksmen completely dominated the league. They eventually won their first league title, finishing 6 points clear of Bethlehem Steel. Harold Brittan again spearheaded the offense, scoring 15 goals. However the strength of the team lay in a strong defense which included Ned Tate and Findlay Kerr, who kept an incredible 14 clean sheets during the league season. The season also saw the Marksmen go on to complete the first ASL / National Challenge Cup double. In the semi-final of the Challenge Cup, the Marksmen defeated Steel 2–0 at Dexter Park in front of 20,000 fans. On March 20, 1924 the final attracted 14,000 fans to the High School Field in St. Louis, Missouri where they witnessed the Marksmen defeat St. Louis Vesper Buick 4–2. The only disappointment for the Marksmen during the season came when they lost 1–0 to Steel in the final of the American Cup.\n\nThe Marksmen went on to win further ASL titles in 1924–25 and 1925–26, completing a three in a row sequence. They won it again in 1928–29 and then completed a four in a row when they won further titles in the Fall 1929, Spring 1930 and Fall 1930 seasons.\n\nFrom the beginning the Marksmen regularly recruited Scottish Football League journeymen, sometimes directly from Scottish clubs but also from other ASL teams, most notably Bethlehem Steel. However two of their most notable players, Billy Gonsalves and Bert Patenaude, actually grew up in Fall River itself. Both players first established themselves at other ASL clubs – Gonsalves at Boston Wonder Workers and Patenaude at Philadelphia Field Club – before forming a formidable partnership at the Marksmen. In 1930, the duo played a major role in helping the Marksmen win a treble. During the Spring 1930 season, when the ASL played as the \"Atlantic Coast League\", they scored 44 league goals in 26 games as the Marksmen won another league title. In the 1930 National Challenge Cup the Marksmen defeated Cleveland Bruell Insurance in a two-leg final. They just about finished off the Cleveland team when they won the opening leg, 7–2, on March 30 at the Polo Grounds. Jimmy McAuley and Werner Nilsen each scored a hat-trick while Alex McNab scored the other Fall River goal. On April 6 at Luna Park in Cleveland, Fall River took the second leg, 2–1, with further goals from McNab and Bob McAuley, no relation to Jimmy. They completed the treble when they won the Lewis Cup defeating Hakoah All-Stars 2–1 and 3–0 in another two-legged final.\n\nThroughout their short history the Marksmen regularly provided opposition for touring European teams and, more often than not, they held their own. On September 19, 1926 the Marksmen beat Sparta Prague 3–2. On June 3, 1928 at Mark's Stadium, a capacity crowd of 15,000 saw goalkeeper Jimmy Douglas keep a clean sheet as the Marksmen held Rangers to a 0–0 tie. Then on August 26, 1928 at the same venue they beat an Italian League XI, playing as \"Palestra Italia\", 4–2. In 1930 they played Rangers twice. On May 30 they lost 3–2 with Billy Gonsalves and Werner Nilsen scoring the Fall River goals. The goalkeeper that day was Johnny Reder who later played baseball with Boston Red Sox. However a few weeks later on June 22 they lost 6–1 at the Polo Grounds. Guest player Archie Stark scored the only goal for Fall River. In between these games they beat Kilmarnock 3–0 at Mark's Stadium on June 15. Stark scored the opening goal with Alex McNab and Bob McAuley adding the other two.\n\nWhile teams from Europe regularly toured North America, it was rare for an ASL team to play overseas. However, in August 1930 the Marksmen toured Central Europe, playing six games in Czechoslovakia, Austria and Hungary. The squad included, among others, Bill Harper, Alex McNab, Jerry Best and Werner Nilsen as well as veterans James White, Charlie McGill and Bill McPherson and guest player Archie Stark. Both Billy Gonsalves and Bert Patenaude were playing with the United States at the 1930 FIFA World Cup and did not travel. They opened the tour on August 20 with a 2–2 tie against Slavia Prague in front of a crowd of 18,000. This was the first of two games against Slavia. They lost the other 4–0 on August 28. They also played FK Austria Wien twice, losing the first game 6–0 on August 23 before winning the second 3–1 the following day. On August 30 they won their second game when they put three goals past ŠK Slovan Bratislava. The tour came to an end on August 31 when they lost 6–2 to Ferencvárosi TC. The tour ended early, and in dispute, with Fall River unhappy about their share of the gate receipts.\n\nThe Marksmen returned from their European tour, and started the Fall 1930 season late, but that didn't stop them from winning their seventh league title, despite playing only 27 out of 30 games. However, by this stage the effects of the Great Depression had seen attendance fall at Mark's Stadium. As a result, Sam Mark moved the club to New York, hoping that a new market there would be more lucrative. Once there he merged the club with New York Soccer Club and renamed them the New York Yankees. Before the merger was finalized, however, Fall River Marksmen had entered the 1931 National Challenge Cup and Mark was unable to re-register them as the Yankees. As a result, the Spring 1931 season saw them continue to play in the Challenge Cup as the \"Fall River Marksmen\" while at the same time playing as the \"New York Yankees\" in the ASL. While the \"Yankees\" only managed to finish third in the ASL, the \"Marksmen\" won the cup. Largely on the goalscoring strength of Billy Gonsalves, with 9, and Bert Patenaude, with 13, they reached the final where they eventually beat Chicago Bricklayers in a final played as a three-game series. The last of these three games is officially regarded as the last game the Marksmen ever played. The first leg of the final was played on April 5 at the Polo Grounds, where the Marksmen won 6–2, and seemingly established a clear lead. Patenaude scored five goals in that game while Bill McPherson added the other. A week later at Mills Stadium in Chicago, the Bricklayers kept the series alive by earning a 1–1 tie. This time Gonsalves got on the score sheet. Sparta Stadium in Chicago attracted 4,500 for the deciding game on April 19. The Marksmen could only field 10 players after their captain, Alex McNab, broke his arm in a midweek friendly and the club had neglected to bring along any reserves. Despite this they still managed to win 2–0 with goals from Patenaude and Gordon Burness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259493", "title": "Jhalawar", "text": "Jhalawar\n\nJhalawar () is a city in the Indian state of Rajasthan. It is located in the southeastern location of the state. It was the capital of the former princely state of Jhalawar, and is the administrative headquarters of Jhalawar District. Jhalawar was once known as Brijnagar.\n\nThe city of Jhalawar was founded by a Rajput Jhala Zalim Singh, who was then the Dewan of Kota State (1791 A.D.). He established this township, then known as Chaoni Umedpura, as a cantonment. The township was at the time surrounded by dense forests and wildlife. \n\nJhala Zalim Singh often came here for hunting and he liked the place so much that he wanted to develop it as a township. The objective to develop this place as a military cantonment was due to the fact that Maratha invaders passed through this central place from Malwa towards Kota to capture Hadoti states.\n\nJhala Zalim Singh recognised the importance of this place and started to develop it as a military cantonment and township, so that he could use this place to attack and stop Maratha invaders before they could reach Kota state. Chaoni Umedpura was developed as a cantonment and township around 1803-04 A.D. Colonel Todd, who visited the region in December 1821 described this area as the cantonment established by Jhala Zalim Singh plus a well-established township with large houses, havelis, and surrounding walls.\nIn 1838 A.D., English rulers separated Jhalawar state from Kota state and gave it to Jhala Madan Singh, the grandson of Jhala Zalim Singh. He developed his administration services to develop the state of Jhalawar. He resided in Jhalara Patan for a long time and started to build the Garh Palace (1840 - 1845 A.D). He was the first ruler of Jhalawar state and made a significant contribution in the history of Jhalawar. Jhala Madan Singh ruled Jhalawar from 1838 to 1845. After his death, Jhala Prithvi Singh became the ruler of Jhalawar, and ruled for around 30 years.\nRana Bhawani Singh Ji, who ruled Jhalawar state from 1899 to 1929 A.D., did remarkable work in the development of Jhalawar state. His active involvement was in the fields of social activities, public works (construction), education and administration.\n\nThe chief town of Jhalawar, also known as Patan or Jhalara Patan, was the centre of trade for the eponymous princely state, the chief exports of the which were opium, oil-seeds, and cotton. The palace is four miles (6 km) north of the town. An extensive ruin near the town is the site of the ancient city of Chandrawati, said to have been destroyed in the reign of Aurangzeb. The finest feature of its remains is the temple of Sitaleswar Mahadeva (c. 600).\n\nThe former ruling family of Jhalawar belonged to the Jhala family of Rajputs. At Kota Madhu Singh, a Jhala Rajput became a favourite with the Maharaja, and received from him an important post, which became hereditary. On the death of one of the Kota rajas (1771), the state was left to the charge of Jhala Zalim Singh, a descendant of Madhu Singh.\n\nFrom that time Zalim Singh was the de facto ruler of Kota. Under his administration, which lasted over forty-five years, the Kota territory was respected by all parties. In 1838 AD, British intervention and internal politics resulted with the decision to dismember the Kota state, and to create the new principality of Jhalawar as a separate provision for the descendants of Jhala Zalim Singh. The districts then severed from Kota were considered to represent one-third (120,000) of the income of Kotah; by treaty they acknowledged the supremacy of the British, and agreed to pay an annual tribute of Rs. 8000/-. Madan Singh received the title of Maharaja Rana, and was placed on the same footing as the other chiefs in Rajputana.\n\nJhalawar is located at . It has an average elevation of 312 metres (1023 feet).\n\nThe climate of the area is identical to the Indo-Gangetic plain. In summer the temperature generally is around and at maximum can exceed . In winter the coldest temperature can reach . Jhalawar district has the highest rainfall in the Rajasthan state. An average of of rainfall keeps it cool, and gentle breezes ward off the stifling humidity. Jhalawar district receive the maximum annual rain(95 cm)in Rajasthan.\n\nAs of 2011 Indian Census, Jhalawar had a total population of 66,919, of which 34,765 were males and 32,154 were females. Population within the age group of 0 to 6 years was 8,919. The total number of literates in Jhalawar was 48,145, which constituted 71.95% of the population with male literacy was 77.9% and female literacy was 65.5%. The effective literacy rate of 7+ population of Bahraich was 83.0%, of which male literacy rate was 90.1% and female literacy rate was 75.4%. The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes population was 11,422 and 3,534 respectively. Jhalawar had 13595 households in 2011.\n\nJhalawar district has a well-developed education infrastructure. The Department of Primary Education and Department of Secondary Education provide their services through primary schools, middle schools, secondary, and senior secondary schools. The Rajiv Gandhi Pathashala (School) Scheme, run by the Government of Rajasthan, is also running in the district to provide primary education.\n\nThere are eight colleges in the district, which provide higher-level education in various streams.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe nearest airport with scheduled commercial flight is Kota. Kota airport operates a single flight to Jaipur and New Delhi six days a week (not on Sundays). It is 82 km from the town of Jhalawar.\n\nThe alternate airport with scheduled commercial flights is Raja Bhoj Airport at Bhopal and Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Airport at Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Kolana Airport is located near Jhalawar. It is used by chartered aircraft.\n\nJhalawar has a newly constructed railway station. The railway station is 2 km from Jhalawar. Currently, there are 3 trains to Kota on a daily basis with convenient timings.\n\nJhalawar town lies on National Highway No. 52. Many government buses go through the district and outside. Private buses are also available for intrastate and interstate travel.\n\nKalisindh Thermal Power Station is from Jhalawar town. The power plant is operated by Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam. Its chimney is high. The two cooling towers of the facility are , the tallest in the world. The EPC contractor for the project is BGR Energy Systems Ltd.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259496", "title": "Whiskered bat", "text": "Whiskered bat\n\nThe whiskered bat (\"Myotis mystacinus\") and related species, are small European bats with long fur. Although uncommon, \"M. mystacinus\" is often found around human habitation and around water; it is similar to Brandt's bat \"Myotis brandtii\", from which it was distinguished as a separate species only in 1970.\n\nThe analysis of morphological, behavioural, and especially genetic characters have since identified further cryptic species of whiskered bats in the genus \"Myotis\", including \"Myotis alcathoe\" (described in 2001 from Europe). \"Myotis aurascens\" and \"Myotis ikonnikovi\" are other similar species . \"Myotis hajastanicus\" was also included in \"M. mystacinus\" until recently, but it was differentiated on the base of morphologic comparison.\n\nThe frequencies used by \"M. mystacinus\" for echolocation are 34–102 kHz, have most energy at 53 kHz, and have an average duration of 3.0 ms.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259498", "title": "Charlie Nicholas", "text": "Charlie Nicholas\n\nCharles Nicholas (born 30 December 1961) is a Scottish former professional footballer. A striker, Nicholas is best known for his spells at Celtic and Arsenal. He won 20 international caps for Scotland, including playing at the 1986 FIFA World Cup.\n\nNicholas began his career at Celtic, and by the age of 21 was considered the most exciting emerging talent in British football. With several English clubs keen to sign him, he joined Arsenal in the summer of 1983. He spent over four years there, and scored both their goals in their League Cup Final win over Liverpool in 1987. Nicholas fell out of favour at Highbury later that year, and moved back to Scotland to join Aberdeen. He won two Cup Finals in his time at Pittodrie, before rejoining Celtic in 1990. His second spell at Parkhead was less successful than his first, but he spent five seasons there before moving on to Clyde for one season before retiring from playing.\n\nSince retiring he has worked in the media, most recently on the Sky Sports show Soccer Saturday.\n\nBorn in Cowcaddens, Glasgow, Nicholas grew in the Maryhill area of the city (specifically the Wyndford estate) where he was a childhood friend and neighbour of fellow footballer Jim Duffy. He began his career as a youth with the Celtic Boys Club, before signing for Celtic in 1979. He made his first team debut at 17 years of age on 14 August 1979 in a Glasgow Cup tie against Queens Park, scoring Celtic's second goal in a 3–1 win. Aside from his goal, the youngster displayed alertness and confidence. He made his second appearance in the next round of the same competition on 22 August, opening the scoring in a 3–0 win over Clyde and providing the assist for Bobby Lennox to score Celtic's third goal. Nicholas returned to playing for the reserves again for the rest of the season. His next first team outing was in July 1980 in a Drybrough Cup tie against Ayr United. Celtic lost 1–0 in a poor showing, although Nicholas continued to impress with his quick and busy play.\n\nHis first appearance for Celtic in a major competition came on 16 August 1980 when he replaced the injured Frank McGarvey during the second half of Celtic's 3–0 win away against Kilmarnock in the league. Nicholas began to feature regularly for Celtic, and on 30 August scored his first goals in major competition when he netted twice during a 6–1 win over Stirling Albion in the Scottish League Cup. Playing up front alongside one of either Frank McGarvey or George McCluskey, he went on to score 20 goals in 23 games up to the end of December 1980. He continued to score regularly after the turn of the year, including two goals against Rangers in February 1981 as Celtic came from behind to win 3–1 and go top of the league. Manager Billy McNeill praised Nicholas, stating \"It's a wonderful thing for a youngster to score twice in one of those [Old Firm] games\", adding that \"The world is going to hear a lot more about Charlie [Nicholas]\". He finished the season with a total of 28 goals, the last of which he scored in a 1–0 win over Rangers at Ibrox in April 1981, and Celtic went on to clinch the Scottish Premier Division title days later with a win away at Dundee United. Nicholas' form saw him win the 1981 Scottish PFA Young Player of the Year Award.\n\nThe following season saw Nicholas play less regularly, having lost his place in the side to McCluskey. Worse, he suffered a broken leg in a friendly match against Morton in January 1982 and missed the rest of the season.\n\nNicholas returned to the team for the start of season 1982–83 in August 1982, playing in all six matches of the group stages of the 1982–83 Scottish League Cup, scoring seven goals as Celtic qualified with ease, including a four-goal haul in a 7–1 rout of Dunfermline. Celtic, and Nicholas, continued their goalscoring form into the league campaign, and by mid September Nicholas had amassed a total of 16 goals. Celtic faced Ajax in the first round of the European Cup in September 1982. Nicholas scored a penalty in the first leg at Parkhead, which finished 2–2 on the night. Celtic went into the second leg as underdogs, but an outstanding goal by Nicholas put Celtic ahead in Amsterdam. In a move also involving Paul McStay and Frank McGarvey, Nicholas received the ball from McGarvey and ran into the Ajax penalty box. He evaded two tackles from Ajax defenders before curling an excellently placed left-foot finish past goalkeeper Piet Schrijvers. Ajax later scored themselves, but a last minute winner from George McCluskey saw Celtic progress 3–2 on aggregate. Nicholas later said of his goal, \"That was probably my all-time favourite goal. My greatest game.\"\n\nNicholas was now being described as the most outstanding young player to emerge in Scotland since Kenny Dalglish. He displayed an excellent touch and great vision on the ball and possessed a strong shot with both feet. The only asset he lacked was a turn of pace, although his other attributes covered for that. His partnership up front with Frank McGarvey helped Nicholas become the leading goalscorer in Scotland and one of the best strikers in the British game. On 4 December 1982, he opened the scoring for Celtic in their 2–1 win over Rangers in the 1982 Scottish League Cup Final. After New Year, Nicholas became the centre of intense media speculation linking him with a move to England; with television, radio and newspapers journalists travelling north to cover Nicholas' goalscoring exploits. The Celtic star was featured regularly on the Saturday lunch-time television show Saint and Greavsie which showed Nicholas' latest goals. Despite his prolific goalscoring, the uncertainty over his future at Celtic appeared to unsettle the team towards the end of the season and they ended up losing the league to Dundee United. In the final league match of the season, Nicholas scored twice from penalty kicks as Celtic recovered from a 2–0 deficit at half-time against Rangers to win 4–2. At the end of the game he ran behind the goal to wave what appeared to be his \"goodbyes\" to the Celtic fans.\n\nHe finished the season with 48 goals and won both the Scottish PFA Player of the Year and Scottish Football Writers' Player of the Year awards. The weeks that followed the end of the season saw Liverpool, Manchester United and Arsenal all being strongly linked with signing Nicholas. Liverpool's Kenny Dalglish and Graeme Souness, whom Nicholas knew from being with in the Scotland international squad, made strenuous efforts to persuade Nicholas to come to Anfield. Tottenham Hotspur and Inter Milan were also interested in signing the Celtic player.\n\nTerry Neill signed Nicholas for Arsenal on 22 June 1983 for a transfer fee of £750,000, making him at the time the second most expensive export from the Scottish league. As a 21-year-old at the time of his move to Arsenal, he reportedly became the highest paid footballer in Britain and was described as being \"the most exciting player to emerge in Britain since George Best\". He made his competitive debut for Arsenal in the opening league match of the season on 27 August 1983 at Highbury against Luton Town. Although he did not score, Nicholas turned in an impressive performance and helped his side to a 2–1 win. Former Scotland international Ian St John said that Nicholas showed he was a player of \"genuine class\" and that there was a \"buzz of excitement every time he moved on to the ball\". Two days later, Nicholas scored his first goals for his new club in a 2–1 win away at Wolves.\n\nHowever, he failed to score again until Boxing Day. By this time Arsenal had endured a slump in form and were lying sixteenth in the First Division, resulting in the sacking of manager Terry Neill on 16 December 1983. The festive period saw Nicholas return to scoring form. He scored twice in a 4–2 win over North London rivals Tottenham Hotspur on Boxing Day, endearing himself to the supporters. Nicholas scored again upon the following day from a penalty kick in a 1–1 draw against Birmingham City, his first goal scored at Highbury. Under new manager Don Howe, Arsenal improved in the second half of the season and eventually finished in sixth place. This 1983–84 campaign was also his best at Arsenal with him scoring a sum of 11 times in the league. As so he won Arsenal's Player of the Year award for 1984.\n\nNicholas's lifestyle in the capital was the subject of much tabloid speculation, earning him the nickname \"Champagne Charlie\". In November 1984, while at Arsenal, Nicholas was given a second drink-driving ban in the space of two years, after admitting driving with excess alcohol.\n\nWith the lack of a striker of the ilk of Frank McGarvey to play alongside at Arsenal, Nicholas barely broke double figures in the following seasons, not helped that he was also often played just off the main striker. Whilst Nicholas could display extravagant skills, a lack of consistency restricted his impact. The arrival of George Graham as the new manager of Arsenal in the summer of 1986 saw Nicholas no longer have an automatic place in the team. Arsenal, however, did reach the League Cup final against Liverpool in April 1987. Liverpool's Ian Rush gave his side the lead on 23 minutes, but Nicholas equalised seven minutes later after a goal mouth scramble. In the second half, he appeared to be fouled in the penalty box by Gary Gillespie, but the referee ignored Arsenal's claims for a penalty. With seven minutes left, Nicholas received a cross from Perry Groves and shot at goal. The ball took a deflection off Ronnie Whelan, and went into the goal having deceived Bruce Grobbelaar. Arsenal held on to win 2–1. With this Wembley brace Nicholas thus became a club hero.\n\nIn the summer of 1987, Celtic attempted to persuade Nicholas to return to Parkhead. However, he rejected his old club's offer, and decided to stay at Arsenal in the expectation he would remain part of their side. It proved to be a poor decision; Nicholas was dropped four games into the start of the 1987–88 season, in favour of Perry Groves as the strike-partner for new signing Alan Smith. He spent the rest of his time at Highbury playing for the reserves.\n\nNicholas was ranked at number 28 in the club's list of the '50 Greatest Gunners of all time'. Altogether he scored 54 goals in 184 matches for Arsenal.\n\nNicholas joined Aberdeen in January 1988 for a transfer of £400,000, stating his desire to get his career back on track. After a slow start at Pittodrie (three goals in 16 league games in the 1987–88 season), he rediscovered his form and scored 16 league goals in the 1988–89 season, finishing joint top-scorer in the league alongside Celtic's Mark McGhee.\n\nHe maintained his form into what transpired to be his final season, 1989–90, and in October 1989 picked up his first silverware since returning to Scotland, as Aberdeen defeated Rangers 2–1 in the Scottish League Cup Final. The arrival of Dutch forward Hans Gilhaus in November 1989 saw the pair immediately form a good partnership up front. The two helped Aberdeen win the Scottish Cup, both scoring their penalty kicks in Aberdeen's penalty-shoot win over Celtic in May 1990. In all, Nicholas played 104 games for \"The Dons\" in two and a half years, scoring 36 goals.\n\nIn summer 1990, Nicholas returned to Celtic. His comeback season at Parkhead saw him playing a total of 14 games and scoring six goals within the league. The arrival of new manager Liam Brady at Celtic in 1991 saw an improvement in fortune for Nicholas, and he went on to score 21 league goals during season 1991–92. In March 1992 he scored two outstanding goals in consecutive weeks. On 21 March he opened the scoring at Ibrox in a 2–0 win over Rangers; taking a long ball from a Chris Morris free kick, he volleyed home a powerful shot past goalkeeper Andy Goram. A week later on 28 March, he ran across the Dundee United defence 25 yards out and suddenly chipped the ball past an unsuspecting Alan Main. Despite his goalscoring, Celtic again failed to win any silverware. He lost his place in the team halfway through 1992–93 as Celtic bought Frank McAvennie, but regained his place the following season as McAvennie fell out of favour.\n\nNicholas was released by manager Lou Macari in May 1994, although after Macari was sacked a month later, Nicholas was subsequently re-signed by new manager Tommy Burns. However, in 1994-95 he played in only 12 out of 36 league games and was unable to score a single goal. He was left out of the 1995 Scottish Cup Final against Airdrie and Celtic released him again, so he moved on from the club for the last time. In five years back at Celtic he had played 114 league games and scored 37 league goals.\n\nIn July 1995 Nicholas joined Clyde on a free transfer, where he spent one season and scored five times in 31 league games before retiring as a player.\n\nNicholas was first capped by Scotland at senior level on 30 March 1983, near the end of his first spell at Celtic. He was on the scoresheet in a 2–2 draw with Switzerland at Hampden Park. He was in Scotland's squad for the 1986 World Cup, playing in the group matches against Denmark and Uruguay. He won the last of his 20 senior caps for Scotland on 26 April 1989 in a 2–1 win over Cyprus at Hampden Park. The last of his five goals for Scotland had come on 17 October 1984 in a 3–0 win over Iceland at Hampden Park early in the World Cup qualifying stages.\n\nNicholas now works as a pundit on the Sky Sports News programme Soccer Saturday and Sky Sports' coverage of Scottish football. He is also a part-time newspaper columnist. In April 2010 Nicholas criticised Celtic's majority shareholder Dermot Desmond. He accused Desmond and the board of presiding over the worst Celtic squad he had ever seen. Nicholas criticised Desmond's handling of the club, accusing him of treating the Glasgow club like \"a toy\", and failing to invest properly in the playing staff.\n\nIn January 2014, Nicholas was inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame.\n\nCeltic\n\nArsenal\n\nAberdeen\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259502", "title": "Anna-Lena Grönefeld", "text": "Anna-Lena Grönefeld\n\nAnna-Lena Grönefeld (also spelled Groenefeld, born 4 June 1985) is a German retired tennis player. Competing as a professional from 2003 until 2019, she won one singles title and 17 doubles titles on the WTA Tour. She also won two Grand Slam titles in mixed doubles.\n\nIn 2002, she was the singles champion of both the Belgium and Frankfurt International Championships and a finalist at the Orange Bowl. In June 2003, she captured the prestigious French Open junior title, becoming the first player from Germany since 1957 to accomplish this feat. In July 2003, she continued her superb form and won the Apple and Eve Newsday Long Island Classic, held in Woodbury, New York. She was also an accomplished doubles player in juniors winning the French Open title and reaching the finals at Wimbledon. As a result of her tennis success in 2003, Grönefeld had achieved the junior world ranking of No. 1 in singles and doubles. She launched her professional career debut under the direction of the USA Academy and Rafael Font de Mora.\n\nGrönefeld made her professional breakthrough in 2005, rising 54 places throughout the year. She reached the third round of the Australian Open, French Open and the US Open and played three finals in WTA Tour events throughout the season, including at the Tier II event in Beijing, although failing to win any of them. She also rose into the top 10 in the world in doubles, cementing her position as one of the most promising young doubles players on the tour at the time.\n\nIn 2006, she represented Germany along with Nicolas Kiefer at the Hopman Cup. She went on to win her first title at the Abierto Mexicano Telcel in Acapulco and completed a career best showing at Roland Garros, by reaching the quarterfinals, where she lost to Justine Henin. Her ranking peaked at 14, and remained in the top 20 for much of the year, despite a significant drop in results in the latter half of the season, as the German failed to progress beyond the quarterfinals of most tournaments. She split with Font de Mora in September 2006 and began to work with Dirk Dier.\n\nHer run of bad form continued into 2007, and as of 19 June, Grönefeld had been eliminated in the first round of her last five tournaments. Grönefeld blamed her run of bad form on the situation with Font de Mora, suggesting that he was giving her opponents tactics on how to beat her. She also had a substantial weight gain over the past several months. Her ranking subsequently dipped below the top 100 for the first time since 2004. On 20 August 2007, Grönefeld announced that she would be taking a break from the tour, coming back in 2008.\n\nIn August 2007, it was revealed that Font de Mora was planning to sue Grönefeld for lack of discipline during their partnership, stating: \"She had to adhere to a standard of performance, a standard of training and a standard of diet. She absolutely let herself go and sabotaged her marketability and her performance on the court. You work for years and invest all this money into developing contracts and developing endorsements and then she just gets around the wrong people and does the wrong things and her performance affects everything.\" He also denied her allegations that he interfered with her matches.\n\nGrönefeld made her official comeback on 3 May 2008, at the $75,000 ITF event in Zagreb, Croatia. She was seeded 4th in the qualifying draw, winning three consecutive matches to reach the main draw. She then won the Smart Card Open Monet+ in Zlín, Czech Republic, for the first title of her comeback. Grönefeld went on to win another two ITF title over the following fortnight: a $10,000 event in Alkmaar, Netherlands, and a $25,000 event at Périgueux, France.\n\nGrönefeld took advantage of her feed-up wildcard into the Tier IV Gaz de France Grand Prix (a result of winning the $75,000 Zlín ITF event), reaching the quarterfinals with an upset win over Lucie Šafářová. She then played in Bad Gastein, where she was defeated in three tight sets in the second round by Pauline Parmentier.\n\nHer good form allowed Grönefeld to win another $50,000 ITF event in Rimini at the beginning of August. She also reached the final of a $50,000 event in The Bronx, where she lost to Elena Bovina.\n\nAfter winning her three qualification rounds, Grönefeld played at the 2008 US Open, and reached the fourth round of the main draw, only losing to Dinara Safina. Prior to her loss to Safina, Grönefeld had won six matches in a row without losing a single set, the highlights being her victory over Daniela Hantuchová in the first round and over Alizé Cornet in the third round, both top 20 players at the time.\n\nAfter losing against Austrian runner-up Tamira Paszek in the first round in Bali, Grönefeld received a wildcard for the Porsche Tennis Grand Prix in Stuttgart but lost in the first round against Venus Williams. With her doubles partner, Patty Schnyder, Grönefeld, however, won the doubles competition against the top seeds Květa Peschke and Rennae Stubbs.\n\nAfter winning the first two matches at the qualification for the Zurich Open, Grönefeld lost her third match against Petra Kvitová. With doubles partner Patty Schnyder she reached the finals.\n\n\"Current through the 2019 WTA Finals.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2259503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259503", "title": "WSFL-TV", "text": "WSFL-TV\n\nWSFL-TV, virtual channel 39 (UHF digital channel 27), is a CW-affiliated television station licensed to Miami, Florida, United States and also serving Fort Lauderdale. The station is owned by the E. W. Scripps Company. WSFL-TV's studios are located on East Las Olas Boulevard and Southeast 2nd Street in Fort Lauderdale (in a building shared with the formerly co-owned \"Sun-Sentinel\" newspaper); its transmitter is located between Northwest 210th and 207th Streets in Andover. On cable, the station is carried on Comcast Xfinity channels 11 (standard definition) and 435 (high definition).\n\nThe station first signed on the air on October 16, 1982 as WDZL. It was originally owned by Channel 39 Broadcasting Ltd. Operating as an independent station, the station maintained a general entertainment format consisting of cartoons, off-network dramas, classic movies, a few older off-network sitcoms, and religious programs. Odyssey Partners, which would later evolve into Renaissance Broadcasting (and which had owned WTXX, now WCCT-TV, in Waterbury, Connecticut), owned an interest in WDZL.\n\nIn December 1984, Grant Broadcasting System signed on competing independent WBFS-TV (channel 33) with a stronger general entertainment lineup, and surpassed WDZL in the ratings immediately. Still, WDZL was profitable, especially with the large amount of barter cartoons that was available to the station. It was still running programs that other area stations passed on until the wave of affiliation switches in January 1989. When WCIX (channel 6, now WFOR-TV on channel 4) was sold to CBS and dropped most of its syndicated programs, Fox programming moved to WSVN (channel 7), which lost its NBC affiliation to WTVJ (channel 4, now on channel 6), which became an NBC-owned station at that time. Most of the syndicated programs dropped by WCIX, primarily cartoons and sitcoms, were acquired by WDZL, helping it to become a far stronger independent station by the early 1990s (WSVN acquired some of WCIX's cartoons to air on weekend mornings, along most of WCIX's movie packages, while WCIX retained some of its syndicated programs). In 1991, WDZL began branding its children's programming as the \"Fun Zone\"; the programming block was hosted by Lauren D. The station acquired the rights to Fox Kids after WSVN dropped the programming block in 1993.\n\nIn mid-January 1994, the station began airing the \"Action Pack\" programming block with a \"TekWar\" TV movie. The rating for the movie were 9.1/13, which was 225% more than November and more than any 2 hour movie from last year.\n\nWDZL became a charter WB affiliate when the network debuted on January 11, 1995. In 1997, the Tribune Company acquired Renaissance Communications' six television stations. As Kids' WB programming expanded to three hours on weekdays, the station dropped Fox Kids (which moved to Home Shopping Network station WYHS (channel 69, now WAMI-TV). Channel 39 altered its call letters to WBZL (simply replacing the \"D\" with a \"B\") in 1998 to emphasize its affiliation with The WB. Throughout its affiliation with the network, the station was branded on-air as \"WB 39\". By that point, WBZL began airing more first-run talk and reality shows during the daytime hours, along with children's programming, and off-network sitcoms in the evenings. By 2005, it was the only remaining station in South Florida that still ran children's programs on weekday afternoons due to the presence of Kids' WB (which would discontinue its weekday afternoon block nationwide on December 30, 2005, leaving only a five-hour lineup on Saturday mornings).\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. On the day of the announcement, Tribune Broadcasting signed a ten-year agreement to affiliate 16 of its WB affiliates, including WBZL, with The CW. However, it would not have been an upset had WBFS (which is owned by CBS Corporation subsidiary CBS Television Stations) been chosen as Miami's CW station. Representatives for the network were on record as preferring the \"strongest\" WB and UPN stations to become The CW's charter affiliates, and Miami-Fort Lauderdale was one of the few markets where the WB and UPN stations both had relatively strong viewership. Throughout the summer, WBZL started using the CW logo in station promotions and also began referring to itself as \"CW South Florida\". On September 17, the station changed its call letters to WSFL-TV, to reference to its geographic location. WSFL became a charter CW affiliate when the network debuted the next day on September 18.\n\nOn September 1, 2008, in a corporate move by Tribune to de-emphasize references to The CW in the branding of its CW-affiliated stations, channel 39 was rebranded as \"SFL\" and it debuted a logo featuring the stylistic capital \"S\" in the \"Sun-Sentinel\" nameplate logo. Around the same time, WSFL moved its operations into the Fort Lauderdale offices of the \"Sun-Sentinel\" newspaper. By February 2012, the station rebranded as \"SFL-TV\" to de-emphasize its connection to the \"Sun-Sentinel\", as WSFL no longer offers full-scale local newscasts.\n\nOn July 10, 2013, Tribune announced plans to spin off its publishing division into a separate company. The split was finalized in 2014, and WSFL-TV remain with the Tribune Company (which retain all non-publishing assets, including the broadcasting, digital media and Media Services units), while its newspapers (including the \"Sun-Sentinel\") became part of the similarly named Tribune Publishing Company. On February 1, 2017, the station reverted to the \"CW South Florida\" branding.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Hunt Valley, Maryland-based Sinclair Broadcast Group announced that it would acquire Tribune Media for $3.9 billion, plus the assumption of $2.7 billion in debt held by Tribune. On February 22, 2018, \"Variety\" reported that Sinclair would sell WSFL to Fox Television Stations upon approval of the Tribune deal. On April 24, 2018, Sinclair announced that WSFL-TV would be one of 23 stations sold to obtain approval for the merger, though it was one of seven stations for which a buyer was not immediately disclosed. On May 9, 2018, Fox Television Stations officially announced their acquisition of WSFL, as part of a $910-million deal that also involved six Fox-affiliated stations owned by Tribune (KTXL/Sacramento, KSWB-TV/San Diego, KDVR/Denver, WJW/Cleveland and KSTU/Salt Lake City and KCPQ/Seattle). The proposed acquisition raises the possibility that Fox programming in the market may be moved from existing affiliate WSVN to WSFL-TV; in an earnings call, executives at Fox parent company 21st Century Fox declined to immediately announce any plans regarding WSFL, with CEO Lachlan Murdoch stating that \"We're not making any announcements of any affiliate changes today.\" Any affiliation change would not take place prior to June 30, 2019, when WSVN's affiliation with Fox is scheduled to expire.\n\nThree weeks after the FCC's July 18 vote to have the deal reviewed by an administrative law judge amid \"serious concerns\" about Sinclair's forthrightness in its applications to sell certain conflict properties, on August 9, 2018, Tribune announced it would terminate the Sinclair deal, intending to seek other M&A opportunities. Tribune also filed a breach of contract lawsuit in the Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that Sinclair engaged in protracted negotiations with the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division over regulatory issues, refused to sell stations in markets where it already had properties, and proposed divestitures to parties with ties to Sinclair executive chair David D. Smith that were rejected or highly subject to rejection to maintain control over stations it was required to sell. The termination of the Sinclair sale agreement places uncertainty for the future of Fox's purchases of WSFL and the other six Tribune stations included in that deal, which were predicated on the closure of the Sinclair–Tribune merger.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Irving, Texas-based Nexstar Media Group announced it would acquire the assets of Tribune Media for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. The deal would make Nexstar the largest television station operator by total number of stations upon its expected closure late in the third quarter of 2019. Reports preceding the purchase announcement stated that, as it did during the group's failed purchase by Sinclair, Fox Television Stations may seek to acquire certain Fox-affiliated stations owned by Tribune from the eventual buyer of that group, which could subject WSFL to being sold to Fox. However, on March 20, 2019, the Cincinnati-based E. W. Scripps Company announced it would purchase WSFL-TV from Nexstar upon consummation of the merger, as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Scripps and Tegna Inc. in separate deals worth $1.32 billion. The acquisition would give WSFL-TV additional sister stations in nearby markets including Fort Myers (Fox affiliate WFTX-TV) and West Palm Beach (NBC affiliate WPTV-TV, Court TV affiliate WHDT, and Fox affiliate WFLX, the latter of which Scripps operates under a shared services agreement with owner Gray Television). The sale was completed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nIn 2006, the station began carrying The Tube, a 24-hour music video network, on its digital subchannel 39.2 and Comcast digital cable channel 224. The network was dropped on October 1, 2007 when that network ceased operations due to a multitude of factors including issues with other station groups regarding carriage of E/I programming and financial issues.\n\nWSFL-TV ended programming on its analog signal, on UHF channel 39, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 19. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 39.\n\nIn 1997, NBC owned-and-operated station WTVJ and the \"Sun-Sentinel\" entered into a partnership to co-produce a nightly 10:00 p.m. newscast on WDZL, titled \"WB 39 News at 10\". When the station became a CW affiliate, the newscast's title was changed accordingly to \"CW News at 10\". On March 5, 2008, WTVJ began broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; the 10:00 p.m. broadcast on WSFL was included in the upgrade. For the duration of the 2008 Summer Olympics, WSFL's newscast utilized a two-anchor format and closely mirrored the format of the newscasts airing on WTVJ. The 10:00 p.m. newscast during this time was broadcast from WTVJ's primary news set at Peacock Plaza in Miramar, with the only alterations being differences in the set's duratrans for the WSFL newscast. The WTVJ-produced newscast on WSFL was one of a handful of newscasts that were produced through news share agreements with Tribune-owned stations, including newscasts airing sister stations WPHL-TV in Philadelphia (whose 10:00 p.m. newscast was originally produced by NBC-owned WCAU, and has since transferred production to ABC-owned WPVI-TV) and KRCW-TV in Portland, Oregon (whose prime time newscast was originally produced by NBC affiliate KGW).\n\nOn August 26, 2008, WTVJ and WSFL agreed to terminate their news share agreement, most likely due to WTVJ's planned acquisition by Post-Newsweek Stations (owner of ABC affiliate WPLG, channel 10), which was later aborted due to financial issues and lack of FCC approval; the final broadcast of the 10:00 p.m. newscast aired on August 31. WSFL later began to produce a weekday morning news program, which aired for four hours from 5:00 to 9:00 a.m., on April 13, 2009; the program was broadcast out of the \"Sun-Sentinel\"s former auditorium on the first floor of the Sun-Sentinel Building on Las Olas in Fort Lauderdale. \"The Morning Show\" was canceled on August 4, 2010 due to low ratings. The station continues to produce the public affairs program \"South Florida Voices\", on Sunday mornings at 6 a.m., which is hosted by Deborah Ally; this program was relaunched with a new host and under a new title in September 2010. WSFL also began producing nightly news updates in mid-August 2010, which air five times a day. WSFL also produces local news inserts that appear during its broadcast of \"EyeOpener\" (which is produced by Dallas sister station KDAF) on weekday mornings.\n\nOn September 28, 2015, WSFL-TV became the third station to launch the Tribune-developed news format, \"NewsFix\", launching a half-hour prime time newscast, \"NewsFix SFL at 10:00\". The format de-emphasizes the traditional use of anchors and reporters, in favor of using footage featuring those involved and continuity provided by a narrator to help illustrate the story. , \"NewsFix SFL\" no longer airs on the station.\n\nOn November 14, 2019, Scripps announced that they will bring local news back to WSFL starting sometime in spring 2020. \n\n"}
{"id": "2259506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259506", "title": "Nannerl O. Keohane", "text": "Nannerl O. Keohane\n\nNannerl \"Nan\" Overholser Keohane (born September 18, 1940, in Blytheville, Arkansas) is an American political theorist and former president of Wellesley College and Duke University. Until September 2014, Keohane was the Laurance S. Rockefeller Distinguished Visiting Professor of Public Affairs and the University Center for Human Values at Princeton University. She is now a professor in social sciences at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, where she is researching the theory and practice of leadership in democratic societies.\n\nKeohane earned her first undergraduate degree in 1961 from Wellesley College, and her second bachelor's degree at Oxford University as a Marshall Scholar. Keohane received her doctorate in political science from Yale University in 1967.\n\nKeohane began her career in academia teaching at Swarthmore College (1967–73), Stanford University (1973–81), and the University of Pennsylvania. At Stanford, she was chair of the faculty senate and won the Gores Award for Excellence in Teaching, the university's highest teaching honor.\n\nKeohane served as eleventh president of Wellesley from 1981 to 1993, while also continuing to teach political science. At Wellesley, she oversaw increased enrollment of minority students, led the expansion of the Sports Center and the construction of the Davis Museum and Cultural Center, and implemented major advances in technology throughout the campus.\n\nKeohane became the thirteenth president at Duke in 1993. During her tenure, she was also a professor of political science, led efforts to increase minority student enrollment, diversified faculty, and oversaw the Women's Initiative. Keohane also helped raise $2.36 billion during The Campaign for Duke, which ended in 2003, making it the fifth-largest campaign in the history of American higher education.\n\nKeohane left her position at Duke in 2004, and in 2005 was named Laurance S. Rockefeller Distinguished Visiting Professor of Public Affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School and the University Center for Human Values at Princeton University.\n\nKeohane's books include \"Thinking about Leadership\" (2010), \"Philosophy and the State in France: The Renaissance to the Enlightenment\" (1980), and \"Feminist Theory: A Critique of Ideology\" (1982). Some of Keohane's speeches were published in 1995 in \"A Community Worthy of the Name\", and more in 2006 in \"Higher Ground: Ethics and Leadership in the Modern University\".\n\nIn 2009-11, Keohane chaired a committee on undergraduate women's leadership at Princeton University, appointed by President Shirley M. Tilghman. She has also launched discussions on the future of women's leadership, and on the future of liberal education.\n\nIn fall 2013 she was at the American Academy in Berlin as the Richard C. Holbrooke Distinguished Visitor.\n\nKeohane was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 1995. She has served on many community and professional bodies, including being active in the Marshall Scholarship Alumni Association.\n\nIn 1996, following nearly 3 years of intense litigation over the estate of Doris Duke, Keohane was named as one of the \"six people [who] would sit as trustees of the charitable foundations established by Miss Duke's will.\". In 2008, Keohane was chair of the Board of Trustees of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation (DDCF) during the controversy over the Trustees decision to close and dismantle Duke Gardens, established in 1958 by Doris Duke in honor of her father James Buchanan Duke. Representatives of the DDCF stated that the Gardens were \"perpetuating the Duke family history of personal passions and conspicuous consumption.\"\n\nKeohane is also a member of the Harvard Corporation, the governing body of Harvard University, and is the only current member of that body, save for current Harvard president Drew Gilpin Faust, not to have earned a degree from Harvard. In April 2013, Keohane told Harvard students advocating for climate change divestment that they should instead \"Thank BP\" for its investment in clean energy. The comment caused an uproar among Harvard students, leading climate activist Bill McKibben to tweet the following:\n\nBill McKibben (@billmckibben) April 10, 2013\n\nKeohane was born in Blytheville, Arkansas, and graduated from high school in Hot Springs, Arkansas.\n\nHer husband is Robert Keohane, also a noted political scientist. Her sister, Geneva Overholser, is a prominent journalist and currently director of the School of Journalism at the University of Southern California. Keohane and her husband have four grown children: Sarah, Stephan, Jonathan, and Nathaniel.\n\nKeohane's last name is often subject to mispronunciation. While the most common pronunciation is \"Kee-oh-hayne\", following the name's phonetics, the correct pronunciation is \"Koh-hann\", incorporating a silent 'e' and a hard 'a'. \n\n"}
{"id": "2259507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259507", "title": "Boone and Scenic Valley Railroad", "text": "Boone and Scenic Valley Railroad\n\nThe Boone and Scenic Valley Railroad is a heritage railroad that operates freight and passenger excursions in Boone County, Iowa.\n\nThe heritage and excursion railroad was begun in 1983 by a group of volunteers who wanted to preserve a scenic section of the former Fort Dodge, Des Moines and Southern Railroad (FDDMS). The original track was built in the 1890s and electrified in 1907. After massive flooding damaged the power plant (located at Fraser, Iowa) providing electricity to the line in 1954, the railroad soon turned to diesel equipment to pull its trains. The Chicago & North Western (CNW) purchased the entire FD|DMS system in 1968. Shortly after acquiring the line, the Chicago & North Western began to place portions of it up for abandonment. In 1983, an section of the line was purchased by the Boone Railroad Historical Society, and its 2254 charter members, for $50,000. The stretch of track winds through the Des Moines River Valley and across a tall bridge spanning Bass Point Creek, a tributary of the Des Moines River. The line runs from Boone, through the old coal mining town of Fraser, and ends at the site of the former junction with the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway at Wolf.\n\nThe railroad, an immediate success, has expanded regularly since its founding. A depot was dedicated in 1985. Today, more than 30,000 visitors take a ride on one of the regular or special event trains, including Thomas the Tank Engine (September), the Pumpkin Express (October), and Santa Express (weekends between Thanksgiving and Christmas) that features a book written and illustrated especially for the trip. Dining cars are reserved for special dinner trains.\n\nThe James H. Andrew Railroad Museum and History Center was added to the existing depot and dedicated in 2012. It displays and preserves thousands of Iowa railroad artifacts and memorabilia such as track equipment, toy trains, dining car china, timetables, photos, lanterns, and telegraph equipment. The museum hosts special exhibitions, maintains a research library, and has a small theater/conference room.\n\nThe railroad owns numerous locomotives and dozens of cars.\n\nOne of the railroad's steam engines, former COER CLC 2-8-0 #17, is most widely known for holding the historic title as the last operating common carrier steam locomotive in America. Purchased on February 9, 1987 it currently sits on display and is still painted with the CO&E's classic pyramid logo. Albeit in poor condition due to sitting outside.\n\nIn the late 1980s the railroad also acquired one of the last new 2-8-2 Mikado steam locomotives built in China (China Railways JS number 8419, cost $335,000). The locomotive powers the museum's 1920s excursion trains on Saturdays, Memorial Day Weekend through October 31.\n\nIn 2002 the BSVY acquired and restored an EMD FP9, originally a Via Rail Canada passenger locomotive. Painted in Chicago and North Western Railway inspired colors, it powers the BSVR dinner train.\n\nThe railroad also runs a short trolley ride and has begun to do light freight switching at Boone industries in recent years. Its station is located just one block from the Union Pacific Railroad mainline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259516", "title": "Arnie Lerma", "text": "Arnie Lerma\n\nArnaldo Pagliarini \"Arnie\" Lerma (November 18, 1950 – March 16, 2018) was an American writer and activist, a former Scientologist, and a critic of Scientology who appeared in television, media and radio interviews. Lerma was the first person to post the court document known as the Fishman Affidavit, including the Xenu story, to the Internet via the Usenet newsgroup alt.religion.scientology.\n\nLerma was born in Washington, D.C. in 1950.\n\nLerma started in Scientology at the age of 16 at the urging of his mother, an executive director for the Washington, DC church. He was impressed by L. Ron Hubbard's exaggerated account of his military career and scientific credentials.\n\nLerma joined Scientology's Sea Org and was assigned in 1976 to a post working alongside Hubbard's daughter Suzette. He later claimed that they became romantically involved and planned to elope, though others have disputed this. Lerma alleged that other Sea Org officers discovered their plans and threatened to mutilate him if he did not cancel the marriage. Lerma quit Scientology soon afterward.\n\nAfter Lerma posted the Fishman Affidavit in August 1995, his home was raided by federal marshals and lawyers from the Church of Scientology, alleging he was in possession of copyrighted documents. A lawsuit was filed against Lerma and his Internet service provider by the church's Religious Technology Center (RTC), claiming copyright infringement and trade secret misappropriation.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" and two investigative reporters were added to the lawsuit, as an article written about the raid contained three brief quotes from Scientology \"Advanced Technology\" documents.\n\n\"The Washington Post\", et al., were released from the suit when United States District Judge Leonie Brinkema ruled in a memorandum on November 28, 1995\n\nThe memorandum opinion acknowledges what Scientology practices to this day: the \"Fair Game\" policy, a written directive by L. Ron Hubbard that encourages harassment of anyone who speaks out against the church. In conclusion, the court awarded RTC the statutory minimum of $2,500 for five instances of non-willful copyright violation.\n\nLerma started a website called \"Lermanet\", which concentrates on news about Scientology and on documenting lawsuits by Scientology. He was also noted for discovering an altered picture on a Scientology website on New Year's Eve in 1999, one that appeared to inflate the number of members attending a millennial event at the Los Angeles Sports Arena in California. He posted the pictures to his website identifying the alterations, with the most prominent feature being the \"man with no head\". The story appeared on national television and in the press.\n\nOn March 28, 2019, the entire content of Arnie Lerma's \"Lermanet.com\" site was deleted by his surviving widow, Ginger Sugerman. Contents are only accessible through use of the \"Wayback Machine\" at archive.org. Lermanet.com blog however survived a little bit longer.\n\nLerma committed suicide by gunshot at his home in Sylvania, Georgia, on March 16, 2018, after shooting his wife, Ginger Sugerman, in the face. Sugerman survived.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259517", "title": "Natterer's bat", "text": "Natterer's bat\n\nNatterer's bat (\"Myotis nattereri\") is a European vespertilionid bat with pale wings. It has brown fur tending to greyish-white on its underside. It is found across most of the continent of Europe, parts of the Near East and North Africa. It feeds on insects and other invertebrates which it catches on the wing or pursues on the ground.\n\nIn summer it roosts in deciduous and coniferous trees, buildings or bat boxes close to its feeding habitats. In winter it hibernates in caves, tunnels, mines or cellars, usually hiding in crevices. This bat was first described in 1817 by Heinrich Kuhl, who named it in honour of the Austrian naturalist Johann Natterer.\n\nNatterer's bat is a medium-sized species and grows to a head and body length of with a forearm (elbow to wrist) length of . It weighs between . The short, dense fur on the dorsal (upper) surface of head and body is greyish-brown while the ventral (under) surface is whitish-grey. The ears and the wing membranes are smoky grey. This bat can be distinguished from other similar species by the fact that the free edge of the interfemoral membrane between the hind limbs is wrinkled and fringed with stiff, curved hairs and the calcar, a spur of cartilage that supports the membrane, is shaped like a \"S\".\n\nThe Natterer's bat species complex has a western Palaearctic distribution and is native to most of Europe, parts of the Middle East and parts of northern Africa. Its range extends from southern Sweden, Finland and western Russia in the north to Ireland, the United Kingdom, Spain and Portugal to the west. It extends eastwards to Ukraine, western and southwestern Asia Minor, the Levant, the Caucasus region, the Kopet Dag Mountains in Turkmenistan, Iran and northern Kazakhstan. Its southern limit is Morocco and Algeria, southwards as far as the Atlas Mountains. Records from North Africa are few in number and the population there is likely to be small. Its historic range included Norway, in which it is now a possibly extirpated species.\n\nIt is found from sea level up to an altitude of about . It is found in forests, parkland, and in open countryside with scattered woodland. It roosts in holes in trees, buildings and nestboxes. In winter it hibernates in caves, mineshafts, tunnels and cellars, hiding itself away in cracks and crevices usually near the cave entrance. It is largely a resident species and the summer roosts and winter hibernation sites are usually within of each other.\n\nNatterer's bat is nocturnal and insectivorous. It emerges at dusk to hunt for insects and uses echolocation to find prey and orient itself at night. Like many other species of bat, it emits sounds at too high a frequency for most humans to detect and then interprets the echoes created in order to build a \"sound picture\" of its surroundings. The frequencies used by this bat species for echolocation lie between 23–115 kHz and have most energy at 53 kHz. The individual signals have an average duration of 3.8 ms. The wide bandwidth of its frequency-modulated search signals enables it to detect prey only a few centimetres from vegetation and it does not use vision, olfaction or sounds emitted by its prey for this purpose. The bat feeds on the wing and it mostly catches insects in flight but it is also able to feed on prey items such as spiders and caterpillars dangling close to foliage on silken threads.\n\nDuring a study of the bat's diet, examination of droppings showed that it can also gather prey items from the ground. The diet was found mostly to consist of large Diptera (flies) but Trichoptera (caddisfly), Hymenoptera (bees, wasps, ants and hoverflies) and Arachnida (spiders and harvestmen) were also commonly eaten. The remains of other prey items occasionally found in the droppings included Lepidoptera (moths), Coleoptera (beetles), Hemiptera (bugs), Dermaptera (earwigs) and Chilopoda (centipedes). This bat may use its interfemoral membrane to catch prey and the fringing hairs may have a sensory function. It has been shown that it can land on the ground to pick up and pursue invertebrates that are active at night, and continues to emit search signals in order to locate them precisely.\n\nBreeding takes place in the spring and many Natterer's bats may congregate in a nursery roost. After fertilisation, a female normally gives birth to a single offspring after a gestation period of fifty to sixty days, but twins sometimes occur. Weaning takes place six or seven weeks later and the juvenile becomes sexually mature the following year.\n\nThe IUCN has listed the Natterer's bat in its Red List of Threatened Species as being of \"Least Concern\" because it has a very wide distribution and is abundant in many parts of its extent. The population trend seems to be steady and no significant threats have been identified. The IUCN does note however that in some parts of its range woodlands are under threat and land management practices are changing. Roosting sites in trees and buildings may be destroyed and in Africa, cave roosting habitats are being damaged. The bat is used in traditional medicine practices in North Africa.\n\nNatterer's bats are protected under the European Habitats Directive, the Bonn Convention (Eurobats) and the Berne Convention. In the United Kingdom their rarity means that woodlands containing the species may be considered for notification as Sites of Special Scientific Interest or Special Areas of Conservation and may attract a grant under Natural Englands Environmental Stewardship scheme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259523", "title": "Fall River Rovers", "text": "Fall River Rovers\n\nFall River Rovers were a United States soccer club, based in Fall River, Massachusetts. They won the 1888 and 1889 American Cups as well as the 1917 National Challenge Cup. In 1921 Rovers were disbanded and a new team, Fall River United were formed to enter the newly established American Soccer League.\n\nThe name was revived during the 1933–34 season by a team that played in the \"New England Division\" of the American Soccer League. Other teams in the division included another Fall River United.\n\nIn the late 19th century Fall River, Massachusetts, together with Kearney, New Jersey and St. Louis, Missouri, emerged as a stronghold for soccer in the United States. In the late 1870s Fall River experienced a period of economic growth, driven by the demand for cotton print cloth. Southeastern New England was the birthplace of the United States textile industry and Fall River became known as \"Spindle City\". By 1876 the city was home to 43 factories, more than 30,000 looms and more than one million spindles. Keeping them all working required immigrant labor and, while some of the new arrivals were French Canadian and Irish, many also came from Lancashire and Glasgow, two of the earliest strongholds of soccer in the United Kingdom. As a result, several soccer clubs, including Rovers, emerged within the city. In February 1884, the team was founded at a meeting held on County Street, Fall River. The team joined the Bristol County Football Association in 1885. Other clubs from the city included Fall River Olympics, Fall River Pan Americans and Fall River East Ends. Rovers, along with these clubs became affiliated with the American Football Association and entered the American Cup. Between 1888 and 1892 teams from Fall River won the cup five times in succession. Fall River Rovers won it in both 1888 and 1889. In 1891, Rovers, along with the Fall River Olympics, East Enders and Pawtucket Free Wanderers, formed the New England League. In 1903, Rovers won the Interstate League championship. In 1907, they reentered the AFA. The Rovers were the New England League champions in 1909 before joining the first Eastern Soccer League in 1910. When this league was abandoned during its only season, Rovers were in the lead. Between 1915 and 1921 they played in the Southern New England Soccer League, twice finishing as runners-up in 1917 and 1921. In 1917 they also won the Times Cup, the league cup of the SNESL, defeating J&P Coats 3–0 in the final.\n\nDuring the late 1910s a strong inter-regional rivalry developed between Rovers and Bethlehem Steel. The teams played against each other in three consecutive National Challenge Cup finals. Rovers were defeated in both the 1916 and the 1918 finals but won the competition in 1917. The rivalry was intensified by the fact that, at the time, Rovers featured mainly United States-born players while Steel relied heavily on players imported from both the Scottish Football League and the English Football League. In addition neither club was immune from fan violence. The 1916 final, hosted by J&P Coats in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, attracted a crowd of 10,000, almost all backing Rovers. With the score 0–0 after 80 minutes, Steel were awarded a penalty, triggering protests from both Rovers players and fans alike. Steel subsequently converted the penalty, which was enough to win the trophy. However, with seconds remaining Rovers were denied a penalty, sparking both a riot and a pitch invasion. The 1917 final saw Steel and Rovers return to Pawtucket to play in front of a crowd of 5,000. Rovers avenged their 1916 defeat with a goal scored in the first minute giving them a hard fought 1–0 win. The 1918 final saw the two teams return to Pawtucket for a third time, this time playing out a 2–2 extra-time draw in front of 10,000. However Rovers lost the replay 3–0 in Harrison, New Jersey. The star of the Rovers team during this era was Thomas Swords, who in 1916 captained the United States in their first official international. Other notable players included John Sullivan, who scored in both the 1917 and 1918 finals, and Chick Albin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259524", "title": "Craig Gordon", "text": "Craig Gordon\n\nCraig Sinclair Gordon (born 31 December 1982) is a Scottish professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Scottish Premiership club Celtic.\n\nGordon started his career with Heart of Midlothian. He spent time on loan at Cowdenbeath (in 2001–02), before establishing himself as Hearts first-choice keeper between 2003 and 2007, winning the Scottish Cup in 2005–06. English Premier League club Sunderland bought him in 2007 for £9 million (a then British transfer record fee for a goalkeeper).\n\nGordon suffered serious injuries during his time with Sunderland and was released from his contract in 2012. After two years out of the professional game, Gordon signed for Celtic in July 2014. He has since won five Scottish league titles, two Scottish Cups and four Scottish League Cups with Celtic, including an unbeaten domestic treble in 2016–17, repeating the feat, albeit not unbeaten, in 2017–18 and in 2018–19. An accomplishment defined as the \"treble treble\".\n\nHe also became the regular goalkeeper for the Scotland national football team between 2004 and 2010, before injuries interrupted his career, but returned to the national set-up in 2014. Despite previous injuries, he made the Scotland national football team roll of honour in 2017. Gordon is twice winner of the SFWA Footballer of the Year (in 2006 and 2015), also being voted SPL and SFWA Young Player of the Year in 2004.\n\nBorn in Edinburgh, Gordon attended Balerno Community High School from 1994 until 1999. His father, David Gordon, played in goal for several East of Scotland clubs, and Gordon spent many Saturday afternoons as a child watching him play. Gordon started off his own career as a goalkeeper at local team Currie Boys Football Club, and then went on to join and graduate from the Heart of Midlothian (Hearts) youth development programme. He won the Scottish Youth Cup in 1999–2000, with Hearts beating Rangers 5–3 at Hampden Park and the SPL Under-18 League in 2000–01, both under the managerment of John McGlynn.\n\nGordon was loaned to lower league club Cowdenbeath in 2001. In his time there he continued to train regularly with Hearts, but spent two nights a week training with Cowdenbeath. His first professional game was at Forthbank against Stirling Albion, and he went on to make a total of 13 appearances before being recalled by Hearts. Cowdenbeath went undefeated in their home games during Gordon's time there, and he won praise for an outstanding performance in an away league match in Dumfries versus Queen of the South 3–1. Divisional champions that season, Queens dominated the game, but Gordon's saves thwarted them time and again, with opposition manager John Connolly describing Gordon's performance as \"sensational\".\n\nGordon made his debut for Hearts in a 1–1 draw with Livingston on 6 October 2002. His one other appearance that season was in a 4–0 defeat against Falkirk on 25 January 2003 in the third round of the Scottish Cup. Over the course of the following season, 2003–04 season, he edged out Tepi Moilanen as the regular Hearts goalkeeper, playing in 29 of Hearts' league fixtures. Gordon made his first appearance in European competition on 6 November 2003, playing in the first leg of Hearts' UEFA Cup second round tie in France against Bordeaux. He performed well and kept a clean sheet in an impressive 1–0 win for Hearts. Despite that result, Heart lost the return leg 2–0 in Edinburgh to go out on aggregate. His performances that year resulted in him being short-listed for the Scottish PFA Young Player of the Year award, which was eventually won by then Celtic midfielder Stephen Pearson. Manager Craig Levein praised Gordon for his performances, stating that he had a \"brilliant\" season and that whilst Levein initially only intended to play him in a handful of games, \"he did so well that I couldn't take him out [of the first team].\"\n\nGordon had become a Scotland regular by 2005 and his consistent displays during the 2005–06 season helped Hearts to a second-place finish in the Scottish Premier League and victory in the Scottish Cup. The trophy was won in a penalty shootout against Gretna following a 1–1 draw, with Gordon saving opponent Derek Townsley's penalty. That season he was voted Scottish Football Writers' Association Player of the Year, becoming the first Hearts player to win the award since Sandy Jardine in 1986 and also the first goalkeeper since Rangers' Andy Goram in 1993.\n\nFor much of the 2006–07 season rumours linked Gordon with a move away from Tynecastle, particularly following his involvement in the issuing of a statement against club owner Vladimir Romanov. Gordon and Paul Hartley flanked captain Steven Pressley as he read out a statement claiming there was \"significant unrest\" in the Hearts dressing room. The venue for this statement, Hearts' Riccarton training ground, led to the media dubbing the players the \"Riccarton Three\". Rangers, Aston Villa, Arsenal and Manchester United were all credited with an interest in the player in late 2006. Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger observed Gordon in action in Scotland's 1–0 victory against France in a Euro 2008 qualifying match. He touted Gordon as having \"presence and good handling and [he] looks a very good goalkeeper to me.\" Gordon confirmed his rising stock with a spectacular cross-goal save in the October 2006 Edinburgh derby and the following month he was named as Hearts' new captain, replacing the departed Pressley. Despite Hearts' claims that he was ill, he was \"dropped\" to the bench for the game against Dundee United in December 2006 for what many believed to be a disciplinary measure by the club following his involvement in the \"Riccarton Three\" statement. He was reinstated for the Edinburgh derby match against Hibernian three days later. He was not listed in the squad to face Rangers on 27 January 2007, four days before the closure of the transfer window, and it was confirmed by the club that they were negotiating his transfer. Gordon remained a Hearts player when the window closed.\n\nIn March 2007, Gordon expressed his interest in playing for Arsenal, after reports had cited that he was linked as a candidate to succeed the veteran Jens Lehmann as Arsenal's first-choice goalkeeper, stating \"Arsenal is one of the top teams in Britain, in Europe, if not the world, so it is something that would definitely interest any player\". Hearts failure to qualify for European competition at the season's end further increased speculation that Gordon would be sold, with Sunderland and Aston Villa rumoured suitors in July 2007. His appearance in Hearts 3–1 friendly defeat by Barcelona on 28 July proved to be his last for the club.\n\nOn 8 November 2007, Gordon was inducted into the Hearts Hall of Fame. Still only 24, he was the youngest player ever to have that honour bestowed upon him.\n\nIn August 2007, Gordon agreed a five-year contract with Sunderland. The £9 million fee was the highest a British club had ever paid for a goalkeeper, until Manchester United paid around £17 million for David de Gea in 2011. Gordon made his debut for Sunderland in the opening game of the 2007–08 Premier League against Tottenham Hotspur, keeping a clean sheet as his side won 1–0. During this match, the rival goalkeeper was Paul Robinson and the England first choice. It was the first time a Scotland first choice goalkeeper and an England first choice goalkeeper had faced each other in a club match since 2001, when Arsenal's David Seaman faced Tottenham's Neil Sullivan.\n\nFollowing Sunderland's 7–1 loss to Everton in December, Sunderland manager Roy Keane dropped Gordon to the bench and Welsh goalkeeper Darren Ward took his place. Gordon regained his place as first choice goalkeeper three games later.\n\nMidway through the 2008–09 season, Gordon was sidelined for several months with a knee injury and found himself as backup to Márton Fülöp. He regained his place in the starting eleven at the beginning of the 2009–10 season. On 7 November away at Tottenham Hotspur, he broke his arm after colliding with Jermain Defoe and was sidelined for nearly three months. He returned on 23 January in a game against Portsmouth.\n\nDuring the summer of 2010, Gordon had surgery on his broken arm to remove a metal plate. He returned to training days later, but he fractured his arm again during a training session. It was confirmed he would miss the start of the 2010–11 Premier League campaign, with Sunderland's new goalkeeper Simon Mignolet deputising. When Gordon returned from injury, Mignolet remained the first choice goalkeeper. On 9 November 2010, Gordon made his first appearance of the season away at Tottenham Hotspur. The game ended in a 1–1 draw. Gordon also starred in Sunderland's 3–0 win over Chelsea. On 18 December 2010, Gordon made a stunning reflex save to deny Zat Knight in a 1–0 win against Bolton Wanderers. In 2012, this effort was voted as the best save in the 20-year history of the Premier League.\n\nInjury struck again when he suffered a tendon injury in his knee, resulting in him being replaced by Mignolet. Luckily for Gordon, the knee tendon problem allowed him to be the substitute goalkeeper, despite not being fully fit. On 19 April 2011, it was revealed that Gordon had undergone knee surgery to repair his knee tendon and an anterior cruciate ligament injury he had suffered. The recruitment of Coventry City goalkeeper Keiren Westwood added further doubt about the Scotsman's future. Gordon was linked with Arsenal and Celtic amongst other clubs in August 2011. He made his return on 4 January 2012 for the Sunderland reserve team, keeping a clean sheet in a 2–0 victory against Arsenal reserves. He returned to first team action on 28 April against Bolton Wanderers, but he was one of nine players released by Sunderland on 19 May 2012.\n\nGordon was linked with a move to Celtic in 2011 and 2012, but he did not sign with another club for two years as he continued to be troubled by knee injuries. After meeting Ian Murray while doing television work, Gordon did some coaching work for Dumbarton on a casual basis. Gordon then admitted it was highly unlikely that he would play during 2012–13 and that he was considering becoming a football coach. Gordon trained with Rangers during the 2013–14 season, but wasn't offered a contract. In March 2014, Gordon said that he had fully recovered from his injuries and was looking to resume his playing career. In June, Celtic confirmed that Gordon had been training with them and that they were now in signing talks with him.\n\nIn July 2014, Gordon signed for Celtic. He made his first appearance for Celtic on 19 July, playing in the first half of a pre-season friendly against Dynamo Dresden. Gordon made several saves in his 45-minute appearance, and said afterwards \"It was good to get back playing. From a personal point of view, it's been a long time out. So it was good to get out there and to play for 45 minutes and get a clean sheet in the first half. I have to be happy with that.\" Fraser Forster was transferred to Southampton for a reported £10 million transfer fee in August, clearing the way for Gordon to become first choice goalkeeper. Gordon made his first competitive appearance in over two years on 13 August 2014, a 3–0 win against St Johnstone.\n\nAfter only three games for Celtic, an impressive start to the season earned Gordon a recall to the Scotland national team in August 2014. His good form for Celtic continued both domestically and in Europe especially, with strong displays against Salzburg, Dinamo Zagreb and Astra Giurgiu, helping Celtic qualify for the UEFA Europa League knockout stages. His performances drew praise from his teammates, club coaches, national coach, supporters and observers. Many believed he was finally over his long-term injury problems and back to his best. He was already being tagged as one of Celtic's greatest bargains. Gordon also shutout his former team Hearts twice in cup matches.\n\nGordon kept eight successive clean sheets between December and February, which almost became nine until a 72nd minute St Johnstone goal ended the run on 14 February 2015. An outstanding double save near the end ensured a 2–1 win for Celtic. Gordon endured a torrid night in the Europa League against Inter Milan on 19 February 2015, being culpable for Inter's opening goal and at fault for their third before half-time; Celtic rallied to square the match at 3–3 with an injury time goal, and Gordon went some way to redeeming his earlier errors by pulling off an outstanding save from Xherdan Shaqiri's free kick in what proved to be the last action of the game. In the second leg at San Siro, Gordon kept 10-man Celtic in the tie with a number of excellent saves until the 87th minute when Fredy Guarín scored with a powerful strike to give Inter a 1–0 win on the night and a 4–3 aggregate victory. One of Gordon's saves away against Inter was compared by Scottish newspaper, the \"Daily Record\", to the Gordon Banks save against Pele in 1970.\n\nGordon won his first silverware with Celtic after they defeated Dundee United 2–0 in the Scottish League Cup Final on 15 March 2015. He kept a clean sheet in every round of the competition, which included playing in the first Old Firm game for three years. According to \"The Scotsman\" in March 2015, Gordon was attracting the attention of Chelsea. He made his 50th Celtic appearance in a 2–1 league win at Dundee on 22 April 2015. A day after shutting out Dundee in a 5–0 home win, Celtic were declared league champions after an Aberdeen defeat at Dundee United on 2 May 2015. It was his first league title as a player. Gordon played 52 times and kept 28 clean sheets in his first season at Celtic. Gordon was voted Player of the Year by the Scottish Football Writers' Association, and was selected in the PFA Scotland Premiership Team of the Year. He was omitted from the PFA Players' shortlist, despite having been touted amongst the favourites to win it.\n\nFor the 2015–16 season, Gordon was assigned the number 1 shirt to wear replacing the number 26 shirt he was handed when he had signed. In July 2015, Gordon signed a new contract with Celtic until 2018. His first match of season 2015–16 was the 2–0 UEFA Champions League second qualifying round first leg win at home to Stjarnan on 15 July 2015. Celtic progressed 6–1 on aggregate. The 1–0 win against Qarabağ, in the third qualifying round first leg at home, was his 30th clean sheet in 55 appearances for Celtic. Celtic advanced 1–0 on aggregate. Gordon also started the league campaign with consecutive clean sheets against Ross County and Partick Thistle. However, Gordon's form at this time was generally poorer than the previous season, in part due to Celtic struggling to find a settled defensive line-up following the departures of centre-halves Virgil van Dijk and Jason Denayer.\n\nGordon saved a penalty, in a 2–0 second leg defeat at Hapoel Beer Sheva in the UEFA Champions League play-off round, with Celtic progressing to the group stage after a three-year absence 5–4 on aggregate. He made his first ever appearance in the UEFA Champions League group stage, in a 3–3 home draw with Manchester City on 28 September 2016.\n\nGordon won his second League Cup with the club without conceding a goal in the competition (just like in 2014–15), after Celtic beat Aberdeen 3–0 in the final, as the club won its 100 major trophy on 28 November 2016.\nHe kept a clean-sheet in a 1–0 home win against St Johnstone on 25 January 2017, a result which meant that Celtic equaled a 50-years-old club record 26 match unbeaten start to a domestic season (a record set by the Lisbon Lions in 1966–67). Gordon shut-out his former club Hearts four days later, in a 4–0 home win, as Celtic broke the Lisbon Lions unbeaten record.\n\nPremier League club Chelsea made an approach for Gordon during the January 2017 transfer window, which Celtic rejected. In March 2017, Gordon signed a contract with Celtic that is due to run until 2020. Gordon again shut-out Hearts, in a 5–0 victory at Tynecastle on 2 April 2017, with the club officially clinching the Scottish Premiership title for the sixth successive season in record time with eight matches remaining. The team also broke a 100-years-old club record for an unbeaten start to a domestic season (36 matches in-a-row in 1916–17), with this win being their 37th domestic match unbeaten.\n\nGordon was also in goal for Celtic in the 5–1 league win at Rangers on 29 April 2017, which was the club's biggest victory at Ibrox since 1897 (4–0 in 1897). On 21 May 2017, he kept a clean-sheet in a 2–0 home win over Hearts in the final league match of the season, a result which meant Celtic completed a full 38 match league season without losing a match, becoming first team to go an entire Scottish league season without a defeat since season 1898–99. He also won the Scottish Cup, after he played in the 2–1 final win against Aberdeen on 27 May 2017, which saw the club complete the domestic treble and finish a full 47 match domestic season without losing a match.\n\nCeltic topped the list for the most shut-outs in the SPFL with 19 cleansheets and held the joint best record with Hibernian for goals conceded in the SPFL with 25.\n\nGordon made his debut for the Scotland under-21 team on 4 September 2002 at Hamilton in a 2–1 win versus Israel. Over the next year he played a further four times for the under 21 team.\n\nGordon made his full international Scotland debut in a 4–1 victory versus Trinidad and Tobago at Easter Road on 30 May 2004. Scotland started their qualifying campaign for the 2006 World Cup on 8 September 2004 versus Slovenia at Hampden Park. Gordon played in goal and kept a clean sheet, although Scotland were poor and struggled to a scoreless draw. Having been given his debut by Berti Vogts, Gordon established himself as the Scotland first-choice goalkeeper throughout the campaign and under Vogts' successor Walter Smith, playing in all ten of Scotland's qualifying matches. BBC pundit and former player Allan Preston saw him as a potential Scottish great, describing him as \"one of the best goalkeepers in Europe\". After a 1–1 draw versus Italy, Gordon obtained praise from the opposition goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon, who said he could be one of the best goalkeepers in the world. Gordon kept clean sheets as Scotland won 1–0 twice versus France in UEFA Euro 2008 qualification. He also registered an assist in the Parc de Princes, after McFadden controlled Gordon's punt, turned his marker and smashed home from 35 yards. Gordon had attained a total of 40 caps by November 2010 but his injury problems prevented him from adding to this total for the next four years.\n\nDespite having played only three times for Celtic, Gordon's club form earned him an immediate recall to the Scotland squad for the match versus Germany in September 2014. Gordon eventually obtained his 41st cap, ending a four-year absence from international football, coming on as a half-time substitute in a friendly defeat to England on 18 November 2014. Gordon started his first Scotland match in almost five years in a friendly win versus Northern Ireland in March 2015 and this was actually his first Scotland appearance at Hampden Park since March 2010. Gordon was recalled to the Scotland starting eleven for his first start in a competitive match in seven years in a 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifier versus England in November 2016. Gordon retained his place in the team for the 1–0 home win versus Slovenia in March 2017.\n\nOn 5 October 2017, Gordon obtained his 50th cap versus Slovakia at Hampden Park to enter Scotland's Roll of Honour.\n\nHeart of Midlothian\n\nCeltic\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2259526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259526", "title": "Ian Stanley", "text": "Ian Stanley\n\nIan Christopher Stanley (born 28 February 1957) is an English musician, songwriter and record producer. He was previously a member of the English band Tears for Fears for most of the 1980s, and played a key role in the making of their multi-platinum selling second album \"Songs from the Big Chair\".\n\nAfter offering them free use of his recording facility, Stanley became a member of Tears for Fears, contributing on synthesizers, drum machines, organ, pianos and backing vocals on their first 3 albums. He also co-wrote (with Roland Orzabal) many of their songs from the period 1983-85, and was a part of the production team during this era as the band worked with producer Chris Hughes at their studio, The Wool Hall, in Bath.\n\nHe has appeared in several Tears for Fears music videos, including \"Change\" (in which he plays one of the two masked musicians), \"Mothers Talk\" (version 1 & 3), \"Shout\", \"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\", \"Head over Heels\" and \"I Believe\", and has performed with the band on many television performances. He also appeared in the 1983 Tears for Fears live video \"In My Mind's Eye\", and the 1985 Tears for Fears documentary film \"Scenes from the Big Chair\", as well as completing two world tours with the band.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Songs from the Big Chair\", Stanley collaborated with Roland Orzabal on the 1986 side project Mancrab, releasing a single, \"Fish for Life,\" which was made for the soundtrack of the film \"The Karate Kid Part II\". Stanley also began working on Tears for Fears' third album, \"The Seeds of Love\", but (along with producer Chris Hughes) left the project due to creative differences. His more prominent contributions to this album, however, can be heard on the hit single \"Sowing the Seeds of Love\" and the B-sides \"Always in the Past\" and \"My Life in the Suicide Ranks.\"\n\nSince the 1980s, Stanley has produced such artists as Lloyd Cole and the Commotions, A-ha, The Pretenders, Howard Jones, Ultra, Republica, Naimee Coleman, Stephanie Kirkham, Natalie Imbruglia, Propaganda, The Human League and Tori Amos. He also contributed to The Sisters of Mercy re-recording of \"Temple of Love\". Stanley also did A&R for Warners East West Records but left in 1998.\n\nStanley's most recent work was producing The Beautiful South's album \"Superbi\" (2006), in part at his studio in Enniskerry, County Wicklow.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259527", "title": "Mi Heng", "text": "Mi Heng\n\nMi Heng ( AD 173198), courtesy name Zhengping, was an ancient Chinese writer and musician who lived in the late Eastern Han dynasty. He is best known for his \"fu\" rhapsody \"\"Fu\" on the Parrot\", which is his only work that has survived to modern times.\n\nMi Heng was born around AD 173 in Ban County (), Pingyuan Commandery (), which is in present-day Shanghe County, Shandong. In the early 190s, Mi Heng, like many others, fled northern China to escape the chaos that broke out towards the end of the Han dynasty. He settled in Jing Province (covering present-day Hubei and Hunan) and joined the staff of its Governor, Liu Biao. Around 196, Mi Heng moved north to join the imperial court that the warlord Cao Cao had established in Xu (許; present-day Xuchang, Henan). Mi Heng was friendly with the prominent scholar Kong Rong, who wrote a memorial recommending him for imperial service and submitted it to Emperor Xian, who was then mainly a puppet ruler under Cao Cao's control. Mi Heng returned to Jing Province in 197, where he stayed until his death a year or two later.\n\nAlthough Mi Heng was known as a gifted poet and talented writer, he was prone to erratic behaviour, offensive jokes, and an arrogant attitude that made him difficult to socialise with, and even caused some to question his sanity.\n\nUpon arriving in Xu around 196, Kong Rong spoke highly of Mi Heng to Cao Cao, who summoned him for an audience. Mi Heng, however, had a low opinion of Cao Cao, and refused to attend. Cao Cao was outraged by Mi Heng's refusal, but refrained from punishing Mi due to his reputation as a talent. Mi Heng was known as a talented drummer, so Cao Cao invited him to perform with several other drummers at a banquet. Cao Cao provided special garments for the drummers to wear, but Mi Heng refused to wear the provided clothing and wore his own clothes when he performed in front of Cao Cao and the other high-ranking guests. When an attendant scolded him for not dressing appropriately, Mi slowly stripped, stood naked in front of Cao Cao and the other guests for a few moments, and then slowly put on the drummers' garments and continued performing without showing any embarrassment. Kong Rong arranged a second meeting between Mi Heng and Cao Cao, but Mi turned out to be as equally as offensive as he was at the first meeting, so Cao Cao decided to send him back to Liu Biao.\n\nAmong Liu Biao's subordinates, Mi Heng was highly respected for his literary talents. However, he also criticised Liu Biao for being indecisive and offended most of Liu's other attendants with his arrogant attitude. Liu Biao tolerated him for a year before sending him to Jiangxia Commandery (江夏郡; around present-day Xinzhou District, Wuhan, Hubei) to serve its Administrator, Huang Zu. Huang Zu's son, Huang Yi (), greatly admired Mi Heng. Huang Zu himself was also initially impressed by Mi Heng's intelligence and talent. However, Mi Heng got into trouble when he insulted Huang Zu in front of all of his officers at a banquet. Huang Zu ordered Mi Heng's execution, which was quickly carried out by a senior clerk who hated Mi Heng.\n\nA library catalogue from the Liang dynasty recorded that a volume of Mi Heng's collected works existed in two rolls (\"juan\"), but this collection was already lost by the early Tang dynasty (early 7th century). Mi Heng's only surviving work is his \"\"Fu\" on the Parrot\" (\"Yingwu fu\" 鸚鵡賦), probably written in 198, which was collected and preserved in the \"Selections of Refined Literature\" (\"Wen xuan\" 文選). Two reliable English translations exist:\n\n"}
{"id": "2259535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259535", "title": "Rend Lake", "text": "Rend Lake\n\nRend Lake is a -long, -wide reservoir located in Southern Illinois in Franklin and Jefferson Counties near the town of Benton. It contains 18,900 acres (76 km²) of water, stores of water, and supplies over 15 million gallons of water per day to 300,000 persons in over 60 communities. The reservoir is up to deep, but its average depth is closer to . Its elevation is above sea level.\n\nRend Lake was created when the United States Army Corps of Engineers dammed the Big Muddy River. The dam and lake were authorized in 1962, but the lake was not completely filled until March 1973.\n\nThe shoreline of Rend Lake extends 162 miles (261 km), part of which is preserved as Wayne Fitzgerrell State Recreation Area. Swimming beaches at North Marcum and South Sandusky are managed and maintained by the US Army Corps of Engineers. An adjacent Illinois Artisans Shop & Visitors Center is part of the Illinois State Museum system and is operated by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources (this facility is currently closed due to the lack of funding from the state).\n\nIn 2010, Rend Lake was designated as an \"Important Bird Area of Illinois\".\n\nRend Lake is one of the largest lakes in Illinois and is home to some of the top ranked fishing. The Recognized species in Rend Lake are the following :\n"}
{"id": "2259537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259537", "title": "Phill Lewis", "text": "Phill Lewis\n\nPhill Lewis (born February 14, 1968) is an American actor, comedian and director, known for his role as Mr. Moseby on the Disney Channel series \"The Suite Life of Zack & Cody\" and its spin-off, \"The Suite Life on Deck\". Lewis has also appeared in series such as \"Lizzie McGuire\", \"Friends\", \"The Wayans Bros\", \"Scrubs\" and \"How I Met Your Mother\".\n\nLewis was born on February 14, 1968 in Uganda. At the time, his father, former U.S. Ambassador Delano Lewis, was serving as the Peace Corps' associate director and country director for Nigeria and Uganda. Lewis has three brothers.\n\nIn 1991, Lewis was cast in the lead role of the short-lived CBS sitcom \"Teech\". The series was cancelled after thirteen episodes. He appeared in guest parts on various television series including \"Pacific Blue\", \"JAG\", \"Ally McBeal\", \"Joan of Arcadia\", \"Brothers & Sisters\", \"8 Simple Rules\", \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", \"Friends\" and \"How I Met Your Mother\". Lewis has also had recurring roles on \"A Different World\", \"The Wayans Bros.\", \"Lizzie McGuire\", \"Yes, Dear\", \"Scrubs\", and \"Raising Hope\".\n\nLewis co-starred in the Disney Channel original series \"The Suite Life of Zack & Cody\" as Mr. Moseby. In 2008, he had reprised the role on a spin-off \"The Suite Life on Deck,\" where he plays the manager of The S.S. Tipton. He has appeared as a guest star on Disney Channel's \"That's So Raven\" and \"Phineas and Ferb\" and also in one of the channel's original films, \"Dadnapped\". On the children's series \"Special Agent Oso\", he has a recurring role as the voice of Agent Wolfie.\n\nAs a television director, he directed eight episodes of \"The Suite Life on Deck\", first making his directorial debut with \"The Suite Life of Zack & Cody\" episode \"I Want My Mummy\" (2007). He has since gone on to direct episodes of the Disney Channel sitcoms \"A.N.T. Farm\", \"Austin & Ally\", \"Good Luck Charlie\", \"Kickin' It\" and \"Jessie\". His other television directing credits include \"Malibu Country\", \"Mike & Molly\", \"2 Broke Girls\", \"The Soul Man\", \"Sullivan & Son\", \"Melissa & Joey\", \"Young & Hungry\", \"The Odd Couple\", \"One Day at a Time\", and \"Indebted\". He also directed the live episode of \"Undateable\" in 2015 that secured a third season for the series. \n\nLewis made his film debut as Dennis in the 1989 dark comedy \"Heathers\". He has appeared in smaller roles in other films, including \"City Slickers\" (1991), \"Bowfinger\" (1999), \"I Spy\" (2002), \"Surviving Christmas\" (2004), \"Kicking & Screaming\" (2005), and \"Beverly Hills Chihuahua 2\" (2011). \n\nFrom 2017 to 2019, Lewis directed fifteen episodes of Netflix sitcom \"One Day at a Time\".\n\nIn late December 1991, Lewis was arrested after he fatally struck Isabel Duarte, a resident of Bethesda, Maryland, in a car crash. He was charged with manslaughter and driving while intoxicated. His blood alcohol level at the time measured three times the limit for legal intoxication. The court sentenced Lewis to five years in prison, but suspended four, citing Lewis's work after his arrest with a prison-based theater troupe that performed in jails, schools, and churches, to highlight the consequences of drug abuse. Lewis was also ordered to serve two years' probation after his release and to perform 350 hours of community service. \n\nPhill Lewis is married to Megan Benton Lewis and has 2 daughters.\n"}
{"id": "2259544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259544", "title": "Diane Flacks", "text": "Diane Flacks\n\nDiane Flacks is a Canadian comedic actress, screenwriter and playwright.\n\nFlacks was raised in the Jewish faith. Her early education took place in Jewish parochial schools. Flacks studied drama at Leah Posluns Institute in Toronto. At twenty seven years old, she came out as a lesbian.\n\nFlacks began her acting career as a child, in a touring production of \"Cinderella\" where she played both the wicked stepmother and fairy godmother. As an adult, she has worked in Canadian and U.S. television, radio, news, and film before becoming an independent performance artist, playwright, and writer.\n\nIt appears that Flacks started her official career in media with theater. Flacks' early works include three one-woman stage shows that she wrote and performed herself: \"Myth Me\" (1991), \"By a Thread\" (1997), and \"Random Acts\" (1997). She wrote \"Gravity Calling\" (1995) directed by Richard Greenblatt, co-wrote \"Sibs\" (2000) with Richard Greenblatt, and wrote \"Waiting Room\" (2015) directed by Richard Greenblatt. In 2000, Flacks performed in \"Smudge\", a play in one act written by Alex Bulmer and directed by Alisa Palmer.\n\nIn 2009, Flacks wrote and performed in the play based on her book \"Bear With Me\", directed by Kelly Thornton.\n\nIn 2012, Flacks wrote the award winning play \"Luba, Simply Luba\" for Ukrainian Canadian comedian Luba Goy. In 2017, she wrote and performed in \"Unholy\" (2017).\n\nFlacks has regularly performed at the Tarragon Theatre and the collective feminist Nightwood Theatre in Toronto. She served twice on the Nightwood Theatre board of directors.\n\nFlacks' best known performance is in the leading role of the lesbian film \"Portrait of a Serial Monogamist\" (2015). Prior to this, Flacks had performed as the main character's guardian angel in the sex comedy \"Too Much Sex\" (2000).\n\nIn the 1990s Flacks wrote for \"The Kids in the Hall\" and was twice nominated for an Emmy for her work. Flacks began acting on television in 2001 in the comedy series \"The Broad Side\". She has co-written and starred in numerous television series since then, including \"P.R.\", \"Behind the Scenes\" and \"Listen Missy\". In 2016, Flacks wrote six episodes for the \"Baroness Von Sketch Show.\" She has also acted in episodes of \"Walter Ego\" and \"Moose TV\".\n\nIn 2005, MacMillan Stewart published Flacks' first book \"Bear With Me\", about Flacks' personal experience with pregnancy and new motherhood. In 2007, Flacks became a featured columnist with the \"Toronto Star.\"\n\nFlacks is a regular contributor for the CBC Radio show \"Definitely Not the Opera\". For almost eight years she has also worked as a CBC Radio National Parenting columnist.\n\nIn her own works, Flacks explores themes of Jewish identity, the relationship between women and religion, lesbian relationships, pregnancy, serious medical issues, and motherhood.\n\n\nFlacks was married to Janis Purdy and is now divorced. They have two children. Her older son received a Jewish education.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259554", "title": "Richard Greenblatt", "text": "Richard Greenblatt\n\nRichard Greenblatt may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2259558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259558", "title": "Camila Sodi", "text": "Camila Sodi\n\nCamila Sodi (; born Camila Ía González Sodi, 14 May 1986) is a Mexican singer, actress and model. She is the niece of the singer and actress Thalía and part of the Sodi family.\n\nSodi was born in Mexico City, Mexico. She is the daughter of Ernestina Sodi and Fernando González Parra. Through her father she has two younger half-sisters, actresses Tessa Ía and Naian Gonzalez Norvind.\n\nShe began her career as a model and was the host of a music video show on the Mexican cable network TeleHit. She starred in the telenovela \"Inocente de Ti\" (2004–2005).\n\nIn 2007 Sodi made her feature film debut in the film \"The Night Buffalo\".\n\nSodi was married to actor Diego Luna from 2008 to 2013. They have two children: Jerónimo (born 09 August 2008) and Fiona (born 1 July 2010), named after Luna's mother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259559", "title": "John Black", "text": "John Black\n\nJohn Black may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259561", "title": "Serotine bat", "text": "Serotine bat\n\nThe serotine bat (\"Eptesicus serotinus\"), also known as the common serotine bat, big brown bat, or silky bat, is a fairly large Eurasian bat with quite large ears. It has a wingspan of around and often hunts in woodland. It sometimes roosts in buildings, hanging upside down, in small groups or individually. The name serotine is derived from the Latin \"serotinus\" which means \"evening\", while the generic name derives from the Greek ἔπιεν and οίκος which means \"house flyer\".\n\nThe serotine bat has long fur which on the back is smoky-brown in colour, while the underparts are a paler yellowish-brown, the nose and triangular shaped ears are black, and the membranes of the wings are dark black or brown. The juveniles are darker than the adults. Serotine bats are easy to identify in flight, because its broad wings combined with its slow, highly manoeuvrable, flapping flight interspersed with brief glides is distinctive. The tragus has a relatively thin and pointed shape and is not kidney shaped as in \"Nyctalus\".\n\nThe serotine bat has a Palaearctic distribution lying between about 58 degrees and 30 degrees from southern Great Britain in the west, east to Taiwan, and south to North Africa, the Middle East and southern and south-east Asia. It has been recorded as a vagrant on Lanzarote in the Canary Islands.\n\nThe following subspecies have been recognised.\n\n\nHowever, recent studies have indicated that this may be a polyphyletic species with \"E. serotinus\" (including \"turcomanus\") in most of Europe and western Asia, \"E. pachyomus\" in eastern Asia and \"E. isabellinus\" in southern Iberia (\"boscai\") and North Africa.\n\nThe serotine bat utilises in a wide variety of habitats including temperate and subtropical dry forest, maquis, agricultural land, semi-desert and suburban areas.\n\nIn Europe serotine bats start to establish maternity colonies consisting almost exclusively of females from late May. Colonies usually remain at a single roost site during the breeding season, although occasionally the larger colonies will change roost sites. The female bats usually give birth to a single pup in early July, though births have been recorded as late as mid-August.\n\nThe female bats normally give birth to a single young in late summer, and the baby is occasionally carried by its mother for the first few days. The young bats usually make their first flights at around three weeks old, and at six weeks they can forage for themselves. Breeding colonies usually disperse by early September, although a few bats may use the colony site as a roost until early October. The male bats probably remain solitary or in small groups but are occasionally found with females in spring or autumn. Mating seems to take place in the autumn, but very little is known about the mating behaviour. Both sexes reach sexual maturity at one year old.\n\nSerotine bats mainly use buildings for summer roosts, especially those older buildings with high gables and cavity walls, and often occur in churches; modern buildings are used infrequently. The roost is normally accessed at or near the gable apex or the lower eaves. The serotine bat is hardly ever found in trees, which were the most likely pre-human roost sites, and the species seems to be very oriented towards using buildings. The roost is sometimes shared with pipistrelles or brown long-eared bats, and this species has also been recorded associating with Natterer's bats, whiskered bats and noctule bats. Only a few serotine bats have been found in winter, but it seems likely that most hibernate in buildings in cavity walls and disused chimneys. There are a few records of them being found in the coldest parts of caves, either in roof crevices or in accumulations of boulders.\n\nThe foraging activity of serotine bats peaks at dusk, and there is a second period of activity around dawn. They commute on average to and from feeding areas per night, and forage in up to five distinct areas per night. This species uses three main feeding strategies: short flights, ground feeding and aerial hawking. It normally forages quite low, above the ground.\n\nSimilarly to the \"Nyctalus\" or \"Plecotus\" species, the serotine is mainly an aerial hawker focusing on hunting flying insects.\n\nThe frequencies used by this bat species for echolocation lie between 25–55 kHz, have most energy at 31 kHz and have an average duration of 8.8 ms.\n\nThe serotine bat has declined in many areas in its European range. Loss of feeding habitat is thought to have played a part in the decline. In addition, as this bat almost exclusively roosts in buildings, it is highly vulnerable to disturbance from construction work and toxic timber treatments. In the United Kingdom serotine bats benefit from a very comprehensive level of legal protection, as is the case across much of Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259564", "title": "Jaromír Štětina", "text": "Jaromír Štětina\n\nJaromír Štětina (born 6 April 1943 in Prague) is a Czech journalist, writer and politician. He is known to most as a war correspondent from the conflict areas of the former Soviet Union. Since 2014, Štětina has served as a member of the European Parliament for the Czech Republic.\n\nDuring 1961-1967, Štětina studied at the University of Economics, Prague. Since 1965 until 1968 he was a member of Communist Party of Czechoslovakia.\nIn 1968, Štětina started working as a journalist for the newspaper Mladá Fronta, his work there coincided with the soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia, during which the Soviet army seized control of Mladá Fronta. Štětina was subsequently fired due to his disagreement over the Warsaw Pact armies entering Czechoslovakia.\nAfter being fired from Mladá Fronta, Štětina worked as a geodesist, and while working, studied geology long-distance at Charles University in Prague, during which he organised 25 geologic or sport tours to Siberia and Asia. During the same years, Štětina wrote his most famous book, \"S matyldou po Indu\", on the topic of rafting.\n\nIn 1987 Štětina started engaging in public speakings. In 1989, he co-founded a syndicate of journalists, ultimately resuming his work as a journalist, at the re-established newspaper Lidové noviny. \nIn 1990 Štětina started working as a foreign correspondent in Moscow, where he covered numerous conflicts in the former Soviet Union. In 1992, he founded the foundation Lidových novin. During 1993-94 he was editor-in-chief of Lidové noviny. In 1994, he founded the journalism agency \"Epicentrum\", dedicated to war reporting, with fellow journalist Petra Procházková.\n\nŠtětina has specialised in military conflicts in Europe, Asia and Africa of which he has covered more than 20. Furthermore, Stetina is a prolific author, having published 10 books, as well as dozens of documentaries, and countless articles.\n\nIn the 2004 elections to the Senate (upper chamber of the Czech parliament) Štětina ran for office as an independent candidate under the umbrella of the Green Party (\"Strana Zelených\"), Štětina won the election, and assumed office as senator for the Prague 10 district.\n\nŠtětina is a founding signatory of the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism.\n\nŠtětina has received a number of honours:\n\n"}
{"id": "2259567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259567", "title": "Italian Liberal Party", "text": "Italian Liberal Party\n\nThe Italian Liberal Party (, PLI) was a liberal and conservative political party in Italy.\n\nThe PLI, which is the heir of the liberal currents of both the Historical Right and the Historical Left, was a minor party after World War II, but also a frequent junior party in government, especially since 1979.\n\nThe origins of liberalism in Italy are in the Historical Right, a parliamentary group formed by Camillo Benso di Cavour in the Parliament of the Kingdom of Sardinia following the 1848 revolution. The group was moderately conservative and supported centralised government, restricted suffrage, regressive taxation, and free trade. They dominated politics following Italian unification in 1861 but never formed a party, basing their power on census suffrage and first-past-the-post voting system.\n\nThe Right was opposed by the more progressive Historical Left, which overthrew Marco Minghetti's government during the so-called \"Parliamentary Revolution\" of 1876, which brought Agostino Depretis to become Prime Minister. However, Depretis immediately began to look for support among Rightists MPs, who readily changed their positions, in a context of widespread corruption. This phenomenon, known in Italian as \"trasformismo\" (roughly translatable in English as \"transformism\"—in a satirical newspaper, the PM was depicted as a chameleon), effectively removed political differences in Parliament, which was dominated by an undistinguished liberal bloc with a landslide majority until World War I.\n\nTwo parliamentary factions alternated in government, one led by Sidney Sonnino and the other, by far the largest of the two, by Giovanni Giolitti. The latter was known as Liberal Union since 1913 and was finally re-joined also by Sonnino. At that time the Liberals governed in alliance with the Radicals, the Democrats and, eventually, the Reformist Socialists.\n\nAt the end of World War I, universal suffrage and proportional representation were introduced. These reforms caused big problems to the Liberals, which found themselves unable to stop the rise of two mass parties, the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) and the Italian People's Party (PPI), which had taken the control of many local authorities in northern Italy even before the war. The Catholic PPI opposed the PSI, but also the Liberals and, generally, the Right, under the consequences of the capture of Rome and the struggles between the Holy See and the Italian state which the Liberals had ruled for more than fifty years.\n\nThe Parliament was thus divided in three different blocks with huge instability, while the Socialists and the rising Fascists instigators of political violence on opposite sides. In this chaotic situation, the Liberals founded the Italian Liberal Party (PLI) in 1922, which immediately joined an alliance led by Fascists and formed with them a joint list for the 1924 general election, transforming the Fascists from a small political force into an absolute-majority party. The PLI was banned by Benito Mussolini in 1925, while many old Liberal politicians were given prestigious, but not influential, political posts, such as seats in the Senate, which was stripped of any real power by Fascist reforms.\n\nThe PLI was re-founded in 1943 by Benedetto Croce, a prominent intellectual and senator whose international recognition allowed him to remain a free man during the Fascist regime, despite being an anti-fascist himself. After the end of World War II, Enrico De Nicola, a Liberal, became \"Provisional Head of State\" and another one, Luigi Einaudi, who as Minister of Economy and Governor of the Bank of Italy between 1945 and 1948 had reshaped Italian economy, succeeded him as President of Italy.\n\nIn the 1946 general election the PLI, which was part of the National Democratic Union, won 6.8% of the vote, which was somewhat below expectations. Indeed, the party was supported by all the survivors of the Italian political class before the rise of Fascism, from Vittorio Emanuele Orlando to Francesco Saverio Nitti. In the first years, the party was led by Leone Cattani, member of the internal left, and then by Roberto Lucifero, a monarchist-conservative. This fact caused the exit of the group of Cattani and Bruno Villabruna, a moderate, was elected secretary in 1948 in order to re-unite all the Liberals under a single banner.\n\nUnder the leadership of Giovanni Malagodi (1954–1972) the party moved further to the right on economic issues. This caused in 1956 the exit of the party's left-wing, including Bruno Villabruna, Eugenio Scalfari and Marco Pannella, who founded the Radical Party. In particular, the PLI opposed the new centre-left coalition that included also the Italian Socialist Party and presented itself as the main conservative party in Italy.\n\nMalagodi managed to draw some votes from the Italian Social Movement, the Monarchist National Party and especially Christian Democracy, whose electoral base was composed also by conservatives suspicious of the Socialists, increasing the party's share to a historical record of 7.0% in the 1963 general election. After Malagodi's resignation from the party's leadership, the PLI was defeated with a humiliating 1.3% in 1976, but tried to re-gain strength by supporting social reforms such as divorce.\n\nAfter Valerio Zanone took over as secretary in 1976, the PLI adopted a more centrist and, to some extent, social-liberal approach. The new secretary opened to the Socialists, hoping to put in action a sort of Lib–Lab cooperation, similar to that experimented in the United Kingdom from 1977 to 1979 between the Labour Party and the Liberals. In 1983 the PLI finally joined the \"pentapartito\" coalition composed also of the Christian Democracy (DC), the Italian Socialist Party (PSI), the Italian Democratic Socialist Party (PSDI) and the Italian Republican Party (PRI). In the 1980s the party was led by Renato Altissimo and Alfredo Biondi.\n\nWith the uncovering of the corruption system nicknamed \"Tangentopoli\" by the \"Mani pulite\" investigation, many government parties experienced a rapid loss of their support. In the first months the PLI seemed immune to investigation. However, as the investigations further unraveled, the party turned out to be part of the corruption scheme. Francesco De Lorenzo, the Liberal Minister of Health, was one of the most loathed politicians in Italy for his corruption, that involved stealing funds from the sick, and allowing commercialisation of medicines based on bribes.\n\nThe party was disbanded on 6 February 1994 and at least four heirs tried to take its legacy: \n\nIn a few years after 1994, most Liberals migrated to FI, while others joined the centre-left, especially Democracy is Freedom – The Daisy (DL).\n\nThe party was re-founded in 1997 by Stefano De Luca and re-took its original name in 2004. The new PLI gathered some of the former right-wing Liberals, but soon distanced itself from the centre-right coalition, led by FI, in order to follow an autonomous path.\n\nBefore World Wars the Liberals constituted the political establishment that governed Italy for decades. They had their main bases in Piedmont, where many leading liberal politicians of the Kingdom of Sardinia and the Kingdom of Italy came from, and southern Italy. The Liberals never gained large support after World War II as they were not able to become a mass party and were replaced by Christian Democracy (DC) as the dominant political force. In the 1946 general election, the first after the war, the PLI gained 6.8% as part of the National Democratic Union. At that time they were strong especially in the South, as DC was mainly rooted in the North: 21.0% in Campania, 22.8% in Basilicata, 10.4% in Apulia, 12.8% in Calabria and 13.6% in Sicily.\n\nHowever, the party soon found its main constituency in the industrial elites of the \"industrial triangle\" formed by Turin, Milan and Genoa. The PLI had its best results in the 1960s, when it was rewarded by conservative voters for their opposition to the participation of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) in government. The party won 7.0% of the vote in 1963 (15.2% in Turin, 18.7% in Milan and 11.5% in Genoa) and 5.8% 1963. The PLI suffered a decline in the 1970s and settled around 2–3% in the 1980s, when its strongholds were reduced to Piedmont, especially the provinces of Torino and Cuneo, and, to a minor extent, western Lombardy, Liguria and Sicily.\n\nAs the other parties of the \"pentapartito\" coalition (Christian Democrats, Socialists, Republicans and Democratic Socialists), the Liberals strengthened their grip on the South, while in the North they lost some of their residual votes to Lega Nord and its precursors. In the 1992 general election, the last before the \"Tangentopoli\" scandals, the PLI won 2.9% of the vote, largely thanks to the increase of votes from the South. After the end of the \"First Republic\" former Liberals were very influential within Forza Italia (FI) in Piedmont, Liguria and, strangely enough, in Veneto, where Giancarlo Galan was three times elected President.\n\nThe electoral results of the PLI in general (Chamber of Deputies) and European Parliament elections since 1913 are shown in the chart below.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259571", "title": "Pilgrims Society", "text": "Pilgrims Society\n\nThe Pilgrims Society, founded on 16 July 1902 by Sir Harry Brittain, is a British-American society established, in the words of American diplomat Joseph Choate, 'to promote good-will, good-fellowship, and everlasting peace between the United States and Great Britain'. It is not to be confused with the Pilgrim Society of Plymouth, Massachusetts.\n\nOver the years it has boasted an elite membership of politicians, diplomats, businessmen, and writers who have included Henry Kissinger, Margaret Thatcher, Caspar Weinberger, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., Henry Luce, Lord Carrington, Alexander Haig, Paul Volcker, Thomas Kean, George Shultz, and Walter Cronkite among many others. Members of the immediate Royal Family, United States secretaries of state and United States ambassadors to the Court of St. James's are customarily admitted \"ex officio\" to membership in the Society.\n\nThe Society is notable for holding dinners to welcome into office each successive U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom. The patron of the society is Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nThe first informal meeting of the Pilgrims of Great Britain included General Joseph Wheeler, Colonel (later General Sir) Bryan Mahon, the Hon Charles Rolls and Harry Brittain.\n\nThe first meeting of the Pilgrims of the United States was at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York on 13 January 1903.\n\nThe Pilgrims of Great Britain and the Pilgrims of the United States have reciprocal membership.\n\nExecutive Committee members, as of 2017, are:\nMrs Amy Thompson is the executive secretary, successor to Mrs Tessa Wells\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259586", "title": "Jingwei", "text": "Jingwei\n\nJingwei () is a bird in Chinese mythology, who was transformed from Yandi's daughter Nüwa. She is also a goddess in Chinese mythology. After she drowned when playing in the Eastern Sea, she metamorphosed into a bird called Jingwei. Jingwei is determined to fill up the sea, so she continuously carries a pebble or twig in her mouth and drops it into the Eastern Sea.\n\nThe story is recorded in the \"Shanhaijing\":\nThe poet Tao Qian mentioned Jingwei in his \"Thirteen Poems upon Reading the Guideways through Mountains and Seas\", where he made an association between Jingwei and Xingtian in their persistence to overcome tragedies but also mentions their inability to be free from it:\n\n\"[Jingwei] bites hold of twigs, determined to fill up the deep-blue sea. Xingtian dances wildly with spear and shield, his old ambitions still burn fiercely. After blending with things, no anxieties should remain. After metamorphosing, all one's regrets should flee. In vain do they cling to their hearts from the past. How can they, a better day, foresee?\"\n\nJingwei has a dialogue with the sea where the sea scoffs her, saying that she won't be able to fill it up even in a million years, whereupon she retorts that she will spend ten million years, even one hundred million years, whatever it takes to fill up the sea so that others would not have to perish as she did. From this myth comes the Chinese \"chengyu\" idiom \"Jingwei Tries to Fill the Sea\" (精衛填海), meaning dogged determination and perseverance in the face of seemingly impossible odds.\n\nProfessor Manyuan Long of the University of Chicago named a Drosophilia gene (jgw) after Jingwei because it is - like the princess - 'reincarnated' with a new function and a new appearance (structure). Related genes were named following Chinese mythology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259599", "title": "Susie Essman", "text": "Susie Essman\n\nSusan Essman (born May 31, 1955) is an American stand-up comedian, actress, writer and television producer, best known for her role as Susie Greene on \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", Bobbi Wexler on \"Broad City\", and the voice of Mittens in \"Bolt\".\n\nEssman was born in The Bronx, New York City, and was raised in the suburb of Mount Vernon. Her father, Leonard Essman, was an internist who died in 2001. Her mother, Zora (\"née\" Pressman), taught Russian at Sarah Lawrence College. Essman is Jewish; her grandparents emigrated from Russia and Poland. She received her bachelor's degree from SUNY Purchase College.\n\nEssman has been traveling and appearing at clubs throughout the country for more than three decades. She was a guest on \"The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson\" on January 5, 1989. Her first half-hour special appeared on Comedy Central in 1992. As much of her comedy draws from her ethnic background, she has been featured in such documentaries as, \"Heroes of Jewish Comedy\" and \"A History of Jewish Comedy\".\n\nEssman made her U.K. standup comedy debut at the Corn Exchange at the Newbury Comedy Festival in July 2007. While in England, she appeared on the British television show \"8 Out of 10 Cats\".\n\nEssman began her acting career with small parts in two 1988 films – \"Crocodile Dundee II\" and \"Punchline\" – but is best known for her role as Susie Greene, the wife of Jeff Greene (portrayed by Jeff Garlin), on the HBO comedy series \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\". Essman told \"The New York Times\" that, by the show's third season, she could not \"walk down the street anymore without people stopping her and begging her to say [her character's catchphrase] 'You fat fuck'\". In 2007, \"Slate\" named Essman's character one of the best on television, and a reason the publication looked forward to the return of the show.\n\nShe also provided the voice of Helen Higgins on the Comedy Central series \"Crank Yankers\"; she was an occasional correspondent on the first season of the network's \"The Daily Show\". She appeared on Comedy Central's Roast of Bob Saget on August 17, 2008 and provided the voice of \"Mittens\" (the cat) in the Disney animated film, \"Bolt\", and reprised the role in the 2009 short \"Super Rhino\". She also made an appearance on the Regis Philbin version of \"Million Dollar Password\". \n\nEssman's book, \"What Would Susie Say: Bullshit Wisdom About Love, Life and Comedy\", was published in October 2009 by Simon & Schuster.\n\nEssman used to be a pescatarian—\"Not a moral thing,\" she explains, but \"aesthetic\"; chicken \"grosses me out\"—and \"lives on sushi\". She married Jim Harder, a commercial real estate broker, in September 2008. She owns a Shih Tzu named Sumo.\n\nEssman is a good friend of Joy Behar, and has appeared on \"The View\" multiple times. In 2009, Behar hosted an event at the 92Y with Essman as a guest.\n"}
{"id": "2259607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259607", "title": "Pickling", "text": "Pickling\n\nPickling is the process of preserving or extending the shelf life of food by either anaerobic fermentation in brine or immersion in vinegar. In East Asia, vinaigrette (vegetable oil and vinegar) is also used as a pickling medium. The pickling procedure typically affects the food's texture, taste and flavor. The resulting food is called a \"pickle\", or, to prevent ambiguity, prefaced with \"pickled\". Foods that are pickled include vegetables, fruits, meats, fish, dairy and eggs.\n\nA distinguishing characteristic is a pH of 4.6 or lower, which is sufficient to kill most bacteria. Pickling can preserve perishable foods for months. Antimicrobial herbs and spices, such as mustard seed, garlic, cinnamon or cloves, are often added. If the food contains sufficient moisture, a pickling brine may be produced simply by adding dry salt. For example, sauerkraut and Korean kimchi are produced by salting the vegetables to draw out excess water. Natural fermentation at room temperature, by lactic acid bacteria, produces the required acidity. Other pickles are made by placing vegetables in vinegar. Like the canning process, pickling (which includes fermentation) does not require that the food be completely sterile before it is sealed. The acidity or salinity of the solution, the temperature of fermentation, and the exclusion of oxygen determine which microorganisms dominate, and determine the flavor of the end product.\n\nWhen both salt concentration and temperature are low, \"Leuconostoc mesenteroides\" dominates, producing a mix of acids, alcohol, and aroma compounds. At higher temperatures \"Lactobacillus plantarum\" dominates, which produces primarily lactic acid. Many pickles start with \"Leuconostoc\", and change to \"Lactobacillus\" with higher acidity.\n\nPickling likely first originated in the Indus Valley Civilization in northwest India around 2400 BCE. New York Food Museums’s Pickle History section points out the archaeological evidence of cucumbers native to India being pickled and exported to the Tigris Valley of Iraq in 2030 BCE. Indian pickles are mostly prepared in three ways: salt/brine, oil, and vinegar, with mango pickle being most popular among all. \nPickling was used as a way to preserve food for out-of-season use and for long journeys, especially by sea. Salt pork and salt beef were common staples for sailors before the days of steam engines. Although the process was invented to preserve foods, pickles are also made and eaten because people enjoy the resulting flavors. Pickling may also improve the nutritional value of food by introducing B vitamins produced by bacteria.\n\nThough pickle originated in India where it is called the \"achar\", the English term \"pickle\" comes from the Dutch word \"pekel\" which refers to the brine. Hobson-Jobson's \"Definitive Glossary of British India\" states that the Indian word \"āchār\" was also mentioned in 1563 CE book authored by the Portuguese physician Garcia da Orta who mentions Indians of the Portuguese Indian colony of Goa preserving cashew with salt Indians called \"Āchār\". The Indian food scientist K. T. Achaya explains in his \"A Historical Dictionary of Indian Food\" that pickling is cooking without fire. He further adds that the Hindu text the Linga Purana (variously dated from 5th to 10th/15th CE) in Kannada language by Gurulinga Desika provides 50 pickle recipes, and achar also finds mention in the King of Keladi \"\"Basavappa Nayaka\"\" (r. 1697–1714 CE) work \"Śivatattvaratnākara\". With the expansion of Indosphere cultural influence of Greater India, through transmission of Hinduism in Southeast Asia and the Silk Road transmission of Buddhism leading to Indianization of Southeast Asia with non-Indian southeast Asian native Indianized kingdoms adopting Sanskritization of their languages and honorific titles as well as ongoing historic expansion of Indian diaspora has resulted in many overseas places and food items having Indianised names, including adoption of Indian achaar pickle as atchara in Philippines and acar in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei.\n\nIn the U.S. and Canada, and sometimes Australia and New Zealand, the word \"pickle\" alone almost always refers to a pickled cucumber, except when it is used figuratively. It may also refer to other types of pickles such as \"pickled onion\", \"pickled cauliflower\", etc. In the UK, pickle, as in a \"cheese and pickle sandwich\", may also refer to Ploughman's pickle, a British version of Indian chutney.\n\nSouth Asia has a large variety of pickles (known as \"achar\" (अचार, اچار) in Nepali, Assamese, Bengali, Hindi (अचार), Punjabi, Urdu (اچار) \"uppinakaayi\" in Kannada, \"lonacha\" (लोणचं) in Marathi, \"uppilittathu\" or \"achar\" in Malayalam, \"oorukai\" in Tamil, \"ooragaya\" in Telugu), which are mainly made from varieties of mango, lemon, lime, goongura (a sour leafy shrub), tamarind and Indian gooseberry (amla), chilli. Vegetables such as eggplant, carrots, cauliflower, tomato, bitter gourd, green tamarind, ginger, garlic, onion, and citron are also occasionally used. These fruits and vegetables are generally mixed with ingredients like salt, spices, and vegetable oils and are set to mature in a moistureless medium.\n\nIn Pakistan, pickles are known locally as \"achaar\" (in Urdu اچار) and come in a variety of flavors. A popular item is the traditional mixed Hyderabadi pickle, a common delicacy prepared from an assortment of fruits (most notably mangoes) and vegetables blended with selected spices. Although the origin of the word is ambiguous, the word āchār is widely considered to be of Persian origin. Āchār in Persian is defined as ‘powdered or salted meats, pickles, or fruits, preserved in salt, vinegar, honey, sugar or syrup.'\n\nIn Sri Lanka, \"achcharu\" is traditionally prepared from carrots, onions, and ground dates that are mixed with mustard powder, ground pepper, crushed ginger, garlic, and vinegar, and left to sit in a clay pot.\n\nSingapore, Indonesian and Malaysian pickles, called \"acar\", are typically made out of cucumber, carrot, bird's eye chilies, and shallots, these items being seasoned with vinegar, sugar and salt. Fruits, such as papaya and pineapple, are also sometimes pickled.\n\nIn the Philippines, \"pickling\" was traditionally done in earthen jars and is widely known as \"buro\" or \"binuro\". Pickling was a common method of preserving food throughout the archipelago before the advent of refrigeration, but its popularity is now confined to vegetables and fruits. \"Achara\" remains popular as the Philippine localization of the Malay \"acar\", and is primarily made out of green papaya, carrots, and shallots, seasoned with cloves of garlic and vinegar; but could include ginger, bell peppers, white radishes, cucumbers or bamboo shoots. Pickled unripe mangoes or \"burong mangga\", unripe tomatoes, guavas, jicama, bitter gourd and other fruit and vegetables still retain their appeal. Siling labuyo, sometimes with garlic and red onions, is also pickled in bottled vinegar and is a staple condiment in Filipino cuisine.\n\nIn Vietnamese cuisine, vegetable pickles are called (\"salted vegetables\") or (\"sour vegetables\"). or is made from a variety of fruits and vegetables, including , eggplant, Napa cabbage, kohlrabi, carrots, radishes, papaya, cauliflower, and . made from carrots and radishes are commonly added to sandwiches. is made by pressing and sun-drying vegetables such as and bok choy. is a specialty of Nghệ An and Hã Tĩnh provinces made from jackfruit.\n\nIn Burma, tea leaves are pickled to produce lahpet, which has strong social and cultural importance.\n\nChina is home to a huge variety of pickled vegetables, including radish, \"baicai\" (Chinese cabbage, notably \"suan cai\", \"la bai cai\", \"pao cai\", and Tianjin preserved vegetable), \"zha cai\", chili pepper, and cucumbers, among many others.\n\nJapanese \"tsukemono\" (pickled foods) include \"takuan\" (daikon), \"umeboshi\" (ume plum), \"gari\" & \"beni shōga\" (ginger), turnip, cucumber, and Chinese cabbage.\n\nThe Korean staple kimchi is usually made from pickled napa cabbage and radish, but is also made from green onions, garlic stems, chives and a host of other vegetables. Kimchi is popular throughout East Asia. Jangajji is another example of pickled vegetables.\n\nIn Iran, Turkey, Arab countries, the Balkans, and the South Caucasus, pickles (called torshi in Persian, \"turşu\" in Turkish language and \"mekhallel\" in Arabic) are commonly made from turnips, peppers, carrots, green olives, cucumbers, cabbage, green tomatoes, lemons, and cauliflower.\n\nSauerkraut, as well as cabbage pickled in vinegar, with carrot and other vegetables is commonly consumed as a kosher dish in Israel and is considered pareve, meaning that it contains no meat or dairy so it can be consumed with either.\n\nIn Hungary the main meal \"(lunch)\" usually includes some kind of pickles \"(savanyúság)\", but pickles are also commonly consumed at other times of the day. The most commonly consumed pickles are sauerkraut \"(savanyú káposzta)\", pickled cucumbers and peppers, and \"csalamádé\", but tomatoes, carrots, beetroot, baby corn, onions, garlic, certain squashes and melons, and a few fruits like plums and apples are used to make pickles too. Stuffed pickles are specialties usually made of peppers or melons pickled after being stuffed with a cabbage filling. Pickled plum stuffed with garlic is a unique Hungarian type of pickle just like \"csalamádé\" and leavened cucumber \"(kovászos uborka)\". \"Csalamádé\" is a type of mixed pickle made of cabbage, cucumber, paprika, onion, carrot, tomatoes, and bay leaf mixed up with vinegar as the fermenting agent. Leavened cucumber, unlike other types of pickled cucumbers that are around all year long, is rather a seasonal pickle produced in the summer. Cucumbers, spices, herbs, and slices of bread are put in a glass jar with salt water and kept in direct sunlight for a few days. The yeast from the bread, along with other pickling agents and spices fermented under the hot sun, give the cucumbers a unique flavor, texture, and slight carbonation. Its juice can be used instead of carbonated water to make a special type of spritzer \"('Újházy fröccs')\".\nIt is common for Hungarian households to produce their own pickles. Different regions or towns have their special recipes unique to them. Among them all the Vecsési sauerkraut \"(Vecsési savanyú káposzta)\" is the most famous.\n\nRomanian pickles (murături) are made out of beetroot, cucumbers, green tomatoes (\"gogonele\"), carrots, cabbage, garlic, sauerkraut (bell peppers stuffed with cabbage), bell peppers, melons, mushrooms, turnips, celery and cauliflower. Meat, like pork, can also be preserved in salt and lard.\n\nPolish, Czech and Slovak traditional pickles are cucumbers, sauerkraut, peppers, beetroot, tomatoes, but other pickled fruits and vegetables, including plums, pumpkins and mushrooms are also common.\n\nNorth Caucasian, Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian pickled items include beets, mushrooms, tomatoes, sauerkraut, cucumbers, ramsons, garlic, eggplant (which is typically stuffed with julienned carrots), custard squash, and watermelon. Garden produce is commonly pickled using salt, dill, blackcurrant leaves, bay leaves and garlic and is stored in a cool, dark place. The leftover brine (called \"rassol\" (рассол) in Russian) has a number of culinary uses in these countries, especially for cooking traditional soups, such as shchi, rassolnik, and solyanka. \"Rassol\", especially cucumber or sauerkraut rassol, is also a favorite traditional remedy against morning hangover.\n\nAn Italian pickled vegetable dish is giardiniera, which includes onions, carrots, celery and cauliflower. Many places in southern Italy, particularly in Sicily, pickle eggplants and hot peppers.\n\nIn Albania, Bulgaria, Serbia, Macedonia and Turkey, mixed pickles, known as \"turshi\", \"tursija\" or \"turshu\" form popular appetizers, which are typically eaten with \"rakia\". Pickled green tomatoes, cucumbers, carrots, bell peppers, peppers, eggplants, and sauerkraut are also popular.\n\nTurkish pickles, called \"turşu\", are made out of vegetables, roots, and fruits such as peppers, cucumber, Armenian cucumber, cabbage, tomato, eggplant (aubergine), carrot, turnip, beetroot, green almond, baby watermelon, baby cantaloupe, garlic, cauliflower, bean and green plum. A mixture of spices flavor the pickles.\n\nIn Greece, pickles, called \"τουρσί(α)\", are made out of carrots, celery, eggplants stuffed with diced carrots, cauliflower, tomatoes, and peppers.\n\nIn Britain, pickled onions and pickled eggs are often sold in pubs and fish and chip shops. Pickled beetroot, walnuts, and gherkins, and condiments such as Branston Pickle and piccalilli are typically eaten as an accompaniment to pork pies and cold meats, sandwiches or a ploughman's lunch. Other popular pickles in the UK are pickled mussels, cockles, red cabbage, mango chutney, sauerkraut, and olives. Rollmops are also quite widely available under a range of names from various producers both within and out of the UK.\n\nPickled herring, rollmops, and salmon are popular in Scandinavia. Pickled cucumbers and red garden beets are important as condiments for several traditional dishes. Pickled capers are also common in Scandinavian cuisine.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, pickled cucumbers (most often referred to simply as \"pickles\"), olives, and sauerkraut are most commonly seen, although pickles common in other nations are also available. In Canada, there may be a distinction made between gherkins (usually smaller), and pickles (larger pickled cucumbers).\n\nCanadian pickling is similar to that of Britain. Through the winter, pickling is an important method of food preservation. Pickled cucumbers, onions, and eggs are common individual pickled foods seen in Canada. Pickled egg and pickled sausage make popular pub snacks in much of English Canada. Chow-chow is a tart vegetable mix popular in the Maritime Provinces and the Southern United States, similar to piccalilli. Pickled fish is commonly seen, as in Scotland, and kippers may be seen for breakfast, as well as plentiful smoked salmon. Meat is often also pickled or preserved in different brines throughout the winter, most prominently in the harsh climate of Newfoundland.\n\nIn the United States, giardiniera, a mixture of pickled peppers, celery and olives, is a popular condiment in Chicago and other cities with large Italian-American populations, and is often consumed with Italian beef sandwiches. Pickled eggs are common in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Pickled herring is available in the Upper Midwest. Pennsylvania Dutch Country has a strong tradition of pickled foods, including chow-chow and red beet eggs. In the Southern United States, pickled okra and watermelon rind are popular, as are deep-fried pickles and pickled pig's feet, pickled chicken eggs, pickled quail eggs, pickled garden vegetables and pickled sausage. In Mexico, chili peppers, particularly of the Jalapeño and serrano varieties, pickled with onions, carrots and herbs form common condiments. Various pickled vegetables, fish, or eggs may make a side dish to a Canadian lunch or dinner. Popular pickles in the Pacific Northwest include pickled asparagus and green beans. Pickled fruits like blueberries and early green strawberries are paired with meat dishes in restaurants. In some parts of the United States, pickles with Kool-Aid are a popular food for children.\n\nIn the Mesoamerican region pickling is known as \"encurtido\" or \"curtido\" for short. The pickles or \"curtidos\" as known in Latin America are served cold, as an appetizer, as a side dish or as a tapas dish in Spain. In several Central American countries it is prepared with cabbage, onions, carrots, lemon, vinegar, oregano, and salt. In Mexico, \"curtido\" consists of carrots, onions, and jalapeño peppers and used to accompany meals still common in taquerias and restaurants. In order to prepare a carrot \"curtido\" simply add carrots to vinegar and other ingredients that are common to the region such as chilli, tomato, and onions. Varies depending on the food, in the case of sour. Another example of a type of pickling which involves the pickling of meats or seafood is the \"escabeche\" or \"ceviches\" popular in Peru, Ecuador, and throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. These dishes include the pickling of pig's feet, pig's ears, and gizzards prepared as an \"escabeche\" with spices and seasonings to flavor it. The ceviches consists of shrimp, octopus, and various fishes seasoned and served cold.\n\nIn traditional pickling, fruit or vegetables are submerged in brine (20-40 grams/L of salt (3.2–6.4 oz/imp gal or 2.7–5.3 oz/US gal)), or shredded and salted as in sauerkraut preparation, and held underwater by flat stones layered on top. Alternatively, a lid with an airtrap or a tight lid may be used if the lid is able to release pressure which may result from carbon dioxide buildup. Mold or (white) kahm yeast may form on the surface; kahm yeast is mostly harmless but can impart an off taste and may be removed without affecting the pickling process.\n\nIn chemical pickling, the fruits or vegetables to be pickled are placed in a sterilized jar along with brine, vinegar, or both, as well as spices, and are then allowed to mature until the desired taste is obtained.\n\nThe food can be pre-soaked in brine before transferring to vinegar. This reduces the water content of the food, which would otherwise dilute the vinegar. This method is particularly useful for fruit and vegetables with a high natural water content.\n\nIn commercial pickling, a preservative such as sodium benzoate or EDTA may also be added to enhance shelf life. In fermentation pickling, the food itself produces the preservation agent, typically by a process involving \"Lactobacillus\" bacteria that produce lactic acid as the preservative agent.\n\nAlum is used in pickling to promote crisp texture and is approved as a food additive by the United States Food and Drug Administration.\n\n\"Refrigerator pickles\" are unfermented pickles made by marinating fruit or vegetables in a seasoned vinegar solution. They must be stored under refrigeration or undergo canning to achieve long-term storage.\n\nJapanese Tsukemono use a variety of pickling ingredients depending on their type , and are produced by combining these ingredients with the vegetables to be preserved and putting the mixture under pressure.\n\nThe World Health Organization has listed pickled vegetables as a possible carcinogen, and the \"British Journal of Cancer\" released an online 2009 meta-analysis of research on pickles as increasing the risks of esophageal cancer. The report, citing limited data in a statistical meta analysis, indicates a potential two-fold increased risk of oesophageal cancer associated with Asian pickled vegetable consumption. Results from the research are described as having \"high heterogeneity\" and the study said that further well-designed prospective studies were warranted. However, their results stated \"The majority of subgroup analyses showed a statistically significant association between consuming pickled vegetables and Oesophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma\".\n\nThe 2009 meta-analysis reported heavy infestation of pickled vegetables with fungi. Some common fungi can facilitate the formation of N-nitroso compounds, which are strong oesophageal carcinogens in several animal models. Roussin red methyl ester, a non-alkylating nitroso compound with tumour-promoting effect in vitro, was identified in pickles from Linxian in much higher concentrations than in samples from low-incidence areas. Fumonisin mycotoxins have been shown to cause liver and kidney tumours in rodents.\n\nA 2017 study in \"Chinese Journal of Cancer\" has linked salted vegetables (common among Chinese cuisine) to a fourfold increase in nasopharynx cancer, where fermentation was a critical step in creating nitrosamines, which some are confirmed carcinogens, as well as activation of Epstein–Barr virus by fermentation products.\n\nHistorically, pickling caused health concerns for reasons associated with copper salts, as explained in the mid-19th century \"The English and Australian Cookery Book\": \"The evidence of the Lancet commissioner (Dr. Hassall) and Mr. Blackwell (of the eminent firm of Crosse and Blackwell) went to prove that the pickles sold in the shops are nearly always artificially coloured, and are thus rendered highly unwholesome, if not actually poisonous.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2259609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259609", "title": "Manuel Martínez Gutiérrez", "text": "Manuel Martínez Gutiérrez\n\nManuel \"Manolo\" Martínez Gutiérrez (born December 7, 1974) is a retired Spanish shot putter. Nicknamed the \"Gentle Giant\", his personal best throw outdoors is 21.47 metres and he has an indoor best of 21.26 m. These marks are the Spanish national records for the event. His international career lasted from 1992 to 2011 and he earned national selection on 84 occasions – the most by any Spanish athlete.\n\nBorn in León, Spain, he established himself as a junior athlete at the age of seventeen by winning the silver medal at the World Junior Championships and becoming the European Junior Champion the following year. His first major medals as a senior thrower came indoors when he won silver at the 2000 European Athletics Indoor Championships and then secured the bronze at the 2001 IAAF World Indoor Championships.\n\nHis career highlights also came indoors, as he won at the 2002 European Indoor Championships and went on to take the gold medal at the 2003 World Indoor Championships. He scored the bronze medal at the 2004 Athens Olympics in May 2013 following an IAAF drug test disqualified the first-place participant.\n\nHe represented Spain at the Olympics four times consecutively from 1996 to 2008, and also competed at five consecutive editions of the European Athletics Championships. He participated in the shot put at every World Championships in Athletics from 1993 to 2009, with the sole exception of the 1999 event.\n\nIn other competitions, he was a two-time gold medallist at the Mediterranean Games (2001 and 2009), including a Games record of 21.03 m, won gold at the 2001 Summer Universiade, and won three titles at the Ibero-American Championships. He was also the bronze medallist at the 2001 Goodwill Games, 2004 IAAF World Athletics Final, and 2005 European Indoor Championships.\n\nMartínez improved Spanish national records on 31 occasions in his career. He won 16 consecutive outdoor national titles in the shot put from 1993 to 2008, and also won 15 indoor titles. He competed domestically for C.D. Universidad León Atletismo and was coached by Carlos Burón. Martínez retired from competitive athletics in April 2011.\n\nOutside of shot putting, he is an artist and an actor. He starred in \"Estigmas\", a film directed by Adán Aliaga and produced by Jaibo Films. The film is adapted from Lorenzo Mattotti's comic, Stigmate. He performed the role of Goliath in 2011 film \"El Capitán Trueno y el Santo Grial\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2259614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259614", "title": "Naxalbari", "text": "Naxalbari\n\nNaxalbari (also spelled Naksalbari) is a village in the Naxalbari CD block in the Siliguri subdivision of the Darjeeling district in the state of West Bengal, India. Naxalbari is famous for being the site of a 1967 revolt that would eventually lead to the Naxalite–Maoist insurgency.\n\nNaxalbari became famous for being the site of a left-wing poor peasants uprising in 1967, which began with the \"land to tiller\" slogan, an uprising continuing to this day (see Naxalite).\nHistory of Naxalbari\n\nThe Naxalbari uprising was triggered on 25 May 1967 at Bengai Jote village in Naxalbari when the police opened fire on a group of villagers who were demanding their right to the crops at a particular piece of land. The firing killed 9 adults and 2 unknown children.\nThe CPI(ML) have put up busts of Lenin, Stalin, Mao and Charu Majumder on that piece of land. The spot has Bengai Jote Primary School next to it. There is a memorial column erected that has the names of the people who died during the police firing. The names are 1. Dhaneswari Devi (F), 2. Simaswari Mullick (F), 3. Nayaneswari Mullick (F), 4. Surubala Burman (F), 5. Sonamati Singh (F), 6. Fulmati Devi (F), 7. Samsari Saibani (F), 8. Gaudrau Saibani (M), 9. Kharsingh Mullick (M) and \"two children\".\n\nNaxalbari is located at . It has an average elevation of 152 metres (501 feet).\n\nThe stretch of land, where Naxalbari is situated, lies on the Terai region at the base of the Himalayas. To the west of Naxalbari, across the border river Mechi lies Nepal. The entire stretch of the land surrounding Naxalbari is covered by farm lands, tea estates and forests and small villages, consists of an area of 182.02 km². The Naxalbari block has six Gram Panchayats (village councils), viz. Gossainpur, Lower Bagdogra, Upper Bagdogra, Hatighisha, Naxalbari and Moniram, from north to south. The population of Naxalbari block was 144,915 in the year 2001.\n\nThe map alongside shows the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. This area is spread across the foothills of the Himalayas and is a plain land gently sloping from north to south. While the northern part is mentioned as the Terai region, the larger southern portion forms the western part of the Dooars region. While 55.11% per cent of the population resides in the rural areas, 44.89% resides in the urban areas. On the western side the Mechi River forms a long border with Nepal. On the eastern side the Mahananda River forms a short border with Bangladesh. \n\nNaxalbari police station has jurisdiction over the Naxalbari CD block.\n\nThe headquarters of the Naxalbari CD block is at Naxalbari.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census of India, Naksalbari had a total population of 1,618 of which 811 (50%) were males and 807 (50%) were females. There were 138 persons in the age range of 0 to 6 years. The total number of literate people in Naksalbari was 1,289 (79.67% of the population over 6 years).\n\nNaxalbari has a railway station on the Katihar–Siliguri line. Daily trains run from New Jalpaiguri via Siliguri Town, Siliguri Junction, Matigara and Bagdogra. There are four trains running from New Jalpaiguri; New Jalpaiguri-Katihar Passenger, New Jalpaiguri-Aluabari-New Jalpaiguri DEMU Ring Rail, New Jalpaiguri-Balurghat DEMU and New Jalpaiguri-Radhikapur DEMU.\n\nThere is also bus service from Siliguri Court More to Naxalbari.\n\nNaxalbari's Panitanki neighbourhood is on Nepal's eastern border with India at Jhapa District, Mechi Zone. There is a border crossing to the Kakarbhitta neighborhood of Mechinagar municipality with a checkpoint for customs and crossing by third-country nationals while citizens of Nepal and India cross without restriction.\n\nNaxalbari has two major government high schools, one for males and one for females, and one college. There are many public and private primary schools.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259615", "title": "Richard Tuttle", "text": "Richard Tuttle\n\nRichard Dean Tuttle (born July 12, 1941) is an American postminimalist artist known for his small, casual, subtle, intimate works. His art makes use of scale and line. His works span a range of media, from sculpture, painting, drawing, printmaking, and artist’s books to installation and furniture. He lives and works in New York City, Abiquiú, New Mexico, and Mount Desert, Maine.\n\nTuttle was born in Rahway, New Jersey and raised in nearby Roselle. He studied art, philosophy and literature at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut from 1959 to 1963. After receiving his B.A. in 1963, he moved to New York where he spent a semester at the Cooper Union and had a brief stint in the U.S. Air Force. He then began working at the Betty Parsons Gallery. One year after taking a job as an assistant to Betty Parsons, she gave him his first show in 1965.\n\nTuttle's reputation as a master was secured in Europe as it swiftly embraced Tuttle's minimalist art. In the United States, however, acceptance of his work was slower. His works on paper are considered seminal works in American art. His first works, small monochrome reliefs, were followed by making palm-size paper cubes with cut-out designs and shaped wood reliefs that seemed like a twist on geometric abstraction. Beginning in the mid-1960s, he began to create eccentrically-shaped painted wood reliefs, followed by ideograms made of galvanized tin, and unstretched, shaped canvases dyed in offbeat colors. Tuttle had a survey exhibition in 1975 at the Whitney Museum of American Art. The exhibit was controversial and the show's curator Marcia Tucker lost her job as a result, after a scathing review by Hilton Kramer. Kramer, then art critic for \"The New York Times\", wrote, referring to Ludwig Mies van der Rohe's dictum \"less is more\", \"in Mr. Tuttle's work, less is unmistakably less ... One is tempted to say, where art is concerned, less has never been as less than this\". According to art critic Christopher Knight of the \"Los Angeles Times\", Tuttle's \"Wire pieces\", which the artist made in 1971 and 1972, \"collectively rank as his most distinctive contribution to art history\". In 1983, Tuttle made \"Monkey's Recovery for a Darkened Room (Bluebird)\", a wall relief of branches, wire, cloth, string and wood scraps, which he says formally relates to Jan van Eyck's \"Crucifixion and Last Judgement diptych\".\n\nIn the early 1980s, Tuttle embarked on an extensive series of suites of watercolors, \"The Loose Leaf Notebook Drawings\". Each sheet consisting of a few strokes on low-grade loose leaf paper. The paints bleed and pooled, causing the paper to buckle, giving the works three-dimensionality. The illustration from the suite \"5 Loose Leaf Notebook Drawings\" from 1980-1982, in the collection of the Honolulu Museum of Art, demonstrates how the suites challenge viewers to contemplate the distinction between fine art and trash. His works in the 1990s consisted mostly of smaller-sized work, followed by bodies of low-relief wall-bound pieces that integrate painting, sculpture, and drawing.\n\nIn 2004, Tuttle installed \"Splash\", his first public art project, a mural 90 by 150 feet with about 140,000 pieces of colored glass and white ceramic tiles. It stretches up the side of a luxury condominium building designed by Walter Chatham for a private, guarded island community in Miami Beach called Aqua. Tuttle has always \"privileged newness, not found or weathered elements that refer to past lives and experiences,\" Sharon Butler wrote in a Two Coats of Paint review of \"Days, Muses and Stars,\" his 2019 expansive multiple-gallery exhibition at Pace. \"The distinctive feature of his aesthetic endeavor is his reverence for the present. His objects, though they may convey a sense of wabi-sabi precariousness, are invariably made of pristine materials that reflect the proximate experience of making.\" Tuttle's work has been extremely influential on a younger generation that has embraced the casualism that he pioneered. \n\nDuring a residency at The Fabric Workshop and Museum in 1978, Tuttle embraced the silkscreen printing process and the idea of fabric to make a series of clothing — \"Shirts\" in 1978 and \"Pants\" in 1979. \"I Don’t Know, Or The Weave of Textile Language\", on view at the Tate Modern in 2014, was made for the museum's turbine hall and is Tuttle's largest to date spanning nearly 40 feet in length. Featuring the textiles he designed and fabricated, the work is suspended from the ceiling in contrast to the hall’s industrial architecture.\n\nTuttle's first major museum exhibition in 1975 was covering his first ten years of work organized by the Whitney Museum in New York. Tuttle has since been the subject of museum exhibitions around the world, and included in the Venice Biennale (1976, 1997, 2001), three documenta (1972, 1977 and 1987) and three Whitney Biennial exhibitions (1977, 1987, 2000). In 2005, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art organized a major retrospective of Tuttle's 40-year career. The exhibition traveled to museums throughout the United States, including the Whitney Museum of American Art in November 2005. Tuttle continues a 20-year relationship with the Kunsthaus Zug in Zug, Switzerland, out of which have grown five exhibitions and many publications from catalogues to posters and ephemera.\n\nAn exhibition of his new fabric sculptures, \"Richard Tuttle: Walking on Air\", was on view through April 25, 2009 at The Pace Gallery's 534 West 25th Street gallery. A series of his colored aquatints was on exhibit at the Dubner Moderne gallery in Lausanne, Switzerland from February 11 through March 15, 2010.\n\nThe Centre Georges Pompidou, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Honolulu Museum of Art, Kunsthaus Zug (Zug, Switzerland), Kunstmuseum Winterthur (Winterthur, Switzerland), the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Gallery of Art (Washington, D.C.); Serralves (Porto, Portugal), the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam, the Tate Modern, and the Whitney Museum of American Art (New York City) are among the public collections holding work by Richard Tuttle\n\nTuttle has been the recipient of many awards for his work, including the 74th American Exhibition, Art Institute of Chicago Biennial Prize, the Skowhegan Medal for Sculpture in 1998, and the Aachen Art Prize in 1998 from the Ludwig Forum für Internationale Kunst. In 2012, he was elected to the National Academy and in 2013 he was invited to become a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Tuttle was the artist in residence at the Getty Research Institute from September 2012 through June 2013.\n\nHe presented a lecture in collaboration with his poet wife, Mei-Mei Berssenbrugge, through the Visiting Artists Program at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in April 2009.\n\nTuttle is represented by the Pace Gallery in New York, Galerie Schmela in Düsseldorf, and by the Annemarie Verna Galerie in Zurich. In 2002, a tin wall piece called \"Letters (The 26 Series)\" (1966) sold at auction for $1 million.\n\nTuttle is married to the poet Mei-mei Berssenbrugge. For their residence in Abiquiú, New Mexico, they commissioned architect Steven Holl to design a 1,300-square-foot guest cottage, built between 2001 and 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259618", "title": "Kråkstad", "text": "Kråkstad\n\nKråkstad is a village and former municipality located in Ski municipality of Akershus, Norway.\n\nThe parish of \"Kraakstad\" was established as a municipality January 1, 1838 (see formannskapsdistrikt). Ski was separated from Kråkstad July 1, 1931 - and the rest of Kråkstad was merged with Ski January 1, 1964.\n\nThe village has 839 inhabitants (2006), and a train station on Indre Østfoldbanen.\nThe Norwegian footballer Martin Andresen grew up in this village.\n\nMembers of the black metal band Mayhem lived in a house near the village in the early 1990s, and became infamous when vocalist Dead commit suicide inside the house on 8 April 1991 by slitting his wrists and neck and then shooting himself in the forehead with a shotgun. Guitarist Euronymous then took photographs Dead's corpse, one of which became the cover of their Dawn of the Black Hearts album. Dead's suicide was said to cause \"a change in mentality\" in the black metal scene and was the first in a string of infamous events carried out by its members.\n\nThere are some remains of an old hillfort in the forest above Vientjern (a small lake), a few kilometers outside Kråkstad.\n\nKråkstad Church (\"Kråkstad Kirke\") is a parish church with origins in the mid-1100s and has 200 seats. The medieval church has a roughly square nave and narrow, short chorus. The structure is of fracture stones of uniform size and good cleavage. After a lightning strike and fire in 1801 only the walls were left badly damaged. The church was rebuilt with internal walls of smooth plastered. The timbered west tower was also built in 1882 with two bells which were recast after the fire of 1801. Apart from parts of the altarpiece, most of the interior decor is from 1882. The church organ is from J. H. Jørgensen and dated to 1943.\nThe municipality (originally the parish) was named after the old farm Kråkstad (Norse \"Krákustaðir\"), since the first church was built there. The first element is probably an old rivername (\"*Kráka\"), the last element is \"staðir\" 'homestead, farm'. The meaning of the (hypothetical) rivername is 'crow-river' (the river sounding like a crow'?). Until 1921 the name was written \"Kraakstad\".\n"}
{"id": "2259621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259621", "title": "WBFS-TV", "text": "WBFS-TV\n\nWBFS-TV, virtual channel 33 (UHF digital channel 32), is a MyNetworkTV-affiliated television station licensed to Miami, Florida, United States and also serving Fort Lauderdale. The station is owned by the CBS Television Stations subsidiary of ViacomCBS, as part of a duopoly with CBS owned-and-operated station WFOR-TV (channel 4). The two stations share studios on Northwest 18th Terrace in Doral, near the Miami International Airport; WBFS-TV's transmitter is located on Northwest 210th Street in Miramar. There is no separate website for WBFS-TV; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WFOR-TV.\n\nWBFS-TV is one of two ViacomCBS-owned stations carrying the Fox Corporation-owned MyNetworkTV service, alongside sister station WSBK-TV in Boston.\n\nPrior to the station's launch, the UHF channel 33 frequency in the Miami–Fort Lauderdale market was occupied by a low-power translator of competing independent WCIX (channel 6, now WFOR-TV on channel 4), whose primary full-power signal could not be received very well in Broward County as its transmitter was located in Homestead, positioned farther southwest than the transmitters of other Miami area stations in order to prevent signal interference with WPTV-TV in West Palm Beach and WDBO-TV (now WKMG-TV) in Orlando.\n\nWBFS first signed on the air on December 9, 1984, originally operating as an independent station. the station was owned by Grant Broadcasting. The station originally operated from studio facilities located on Northwest 52nd Avenue in Miami Gardens. The station ran numerous off-network reruns of classic television sitcoms from the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, along with a number of cartoons. It also ran some off-network drama series, and classic western and martial arts movies that were usually shown on Saturday afternoons. WBFS soon made a name for itself in South Florida for its slick on-air look. It billed itself as \"Florida's Super Station\" (a slogan that present-day Tampa Bay sister station WTOG also used around the same time) and frequently used CGI graphics of near-network quality (similar graphics would be implemented on WGBS-TV (now WPSG) in Philadelphia and WGBO-TV in Chicago after Grant acquired those stations). The station was available on cable in the West Palm Beach area as well, and had identified as \"Miami/Fort Lauderdale/West Palm Beach\" in station IDs until the 1990s.\n\nHowever while the station itself turned a profit, Grant overextended itself while buying programming for its stations. In December 1986, shortly after Christmas, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The pressure came from debt with Viacom, which owned the distribution rights for half of the programs broadcast on Grant's stations. In January 1987, a deal was made to cut back the runs of the shows that the stations owned and pay reduced prices for licensing them.\n\nEven with Grant's financial problems, WBFS continued to do well, and scored a major coup by becoming the on-air home of the NBA's new Miami Heat franchise in 1988. It added rights to games from the Florida Marlins of Major League Baseball's National League and the Florida Panthers of the NHL in 1993. However, Grant Broadcasting was unable to get out of debt, forcing the company into receivership in 1989. Combined Broadcasting, a company consisting of executives from the program distributors that Grant owed payments to, took over ownership of WBFS and its sister stations. The company pumped a lot of money into WBFS and WGBS, but ran primarily barter programming on WGBO.\n\nIn 1994, Combined sold WBFS and WGBS to Paramount Stations Group (which was soon acquired by former Grant creditor Viacom after it acquired Paramount Pictures that year), which sold its original Philadelphia station, WTXF-TV, to Fox Television Stations. Almost immediately, Paramount announced that WBFS and WGBS would join the soon-to-be created United Paramount Network (UPN), which was created through a programming partnership with owner Chris-Craft Industries (Viacom/Paramount itself would not acquire partial ownership of the network until 1996). WGBO was sold to Univision, which entered the deal after its then-affiliate in Chicago, WCIU-TV, refused to drop English-language programs from its schedule and become an exclusively Spanish-language programming outlet.\n\nOn January 16, 1995, WBFS became a UPN owned-and-operated station at the network's inception. The station continued to refer to itself as \"WBFS TV 33\" for some time afterward, but soon rebranded as \"UPN 33\". It had acquired more recent off-network sitcoms in the years following and soon began to add more first-run syndicated talk and reality shows. The station began to cut back on children's programs, such as \"The Wacky World of Tex Avery\", \"Pokémon\", \"Sailor Moon\", \"Mummies Alive!\" and \"DuckTales\" from 1998 onward. By 2002, the station was only running children's programs during the morning hours.\n\nIn 2000, Paramount's parent company Viacom merged with CBS, making WBFS a sister station to CBS owned-and-operated station WFOR-TV, years after that station (as WCIX) shut down the channel 33 translator to make room for WBFS. As a result of the merger, WBFS moved into WFOR's facilities in Doral. When WAMI-TV (channel 69) became a Telefutura owned-and-operated station in January 2002, WBFS picked up a few of WAMI's former shows, including Fox Kids (the block, which was not carried on Fox affiliate WSVN (channel 7), by then was only offered on Saturdays). WBFS continued to run what eventually became 4Kids TV until the block was discontinued by Fox on December 27, 2008. Its successor, \"Weekend Marketplace\", does not air at all in the Miami market. UPN ended its children's block, Disney's One Too, in August 2003. After Viacom split into two companies in December 2005, WBFS came under the ownership of CBS Corporation.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, CBS Corporation and Time Warner's Warner Bros. Entertainment division announced that they would dissolve UPN and The WB, and move some of their programming to a newly created network, The CW. The network immediately announced a deal to affiliate with 15 stations owned by Tribune Broadcasting, with that company's WB affiliate WBZL (channel 39, now WSFL-TV) serving as its Miami affiliate. It would not have been an upset had WBFS been chosen as a charter station, however. CW officials were on record as preferring the \"strongest\" WB and UPN stations for the new network, and Miami–Fort Lauderdale was one of the few markets where the WB and UPN stations both had relatively strong viewership.\nOn February 22 of that year, News Corporation announced the launch of a new \"sixth\" network called MyNetworkTV, which would be operated by Fox Television Stations and its syndication division Twentieth Television. Although the service was created to give UPN and WB-affiliated stations that would not be joining The CW an alternate programming option, CBS initially announced on May 1, that WBFS, along with its Boston sister station WSBK-TV, would not join the network. It is believed that CBS's initial decision to deny its larger UPN stations affiliation agreements with MyNetworkTV was in retaliation against Fox for refusing to affiliate any of its UPN affiliates in markets where CBS Corporation or Tribune did not already sign deals to carry The CW with that network. However, on July 12, it was announced that WBFS would become South Florida's MyNetworkTV affiliate. The network debuted on September 5, 2006, and at that point, WBFS changed its on-air branding to \"My 33\".\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWBFS-TV ended programming on its analog signal, on UHF channel 33, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 32. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 33.\n\nOccasionally as time permits, WBFS may take on the responsibility of airing CBS network programs whenever WFOR-TV is unable to in the event of extended breaking news or severe weather coverage. WBFS has been known to air Miami Dolphins games that air on ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\" and games scheduled to air on CBS which are postponed due to weather (usually hurricanes).\n\nWBFS was the alternate home of ACC Network football telecasts when sister station WFOR was not available. The station was the main ACC Network affiliate in South Florida for basketball telecasts, primarily airing weekend broadcasts; it also carried weeknight telecasts involving the Miami Hurricanes. These packages ceased to exist following the 2018–19 academic year as a result of the creation of the new cable-only ACC Network. The station also previously aired syndicated Big East telecasts. \n\nIn 2020, Inter Miami CF announced that alongside WFOR-TV, WBFS will carry regionally televised matches.\n\nSoon after the Viacom-CBS merger in 2001, WBFS began to air a nightly 10:00 p.m. newscast that was produced by WFOR. This was the third primetime news broadcast in the market after WSVN's long-established 10:00 p.m. newscast (which debuted in January 1989, when it became a Fox affiliate) and a WTVJ-produced newscast in that slot on WB affiliate WBZL. In 2004, WBFS added a two-hour-long extension of WFOR's weekday morning newscast, airing from 7:00 to 9:00 a.m., which replaced children's programming in that timeslot and competed against WSVN's morning newscast \"Today in Florida\". In June 2007, Beatriz Canals (WBFS' former weeknight co-anchor and WFOR reporter) was appointed co-anchor of WFOR's weeknight 5:00 and 11:00 p.m. newscasts, replacing Maggie Rodriguez after she left the station to become co-anchor of CBS' \"The Saturday Early Show\". This temporary arrangement remained until Shannon Hori, brought in from Dallas–Fort Worth sister station KTVT, was named as Rodriguez's permanent replacement.\n\nThe weekday morning program remained in a news format until 2008, when it was reformatted as more of an entertainment and lifestyle program with news, weather, and traffic updates. It originated from an updated secondary set that was used for interviews. Due to ongoing financial issues, several cuts were made to the station's news programming on October 17, 2008. WBFS's weekday morning and weekend prime time newscasts were canceled and some personalities were fired. On January 24, 2010, WFOR became the last major English-language station in the Miami market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; the remaining weeknight 10:00 p.m. broadcast on WBFS was included in the upgrade. At some point in September, the weeknight newscast was expanded to one hour. In September 2011, the weeknight 10:00 p.m. newscast was canceled, leaving the Miami–Fort Lauderdale market without in-market competition to WSVN's in-house primetime newscast. As a result, WBFS joined The CW O&Os, KSTW in Seattle/Tacoma, Washington, WUPA in Atlanta and WTOG in Tampa/St. Petersburg, Florida as one of four CBS-owned stations without a newscast of any kind; eventually to be joined by Detroit sister stations WKBD-TV and WWJ-TV in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259629", "title": "HMS Gaspee", "text": "HMS Gaspee\n\nSeveral ships of the Royal Navy have borne the name \"Gaspee\":\n\n"}
{"id": "2259630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259630", "title": "Clube Atlético Juventus", "text": "Clube Atlético Juventus\n\nThe Clube Atlético Juventus (Latin for \"Youth\"), usually known simply as Juventus, is a professional Brazilian football club based in Mooca, a São Paulo neighborhood.\n\nAlthough it was a Campeonato Brasileiro Série B (Taça de Prata) winner once, Juventus nowadays competes only in São Paulo tournaments, like Campeonato Paulista.\n\nThe team typically plays in maroon shirts and white shorts, and is nicknamed \"Moleque Travesso\" (the Prankster Boy).\n\nClube Atlético Juventus was founded on April 20, 1924 by Cotonificio Rodolfo Crespi employees, as Extra São Paulo. The team colors were the colors of São Paulo state, black, white and red.\n\nThe club changed its name to Cotonifício Rodolfo Crespi Futebol Clube in 1925, and in 1930, the club changed its name again, to Clube Atlético Juventus, because Count Rodolfo Crespi was a supporter of Juventus of Italy, but the team colors are a homage to Italian club Torino Football Club, because Rodolfo Crespi's son, Adriano, was a supporter of the club from Turin.\n\nPelé states his most beautiful goal was scored at Rua Javari on a Campeonato Paulista match against Juventus on August 2, 1959. As there was no video footage of this match, Pelé asked that a computer animation be made of this specific goal. This animation can be seen on Pelé Eterno, a documentary about his career.\n\nThe club won the Copa FPF for the first time in 2007, after defeating Linense in the final, and also competed in that season's edition of Recopa Sul-Brasileira. Juventus was eliminated in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série C 2007's first stage.\n\n\n\nJuventus' home stadium is Estádio Rua Javari, inaugurated in 1929, with a maximum capacity of 4,000 people.\n\n\n\nThe anthem's author is Carlos Alberto de Jesus Polastro.\n\nThe club is nicknamed \"Moleque Travesso\", meaning the \"Mischievous Boy\". The nickname was first used on September 14, 1930, by the journalist Thomaz Mazzoni, after Juventus beat Corinthians 2–1 at Estádio Parque São Jorge, which was Corinthian's home stadium at the time.\n\nJuventus biggest rival is Nacional; the games between the two clubs are called \"Juvenal\". Because of the poor performances of both teams on their championships, they've been relegated to different divisions and cannot play a match between them, since 2007. However, in 2014 Nacional AC was promoted from Second Division to Division A3, where Juventus has been played for a couple of years leading to a recent edition of the Juvenal in April 2015. Portuguesa is another direct rival of Juventus. Their matches are known as \"The Immigrants' Derby\" (Italians vs Portuguese).\n\n"}
{"id": "2259632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259632", "title": "Jeppe High School for Boys", "text": "Jeppe High School for Boys\n\nJeppe High School for Boys is a public English medium high school for boys located in Kensington a suburb of Johannesburg in the Gauteng province of South Africa, one of the 23 Milner Schools and also one of the top schools in the Gauteng province, The sister school is Jeppe High School for Girls.\n\nThe school's motto is the Latin \"Forti nihil difficilius\", meaning \"Nothing is too difficult for the brave\". Jeppe High School for Boys is the oldest known school in Johannesburg.\n\nSt. Michael's College was the predecessor of all the Jeppe Schools. This was an Anglican private school on the corner of Commissioner and Crowns Street in Fairview. There were 25 students when the school first opened. The headmaster of the school was Rev. H B Sidwell. His successor was Rev. George Perry, in 1891.\n\nThe buildings of the college and the site on which its grounds lay were bought by the Witwatersrand Council for education, in 1896, as the school was struggling to function. The school was re-opened, in April 1897, by the council as Jeppestown Grammar School. 15 boys enrolled into the school and the first headmaster of the school was Mr. H Hardwick. However, school financial issues forced the council to reduce its disbursement. As a result, Mr. Hardwick and the rest of the school's staff were given notice. On 1 October 1898, a group of Jeppestown parents bought the school from the council for £2,500. The staff had been replaced, but Mr. Hardwick remained the headmaster of the school.\n\nIn 1899, at the outbreak of the Anglo-Boer War, with the number of students slowly decreasing, the school was forced to close down. Mr. Harwick left in September 1899.\n\nThe school re-opened, after the war, as Jeppestown High School for Girls and Boys using land donated by Sir Julius Jeppe. It was opened in the same building of the Grammar School, and was one of the first co-educational schools, opened by the Transvaal Education Department (T.E.D). The precise date of the re-opening is unknown, however it is believed to have been during the first quarter of the year 1902, as a letter sent to the Department of Education by the school, about the teachers being unwilling to teach under the conditions of an unfinished building as well as there not being enough space for the number of children, was sent on 9 April of that year.\n\nThe Parents' Committee experienced financial hardships at the same time as the school's construction. In September 1902, the Education Department was presented with an ultimatum, which stated that either they purchase the premises or vacate it, by October that year. The Public Works Department advised that purchase be made, until a new school building could be constructed.\n\nThe new headmaster of the school, in 1902, was Mr. C D Hope. He remained headmaster until he left in 1904 to found a fellow \"Milner School\", Potchefstroom High School for Boys. He was succeeded by Mr. J H Payne, who became a staff member in 1902 and remained headmaster until his death, in 1917, during his service in the First World War (170 boys and staff members lost their lives to the border conflicts and two World Wars). Mr. Payne acquired the building that the Jeppe Boys students currently occupy.\n\nBy 1912 the new school's grounds were not sufficient enough for the accumulating number of pupils at the school. Owing to the boys out-numbering the girls, and pressure from the Governing Body of the school, who were against the co-educational system of the school, it was decided that the girls would be moved to other premises. The split would occur in 1919.\n\nWhen Johannesburg celebrated its centenary, in 1986, the main building of Jeppe High School for Boys, as well as the First World War Memorial, were declared national monuments.\n\nHeadmaster | Principal\n\n\nA dome built near the main entrance of the school is one of the prominent facades of the school building. One side of the dome is used for \"recruiting\" and the other as the school museum. Alongside the dome can be found the names of boys who died during the war while still attending the school. The dome also features a plinth with the names of staff and pupils who lost their lives in The Great War. Mr. James Humphrey Allen Payne, who was a headmaster at the school, died of a fever in 1917 while serving in the war. The second hall in the school is named after him.\n\nWhen the school celebrated its centenary in 1986, the First World War Memorial, which was opened by field Marshal Jan Smuts, was declared a national monument.\n\nIn 1912, Oribi House, the oldest hostel, was built. In 1916, Tsessebe House occupied \"Friedenheim\", Sir Julius Jeppe's home. During the Anglo-Boer War, \"Friedenheim\" was used as British Headquarters and was owned by Sir Abe Bailey. In the early 1960s, \"Friedenheim\" was declared unsafe to occupy and was demolished. Roan House and Sable House are the oldest buildings on the property.\n\nThe main gates to the school are dedicated to FWB von Linsingen and AS Dashwood who were both killed in action in Bardia on 31 December 1941.\n\nTwo World War II plaques are situated in the foyer of the school's main hall. These contain the names of Jeppe pupils who died in action while still attending the school.\n\nThere have been a number of different Old Boy Associations over the years at Jeppe High School for Boys. However, over time they had become defunct, in 2009 the Jeppe High School for Boys Association (JBA) was officially formed.\n\nThe stated aims of the JBA are as follows:\n\n\nJeppe Boys write the Gauteng Department of Education preliminarily examinations and the Department of Education, South Africa final examination via the FET (Further Education Training) board. They are also offered the opportunity to partake in Advanced Programme mathematics, which is written separately under the IEB.\n\nJake White Scholarship Fund - The Jake White Scholarship, named after Jake White who was a pupil at the school from Grade 8 to Grade 12, aims to brand all sports scholarships at the school under this fund.\n\nWhite, who is a former Springbok and IRB World Cup Winning Coach, and Jeppe old boy, was a prominent figure in the Springboks' victory in 2007 during the Rugby World Cup.\n\nTheo Jackson Scholarship Fund - The Theo Jackson Scholarship Fund, established by Dale and Craig Jackson in 2006 in honour of their late father, Theo Jackson, is a separate scholarship within the JBA association. The scholarship aims to grant scholarships to boys of all races and from disadvantaged backgrounds. Recipients of the scholarship are not chosen based on academic or sporting excellence but rather on strength of character and the will to succeed despite a disadvantaged background.\n\n100 Club - The 100 Club, formed in 2004, aims to improve sports, academics, facilities and infrastructure at Jeppe Boys through donations from Jeppe old Boys.\n\nListed alphabetically according to season\n\nJeppe Boys write the Gauteng Department of Education preliminarily examinations and the Department of Education, South Africa final examination via the FET (Further Education Training) board.\n\nIn line with the requirements of the Education Department, Jeppe High School for Boys offers the following subjects in the Junior and Senior Phase:\n\n Jeppe Boys has stone buildings with a prominent facade. The Payne Hall, a stone building with a largely wooden interior, has been declared a national monument. Within the school is another national monument; a war memorial dedicated to those who died in the First World War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259633", "title": "Fiona Reid", "text": "Fiona Reid\n\nFiona Reid, CM (born 24 July 1951) is an English-born Canadian television, film, and stage actress. She is best known for her roles as Cathy on the TV series \"King of Kensington\" and Harriet Miller \"My Big Fat Greek Wedding\".\n\nReid was born in Whitstable, Kent, England. Her father was a doctor in the British Army. She lived in Germany, Africa, and the United States before settling in Canada with her family in 1964.\n\nShe studied acting at McGill University, receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1972, and at the Banff Centre for the Arts.\n\nFiona Reid is one of Canada’s best known stage actors, having performed in theatres across the country, including five seasons with the Stratford Festival and twelve seasons at the Shaw Festival, as well as theatres in Great Britain and the U.S.. Over her career her performances have garnered her two Dora Mavor Moore awards, a Jessie Award (Vancouver) and a Sterling Award (Edmonton). In 2015, Fiona received the Toronto Critics’ Award for her performance of Sonia in Vanya, Sonia, Masha and Spike (Mirvish Productions). \n\nHer career has been marked by diverse signature roles that include Rose in The Children, Amanda (The Glass Menagerie), Julie (London Road), Blanche Dubois (A Streetcar Named Desire), Lady Bracknell (The Importance of Being Earnest), Martha (Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf), Mrs Lovett (Sweeney Todd), Hedda Gabler and Clare (A Delicate Balance), amongst many others. Her film credits include \"My Big Fat Greek Wedding\", \"One Week\" and \"The Time Traveler's Wife\".\n\nIn 2016, Reid starred as Queen Elizabeth II in the Mirvish Productions presentation of \"The Audience\" at the Royal Alexandra Theatre in Toronto. \n\nIn 2019 Fiona began her run in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child on Broadway. \n\nShe has twice won the Dora Mavor Moore Award, in 1993 for \"Fallen Angels\" and in 1995 for \"Six Degrees of Separation\". She won an Elizabeth Sterling Haynes Award (Sterling Award) for her performance in \"\".\n\nIn 2006, she was made a Member of the Order of Canada She received The Barbara Hamilton Award in 2008. and an award of excellence from ACTRA Toronto in 2010.\n\nFiona has received an honorary doctorate from Bishop's University and is a graduate of McGill University. She is past president of the Actor’s Fund of Canada (The AFC).\n\nReid met McCowan Thomas doing summer stock theatre and married him in 1977. They have two children, Alec and Julia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259635", "title": "Benedum Center", "text": "Benedum Center\n\nThe Benedum Center for the Performing Arts (formerly the Stanley Theatre) is a theater and concert hall located at 237 7th Street in the Cultural District of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Designed by the Philadelphia architectural firm Hoffman-Henon, it was built in 1928 as the Stanley Theatre. The former movie palace was renovated and reopened as the Benedum Center for the Performing Arts in 1987.\n\nThe Stanley Theatre, built at a cost of $3 million, opened as a deluxe movie palace February 27, 1928, with seating for 3,800 people (it now seats 2,885). It was designed by the architectural firm Hoffman−Henon who were best known for their design of 35 theaters in the Philadelphia area. The Stanley Theatre was the largest movie theater in Western Pennsylvania. Operated by the Stanley Warner Theatres circuit division of Warner Bros., it was Pittsburgh's main first run house for all Warner Bros. film releases.\n\nFrank Sinatra played here December 10, 1943.\n\nIn 1974 War and King Crimson played at the Stanley.\n\nOn April 29, 1974, the King Biscuit Flower Hour recorded a show at the Stanley by Robin Trower for a later broadcast.\n\nIn 1976, the Stanley was purchased and renovated by the Cinemette Corporation to be operated as a movie theater. In 1977, DiCesare Engler Productions bought the theater.\n\nSeptember 23, 1978, Frank Zappa played 2 sets at the Stanley Theatre.\n\nLive rock and roll concerts presented through 1984.\n\nThe Grateful Dead performed four shows at the venue, and reggae musician Bob Marley performed his last live concert there in 1980, before his death in 1981. The only known photographs from the show were featured in Kevin Macdonald's documentary film \"Marley\".\n\nPrince kicked off his Controversy Tour in 1981 at the Stanley. The rock band Kansas chose the Benedum Center to host its 40th Anniversary Fan Appreciation Concert on August 17, 2013, which all the original members were to attend.\n\nThe Stanley Theater was named \"Number One Auditorium in the U.S.\" by \"Billboard\" several times during the DiCesare-Engler years.\n\nOn September 25, 1987, after a $43 million restoration was completed, the Stanley reopened as the Benedum Center for the Performing Arts. In converting the former movie palace into a full performing arts center, a new building including an extension to the stage and support facilities was built at the rear of the theater. The interior was largely preserved and restored to its original design, with the addition of a new acoustical baffle covering the original proscenium.\n\nThe centerpiece of the auditorium is the large chandelier in the dome above the balcony. It weighs , is high by wide. Its restoration was dedicated to the late H.J. Heinz II.\n\nToday the center is the home of the Pittsburgh Opera, Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, and Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera, all of which used to be based at Heinz Hall. The 2,800-seat Benedum Center is a centerpiece of the Pittsburgh Cultural District and is one of the most utilized theaters in the nation today.\n\nThe center has hosted several PBS doo-wop television concert specials including \"Doo Wop 50\". The TV game show \"Wheel of Fortune\" taped two weeks of shows at the theater in 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259647", "title": "Juice (disambiguation)", "text": "Juice (disambiguation)\n\nJuice is a liquid naturally contained in fruit or vegetable tissue.\n\nJuice or The Juice may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259649", "title": "Maniac Cop", "text": "Maniac Cop\n\nManiac Cop is a 1988 American action slasher film directed by William Lustig, written by Larry Cohen, and starring Tom Atkins, Bruce Campbell, Laurene Landon, Richard Roundtree, William Smith, Robert Z'Dar, and Sheree North. Z'Dar plays the title character, a murderous ex-police officer returned from the dead, and seeks revenge on the people who wronged him. \n\n\"Maniac Cop\" was released on May 13, 1988, grossed $671,382 on a budget of $1.1 million worldwide. Despite receiving negative reviews upon release, it has earned status as a cult film. \n\nThe film was followed by two sequels, \"Maniac Cop 2\" (1990) and \"\" (1993).\n\nIn New York City, a waitress on her way home is assaulted by two muggers and seeks aid from a police officer, who breaks her neck. Over the next two nights, this \"Maniac Cop\" commits more murders, prompting Lieutenant McCrae (Tom Atkins), who was told by his superiors to suppress eyewitness accounts that the killer was wearing a police uniform, to pass on information to a journalist, in an attempt to protect civilians. Unfortunately, this causes panic and dissent among the city and results in innocent patrolmen being shot to death or avoided on the streets by paranoid people.\n\nEllen Forrest (Victoria Catlin), who suspects that her husband Jack (Bruce Campbell) may be the Maniac Cop, follows him to a motel, where she catches him in bed with a fellow officer, Theresa Mallory (Laurene Landon). Distraught, Ellen runs out of the room, and is slain by the murderer. Jack is arrested under suspicion of murder, but McCrae believes Jack has been framed. McCrae gets Jack to tell him about his relationship with Mallory, who is attacked by the Maniac Cop while working undercover as a prostitute. Mallory and McCrae fight off the killer, who is deathly cold even through his gloves and does not appear to breathe; though they shoot him several times, the killer appears unfazed.\n\nMallory hides out in McCrae's apartment while he investigates Sally Noland (Sheree North), the only person Mallory told about her affair. McCrae follows Noland to a warehouse, where she meets with the Maniac Cop and refers to him as \"Matt\". Returning to police headquarters, McCrae discovers files on Matthew Cordell, a fellow officer who was imprisoned in Sing Sing for police brutality and closing in on corruption in city hall. While McCrae is looking into his past, Cordell flashes back to being mutilated and killed in a shower room in Sing Sing.\n\nWhen McCrae and Mallory visit Jack, they tell him that they think Cordell is the real killer and plan to visit the chief medical examiner at Sing Sing. McCrae leaves to go to the clerical room, and he is attacked by Sally, who is in hysterics, convinced that Cordell is going to turn on her. After finding a policeman hanging in a noose, Sally is grabbed by Cordell and beaten to death. Hearing the commotion, Jack and Mallory break out of the interrogation room and find the corpses of numerous officers strewn about the halls of the building. Jack tells Mallory to go to McCrae's car while he searches for Cordell, who disappears after throwing McCrae out a window, killing him. Jack, who looks like the one responsible for the carnage to responding officers, flees with Mallory.\n\nThe two go to see Sing Sing's medical examiner, who admits that while he was preparing to autopsy Cordell, the officer showed faint signs of life. The examiner secretly released Cordell into Sally's care, convinced he was completely brain dead. During the 50th Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade, Jack waits outside as Mallory warns Commissioner Pike (Richard Roundtree) and Captain Ripley (William Smith) about Cordell, but the two refuse to believe her and have her arrested. Cordell stabs Pike and Ripley to death, then targets Mallory, knifing the policeman left to guard her. Mallory escapes through a window, while Jack is arrested and placed in a van, which Cordell hijacks.\n\nMallory and another officer chase the van, which Cordell takes to his warehouse hideout, running over the watchman on the way in. Cordell attacks Mallory and Jack, kills the other officer, and tries to escape in the van when backup arrives. Jacks clings to the side of the van and fights for control of it, distracting Cordell and causing him to drive into a suspended pipe, which impales him. Cordell loses control of the vehicle, which crashes into the river, and sinks. Afterwards, Jack and Mallory reunite while the van is fished out, and, as it is searched, Cordell's hand shoots out of the water. Everyone then realizes that Jack didn't commit the murders. \n\nLater, while the mayor relaxes in his office, Cordell appears from behind the curtains and murders him.\n\n\nDirector William Lustig makes a cameo appearance as a Motel Manager, a similar role to one he played in \"Maniac\". Filmmaker Sam Raimi, who served as an uncredited 2nd unit director, appears as a news reporter covering the St. Patrick's Day Parade. Lustig's uncle, boxer Jake LaMotta, appears briefly as a detective.\n\n\"Maniac Cop\" was released May 13, 1988. It played in 50 theaters and had a U.S. gross of $671,382.\n\nThe film was first released on DVD on April 8, 1998, by Elite Entertainment and included a commentary by director William Lustig, writer Larry Cohen, star Bruce Campbell, and composer Jay Chattaway as well as a trailer and deleted scenes. Later, on November 14, 2006, a \"special edition\" DVD was released by Synapse Films. This version includes the film restored and re-mastered with a DTS soundtrack. In October 2011, Synapse Films released a Blu-ray edition of the film.\n\nRotten Tomatoes reports that 46% of 13 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating was 5/10. The film was mostly panned by critics at the time of its release. \"Variety\" called it a \"disappointing thriller that wastes an oddball premise\". Caryn James of \"The New York Times\" called it an amateurish film with stiff acting and dialogue. Chris Willman of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that film quickly becomes an uninteresting \"Friday the 13th\" clone. \"Time Out London\" criticized the film as formulaic and said that it might have been better had writer-producer Cohen directed it himself. Richard Harrington of \"The Washington Post\" called the script \"undernourished and obvious\".\n\nReviewing the Blu-ray release, J. Hurtado of Twitch Film wrote that despite its faults, \"Maniac Cop\" deserves mention as one of the last grindhouse films set in New York City. Tom Becker of DVD Verdict called it \"a fun, mindless gorefest\". Bill Gibron of DVD Talk rated it 4.5/5 stars and called it \"one of the era's finest forgotten gems\", deserving of a critical reappraisal. Noel Murray of The A.V. Club rated it B- and called it a goofy film that was always meant to inhabit the shelves of independent video rental stores. Gareth Jones of Dread Central rated it four out of five stars and called it a cult film that is \"amongst the cream of the crop of late-eighties low-budget horror\". Bloody Disgusting rated it five out of ten stars and questioned why the film has a cult following when it has a poor script and direction, uneven tone, and boring kills.\n\nCampbell said of the film that it was \"not a good movie\" when viewed in hindsight, but it initially struck him as \"perfectly legit.\"\n\nThe film was followed by two sequels, \"Maniac Cop 2\" in 1990, and \"\" in 1993.\n\nIn August 2017, it was rumored that there would be a \"Maniac Cop\" remake in the works. In November 2018, it was said that the remake is still being developed and will have a completely different tone than the first film.\n\nIn October 2019, Deadline reports that HBO and Canal+ has picked up a Maniac Cop TV series that will be executive produced by Nicolas Winding Refn, through his production company byNWR Originals, and John Hyams, who will also direct the pilot.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259656", "title": "Martin Michlmayr", "text": "Martin Michlmayr\n\nMartin Michlmayr is a free and open-source software advocate and Debian developer, currently president of Software in the Public Interest. \n\nMichlmayr joined the Debian project in 2000. In 2003, Michlmayr was elected as Debian Project Leader; he was re-elected to that position one year later, in 2004.\n\nMichlmayr contributed to Debian's New Member process, participating in the recruitment of over 120 new members. Additionally, Michlmayr made various contributions to Debian's quality assurance effort. He identified the problem of packages with inactive maintainers and implemented processes to address this problem systematically. He also became involved in identifying inactive maintainers whose packages should be reassigned; created overviews of bugs in Debian; and coordinated keysigning to improve Debian's web of trust. He also contributed to Debian's ports to the ARM and MIPS platforms, by porting Debian to several embedded devices and Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices. He used snapshots of the GCC compiler to build the entire Debian archive. This work resulted in the identification of compiler bugs as well as build errors in many open source packages.\n\nMichlmayr completed a doctorate in technology management at the University of Cambridge in 2007. The focus of this research was on quality improvement in free software and open source projects, and particularly on release management processes and practices.\n\nIn 2013, O'Reilly awarded an open source award to Michlmayr, putting him in \"the 'unsung heroes' category—the people who devote themselves to the important but not always glorious jobs that keep open source healthy\".\n\nBetween 2008 and 2014 Michlmayr served on the board of directors of the Open Source Initiative, acting as the organization's secretary. He is a member of Software Freedom Conservancy's evaluation committee, which evaluates projects that apply to Conservancy for membership. Michlmayr acted as an advisor to Software in the Public Interest in the past.\n"}
{"id": "2259665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259665", "title": "Space Innovation and Development Center", "text": "Space Innovation and Development Center\n\nThe Space Innovation & Development Center (SIDC), formerly the Space Warfare Center (SWC), was a military unit of the United States Air Force. It was directly under Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) and resided at Schriever Air Force Base, Colorado. In 2013, AFSPC and ACC restructured the SIDC. Effective 1 April 2013, the SIDC transitioned into several Operating Locations at Schriever AFB under ACC's United States Air Force Warfare Center, headquartered at Nellis Air Force Base, NV.\n\nThe SIDC aimed to \"unlock the potential\" as premier innovators, integrators and operational testers of air, space and cyberspace power to the warfighter. The center's mission was to advance full-spectrum warfare through rapid innovation, integration, training testing, and experimentation.\n\nIn the fall of 1992, an Air Force Blue Ribbon Panel on space recommended establishing a dedicated Space Warfare Center to exploit the capabilities of space-based assets. Combat operations during Operation Desert Storm relied on space support more than in any past conflict; however, an analysis of these operations revealed shortfalls in the Air Force's ability to leverage space capabilities. In order to better exploit space capabilities, the SWC was stood-up and officially dedicated on Nov. 1, 1993. The SWC was redesignated as the SIDC in March 2006.\n\nThe SIDC supported U.S. anti-terrorism efforts by quickly transitioning innovative combat effects to the warfighter. The center also improves exploitation of air, space and cyberspace capabilities through wargaming, exercises, experiments and space range development. The SIDC provided independent, thorough space and missile operational testing results for Headquarters Air Force Space Command.\n\nThe SIDC was composed of the 595th Space Group and three divisions; the Air Force Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities, or AF TENCAP; the Integration Division; and the Plans, Programs and Requirements Division. The organizations work together to conduct wargaming; integrate space into exercises and experiments; rapidly prototype, field and exploit integrated air, space and cyberspace capabilities; provide advanced space testing, training and range Infrastructure; and execute AFSPC Force Development Evaluation and Operational Test programs.\n\nIn 1977 Congress directed the establishment of AF TENCAP with three primary missions: exploit space systems for tactical applications through rapid prototyping projects; influence the design of future space systems for tactical applications; and educate warfighters about the capabilities and tactical utility of space systems. TENCAP demonstrates leading edge space technologies with potential to enhance combat capabilities of units in the field, then transitions these combat systems to warfighters much more rapidly than traditional acquisition processes. TENCAP is responsible for keeping abreast of the latest technologies and influencing emerging space systems to make them more supportive of fielded combat forces.\n\nThe Integration Division, or ID, brings space to the fight by focusing on the integration of air, space and information operations to create aerospace power for warfighters. ID operates two specialized facilities. The Distributed Mission Operations Center for Space (DMOC-S) conducts exercises and mission rehearsals in support of current-day operations and provides machine-to-machine interfaces to present exercise status to players as if it were real world. DMOC-S support includes space injects, such as missile launches, blue-force tracking data, and Combat Search and Rescue injects. The DMOC-S is designed to provide integration support and testing. The Aerospace Fusion Center provides real-time data fusion systems for targeting, intelligence, weapons of mass destruction warning and enhanced missile defense operations.\n\nID's Wargaming Branch promotes the understanding and effective use of space power through modeling, simulation and analysis. A principal focus of the division is to provide models, simulations and operators for space participation in wargames and exercises. Currently, the branch supports Counter Air Force exercises and Title 10 wargames by providing missile threat and warning models, Global Positioning System navigation accuracy models and space operational and analytical expertise.\n\nPlans, Programs and Requirements, or XR, is the backbone of the SIDC, providing overarching support to all other SIDC divisions. XR manages SIDC communications and computers, security, acquisition, logistics, policy, planning, programming, financial support, manpower and personnel. XR is the SIDC commander's authority on reviewing, coordinating and consolidating all SIDC inputs to AFSPC Directorate of Strategic Plans, Programs, Analysis, Assessments and Lessons-Learned Modernization Planning Process and AFSPC Directorate of Plans and Requirements' associated Requirements Generation System. XR also serves as the SIDC's representative for the Chief of Staff of the Air Force's Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st century initiatives. As the lead SIDC programming and requirements agency, XR integrates SIDC views and initiatives into these AFSPC-level programming systems to solve warfighter deficiencies through space capabilities. As the SIDC's executive agent for the submitting program objective memorandum inputs, XR develops strategy, policy, doctrine and long-range plans to control and exploit space. XR programs and advocates manpower, resources and organizational development for long-term success of the SIDC's mission.\n\nThe 595th SG is responsible for planning, managing and executing HQ AFSPC's intercontinental ballistic missile and space systems operational test and evaluation activities. The 595th SG is the focal point for coordinating all test activities between HQ AFSPC, 14th Air Force, 20th Air Force, space wings, test squadrons and external agencies. The 595th SG comprises four squadrons and one flight: 595th Operations Support Flight (595 OSF), 17th Test Squadron (17 TS), 14th Test Squadron (14 TS), 25th Space Range Squadron (25 SRS), 3d Space Experimentation Squadron (3 SES).\n\nThe mission of the Space Battlelab was to directly support combat operations in space through innovative and revolutionary applications of space systems. Its goal was to turn around projects at low cost within 18 months.\n\nTwo flights performed the operations. The Concepts Development Flight ensured that the Space Battlelab was focused on the most pressing operational problems and determined the best available solutions. They produced a detailed campaign plan as a guide for the second flight, the Demonstration Flight, to rapidly show the effectiveness of a proposed solution in an operational environment. Drawing on test experts such as Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) and the 595th Space Group, Battlelab project managers used modeling and simulation, wargaming, exercise evaluations and prototype demonstrations to quickly measure military value of promising concepts. The overall effectiveness of a technology was captured in a final report that provides detailed analysis of demonstration results and recommendations for concept transition.\n\nThe Air Force Space Battlelab stood down in an inactivation ceremony on 2 November 2007 after ten years of operation. The inactivation completed Chief of Staff General T. Michael Moseley's direction to inactivate all Air Force battlelabs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259666", "title": "Lee Man Hon", "text": "Lee Man Hon\n\nLee Man Hon is a former football player from Singapore. He was one of the top midfield players in Singapore in the 1990s and played at international level for the Singapore national team from 1989 to 1997. He also played for the Singapore team in the Malaysian League and the Malaysia Cup, and in Singapore's S.League.\n\nLee played on the Singapore team which won the Malaysian League and Malaysia Cup double in 1994. He was well known for his cultured left foot, making the left midfield position his own, and was one of the first choice players for taking corners.\n\nAfter the Football Association of Singapore withdrew the Singapore team from the Malaysian competitions at the end of the 1994 season, Lee went on to play in Singapore's newly formed S.League. He played for the Singapore Armed Forces Football Club when the S.League was first inaugurated, and later for Marine Castle United.\n\nIn 1997, Lee was banned from driving all vehicles for two years. In 1999, he was caught riding a motorcycle one-and-a-half months before his driving ban expired. He was convicted of driving without a valid licence and sentenced to five weeks in jail. After his jail term, he was signed by Tampines Rovers for the 2000 season and went on to captain the team a year later.\n"}
{"id": "2259668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259668", "title": "Long Hot Summer (The Style Council song)", "text": "Long Hot Summer (The Style Council song)\n\n\"Long Hot Summer\" is a song by the English band The Style Council which was their third single to be released. It was composed by lead singer Paul Weller, recorded between 12 and 17 June 1983 in the Grande Armée Studios in Paris, and released on 8 August 1983. In addition to being sold as a conventional two track 7\" single, \"Long Hot Summer\" was also simultaneously released as a four track 7\" and 12\" EP titled \"Á Paris\" which also contained the song \"The Paris Match\" plus two keyboard instrumentals, \"Party Chambers\" and \"Le Depart\". It was also included on the 1983 mini-album \"Introducing The Style Council\". \n\nThe promotional video for \"Long Hot Summer\" was filmed on the River Cam in Cambridge. The song reached the position of number three in the UK singles chart making it the Style Council's biggest hit, and it remains a staple of Paul Weller's live concerts.\n\nBy coincidence the British summer heat wave of 1983, most notably July, turned out to be one of the hottest on record – something that would not have been known at the time the song was written and recorded.\n\nAs well as the song's single release, the ballad has featured on various compilation albums released by The Style Council. The song was included on \"The Singular Adventures of The Style Council\", \"The Complete Adventures of The Style Council\", and \"Greatest Hits\".\n\n\n\nCredits are adapted from the album's liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259669", "title": "Prom Queen: The Marc Hall Story", "text": "Prom Queen: The Marc Hall Story\n\nProm Queen: The Marc Hall Story is a Canadian television film, which aired on CTV in 2004. The film is about Marc Hall, a gay Canadian teenager whose legal fight (\"Marc Hall v. Durham Catholic School Board\") to bring a same-sex date to his Catholic high school prom made headlines in 2002.\n\nIn Inniston, Marc Hall (Aaron Ashmore) is popular and his sexuality relatively well-accepted by his classmates and later his parents. But when he decides to take his boyfriend to the prom as his date, he finds he has stepped over the line straight into the fight of his young life and sends ripples though Canada's media. From just an ordinary teenager, he becomes an icon for LGBT rights across the nation when he discovers he is battling discrimination to date whoever he wants within the spotlight of the nation's media cast center on his struggle,\n\n\nThe offices of Toronto-based Tapestry Pictures were vandalised one week before the film's television premiere, and the producers feared the vandalism was linked to its controversial film it was about to release. It was shown on terrestrial TV on CTV on 1 June 2004.\n\nA musical adaptation of \"Prom Queen\" entitled \"The Louder We Get\" directed by Lonny Price with songs by Colleen Dauncey and lyrics by Akiva-Romer Segal premiered in January 2020 at Theatre Calgary after a developmental production in September 2018 in London, Ontario. Selections were featured in the 2017 NAMT festival in New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259687", "title": "John Black (U.S. senator)", "text": "John Black (U.S. senator)\n\nJohn Black (August 11, 1800 – August 29, 1854) was a politician from the U.S. state of Mississippi, most notably serving in the United States Senate as a Whig from 1832 to 1838.\n\nBlack was born in Massachusetts, and became a teacher. He then moved to Louisiana, where he practiced law. After moving to Mississippi, he was elected a judge in 1826, eventually being elected to the Mississippi Supreme Court. In 1832, Governor Charles Lynch appointed him as a Jacksonian, the forerunner of the modern Democratic Party, to fill the vacancy left by Powhatan Ellis. He ran for the seat in his own right as an anti-Jacksonian (later Whig) and served from November 22, 1833 to January 22, 1838, when he resigned.\n\nDuring his time in office, he served as the chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Private Lands. After leaving the Senate, he moved to Winchester, Virginia, where he resumed practicing law until his death.\n"}
{"id": "2259688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259688", "title": "Maniac Cop 2", "text": "Maniac Cop 2\n\nManiac Cop 2 is a 1990 American action slasher film directed by William Lustig and written by Larry Cohen. It is the second installment in the \"Maniac Cop\" film series. It stars Robert Davi, Claudia Christian, Michael Lerner, and Bruce Campbell, with Robert Z'Dar returning as Matthew Cordell, an undead police officer-turned-serial killer following his own murder.\n\n\"Maniac Cop 2\" was released direct-to-video in 1990, and received mixed-to-positive reviews, with many considering it as an improvement over its predecessor.\n\nIt was followed by \"\" (1993).\n\nAfter being impaled by a pipe and plunging into a river at the end of the previous film, the undead Maniac Cop Matthew Cordell acquires a junked police cruiser and continues his killing spree through New York City. Finding a convenience store in the middle of a robbery, he kills the clerk; the thief is subsequently killed in a shootout with police. As Cordell stalks the streets, his enemies Officers Jack Forrest and Theresa Mallory are put back on duty by Deputy Commissioner Edward Doyle, who has the two undergo a psychiatric evaluation under Officer Susan Riley. While Jack is content that Cordell is long gone and wants to go on with his life, Theresa is convinced that Cordell is still alive and plotting his revenge.\n\nAt a newsstand, Jack is stabbed through the neck by Cordell, killing him. In order to protect the memory of Commissioner Pike, the corrupt official who originally framed Cordell, the police authority refuse to inform the public of the nature of recent events. This, along with her belief that Cordell is alive and killing, prompts Theresa to appear on a talk show to inform the public about Cordell. A traffic cop is murdered by Cordell later when he was towing someone's car. The man who was having his car towed is arrested on suspicion on the cop's murder. While en route to a hotel in a taxi, Theresa is joined by Susan, and the two are attacked by Cordell, who kills the cabbie and forces Susan and Theresa off the road. After handcuffing Susan to the steering wheel of a car and sending her into the busy streets, Cordell kills Theresa by snapping her neck. Gaining control of the car, Susan crashes and is found and given medical attention.\n\nElsewhere, a stripper named Cheryl is attacked in her apartment by Steven Turkell, who has strangled at least six other exotic dancers. As Turkell brutalizes Cheryl, Cordell arrives, murders the two officers earlier called by Cheryl, and helps Turkell escape. Grateful for the help, Turkell befriends Cordell and takes him back to his apartment, where Cordell stays for a short while. After Cordell leaves, Turkell goes out to find another victim but is identified at a strip club by Cheryl. He is arrested and placed in a holding cell by Susan and Detective Lieutenant Sean McKinney.\n\nTurkell taunts Susan, telling him Cordell will break him out. Turkell's assumption proves correct, as Cordell breaks into the police station and murders a total of nineteen police officers and frees Turkell and several unnamed convicts. Using Susan as a hostage, Turkell, Cordell, and another criminal named Joseph Blum hijack a prison bus and head to Sing Sing, where Turkell believes Cordell wants to free all the inmates and create an army of criminals (Cordell even enforces this point by killing an inmate who disagreed and questioned him). McKinney and Doyle follow, and McKinney convinces Doyle to reopen Cordell's case and rebury his casket with full honors on the assumption that this will appease Cordell.\n\nCordell bluffs his way into the prison using Blum's paperwork, and he kills a guard for his keys. Shortly after entering death row, Cordell is contacted over the prison PA system by Doyle, who admits to Cordell that he was set up and states that his case has been reopened. After hearing Doyle's announcement, Cordell abandons Turkell, Blum, and Susan and heads deeper into the prison, where he is attacked with a Molotov cocktail by the three inmates who originally mutilated him. While burning, Cordell finally gets revenge and murders the three convicts who mutilated him and assaults the other prisoners (killing one of them, who didn't mutilate him, in the process), only to be attacked by Turkell, who realizes Cordell used him. As Cordell and Turkell fight, the two crash through a wall, fall onto the bus below, and seemingly die when the vehicle explodes.\n\nSometime later, Cordell is buried with full honors alongside other fallen officers; Susan and McKinney attend his funeral. As Cordell's casket is lowered, McKinney throws Cordell's badge into the grave, leaves with Susan, and delivers a monologue about how there is a little bit of Cordell in every officer, and that every member of the force needs to rise above becoming a Maniac Cop. Before the credits roll, Cordell's hand bursts through the lid of his casket and grabs his badge.\n\nReal-life NYPD Detective Bo Dietl has a cameo appearance as himself. Sam Raimi reprises his role as a television newscaster from the first film. Danny Trejo has a brief role as a prisoner.\n\n\"Maniac Cop 2\" was released direct-to-video in the United States.\n\nBlue Underground gave the film a limited theatrical release in the United States in October 2013, which was followed by the Blu-ray and DVD release on November 19, 2013.\n\nRotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 60% of 10 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating was 5.1/10. \"Variety\" called \"Maniac Cop 2\" \"a thinking man's exploitation film, improving on the 1988 original.\" TV Guide said the sequel \"lacks the element of suspense present in the first film\" but \"delivers excellent action, [...] some spectacular fire effects and a number of quirky characterizations—a Cohen specialty.\" Ty Burr rated the film C+ and called it a \"brutal, stupid\" zombie film in which \"the style almost redeems the sleaze.\" Michael Gingold of \"Fangoria\" rated it 3.5/4 stars and called it Lustig's best film. Anthony Arrigo of Dread Central rated it 4/5 stars and wrote, \"\"Maniac Cop 2\" embodies all of the excess that made ‘80s horror sequels so great\". Mike Pereira of Bloody Disgusting rated it 4/5 stars and wrote, \"\"Maniac Cop 2\" delivers a fresh experience while all along staying true to what fans dig about the original.\"\n\nLustig considers \"Maniac Cop 2\" to be his best film, saying, \"It was the film [where] I felt as though myself and my crew were really firing on all cylinders. And I think we made a terrific B-movie\", and also thinks it's superior to the first \"Maniac Cop\" film.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259694", "title": "Philip Watts", "text": "Philip Watts\n\nSir Philip Beverley Watts (born 25 June 1945) is a former chairman of the multinational energy company Shell and a priest in the Church of England.\n\nWatts was born on 25 June 1945 in Leicester and grew up in the Midlands where his father worked in the textile industry. He attended the Wyggeston and Dixie grammar schools in Leicestershire and the University of Leeds where he studied physics, graduating as BSc in 1968. After university he taught briefly in Sierra Leone before returning to Leeds to study for a master's degree in geophysics (MA).\nIn 1969 Watts joined Shell for whom he worked until 2004. In October 2012, he was appointed priest-in-charge of Waltham St Lawrence parish church.\n\n\nDuring Watts's tenure as managing director of Shell Nigeria in the early 1990s a major area of exploration in the country was the oil-rich Niger River delta and here Shell came into conflict with the Ogoni people. The conflict with the Ogonis eventually culminated in the execution by the Nigerian regime of activist Ken Saro-Wiwa. In 2002 a class action lawsuit was filed by the Philadelphia law firm of Berger & Montague alleging that Shell \"engaged in militarized commerce in a conspiracy with the former military government of Nigeria…purchasing ammunition and using its helicopters and boats and providing logistical support for … a military foray into Ogoniland designed to terrorize the civilian population into ending peaceful protests.\" Shell dismissed the allegations as \"groundless\", but Watts was questioned in London by representatives of Berger & Montague in mid-April 2004 although he was not named a defendant in the lawsuit, which was brought solely against the company.\n\nWatts succeeded Sir Mark Moody-Stuart in mid-2001 as chairman of Shell's \"Committee of Managing Directors\". Within Shell this appointment was greeted with some surprise as the seemingly abrasive Watts was a contrast with his patrician predecessor. Externally the appointment was at first welcomed as a sign that Shell was going to move aggressively to reduce costs, however Watts soon fell into disfavour with Shell's institutional investors, in large part because he was seen as aloof and uncommunicative. This unpopularity was reflected inside Shell where many were privately critical of his aggressive form of management and poor communications style. His devotion to Shell could not be faulted and he wore a ring on his right hand which had been engraved with the Shell symbol, the pecten.\n\nDelivering the keynote address at the opening of the Shell Centre for Sustainability at Houston's Rice University in March 2003, Watts spoke out forcefully in favour of Sustainable Development. Later that year he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II for \"services to British business and to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development\", which he served as chairman.\n\nLess than three years after taking over the chairmanship Watts was swept out of office in early 2004 by revelations that the company had overstated its proved oil and gas reserves by nearly 25 percent.\n\nOn 9 January 2004, Shell announced that it was cutting its estimate of proven oil and gas reserves by roughly 3.9 billion barrels, close to 20 percent of total reserves. Investors began calling for Watts to resign.\n\nReports surfaced of internal memoranda addressed to many of Shell's senior executives months earlier discussing the possibility that the company's proven reserves had been overestimated. Watts had stated that he had not been informed that there might be a need to restate reserves until late in 2003. During 2003, increasingly fractious e-mails from Walter van de Vijver, Watts' successor as CEO of Shell Exploration and Production, made it clear that senior executives had been discussing the issues around reserves for some time. In an appearance in front of around 1,000 staff in Shell Centre's sports hall in January 2004, Watts stated that he had been informed of the problem in late 2003 and that his first response had been to write down on a piece of paper that he (and, by implication, Shell) should 'get the facts and do the right thing.'\n\nIn April 2004, the US law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell released a report on its review of Shell's reserves overbooking crisis. The report alleged that top company executives, including Watts, had known about the reserves shortfall since early 2002. As a result of the Davis Polk Report, the Board asked Watts to resign.\n\nWatts (who had consistently said that he had \"...acted properly and in good faith at all times\") was investigated by the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA) about his role in relation to the recategorisation of the company's hydrocarbon reserves. In November 2005 the FSA announced that it had \"closed its inquiries\" when its \"Regulatory Decisions Committee,\" decided that the regulator should take no action. Watts had earlier been refused permission to proceed with a counter action against the FSA by the \"Financial Services and Markets Tribunal\" when he filed an action seeking to show that the FSA had unfairly prejudiced him in statements made in its settlement with Shell that appeared to condone the findings in the Davis Polk report.\n\nWatts was also investigated by the US Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission for allegedly misleading the stock market by allowing the overstated reserves figures to stand. These investigations are now closed with \"no case to answer.\"\n\nThe Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed new regulations regarding the accounting of oil reserves that, according to a Dow Jones article may serve to vindicate Watts, since the proposed changes involve changing many of the SEC proved reserves criteria that prompted Shell's large debooking.\n\nWatts and his wife live at Binfield, Berkshire, where he served as a curate after his ordination as a priest in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259700", "title": "Kabumpo", "text": "Kabumpo\n\nKabumpo, the Elegant Elephant of Pumperdink, is a fictional character in the \"Oz\" books of Ruth Plumly Thompson.\n\nKabumpo first appears in \"Kabumpo in Oz\", Thompson's second \"Oz\" book. He was originally a christening gift to the king of Pumperdink, Pompus.\n\nHe reappears to play major roles in \"The Lost King of Oz\", \"The Purple Prince of Oz\", and \"The Silver Princess in Oz\". Thompson's illustrator John R. Neill made Kabumpo a denizen of the Emerald City, attended by Ojo, in his contributions to the series. In 1980 Eloise Jarvis McGraw and Lauren Lynn McGraw borrowed the character for \"The Forbidden Fountain of Oz\", published by the International Wizard of Oz Club.\n\nKabumpo is known for his wisdom in Pumperdink, but that might be because he shines in comparison with other members of the court. He is overbearing, sarcastic, and extremely vain, but good-hearted.\n"}
{"id": "2259701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259701", "title": "Danvers State Hospital", "text": "Danvers State Hospital\n\nThe Danvers State Hospital, also known as the State Lunatic Hospital at Danvers, The Danvers Lunatic Asylum, and The Danvers State Insane Asylum, was a psychiatric hospital located in Danvers, Massachusetts. It was built in 1874, and opened in 1878, under the supervision of prominent Boston architect Nathaniel Jeremiah Bradlee, on an isolated site in rural Massachusetts. It was a multi-acre, self-contained psychiatric hospital designed and built according to the Kirkbride Plan.\n\nDespite being included in the National Register of Historic Places in 1984, the majority of the building was demolished in 2007.\n\nThe Danvers State Hospital was officially opened in 1878 after four years of construction. Nathaniel Jeremiah Bradlee served as the designing architect.\n\nAt a cost of $1.5 million at the time, the hospital originally consisted of two main center buildings, housing the administration, with four radiating wings on each side of the Administration Block. The kitchen, laundry, chapel, and dormitories for the attendants were in a connecting building in the rear. Middleton Pond supplied the hospital its water. On each side of the main building were the wings, for male and female patients respectively. The outermost wards were reserved for the most hostile patients.\n\nOver the years, newer buildings were constructed around the original Kirkbride, and alterations were made to the Kirkbride itself, such as a new gymnasium/auditorium on the area of the old kitchens and multiple solaria added onto the front of the wards.\n\nMost of the buildings on campus were connected by a labyrinth of tunnels. Many of the Commonwealth institutions for the developmentally delayed and the mentally ill at the time were designed with tunnel systems, to be self-sufficient in wintertime. There was a tunnel that ran from a steam/power generating plant (which still exists to provide service to the Hogan Regional Center) located at the bottom of the hill running up to the hospital, along with tunnels that connected the male and female nurses homes, the \"Gray Gables\", Bonner Medical Building, machine shops, pump house, and a few others.\n\nThe original plan was designed to house 500 patients, with attic space potentially housing 100 more. By the late 1930s and 1940s, over 2,000 patients were being housed, and overcrowding was severe. People were even held in the basements of the Kirkbride.\n\nWhile the asylum was established to provide residential treatment and care to the mentally ill, its functions expanded to include a training program for nurses in 1889 and a pathological research laboratory in 1895. In the 1890s, Dr. Charles Page, the superintendent, declared mechanical restraint unnecessary and harmful in cases of mental illness. By the 1920s the hospital was operating school clinics to help determine mental deficiency in children. Reports were made that various inhumane shock therapies, lobotomies, drugs, and straitjackets were being used to keep the crowded hospital under control. This sparked controversy. During the 1960s as a result of increased emphasis on alternative methods of treatment, deinstitutionalization, and community-based mental health care, the inpatient population started to decrease.\n\nMassive budget cuts in the 1960s played a major role in the progressive closing of Danvers State hospital. The hospital began closing wards and facilities as early as 1969. By 1985, the majority of the original hospital wards were closed or abandoned. The Administration Block, in the original Kirkbride, building closed in 1989. Patients were moved to the Bonner Medical Building across the campus.\n\nThe entire campus was closed on June 24, 1992 and all patients were either transferred to the community or to other facilities.\n\nIn December 2005, the property was sold to AvalonBay Communities, a residential apartment developer. A lawsuit was filed by a local preservation fund to stave off the demolition of the hospital, including the Kirkbride building, which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places. This did not stop the process, however, and demolition of most of the buildings began in January 2006, with the intent to build 497 apartments on the site.\n\nBy June 2006, all of the Danvers State Hospital buildings that were marked for demolition had been torn down, including all of the unused buildings and old homes on the lower grounds and all of the buildings on the hill. Demolition was done by Testa Corp. of Wakefield, Massachusetts. The historic Kirkbride was also demolished, with only the outermost brick shell of the administration area (along with the G and D wards on each side) being propped up during demolition and construction while an entirely new structure was built behind and inside of it, leaving the historic Danvers Reservoir and the original brick shell. Much of the wood from the demolition project was salvaged and recycled into flooring and other millwork.\n\nA replica of the original tower/steeple on the Kirkbride was built to duplicate what was removed around 1970, due to structural issues. (The first picture illustrates the original tower in 1893, the second and third pictures illustrate the new replica in 2006 and 2007, and the fourth picture illustrates the one from 1970.) Avalon Bay predicted that they would have properties available for rent or sale by Fall 2007.\n\nOn April 7, 2007, four of the apartment complex buildings and four of Avalon Bay's construction trailers burned down in a large fire visible from Boston, nearly away. Damage was confined mostly to the buildings under construction on the eastern end, but the remaining Kirkbride spires caught fire due to the high heat.\n\nThe tunnel leading up from the power plant still exists, but is blocked at the top of the hill. Only the exterior of the Kirkbride complex was preserved in the demolition, and the cemeteries, several blocked tunnels, and the brick shell of the administration and the D and G wings are all that remain from the original site. Richard Trask of the Danvers Archival Center wrote, concerning the state's failure to preserve the Kirkbride complex, noting:\nThe failure to protect and adaptively reuse this grand exterior is a monumental blot in the annals of Massachusetts preservation. What might have been a dignified transformation of a magnificent structure which was originally built to serve the best intentions, but at times lost its way through human frailty, now is a mere ghost-image of itself. And we and our progeny are the losers.\n\nOn June 27, 2014, Avalon Bay Communities, Inc. sold the property for $108.5 M to the DSF Group. The DSF Group released plans for the property to undergo further renovations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259703", "title": "WAMI-DT", "text": "WAMI-DT\n\nWAMI-DT, virtual channel 69 (UHF digital channel 24), is a UniMás owned-and-operated television station serving Miami and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, United States that is licensed to Hollywood, Florida. It is one of two East Coast flagship stations of the Spanish-language network (alongside WFUT-DT in the New York City market). WAMI-DT is owned by the Univision Local Media subsidiary of Univision Communications, as part of a duopoly with Miami-licensed Univision co-flagship WLTV-DT (channel 23). The two stations share studios known as \"NewsPort\" (a converted studio facility that also houses Noticias Univision and English-language cable channel Fusion) on Northwest 30th Terrace in Doral; WAMI-DT's transmitter is located in the Dale Village neighborhood of Pembroke Park, Florida. On cable, the station is carried on Comcast Xfinity channel 23. \n\nWAMI is one of two commercial television stations with a city of license in Broward County (the other being Telemundo co-flagship WSCV, channel 51, licensed to Fort Lauderdale). The station also serves as the \"de facto\" UniMás outlet for the West Palm Beach market.\n\nPrior to being used by a full-power station, the channel 69 allocation was occupied by W69AA, a translator for WCIX-TV channel 6. The analog channel 6 transmitter was located in Homestead because of station spacing restrictions to channel 6 in Orlando; W69AA and two other translators, all commissioned in 1972, provided WCIX programming to areas in Broward County and Boca Raton. As applications proceeded on the full-power allotment, W69AA was displaced; it went silent and returned as W58BU in 1994.\n\nIn 1981, four applications were received for a full-power television station on channel 69, from Whitco Broadcasters; Family Television 69, owned by Hialeah pastor Adib Eden, Sr.; Golden East Broadcasters; and Christian Media of Florida. In April, the FCC selected Whitco over the other applicants, saying that Christian Media of Florida's three pastor owners would not be able to balance ministry and station operations; Whitco offered $111,000 to its competitors to end the proceeding.\n\nWhitco, owned by Eddie Whitehead and Thomas Coates, proposed the first African American-owned television station in South Florida, aimed at the same audience. The construction permit took the call letters WDEM and secured space on the new tower being built by Guy Gannett Communications in Pembroke Park.\n\nAn attempt to sell a majority stake in the construction permit to an investor group that sought to program channel 69 as a Spanish-language station fell through in early 1985. On February 19, 1987, the Home Shopping Network announced that it was acquiring a majority stake in WDEM, with the option to buy the facility outright upon completion for $10 million.\n\nWAMI first signed on the air on August 10, 1988 as WYHS-TV. Before prior-to-launch, WYHS-TV telecasted audio from WHYI-FM (Y-100) before signing on with live views of Miami. When it signed on, WHYS-FM carried programming from the Home Shopping Network. Two months later, HSN's broadcasting division, Silver King Communications, acquired the remainder of the station. The primary purpose of these stations was to force carriage of HSN on cable providers in each market through the Federal Communications Commission's must-carry provisions as QVC was taking away a large slice of HSN's audience as several providers had held an ownership interest in QVC, but not HSN. Eventually, Silver King Communications acquired an ownership interest in the USA Network, and as a result, later became USA Broadcasting, the broadcast arm of media company USA Networks, Inc. In the fall of 1997, channel 69 began carrying Fox Kids programming, after it was dropped by the market's WB affiliate WDZL (channel 39, later WBZL and now WSFL-TV), which acquired the block in 1993 after Fox affiliate WSVN (channel 7) decided to stop carrying Fox's children's programming.\n\nOn June 8, 1998 at 6:00 a.m., channel 69 became an independent station; the station also changed its call letters to WAMI-TV. The relaunch of channel 69 was known as the \"Birth of a Station\", where a soon-to-be mother was giving birth to the \"Miami\" thought-bubble station logo (the entire day before, the channel stunted with the picture of a sonogram of the new logo as a lead into the introduction). Immediately after that sketch, real-time traffic and weather reports were shown. The revamped station adopted a general entertainment format with a strong focus on locally produced programs including a daily news program called \"The Times\"; the sports discussion show \"SportsTown\"; \"Generation ñ\", a program targeted at bilingual, 2nd generation Latinos in the U.S.; the lifestyle programs \"Ocean Drive\" (which was based on the magazine of the same name) and \"Ten's\" (which was also broadcast on Dallas sister station KSTR-TV from 1999 to 2001); the dance program \"Barcode\"; an alternative lifestyle program called \"Kenneth's Frequency\"; and the talk show \"Out Loud\", which was hosted by Bill Teck and produced by Miami producer and media personality Paul Bouche. The station's programming was mostly aimed at teenagers and young adults between the ages of 16 and 34. The format heavily took after the groundbreaking CITY-TV in Toronto, which carried a similar mix of syndicated shows and movies with locally-produced programming.\n\nWAMI repackaged the Fox Kids block, incorporating it into the live, locally produced interactive children's show \"WAMI on Miami\". The hosts of that program would hold up a \"WAMI\" hand sign, holding up both hands, making \"L\" shapes and crossing their hands together to form a \"W\", shouting; \"Wami, baby!\" to its on-air audience. Children would show up at WAMI-sponsored Fox Kids/\"Power Rangers\" events that were held throughout Miami-Dade and Broward counties, mimicking their favorite \"WAMI on Miami\" on-air host.\n\nThe station soon began to heavily incorporate local remote interstitials that were broadcast live. WAMI-TV often shot its interstitials, \"live\" at remote locations all over Miami-Dade and Broward counties, with the WAMI interstitial host often literally pulled passers-by off the streets to read the cue cards announcing the programs that would be shown on the station during the next hour. Another short program not seen on most other USA-owned stations was the topical program \"Lips\", featuring a pair of ruby red lips in front of a black background, teasing the day's stories or issues, a concept that was thought to be inspired by \"The Rocky Horror Picture Show\".\n\nWAMI-TV prominently used the on-air station \"bug\" or WAMI station ID logo, a variation of the WAMI \"thought bubble\"; the station ID graphic would flash on the lower part of the screen, at the top and bottom of the hour, or each time a program returned from commercial break, and then fade out. WAMI's vice president of promotions ordered that the logo bug remain on-screen during its programs, around the clock, and to give it a translucent appearance so that it was seen constantly. WAMI also featured \"WAMI-cams\", which were three to five second on-air spots that were used to fill airtime, usually catching a glimpse of South Beach street life, scenic views or interesting goings-on in Miami, followed a \"pop\" sound and the appearance of the WAMI \"thought bubble\" graphic. The rest of WAMI-TV's programming schedule was supplemented with some first-run syndicated reality and talk shows, syndicated reruns of network sitcoms, movies (under the \"WAMI Movie Palace\" banner), cartoons and a few religious programs.\n\nBy December 1998, after only six months on air, WAMI-TV had outbid UPN owned-and-operated station WBFS-TV (channel 33) and WB affiliate WBZL to land an exclusive six-year contract for the local television rights to Major League Baseball games from the Florida Marlins. WAMI had also procured the rights to broadcast Miami Heat NBA games prior to the station's relaunch.\n\nBy late 1999, WAMI had grown into its role as the \"flagship station\" of what was to become the USA Broadcasting Network, comprising thirteen stations scattered around the country in major U.S. cities, twelve of which were former HSN affiliates. All of these stations, which were owned by Barry Diller, were to gradually be converted to follow WAMI's format, called \"CityVision\". The \"CityVision\" concept was based on Diller's theory that local programming was being ignored on most broadcast stations, and that the general public wanted a sense of what is going on in their communities on television. A scaled-down version of the format was adopted by USA Broadcasting-owned sister stations KHSX-TV in Dallas (which became KSTR-TV and rebranded as \"K-Star 49\"), WHSH-TV in Boston (which became WHUB-TV and rebranded as \"Hub 66\"; it is now WUTF-TV) and WHOT-TV in Atlanta (which rebranded as \"Hotlanta 34\"; it is now WUVG-TV). The rest of the former HSN-affiliated stations owned by USA that were due to be converted were WHSE-TV (now WFUT-DT) and WHSI (now WFTY-DT) in the New York City market (whose calls were to be changed to WORX and rebranded as \"The Works\" upon the format change), WEHS (now WXFT-DT) in Chicago (which was to become WNDE and be rebranded as \"Windy\"), WQHS-TV in Cleveland, KHSC-TV (now KFTR-DT) in Los Angeles (whose calls were to be changed to KLIK and be rebranded as \"Click\"), WHSP (now WUVP-DT) in Philadelphia, WHSW (now WUTB) in Baltimore, KHSH (now KFTH-DT) in Houston and WBHS (now WFTT-DT) in Tampa.\n\nDue to financial problems that USA Networks began facing in 2000, the company began looking to divest some of its assets. USA Broadcasting, as one of these assets, was considered for divestiture as part of a deal to help USA Networks repair its financial footing. In 2001, the remaining entertainment units of USA Broadcasting were sold to Vivendi Universal, along with $10.3 billion worth of shares held by Barry Diller. The television stations were to be sold to The Walt Disney Company, but Univision Communications outbid its competition in a close race. The sale was finalized on January 3, 2002.\n\nOn January 14, 2002, WAMI-TV became a charter owned-and-operated station of Univision's fledgling Spanish-language secondary network, Telefutura (which rebranded as UniMás eleven years later on February 7, 2013). WPXM-TV (channel 35) and West Palm Beach sister station WPXP-TV acquired the rights to the Marlins telecasts (which were now produced by Fox Sports), which aired through the Florida Marlins Television Network, eventually dropping them in 2005 after Pax TV relaunched as i: Independent Television (the rights to Marlins and Heat telecasts are held by Sun Sports).\n\nIn late 2009, most Univision-owned television stations, including WAMI and sister station WLTV, upgraded their main digital signals to transmit programming in 1080i high definition. TeleFutura's sister network Univision became the last major over-the-air television network in the United States to begin offering high definition programming on December 31, 2009.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWAMI ended programming on its analog signal, on UHF channel 69, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 47. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 69, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition. Like all Univision-owned stations, it also retained the \"-DT\" suffix on their calls at the time of transition.\n\nUnivision owned-and-operated sister station WLTV produces an hour-long weekday morning newscast for WAMI called \"Noticias 23 Al Amanecer en UniMás Miami\", which airs Monday through Fridays at 7 a.m. and is an extension of WLTV's two-hour morning newscast. In addition, that station produces a public affairs program called \"Ahora en Nuestra Comunidad\", which airs on Saturday mornings at 6 a.m. on WAMI-DT with a rebroadcast on WLTV at 11:30 a.m.\n\nWAMI-TV during its 2½ year run under USA Broadcasting ownership, received 18 Suncoast Regional Emmy Awards and 22 Promax Awards.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259705", "title": "Khamlij", "text": "Khamlij\n\nIn the accounts of ibn Khordadbeh and other Muslim writers, Khamlij or Khamlidj refers to the capital of the Khazars. Most scholars agree that Khamlij is the Khazar city of Atil. However, no source positively identifies one with the other; it is therefore possible that Khamlij was a specific district within Atil (as was Khazaran) or a separate city altogether.\n\nThe name may be an Arabized version of the Turkic word khaganbaligh, or \"city of the Khagan\" (\"cf.\" Khanbaliq in China, which derives from the same etymology.)\n"}
{"id": "2259707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259707", "title": "USS Anthony (DD-515)", "text": "USS Anthony (DD-515)\n\nUSS \"Anthony\" (DD-515), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Marine Sergeant Major William Anthony (1853–1899).\n\n\"Anthony\" was laid down on 17 August 1942, at Bath, Maine, by the Bath Iron Works Corp.; launched on 20 December 1942; sponsored by Miss Alice Anthony and Miss Frances Anthony, granddaughters of Sergeant Major William Anthony; and commissioned at the Boston Navy Yard, on 26 February 1943, Lieutenant Commander Blinn Van Mater in command.\n\nThe destroyer got underway on 26 March for a shakedown training out of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and arrived back in Boston on 27 April for a tender availability. She then headed for Norfolk, Virginia but departed Hampton Roads on 10 May, bound for the Pacific. After transiting the Panama Canal, \"Anthony\" joined the Pacific Fleet and arrived in Pearl Harbor on 31 May.\n\nTwo months of intensive training for the destroyer ensued. She left Hawaiian waters on 5 August in the screen of a convoy bound, via Pago Pago, Samoa, for Efate Island, New Hebrides. \"Anthony\" dropped anchor off Efate on 27 August.\n\nHer next several weeks were devoted to more training exercises. Then, late in October, \"Anthony\" was among the destroyers escorting troop transports to the Solomon Islands for landings on Bougainville. She took part in a preinvasion bombardment and stood by while marines landed on the beaches of Empress Augusta Bay on 1 November. The destroyers pulled into Purvis Bay, Florida Island, on 3 November. However, she returned to Bougainville on 8 November to reinforce American naval forces off that island. Despite numerous air attacks, \"Anthony\" emerged unscathed from covering the transports during their successful unloading. She pulled into Tulagi on 15 November and soon began escorting ships carrying troops and supplies to various points in the Solomon Islands.\n\nThis routine was interrupted for the destroyer on 20 January 1944 by an order to proceed to Bougainville Strait. There, \"Anthony\" encountered several small Japanese ships and destroyed a gunboat and several barges before resuming her escort duties.\n\nThe ship got underway on 15 February to shepherd a group of LSTs to the landing sites on Green Island. Although \"Anthony\" was originally slated to perform gunfire support duties, the American troops encountered such light enemy opposition when they went ashore that she was not required to carry out that assignment.\n\nAfter a brief respite at Purvis Bay, the destroyer sailed on 23 February to take part in a bombardment of the enemy stronghold at Rabaul, New Britain Island. Then, during March, she covered the invasion of Emirau Island before serving as an escort on several supply runs between Guadalcanal and Emirau.\n\nOn 24 April, \"Anthony\" was assigned to duty with a battleship task force. The destroyer screened , , and to Australia. The warships arrived at Sydney; and, on the 29th after a week of liberty in that city, \"Anthony\" weighed anchor on 6 May to return to Purvis Bay.\n\nAfter brief training, \"Anthony\" and a group of ships sailed on 2 June for the invasion of the Marianas. They arrived in Kwajalein on 8 June to refuel, then turned westward toward the Marianas. On 14 June, the destroyer fired her guns on Saipan and, the next day, screened other ships during landings on Saipan. On 16 June, she bombarded Guam. The destroyer then detached to join Task Force 58 (TF 58), the Fast Carrier Task Force. Her duties then included screening the carriers and rescuing downed aviators.\n\nOn 8 July, \"Anthony\" began providing harassing fire on Guam, and the bombardment continued for several days. When relieved, the destroyer proceeded to Eniwetok to refuel and take on provisions. She returned to the action off Guam on 21 July and assumed antisubmarine patrol duty.\n\nOn 10 August, \"Anthony\" was ordered to proceed to Hawaii. She made an intermediate stop at Eniwetok before arriving at Pearl Harbor on the 20th. There, the ship was briefly dry-docked for repairs and then took part in training exercises off Maui. \"Anthony\" sailed for Ulithi on 15 September and arrived safely in that lagoon on 3 October. Shortly thereafter, the destroyer got underway to return to the west coast of the United States.\n\nSoon after her reaching San Francisco, Calif. on 25 October, \"Anthony\" entered the Mare Island Navy Yard for an overhaul. She left the shipyard on 13 December to travel to San Diego for a week of refresher training. The destroyer departed the west coast on 20 December with a convoy bound for Hawaii and reached Pearl Harbor on 30 December.\n\nThere, she began preparations for the upcoming operations at Iwo Jima. \"Anthony\" and other ships of the invasion force got underway on 27 January 1945 and stopped en route at Eniwetok and Guam. The destroyer was assigned to the screen of transports carrying reserve forces. She conducted shore bombardment and night harassing fire off Iwo Jima until 6 March, when she got underway for the Philippines.\n\n\"Anthony\" anchored in San Pedro Bay on 13 March. The ship began preparing for the assault on Okinawa. She left Philippine waters on 27 March and arrived on station off Okinawa on 1 April. But for one trip to Ulithi, the destroyer remained in the dangerous waters of that embattled island carrying out fire support, screening, and radar picket duties until late June. She underwent several Japanese air attacks during this time and claimed to have downed five enemy planes. On 27 May, kamikazes attacked \"Anthony\" and her sister ship . When two succeeded in crashing into \"Braine\", \"Anthony\" took all survivors on board and towed the damaged vessel to Kerama Retto.\n\n\"Anthony\" had another close call on 7 June. While on radar picket station, she was again attacked by enemy aircraft. A kamikaze splashed along the destroyer's port side, leaving a large hole in her hull and carrying away lifelines and stanchions for on that side. Five crewmen either jumped or were blown into the water, but all were recovered safely. The ship remained on duty until 24 June, then returned to Leyte, Philippines, for an availability.\n\nOn 13 July, \"Anthony\" got underway for an anti-shipping sweep off the China coast between Foochow and Wenchow. After touching back at Okinawa for refueling and replenishing, \"Anthony\" commenced another sweep on 26 July off the mouth of the Yangtze River. The destroyer returned to Okinawa on 1 August and operated from that base through the end of hostilities a fortnight later.\n\n\"Anthony\" sailed on 7 September for duty supporting the occupation of Japan. She carried out minesweeping operations off Nagasaki and Sasebo and then anchored at Sasebo on 29 September. \"Anthony\" began the voyage home on 17 November and, after stops at Midway and Pearl Harbor, finally arrived in San Diego. Shortly thereafter, she got underway for the east coast and transited the Panama Canal en route to Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nPreservation work began shortly after her arrival in Charleston to ready the ship for inactivation. \"Anthony\" was placed out of commission, in reserve, on 17 April 1946.\n\n\"Anthony\" earned seven battle stars for her World War II service, and was awarded a Navy Unit Commendation for heroism during the Okinawa campaign.\n\nOn 17 January 1958, the destroyer was loaned to the Federal Republic of Germany, and renamed Zerstörer 1. She was returned to United States custody and simultaneously struck from the Navy list on 15 April 1972. The ship was then sold to West Germany on 27 June 1972 for cannibalization and scrapping. The ship was stricken in 1976. She was sunk by as torpedo target in the Mediterranean on 16 May 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259717", "title": "U.S. Route 1A", "text": "U.S. Route 1A\n\nU.S. Route 1A is the name of several highways found in the United States.\n\nU.S. Route 1 Alternate (US 1A) was established in 1953 when US 1 was rerouted to bypass west of Wake Forest and Youngsville. Predominantly a two-lane highway, with either a median or tree divide in Wake Forest, it follows the old alignment; via Main Street, Youngsville Boulevard, College Street and Park Avenue.\n\nU.S. Route 1 Alternate (US 1A) was established in 1953 when US 1 was rerouted to bypass west Franklinton. A two-lane urban highway, it follows the old alignment through the downtown area, via Main Street.\n\nU.S. Route 1A in Connecticut is a short loop route within the town of Stonington that passes through Stonington borough. US 1 originally went along this route until 1941. US 1A is the only surviving alternate U.S. highway in Connecticut.\n\nThe route is long and takes the following route: From US 1 to North Water Street, to Trumbull Avenue, to Alpha Avenue, then to Elm St, and back to US 1.\n\nU.S. Route 1A is a numbered U.S. Highway running in the U.S. state of Rhode Island. It serves as a bypass of the downtown areas of Providence and Pawtucket, which US 1 goes through. US 1A is a lengthier route than the section of U.S. Route 1 that it bypasses.\n\nUS 1A should not be confused with Rhode Island Route 1A. In Rhode Island, US 1A exists in two segments in Providence County connected by a mostly-unsigned concurrency with I-195, while Route 1A serves as a scenic alternate route of US 1 in Washington County. Not helping matters is the presence of Route 1A shields on US 1A.\nUS 1A runs for through Warwick along Post Road and Warwick Avenue. Then in Cranston: it runs for another continuing along Warwick Avenue to Norwood Avenue and Narragansett Boulevard before crossing into Providence. There, the highway continues to follow Narragansett Boulevard and turns along Allens Avenue, Eddy Street, Point Street. US 1A is not signed at all in Providence, but in all likelihood, from Point Street, US 1A uses Water Street to enter I-95 EB at Exit 1D. Similarly, US 1A SB probably exits I-195 WB at Exit 1D onto Water Street, and turns left onto Point Street. The highway continues on the East Providence Expressway (I-195) into East Providence. US 1A uses another one-way pairing with the eastbound traffic using the expressway, and Warren and Pawtucket Avenues. The opposite direction is routed along Pawtucket (114) and Newport Avenues. The last city through which US 1A runs is Pawtucket where it runs for to the Massachusetts state line in Attleboro, traveling concurrently with Route 1A on Newport Avenue to U.S. Route 1.\nUS 1A is not a former alignment of US 1. In Warwick, US 1A formerly ran further north along Post Road east of Route 117 instead of turning north to overlap with the state road. It stayed with Post Road through Pawtuxet Village, then traveled north into Cranston on Broad Street to rejoin the current alignment at Norwood Avenue.\n\nThe southernmost section of the route, which exists on Post Road, was part of the Boston Post Road, a former mail route.\n\nExit numbers concurrent with I-195 are scheduled to be converted to mileage-based exit numbering in 2020. \n\nThis US 1A segment in York travels along the coast and serves the areas of York Harbor and Cape Neddick. The length of this segment is 7.0 miles.\n\nIn Portland, Maine's largest city, the original routing of what was US 1A has largely been eliminated but a short section still exists mainly along Portland's waterfront. It now begins at exit 7 on the I-295 freeway (also known as Franklin Street). It travels east along the Franklin Street Arterial until its intersection with Commercial Street and the Maine State Pier. At this point it makes a 90-degree turn onto Commercial Street, which it will follow through the entire waterfront area passing such landmarks as Becky's Diner and the US Customs Service Portland office. It then passes under the four lane ME 77/Casco Bay Bridge roadway, and then continues along Commercial Street (and the waterfront) until its intersection with Valley Street and the Veteran's Memorial Bridge Road. US 1A follows neither routing but instead turns west and north following the Fore River Parkway where it loops back to meet I-295 again at the exit 5 interchange, which also serves Congress Street (ME 22).\n\nUS Route 1A in Rockland bypasses the downtown area and begins at the intersection of Camden and Maverick Streets. Traveling westbound along Maverick Street, it passes Rockland Plaza (which is Rockland's second shopping center), and is concurrent with Maine 17 along this section. It then takes a 90 degree turn at a flashing yellow blinker light to turn left (south) onto Birch Street where it meets North Main Street (which was the former alignment of Maine 17) at a traffic light. US 1A then continues along Broadway, passing Oceanside High School as it continues south through the residential heart of Rockland, and encounters additional traffic lights at Rankin and Limerock Streets, until its end at a traffic light at Park Street where it rejoins US 1.\n\nUS 1A in Bangor is a loop route off U.S. Route 1 in Maine, serving the Bangor metropolitan area. The route is 54.0 miles long and runs from Stockton Springs to Ellsworth. Route 1A enters Bangor from the southwest by following the west bank of the Penobscot River through the towns of Winterport and Hampden. Route 1A crosses the Joshua Chamberlain Bridge from downtown Bangor into the city of Brewer, and continues southeast through Holden and Dedham to Ellsworth.\n\nIn Milbridge, US 1A provides a more direct route for through travelers, as it branches off from US 1 just north of the main business section of the small town of Milbridge, and is known as Bridge St. It then crosses the Narraguagus River and continues in a northeasterly direction whereas US 1 takes a route that is north/northwest to meet Cherryfield before turning back east while 1A takes the more direct (and southern) route closer to the coast to rejoin its parent just east of Harrington. The length of this segment is 7.8 miles.\n\nThis section of US 1A runs 8.1 miles between Jonesboro and Machias via the village of Whitneyville.\n\nIn Aroostook County, US 1A runs , from Mars Hill to Van Buren. Route 1A runs parallel to the Canadian border, as U.S. Route 1 goes through the cities of Presque Isle and Caribou. Major towns along US 1A include Fort Fairfield and Limestone.\n\nThe section north of Fort Fairfield to Van Buren was once State Route 165, but is no longer a numbered highway in Maine.\n\nRouted along King Street, Willet Avenue (Westchester County Road 43), Putnam Avenue (NY Reference Route 982C), and Hillside Avenue.\n\nCurrent US 1 alignment. In the early 1950s, a 4-lane divided highway was constructed to relieve congestion in the area. US 1 was assigned to this new highway section with the old road becoming US 1A. The highway section was later incorporated into the Connecticut Turnpike and eventually became I-95. US 1 was re-designated on the old alignment.\n\nRouted along Belden Avenue, Cross Street, and North Avenue. US 1 was originally assigned to West Street, Wall Street, and East Avenue. Since the opening of the US 7 expressway, US 1 was moved to its current alignment along part of this US 1A along Riverside Avenue, Cross Street, and North Avenue. The original US 1 alignment is now town-maintained.\n\nCurrent US 1 alignment along Kings Highway Cutoff, North Avenue, Boston Avenue, and Barnum Avenue. This US 1A existed until 1963. US 1 originally went along modern Route 130 on Fairfield Avenue, State Street, Stratford Avenue, and Ferry Boulevard connecting the towns of Fairfield and Stratford via downtown Bridgeport.\n\nUS 1 originally went along Broad Street, River Street, and Cherry Street. Current US 1 (Boston Post Road) was designated as US 1A. In 1940, the two alignments were swapped. US 1A remained on Broad Street/River Street/Cherry Street until about 1942. Broad Street is now part of Route 162 while River and Cherry Streets are now town-maintained roads.\n\nRouted along Main Street. This was the original alignment of US 1 until the opening of the Saltonstall Parkway in 1941, which was designated as US 1. This US 1A existed until the early 1950s. The eastern end of Main Street is now part of Route 100.\n\nUS 1 originally went along Main Street and East Main Street. From 1937 to 1940, current US 1 on North Main Street was designated as US 1A. The routes were swapped around 1940 and US 1A remained on this alignment until 1963. Main Street is now part of Route 146 while East Main Street is a town-maintained road.\n\nUS 1 originally went to the town center using Old Boston Post Road then Main Street (now part of Route 154). US 1A was designated on the current US 1 alignment on Boston Post Road. The two routes were swapped around 1940. US 1A on Old Boston Post Road remained until the early 1970s.\n\nIn late 1948, an expressway section between the Raymond E. Baldwin Bridge in Old Lyme and the Gold Star Bridge in New London was opened. US 1 was assigned on this new expressway alignment. The original route of US 1 became US 1A. The US 1 expressway later became part of the Connecticut Turnpike and I-95. The US 1 designation was removed from the expressway in 1975 and reverted to its old surface alignment.\n\nLong Hill Road from the I-95 Exit 85 offramp to Poquonnock Road. This was a newly constructed road in 1938 which later became US 1 by 1941. The original US 1 alignment used Thames Street and Poquonnock Road going through the old Borough of Groton (now the City of Groton).\n"}
{"id": "2259738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259738", "title": "Xenocentrism", "text": "Xenocentrism\n\nXenocentrism is the preference for the products, style, culture, people, significant others, and food of others, rather than of one's own. One example is the romanticization of the noble savage in the 18th-century primitivism movement in European art, philosophy and ethnography. Xenocentrism is countered by ethnocentrism, the perceived superiority of one's own society to others. Both xenocentrism and ethnocentrism are a subjective take on cultural relativism.\n\nXenocentrism was coined by American sociologists Donald P. Kent and Robert G. Burnight in the 1952 paper \"Group Centrism in Complex Societies\" published in the \"American Journal of Sociology\". Kent and Burnight state that feelings of xenocentrism are caused by three possible factors; individuals who have familial ties to a foreign country, specifically 2nd or 3rd generation immigrants, those who oppose the political choices of their native country. One example of this is the Communist Party USA. The party idealized the Soviet Union and its anti-capitalist government. As well as individuals who are exposed to other cultures and grow disenchanted with their society, and then rebel against it. This word remained obscure but considered useful and occasionally used by other sociologists. The University of Florida treats it as a key term of Sociology.\n\nThe term is opposed to ethnocentrism, as coined by 19th-century American sociologist William Graham Sumner, which describes the natural tendencies of an individual to place disproportionate worth upon the values and beliefs of one's own culture relative to others.\n\nRene Dentiste Mueller and Amanda Broderick were the first to apply the consumer xenocentrism (CX) concept to describe the preference some consumers have for foreign goods even when domestic goods are qualitatively and/or functionally similar or better. Although the CX phenomenon is global, the researchers cite a significant number of studies that suggests there are proportionally more consumer xenocentrics in former colonies where the locals have been conditioned to perceive ‘foreign’ as better. A consequence of consumer xenocentrism is its negative effect on local industry and on the decline in living standards as poor consumers buy the (often) more expensive foreign products. Consumer xenocentrism, especially among the local elites, reduces confidence and pride in local manufacturing which can lead to the loss of local industries, a decline in purchase choices, especially among traditional products or even a dependency on foreign ones. Mueller, Wang, Liu and Cui, applied the concept to China and showed consumer xenocentrism is not a new phenomenon. The researchers were also able to show that when consumer xenocentrism grew too much, a ‘protection of the herd’ mentality caused the pendulum to swing back towards consumer ethnocentrism (nationalism).\n\nIn his doctoral dissertation, Steven James Lawrence suggests xenocentrism may be an influential in making consumers buying decisions as they might have \"favorable orientations to products from outside their membership group.\n\nPuja Mondal cited some examples from India:\nGrace Susetyo suggests \"the idea that foreign cultures and their elements are superior to the local\" causes a crisis of cultural identity among Western-educated Indonesians and is a problem that needs to be eradicated.\n\nGeorge Balabanis and Adamantios Diamantopoulos further defined consumer xenocentrism to be a multi-dimensional construct by which to explain consumer affinities for foreign products. They define consumer xenocentrism to be rooted in two concepts, perceived inferiority of domestic goods and aggrandized perception of foreign products.\n\nThe Academy of International Business is studying \"out of group favoritism and in-group derogation\" as a consumer effect in the Chinese consumer market.\n\nLawrence uses the definition of xenocentrism, conceived by Kent and Burnight, to describe propose a potential scale, CXENO, to predict how xenocentric views of non-domestic goods affects consumer behavior. The most recently proposed scale to quantity xenocentric consumer tendencies, XSCALE, includes both instances of social and consumer xenocentrism.\n\nEconomists have begun to include consumer xenocentrism, along with other consumer centrisms such as consumer ethnocentrism and consumer cosmopolitanism, in their analysis of consumer behavior. Most recent research has looked at how these three centrisms impact one another.\n"}
{"id": "2259746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259746", "title": "Noel Thompson", "text": "Noel Thompson\n\nNoel Thompson is a Northern Irish news journalist with BBC Northern Ireland. He is part of the presenting team for BBC Radio Ulster's flagship morning programme Good Morning Ulster.\n\nThompson began his broadcasting career at the BBC in 1979 as a researcher for \"Nationwide\" in Belfast. He progressed through the corporation's internal training scheme, working on \"Multi-Coloured Swap Shop\" and \"Newsround\".\n\nIn addition to his broadcasting career at BBC Northern Ireland, Thompson has presented \"Newsnight\" and \"BBC Breakfast\" and, for a period, occasionally guest presented on BBC News Channel and BBC News' politics and arts interview programme \"HARDtalk\".\n\nThompson was awarded Royal Television Society \"Regional TV Presenter of the Year\" for two consecutive years: 1997 and 1998. He was also nominated in the same category in 1999. In 2007, Thompson received an Award of Distinction from Belfast Metropolitan College for his services to journalism. It was announced that Thompson would retire from the corporation in 2020 along with three other BBC presenters. \n\nThompson studied at Campbell College in Belfast and St Catharine's College, Cambridge, reading MML (French and German), then Social and Political Sciences. \n\nPrior to joining the BBC, Thompson worked in a bar at the Europa Hotel in Belfast, and he also managed his brother's restaurant in the West Indies.\n\nHe sings baritone with the Belfast Philharmonic and has regularly performed at many classical concerts with the august choir alongside the Ulster Orchestra. He is a committed and highly experienced wildlife photographer and mountain walker. \n\nThompson is married to Sharon and has two children, Patrick and Matthew, the latter a reporter for LBC.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259749", "title": "Buellton Union Elementary School District", "text": "Buellton Union Elementary School District\n\nBuellton Union School District is located in Buellton, California, USA. It is a small district that, in April 2010, served 671 students. Its offices are located at 595 Second Street. The current Superintendent is Tom Cooper. The current Board of Trustees consists of Joyce Azevedo (President), Mark Ream (Clerk), Julie Everett, Jon Macaluso Sr. and Marcilo Sarquilla.\n\nThere are two schools under the jurisdiction of the Buellton Union School District.\n\nJonata School serves grades 6–8. It is located at 301 Second St. Buellton. In September 2011, the enrollment wais 216 students, 75 sixth grade, 74 seventh grade and 67 eighth grade. The current principal is Mrs. Fayram. Jonata is the first school in California to use Trikkes in its PE class. In 2009 and 2013, it earned the designation of a California Distinguished School.\n\nOak Valley School serves K through 5th grade students. It is located at 595 Second St., in Buellton. In 2010, enrollment was 473 students 79 kindergarten, 91 first grade, 73 second grade, 76 third grade, 76 fourth grade and 78 fifth grade students. The current principal is Mrs. Maglione.\n\nBuellton Union School District Secretary, 9/15/2011 Source of data on enrollment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259760", "title": "Mark Carruthers", "text": "Mark Carruthers\n\nMark Carruthers OBE (born 1965) is a Northern Irish journalist. He currently presents a number of television and radio programmes for BBC Northern Ireland.\n\nCarruthers first joined BBC Northern Ireland in 1989 contributing to \"Good Morning Ulster\" and \"PM Ulster\" on BBC Radio Ulster.\n\nIn addition to having presented BBC Newsline, he has also presented \"Spotlight\" and \"Let's Talk\" for television and \"Evening Extra\" on BBC Radio Ulster.\n\nIn August 2009, Carruthers became part of the presenting team of \"Good Morning Ulster\" as part of a series of presenter changes at BBC Radio Ulster.\n\nHe is now the presenter of \"The View\" and \"Sunday Politics Northern Ireland\" on BBC One Northern Ireland. \n\nHe has twice been nominated for a Royal Television Society award for his work – in 2018 and previously in 2003. In 2005 he and his BBC Newsline co-presenter, Donna Traynor, lifted a prestigious IFTA (Irish Film and Television Award) for Best News Programme.\n\nCarruthers was born in Derry, grew up in Limavady, County Londonderry, studied at Coleraine Academical Institution and went on to study Political Science and Irish Politics at Queen's University Belfast.\n\nCarruthers has an interest in the theatre. He was one of the founders of Tinderbox Theatre Company in 1988 and took part in drama groups at college and university, including a stage appearance in a Riverside Theatre, Coleraine production of \"Oliver!\" alongside James Nesbitt. He was Chairman of the Lyric Theatre Board until 2015 and was at the forefront of the campaign to rebuild the theatre on its south Belfast site for almost ten years. \n\nHe was awarded an OBE for services to drama in Northern Ireland in the 2011 New Year Honours list.\n\nHe is co-editor of \"Stepping Stones - The Arts in Ulster 1971-2001\" which was published by Blackstaff Press in 2001. In 2013 \"Alternative Ulsters – Conversations on Identity\" was published by Liberties Press, a series of interviews by Carruthers with leading writers, actors, journalists and politicians. The book was a success and was re-issued in paperback in December 2014. The following year \"Alternative Ulsters\" was shortlisted for the prestigious Christopher Ewart-Biggs Memorial Prize.\n\nIn July 2019 Carruthers was awarded an honorary doctorate (Doctor of Literature) from Queen's University Belfast for distinction in broadcasting.\nHe is married with three children and lives in south Belfast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259763", "title": "Punggol Park", "text": "Punggol Park\n\nPunggol Park (Chinese: 榜鹅公园) is a park located in Hougang, in the north-eastern part of Singapore. The park is 16 hectares in size, with a 5 ha lake. Kite flying is not allowed here due to the proximity of Paya Lebar Air Base.\n\nThe park has two distinctive zones: the \"Southern Active Zone\" where the features for major activities are provided, and the densely forested area in the north of the lake which forms the \"Passive Zone\".\n\nThe plan for a park at Hougang was announced in November 1992. The park was named Punggol Park and the junction of Hougang Avenue 8 and Hougang Avenue 10 was chosen as the location.\n\n\"For the park at Punggol Point please see Punggol Point Park\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259772", "title": "Makyla Smith", "text": "Makyla Smith\n\nMakyla Smith (born 1982 in Canada) is a Canadian actress.\n\nShe is best known for her supporting role as Justin's (Randy Harrison) best friend Daphne on \"Queer as Folk\". She also appeared in the films \"The Matthew Shepard Story\", \"Sex, Lies & Obsession\", \"Owning Mahowny\", \"\" and \"\".\n\nShe is the daughter of actress Alison Sealy-Smith.\n"}
{"id": "2259777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259777", "title": "Stephen Nolan", "text": "Stephen Nolan\n\nStephen Nolan (born 20 August 1973) is a Northern Irish radio and television presenter for BBC Northern Ireland and BBC Radio 5 \"Live\".\n\nBorn in the Shankill Road area of Belfast, Nolan was educated at the Royal Belfast Academical Institution and The Queen's University of Belfast, where he studied French and Business Studies, graduating with a BA in 1995.\n\nIn 2002, Nolan joined Belfast CityBeat, for which he won a Sony Radio Academy Award. The following year, he was hired to work for BBC NI, where he has worked since 2003, presenting \"The Stephen Nolan Show\" on BBC Radio Ulster. In the handover from the Gerry Anderson show at half past ten each morning Nolan was usually on the end of a putdown or witticism from Anderson. Since 16 July 2005, he has presented his own weekend phone-in show for BBC Radio Five Live, airing from 10 pm to 1 am every Friday and Sunday, 9pm to midnight every Saturday, and, until 2017, \"Question Time Extra Time\" from 10 pm to 1 am every Thursday while Question Time is on BBC One, as one of the few Northern Irish presenters on mainstream UK radio. In 2006 he was involved in a charity 'boxing' match with Gerry Anderson in aid of Children in Need. Nolan was knocked down from a stray uppercut from Anderson. \n\nIn May 2008, he featured heavily on Chris Moyles' Radio 1 Breakfast Show for the line \"That is not my name\" in his heavy Northern Irish accent, a mis-quote of the Sue Tilley interview with ITV News.\n\nNolan has presented several television programmes. \"Nolan Live\" on BBC Northern Ireland, is a weekly television debate and phone-in show. \"Fair Play\", also on BBC Northern Ireland, was a weekly consumer watchdog programme. \"Mission Employable\" was a series focusing on helping a group of unemployed people to find their dream career. He has also presented the BBC's Children in Need Northern Ireland broadcast, with Christine Bleakley and John Daly.\nSince 2008 he has presented \"Panic Attack\", a new game airing on Friday nights in Northern Ireland. The show was repeated nationwide in a daytime slot starting in February 2010. In 2008 he stood in for Matthew Wright on Five's \"The Wright Stuff\". In 2011, Nolan presented a documentary focusing on the Shankill Butchers. Since 2012, Nolan has hosted a weekly TV version of \"The Stephen Nolan Show\" on BBC Northern Ireland every Wednesday. In 2013, a new series 'Story of a Lifetime', hosted by Nolan began with episode one focusing on the life of Stephen's Radio Ulster colleague Hugo Duncan.\n\nNolan often discusses religion on his radio shows. In 2015, he stated he was an atheist.\n\nIn total, Nolan has won twelve Sony Radio Academy Awards. Of these, seven are Gold, giving him the record for the most Golds in the history of the awards. Five of these were awarded during his time with Belfast CityBeat radio, including: UK Speech Broadcaster of the Year 2003 and for his show, \"The Stephen Nolan Show\", The Speech Programme Award of the Year 2006. He also won the Royal Television Society's Regional Presenter of the Year Award in 2005 and 2006, as well as being nominated for the National Presenter Award in 2008. \n\n"}
{"id": "2259780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259780", "title": "KTWO-TV", "text": "KTWO-TV\n\nKTWO-TV, virtual channel 2 (UHF digital channel 17), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Casper, Wyoming, United States. The station is owned by Silverton Broadcasting. KTWO-TV's studios are located on Skyview Drive in Casper, and its transmitter is located atop Casper Mountain.\n\nKTWO-TV is also available on channel 6 on Charter Spectrum cable in Casper, as well as on the digital subcarrier of Cheyenne-based Fox affiliate KLWY (channel 27) and a network of UHF and VHF translators across the state. Under previous owner Equity Broadcasting, it had also been available on a free-to-air satellite uplink (as with all of Equity's stations, hubbed out of Little Rock, Arkansas and sent to the transmitter via FTA satellite) until Equity went bankrupt and the satellite was sold.\n\nKTWO signed on the air on March 1, 1957 as Wyoming's second television station. It was owned by Harriscope Broadcasting with Wyoming's oldest radio station, KTWO (1030 AM). As the only station in Casper, it aired programming from all three major networks, but was a primary CBS affiliate owing to its radio sister's long affiliation with CBS Radio. In 1978, KTWO-TV became a primary ABC affiliate; this was around the same time that ABC became the nation's highest rated network. In 1980, the CBS affiliation went to KGWC-TV (channel 14), and KTWO became an ABC affiliate with a secondary NBC affiliation. In 1984, KFNB (channel 20) began carrying ABC, leaving KTWO with NBC. Harriscope Broadcasting sold KTWO along with sister station KULR-TV in Billings, Montana to Dix Communications in 1986. On August 28, 1987, KKTU signed on channel 33 as KTWO's satellite station in Cheyenne. In 1994, Dix sold KTWO and KAAL-TV in Austin, Minnesota to Eastern Broadcasting. For a time starting in 1995, KTWO and KKTU had a secondary affiliation with The WB. Eastern sold KTWO along with two of its stations (KAAL-TV in Austin, Minnesota and KODE-TV in Joplin, Missouri) to Grapevine Communications in 1997. Equity Broadcasting bought the station in March 2001.\n\nFrom inception, KTWO's programming originated from a studio on East Second Street in Casper. Its lone presence on the east side of Casper continued for many years until major retail development occurred in the early 1980s. Its present location shares operations with KFNB, KWYF, and KGWC on Skyview Drive.\n\nOn September 1, 2003, NBC moved its affiliation from KTWO to KCWY. KTWO was planning on becoming an ABC affiliate before a change of ownership, but it had to wait until ABC's affiliation with KFNB expired in June 2004. During the interim period, KTWO operated as an independent station, but carried programming from Pax TV (now Ion Television).\n\nKKTU, the Cheyenne satellite of KTWO, immediately switched from NBC to ABC and began branding itself as \"ABC 8\", after its position on the Cheyenne cable system. After reaching an agreement with KTWO, KFNB agreed to end its ABC affiliation early. In March 2004, KTWO officially became an ABC affiliate, KFNB obtained the Fox affiliation from K26ES (now MyNetworkTV affiliate KWYF-LD, channel 27) and K26ES became an affiliate of UPN. KKTU changed its call sign to KDEV in 2005.\n\nOn May 31, 2006, Equity Broadcasting sold KTWO to Silverton Media, headed by Barry Silverton. Equity retained ownership of KDEV and allowed KTWO to continue to operate it.\n\nKTWO later moved its ABC programming in Cheyenne to a low-powered repeater, KKTU-LP channel 40, after KDEV dropped ABC in favor of programming from RTN. On June 24, 2008, KKTU-LP changed its call letters to KDEV-LP, after KDEV changed its call sign to KQCK.\n\nIn September 2009, KDEV dropped all ABC programming, and KTWO-TV signed on a new low-powered satellite in Cheyenne, KKTQ-LD, in September 2010. Its programming airs on KLWY's digital subcarrier. However, it airs separate identifications and commercials.\n\nIn July 2005, KTWO was added to the Dish Network line up of channels for customers in the Casper/Riverton designated market area. On January 1, 2012, KTWO, KFNB (by then a Fox affiliate and satellite of Cheyenne's KLWY) and KGWC were dropped from Dish Network after failing to come to an agreement on a new contract. KCWY and Wyoming PBS flagship KCWC-TV were unaffected by this dispute. The signals were restored by Dish Network on May 1, 2012.\n\nSilverton Broadcasting agreed to sell KTWO-TV to Legacy Broadcasting on February 8, 2018. The deal would have created a duopoly with KFNB, which Legacy would have concurrently acquired from Wyomedia Corporation; in its filing with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Legacy stated that the duopoly was permissible because KFNB is the fifth-ranked station in the Casper–Riverton market. The sale was canceled in October 2018.\n\nOn October 8, 2019, Silverton announced that it would sell KTWO to a joint venture of Coastal Media LLC (which is run by Bill Fielder) and Vision Alaska LLC (an Alaska-based company which is run by Stephen Brissette). Upon completion of the deal, which is expected to occur in early 2020, KLWY, KFNB, and KTWO will become sister stations to Vision Alaska LLC's existing stations in Juneau and Fairbanks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259781", "title": "Operation Sassoon", "text": "Operation Sassoon\n\nOperation Sassoon provides a basic generic framework for an emergency evacuation plan of any part of London, or Heathrow, in the case of a major terrorist attack in the British capital. It is part of an extensive anti-terror plan installed by the British Government in response to the rising threat of terrorist attacks in the United Kingdom. The plan, first drawn up in 2003, oversees the partial or complete evacuation of the inner parts of London after either a large-scale assault affecting a larger area of the city or an event having a lasting effect over a longer period of time, such as a biological, chemical or nuclear attack. Besides the actual evacuation process, Operation Sassoon covers the principles of largescale evacuation, the installation of temporary shelters for evacuees in assigned areas outside the city, activation of the plan and the roles and responsibilities of agencies under the plan, as well as the deployment of police and military forces for maintaining civil order after a major attack has occurred.\n\nAccording to newspaper reports, the plans were drawn up upon the instructions of John Prescott MP, the Deputy Prime Minister, and senior officers at the Metropolitan Police. The draft plans were submitted to the London Resilience Forum, which at the time was chaired by Nick Raynsford MP with Ken Livingstone as his deputy.\n\nA plan was developed by a multi agency team made up of local authority, transport and police representatives led by a senior MPS officer working closely with colleagues in the South East and East of England Regions. The first version of the framework document was published on 31 December 2003 and the current version was last revised in April 2005.\n\nOn 25 October 2004, Paul Goodman, Conservative MP for Wycombe, tabled a Parliamentary question in the House of Commons which was answered by Nick Raynsford MP, the then Minister of State for Local and Regional Government, on plans to use High Wycombe as a care shelter as part of Operation Sassoon. The answer given by the Minister is on record at Hansard.\n\nOperation Sassoon has specific importance as the South East has the highest number of potential targets for disruptive action in England. These include:\n\n\nThe surrounding regions of South Buckinghamshire, Hampshire and Oxfordshire would be involved in receiving evacuees.\n\nThe plan was replaced in 2009 by a less rigid set of arrangements to evacuate instead parts of London rather than the whole of London. OP Sassoon has therefore been consigned to history.\n\n\nOn 21 September 2004, an internal Metropolitan Police inquiry was launched after detailed plans for the mass evacuation of London were found on the seat of a train in a Tesco carrier bag. The plans, discovered on one of four CD-ROMs which were in the carrier bag, were found by a warehouse worker from Essex who had been travelling on a commuter train between London and Gravesend, Kent. According to The Sun newspaper, the dossier was headed \"Operation Sassoon - Metropolitan Police Traffic Plan for the Mass Evacuation of London\" and dated 3 June 2004.\n\nOperation Sassoon would see railway stations outside the capital receiving Londoners escaping a disaster. Local authorities in neighbouring counties were deeply concerned that the local infrastructure would not cope with the sheer volume of people fleeing the capital. They have stressed to the London Resilience Forum that evacuation should be used as a last resort and only in the most \"catastrophic of circumstances\".\n\nThe planning details for Operation Sassoon are being kept secret, hence no details being published by the Government or the media. As of August 2005, a google search for the term brings up only 237 hits. Websites such as the Hampshire County Council website include some of the scarce traces of Operation Sassoon information on the internet.\n\nThere are plans to update the current Operation Sassoon have been subject to some disagreement between partners within London and the surrounding regions. It is unlikely that the new plan will be delivered for the August 2007 deadline.\n\nOn 7 September 2003, the emergency services in London conducted a terrorism preparation exercise for the early stages of Operation Sassoon at Bank Underground station. Since 2003, there have been six large-scale live exercises and 32 \"tabletop exercises\" that test the effectiveness of strategic plans.\n\nIn July 2004, the London Resilience Forum announced in its second annual report its intention to develop detailed support plans for each agency involved in Operation Sassoon, including a communications strategy and \"tabletop exercises\" to test more detailed overall plans.\n\nAccording to The Sun's newspaper article of 21 September 2004, road signs have been built by the Highways Agency ready for use in a major alert and road routes to be used in the event of such a disaster have been laid out.\n\nTowns such as High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire are earmarked as temporary care shelters for evacuees.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259782", "title": "Barbara Forrest", "text": "Barbara Forrest\n\nBarbara Carroll Forrest is a professor of philosophy at Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond, Louisiana. She is a critic of intelligent design and the Discovery Institute.\n\nForrest is a graduate of Hammond High School. She received her B.A. in English in 1974 from Southeastern Louisiana University, her M.A. in Philosophy in 1978 from Louisiana State University, and her Ph.D. in philosophy from Tulane University in 1988. She has taught philosophy at Southeastern Louisiana University since 1988 and presently is a professor of philosophy in the Department of History and Political Science.\n\nShe co-authored \"\" (Oxford University Press, 2004), with biologist Paul R. Gross. The book examines the goals and strategies of the intelligent design movement and its attempts to undermine the teaching of evolutionary biology. The authors analyze the absence of a scientific intelligent design hypothesis, identifies religious foundations, and the political ambitions of intelligent design proponents. They examine the movement's Wedge strategy which has advanced and is succeeding through public relations rather than through scientific research. They also highlight intelligent design creationism's relationship to public education and to the separation of church and state.\n\nForrest serves on the board of directors of the National Center for Science Education (NCSE), the Board of Trustees of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, and the New Orleans Secular Humanist Association (NOSHA).\n\nForrest was a key expert witness for the plaintiffs in the 2005 \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" trial. The defendants were represented by the Thomas More Law Center (TMLC), a conservative Christian, not-for-profit law center whose motto is \"The Sword and the Shield for People of Faith\". After Forrest had been deposed, the TMLC tried but failed to have her stopped from testifying. In a motion to have her removed as a witness, they described her as \"little more than a conspiracy theorist and a web-surfing, 'cyber-stalker' of the Discovery Institute ... .\" Judge Jones denied the motion and Forrest's testimony began on October 5.\n\nAccording to Forrest, after the TMLC's attempt to exclude her as a witness had failed, and only a few days before she would be testifying, the Discovery Institute attempted to publicly ridicule her on their website. She wrote:\nDuring her testimony the defense lawyers again asked the court to exclude Forrest from testifying as expert witness. Judge Jones allowed them to present their case for dismissing her and then denied their request. Forrest would go on to testify on the religious origins and nature of the intelligent design movement, the wedge document, and also demonstrated that the drafts of the textbook at the center of the court case, \"Of Pandas and People\", substituted terms such as \"intelligent design\" and \"intelligent designer\" in place of \"creationism\" and \"creator\" in an attempt to circumvent the ruling in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" which determined that teaching creationism in public schools violated the Establishment Clause of the United States constitution. Her testimony had a significant impact on Judge Jones's decision.\n\nA year after the ruling, Forrest commented in a telephone interview \"It was very clear to everyone who followed the case that intelligent design is not science. The Discovery Institute has been trying for years to foment a court case. And they finally got one dropped in their laps and what was ironic is they didn't want it. They knew what this case would do to them.\"\n\nAn essay by Forrest, \"The non-epistemology of intelligent design: its implications for public policy\", was published online in March 2009 as part of a special issue of the journal \"Synthese\". The issue was titled \"Evolution and Its Rivals\" and was guest edited by Glenn Branch and James H. Fetzer, the latter a former editor of \"Synthese\". Forrest's essay strongly criticized philosopher Francis J. Beckwith, noting that he had \"no formal credentials as a constitutional scholar\" to justify his stances on issues regarding the separation of church and state and connected Beckwith and other advocates of intelligent design to Christian Reconstructionism. Following complaints from Beckwith and others mentioned in the issue, the regular editors of \"Synthese\", Johan van Benthem, Vincent F. Hendricks, and John F. Symons, included an editorial statement in the print version of the special issue, published in January 2011, which criticized the tone of some of the papers in that issue. The note was perceived as directed at Forrest's essay and drew angry denunciations from the guest editors, who were not consulted about the statement, and other critics. At least one philosopher has withdrawn a paper from \"Synthese\" as a result.\n\nForrest worked with Zack Kopplin and helped begin the campaign to repeal the Louisiana Science Education Act law. The repeal effort, SB70 of 2011, failed in the Senate Education Committee by a 5–1 vote. The repeal effort, SB374 of 2012, also failed in the Senate Education Committee by a 2–1 effort.\n\nForrest has appeared in the media, including PBS. She was the featured speaker for Southeastern Louisiana University's Linus A. Sims Memorial Library commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the publication of Darwin's \"Origin of Species\" on 23 April 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259783", "title": "Confessions from a Holiday Camp", "text": "Confessions from a Holiday Camp\n\nConfessions from a Holiday Camp is a 1977 British comedy film. It is the last film in the series which began with \"Confessions of a Window Cleaner\". The film was released in North America in 1978 under the title \"Confessions of a Summer Camp Counsellor\".\n\nTimmy Lea and his brother-in-law Sidney Noggett are working as entertainment officers at Funfrall, a typical British holiday camp. The staff are lazy and inefficient, preferring to laze by the pool rather than organise activities for the holiday campers. A new owner, Mr. Whitemonk, an ex-prison officer, takes over the camp and is determined to install discipline into the staff. He is on the verge of dismissing Timmy and Sidney; however, Sidney's suggestion of organising a beauty contest changes his mind.\n\nProducer Michael Klinger was not happy with the script, noting a number of problems that he felt detracted from the quality that set the series apart from its imitators.\n\nCast overview, first billed only:\n\nThe holiday camp used in the film was Mill Rythe Holiday Village on Hayling Island in Hampshire.\n\nThe railway station scene was filmed at Radlett.\n\nThe title track to the film was called \"Give Me England\" and was performed by scrumpy and western band, The Wurzels, arranged and conducted by Ed Welch and produced by Bob Barratt. It was released on 45 by EMI records Ltd (EMI 2677).\nThe Wurzels released an album of the same name in 1977, which featured the track along with its B-Side \"Speedy Gonzales\".\n\nAlthough \"Holiday Camp\" would turn out to be the last film in the series, a fifth and a sixth film, \"Confessions of a Plumber's Mate\" and \"Confessions of a Private Soldier\", had been planned in 1977. Filming was set to begin on \"Plumber's Mate\" at the end of February 1978. Robin Askwith even expressed a desire to direct \"Private Soldier\", but neither film materialised. In November 1977 the studio cancelled plans for future films. Columbia Pictures president David Begelman, who had been very supportive of the British film industry and who had green-lit the first \"Confessions\" film, had been implicated in a cheque-forging scandal and either quit or was fired. His successor had no interest in financing low-budget, profitable British films.\n\nProducer Michael Klinger rejected a script based on \"Confessions from a Haunted House\". Plans to shoot a made-for-video \"Confessions\" film in the 1980s also came to nothing, as did a proposed 1992 film, \"Confessions of a Squaddie\", which was proposed with action due to take place in post-Gulf War Kuwait.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259784", "title": "Video Mods", "text": "Video Mods\n\nVideo Mods was a television series that aired on MTV2. This show turned video game characters into musicians. It was created by Tony Shiff of Big Bear Entertainment in 2003. A pilot aired in Dec 2003, having been underwritten by Electronic Arts. It was a form of branded entertainment, as the pilot featured characters from their games SSX3, Sims, and Need for Speed.\n\nIn 2004 MTV2 Head of Programming Alex Coletti commissioned four new episodes which aired that Fall. The pilot and all 2004 episodes were produced and directed by Shiff, with Animation Director Kris Renkewitz. In 2005, additional episodes were animated by IBC Digital.\n\nAlthough fans wished to see the videos on DVD, MTV never cleared the music rights for any purposes beyond their television airings. Many of the videos however, are available to see on YouTube.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259785", "title": "GForge", "text": "GForge\n\nGForge is a commercial fork of Savane, a web-based project management and collaboration software originally created under the GPL for SourceForge. GForge is currently a product managed by the GForge Group, Inc and  provides project hosting, version control (CVS, Subversion, Git), code reviews, ticketing (issues, support), release management, continuous integration and messaging.\n\nIn 1999, VA Linux hired four developers, including Tim Perdue, to develop the SourceForge.net service to encourage open-source development and support the Open Source developer community. SourceForge.net services were offered free of charge to any Open Source project team. Following the SourceForge launch on November 17, 1999, the free software community rapidly took advantage of SourceForge.net, and traffic and users grew very quickly.\n\nAs another competitive web service, \"Server 51\", was being readied for launch, VA Linux released the source code for the sourceforge.net web site on January 14, 2000 as a marketing ploy to show that SourceForge was 'more open source'. Many companies began installing and using it themselves and contacting VA Linux for professional services to set up and use the software. However, their pricing was so unrealistic, they had few customers. By 2001, the company's Linux hardware business had collapsed in the dotcom bust. The company was renamed to VA Software and called the closed codebase SourceForge Enterprise Edition to try to force some of the large companies to purchase licenses. This prompted objections from open source community members. VA Software continued to say that a new source code release would be made at some point, but it never was.\n\nSome time later, 2002, Tim Perdue left VA and started GForge LLC which released both an open source and commercial version of GForge. Both codebases were forked from the last publicly released version, 2.6, and merged the debian-sf fork, previously maintained by Roland Mas and Christian Bayle, into the project.\n\nIn February 2009 there was a break-up of the original open source (GPL) version of GForge with some of the developers of GForge releasing the continued development of the old open source code under the new name of FusionForge while Perdue and his new company focused on a commercial offering (GForge Advanced Server and later GForgeNext).\n\nTim Perdue and his company begin focusing on a commercial version of GForge originally called GForge Advanced Server (also called GForge AS). It saw first public release on June 21, 2006. While it was offered commercially it could be used freely (with some restrictions on project limits and number of users.). GForge AS was written in PHP and continued to use PostgreSQL. Plug-ins for Eclipse IDE as well as Microsoft Visual Studio (only for customers and with no trial available) and other related tools were added to increase developer functionality. Workflow process management to handle making use of the full software life cycle from inception, bug tracking to new release enhancement citation.\n\nIn 2011 GForge came under new ownership under GForge Group, Inc and while work on the GForge AS 6.x series continued the company began working on a partial rewrite dubbed GForgeNext.  GForgeNext, later rebranded back to GForge, was released on October 1, 2018 which included a revamped user interface, REST API, support for Agile/Scrum disciplines and the GForge Group, Inc expanded to support SaaS. While not open source, the source is available* and the downloadable version can be used for free for up to five users.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> the source code that does the license enforcement is encrypted.\n\nIn 2007, Bull announced the first public release of Novaforge which is based on the GForge open source branch.\n\nIn February 2009 some of the developers of GForge continued development of the old open source code under the new name of FusionForge after GForge Group focused on GForge Advanced Server. One objective is to merge GForge forks into a single project, hence the prefix Fusion.\n\nIn 2011, FusionForge is selected as part of the Coclico project. It aims to fusion three existing trees of forked forges: FusionForge, Codendi & Novaforge.\n\nEnd 2013, main Savane maintainer Sylvain Beucler joins FusionForge as INRIA contractor for 2 years. Main contributors to FusionForge include individual contributors such as Roland Mas, small companies such as TrivialDev\n\nIn 2017, FusionForge software is the first forge software to contribute to the Software Heritage initiative, providing a connector to retrieve any information from old FusionForge installations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259787", "title": "White Nancy", "text": "White Nancy\n\nWhite Nancy is a structure at the top of the northern extremity of Kerridge Hill, predominantly in the Parish of Rainow, overlooking the village of Kerridge and the town of Bollington, Cheshire, England. Since 1966 it has been recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade II listed building. Its profile forms the logo for the town of Bollington. As to the origin of the name White Nancy, there are several theories: it may have been named after one of the Gaskell daughters, Nancy, or maybe after the horse that is said to have hauled the table top up the hill. However, much the most likely origin is that the hill once had upon it an Ordnance marker, as installed by mapping surveyors. Early maps noted the location as Northern Nancy.\n\nWhite Nancy was built in 1817 by John Gaskell junior of North End Farm to commemorate the victory at the Battle of Waterloo. John Gaskell was a member of the Gaskell family who lived nearby at Ingersley Hall. It originally had an entrance to a single room which was furnished with stone benches and a central round stone table, but the entrance is now blocked. It has been described as a summer house or a folly.\n\nIn the mid-1940s, the Royal Signal Corps Trials Unit based at Catterick would drive a truck-mounted dish-shaped transmitter/receiver up onto Kerridge Hill. Here they tested cathode-ray tube transmission and reception (data-based, not images), to a mobile receiving station on another truck. The receiver would be driven further and further south over time, until eventually the lads at Kerridge Hill were sending a signal to the south coast of the country. \nLocals told the signallers that the landmark was named after the lead horse that had transported all materials for the building of White Nancy.\n\nThe structure is circular in plan with its shape described as that of a sugar loaf, and is surmounted with a ball finial. It is built in sandstone rubble which has been rendered and painted. It is about high. Stone paving has been laid around its base which is inscribed with the points of the compass.\n\nUntil at least 1925 the structure was unpainted. It has been painted in a number of different colours over the years, most commonly in white. In 2005 vandals painted it partly in pink. In March 2009 it was repainted in white with the ball finial in black. In 2012 a Jubilee crown and the dates 1952–2012 were added to the north-west face and Olympic rings added to the south-east face. The green ring is in the form of a laurel wreath encircling a gold medal and the number 29 which was added later to mark Team GB's 29 gold medals. It has also been painted with a large red remembrance poppy and during the 1980s it was commonly painted at Christmas, decorated as a Christmas pudding or Father Christmas.\n\nIn 2015, in recognition of the reason for its construction, the structure was painted with a '200th Anniversary of the Battle Of Waterloo' motif, and the silhouettes of soldiers in traditional military uniform from the time. In May 2016 it was returned to its traditional all white with a black finial.\n\nIn May 2017, by request of the mayor of Bollington, a bee symbol was painted onto the monument to express solidarity with the people of Manchester after the Manchester Arena bombing.\n\nIn March 2018 the face of Mark E. Smith of The Fall was painted on White Nancy, together with the text “This Nation’s Saving Grace”. A Facebook group claimed responsibility.\n\nWhite Nancy provides a focus on the ridge of Kerridge Hill and from it there are extensive views across the Cheshire Plain towards the mountains of North Wales to the west, the hills of Shropshire to the south and the Pennines to the north and east. White Nancy and the Kerridge ridge are part of the Gritstone Trail.\n\nWhite Nancy has been acclaimed and has featured in countdowns of the best British follies identified by \"The Telegraph\" and by Alan Titchmarsh.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259797", "title": "Fort Kiowa", "text": "Fort Kiowa\n\nFort Kiowa, officially Fort Lookout, and also called Fort Brazeau/Brasseaux, was a 19th-century fur trading post located on the Missouri River between modern Chamberlain, South Dakota and the Big Bend of the Missouri. Built in 1822 by the Columbia Fur Company to serve the expanding fur trade in the American West, this square fort served as an important rest and trade stop for explorers such as Jim Bridger and Hugh Glass. In the early 1840s, as the American fur trade moved further west, Fort Kiowa was abandoned. It was eventually flooded by the Missouri River.\n\nFort Kiowa plays an important role in the 2015 film \"The Revenant\".\n\nWhen Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States, completed the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, he opened a great deal of land for American fur traders. Forts quickly sprung up along rivers and overland trails to act as parts of the nationally run factory system. The factory system was a nationally funded and operated system, in which Native Americans would meet at certain forts and exchange furs for finished goods. The American government had hoped that nationalizing the fur trade would prevent the debauchery caused by the trading of alcohol with the Natives. The Factory System eventually failed for many reasons. First, the men working the factories were ex-military men and not experienced fur traders. These men often mishandled the furs resulting in major profit shifts. Second, the government failed to stop all private traders who bribed Natives with alcohol. Eager to get access to liquor, the Natives would break treaties with the government to get it. Lastly, the factories were not permitted to give presents to Natives or assimilate into Native culture as many private fur traders could. Miscegeny, or intermarriage between two cultures, was a major uniting force between private fur traders and natives that strengthened their relationship. \nWith the demise of the factory system, private companies emerged and made large sums of money. Included in these were Manuel Lisa of the Missouri Fur Company and John Jacob Astor of the American Fur Company. These men were two of the richest men in America during this time. These private companies established forts that acted as rest stops for trappers. Among the most well regarded forts was Fort Kiowa, also known as Fort Lookout. Fort Kiowa was constructed in 1822 by Joseph Brazeau Jr. of the Berthold, Chouteau, and Pratte French Company. Brazeau fortified the ~20,000 square-foot fort with a blockhouse and watchtower to guard against Crow and Sioux attacks.\n\nFort Kiowa soon became known as the jumping-off point for the 1823 trading expedition known as \"Ashley's Hundred,\" which included traders Hugh Glass and Jim Bridger. Several months after the journey began, Glass was brutally attacked by a grizzly bear. Glass was able to kill the bear, but suffered many serious life-threatening wounds in the process. Glass’ partners John Fitzgerald and Jim Bridger were instructed by a commander to remain with Glass until he died, and then bury him before reuniting with the rest of the party. However, Fitzgerald and Bridger were allegedly chased off by a group of Arikaree natives. Glass was left alone to die. Bridger returned to the hunting party and reported to his commander that Glass had perished. However, Glass was able to miraculously set his own wounds and crawl more than 200 miles back to Fort Kiowa. This feat and others where pioneers such as Adam Helmer showed perseverance despite harsh challenges in the wild have a special place in western folklore.\n\nIn 1827, Bernard Pratte purchased Fort Kiowa from Brazeau and made significant improvements. Pratte added several four room log houses, a storehouse, and a smith shop. Furthermore, Pratte encircled the fort with a wooden picket fence roughly twenty or thirty feet high to prevent Native attacks. Thus fortified, Fort Kiowa was expanded into a major trading post for Natives in the region. \n\nLater in the same year, John Jacob Astor purchased Fort Kiowa from Pratte for his rapidly expanding American Fur Company. Astor, who was the first multi-millionaire in America, bought Fort Kiowa to establish his presence in the upper Missouri and to further his monopoly on the American fur trade. Astor found the upper Missouri river area to be extremely prosperous. However, in the late 1830s, Astor’s American Fur Company was forced to abandon Fort Kiowa as the once lucrative fur trading business was no longer profitable due to several factors. First, there was a scarcity of beaver caused by rapid overhunting by intruding trappers. Second, there was a lack of public demand in America and Europe for pelts, as a new style, silk hats, was gaining prominence. Lastly, the intrusion of American trappers on what natives perceived as their land angered native tribes who began to revolt against the trappers. As supply and demand both declined, fur trading in America faced extinction. \n\nIn 1840, Joseph LaBarge, a former steamboat captain, bought Fort Kiowa as a wintering post and Indian Agency. LaBarge housed many Indian agents whose job was to monitor and control trade between Native tribes and Euro-Americans. These agents lost popularity among the latter, who tended to view them as exploiters of the Native peoples, corrupt leaders who acted in their own interests. Popular opinion was relatively accurate as many Indian Agents were replaced during the 1840s after corruption was discovered. Under LaBarge’s ownership, Fort Kiowa was an unsuccessful venture, and as a result he abandoned it within the year. LaBarge is the last known inhabitant of Fort Kiowa.\n\nFort Kiowa is currently underwater, possibly submerged under a dam reservoir, Lake Francis Case. The area where Fort Kiowa once stood is recognized as a National Historic Fort of South Dakota. Fort Kiowa is advertised as a tourist attraction in which adventure-seeking tourists can follow the same path Hugh Glass did in 1823.\n\nThe 2015 film \"The Revenant\" is based on the life of Hugh Glass.\n"}
{"id": "2259812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259812", "title": "Pyotr Chaadayev", "text": "Pyotr Chaadayev\n\nPyotr or Petr Yakovlevich Chaadayev (; also spelled Chaadaev, or Čaadajev; June 7 [May 27, Old Style], 1794 – April 26 [April 14, O.S.], 1856) was a Russian philosopher. He was one of the Russian Schellingians.\n\nChaadayev wrote eight \"Philosophical Letters\" about Russia in French between 1826-1831, which circulated among intellectuals in Russia in manuscript form for many years. They comprise an indictment of Russian culture for its laggard role far behind the leaders of Western civilization. He cast doubt on the greatness of the Russian past, and ridiculed Orthodoxy for failing to provide a sound spiritual basis for the Russian mind. He extolled the achievements of Europe, especially in rational and logical thought, its progressive spirit, its leadership in science, and indeed its leadership on the path to freedom. The Russian government saw his ideas as dangerous and unsound. After some were published, they were all banned by the censorship process. Because there was nothing to charge him with, Chaadayev was declared legally insane and put under constant medical supervision, though this was a formality rather than a real administrative abuse.\n\nChaadayev was born and died in Moscow. His surname is probably derived from the Turkic word Chaadai. , with the name deriving from Chagatay, the second son of Genghis Khan. After leaving Moscow University without completing his course in 1812, he entered the army and served in the Napoleonic Wars. Chaadaev's first hand observation of Tsar Alexander's reaction to a revolt in the Semenovsky regiment may have led to his resignation from service in 1820. From 1823 to 1826 he travelled in Europe, so that he was out of Russia during the Decembrist insurrection, though he was questioned on his return about his connections with many of the Decembrists. These connections may have contributed to his failure to find a position in the new government of Nicholas I.\n\nDuring the 1840s Chaadayev was an active participant in the Moscow literary circles. He befriended Alexander Pushkin and was a model for Chatsky, the chief protagonist of Alexander Griboyedov's play \"Woe from Wit\" (1824).\n\nThe main thesis of his famous \"Philosophical Letters\" was that Russia had lagged behind Western countries and had contributed nothing to the world's progress and concluded that Russia must start de novo. As a result, they included criticism of Russia's intellectual isolation and social backwardness.\n\nWhen in 1836 the first edition (and only one published during his life) of the philosophical letters was published in the Russian magazine Telescope, its editor was exiled to the Far North of Russia. The Slavophiles at first mistook Chaadayev for one of them, but later, on realizing their mistake, bitterly denounced and disclaimed him. Chaadayev fought Slavophilism all of his life. His first Philosophical Letter has been labeled the \"opening shot\" of the Westernizer-Slavophile controversy which was dominant in Russian social thought of the nineteenth century. He wrote in his \"first letter\":\n\nThe strikingly uncomplimentary views of Russia in the first philosophical letter caused their author to be declared \"clinically insane\" because he criticized the regime of Tsar Nicholas I. The 1836 case of Pyotr is believed to be the first recorded incident where psychiatry was used in Russia to suppress dissent.\n\nLiving under house arrest following his declaration of insanity, Chaadayev next work was entitled, fittingly, \"Apologie d'un Fou\" [which has been translated as \"Apology of a Madman\" but may better be translated as \"Apologia of a Madman\"] (1837). It opens with a quote from Samuel Coleridge stating \"O my brethren! I have told/ Most bitter truth, but without bitterness.\" \nIn this brilliant but uncompleted work he maintained that Russia must follow her inner lines of development if she was to be true to her historical mission.\n\nHis ideas influenced both the Westernizers (who supported bringing Russia into accord with developments in Europe by way of various degrees of liberal reform) and Slavophiles (who supported Russian Orthodoxy and national culture.)\n\nMost of his works have been edited by his biographer, Mikhail Gershenzon (two volumes, Moscow, 1913–14), whose excellent little study of the philosopher was published at St. Petersburg in 1908.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259813", "title": "Dodge St. Regis", "text": "Dodge St. Regis\n\nThe Dodge St. Regis is an automobile that was marketed by the Dodge division of the Chrysler Corporation. The first example of downsizing of the full-size Dodge sedan line, the St. Regis replaced the Monaco after its 13-year model run. Deriving its name from a 1950s Chrysler trim package, the St. Regis was the largest Dodge sedan, slotted above the mid-size Diplomat and Aspen. In contrast to its predecessor and the smaller Diplomat, the St. Regis was offered solely as a four-door sedan. \n\nMarketed across a single generation from 1979 to 1981, the St. Regis is among the shortest-produced Dodge sedans; the next full-size Dodge sedan was the 1990 Dodge Monaco (derived from the Eagle Premier), with Dodge not producing a rear-wheel drive sedan until the 2006 Dodge Charger. \n\nThe Dodge St. Regis was assembled alongside the Chrysler Newport, Chrysler New Yorker, and Plymouth Gran Fury by Chrysler at its Lynch Road Assembly facility in Detroit, Michigan, becoming the final production vehicles produced at the facility; 64,502 examples were produced in total.\n\nThe Dodge St. Regis was based on the rear wheel drive Chrysler R-body platform. As a less-costly alternative of downsizing the C-body platform (redesigned for 1974), the R-body was an update of the B-body platform (redesigned in 1971, first dating to 1962). Used by a wide variety of Chrysler intermediates, the B-body chassis underpinned model lines ranging from the Dodge Coronet and Plymouth Belvedere to the Dodge Charger and Chrysler Cordoba. \n\nIn comparison to its 1977 Dodge Royal Monaco predecessor, the Dodge St. Regis shed 5.5 inches in length, 2.7 inches in width, 3 inches in wheelbase, and nearly 900 pounds of curb weight (dependent on powertrain). The 400 and 440 big-block V8s were discontinued, with the St. Regis continuing the use of the 225 inline-6 and the 318 and 360 V8s. All three engines were paired to a three-speed automatic transmission.\n\nThe \"St. Regis\" name first saw use as an uplevel trim package on the 1956 New Yorker hardtop coupe, and again on the 1974–78 Chrysler New Yorker Brougham coupe. Offered only as a four-door notchback sedan, the St. Regis was styled with frameless door glass (although the rear quarter glass was fixed). To distinguish it from its Plymouth Gran Fury, Chrysler Newport, and Chrysler New Yorker counterparts, the front fascia adapted transparent retractable headlamp covers (introduced on the 1978 Dodge Magnum).\n\nThe Chrysler R-body cars (like their 1974–78 predecessors) arrived at precisely the wrong time, as a second gasoline crisis hit the U.S. in 1979. While shifting to an intermediate chassis allowed the St. Regis a smaller exterior footprint over the Monaco, it remained far larger than its Ford LTD and Chevrolet Caprice competitors. In contrast to the clean-sheet Ford and GM designs, the dire financial situation of Chrysler relegated the company to retool an existing chassis. \n\nCoinciding with the fuel crisis, high interest rates and the uncertain future of the company forced Chrysler into a high proportion of fleet sales for its full-size sedans, with nearly 30% of St. Regis production dedicated for police/law enforcement use. Initially, Chrysler withdrew Plymouth from the full-size segment (making the Volare the largest Plymouth for 1979); for 1980, a Plymouth version of the R-body was introduced, nearly exclusively for fleet sales. \n\nThe Chrysler R platform was dropped during the middle of the 1981 model year, with the Dodge St. Regis ending its product run (as did the Chrysler Newport). For 1982, the mid-size Diplomat was marketed as the largest Dodge sedan; while nearly 16 inches shorter, the model line served as the primary vehicle for Chrysler law enforcement sales through the 1980s. \n\nFor 1990, the Dodge brand re-entered the full-size segment with a front-wheel drive Dodge Monaco, a counterpart of the Eagle Premier (both derived from the Renault 25). For 1993, Dodge introduced its first full size front-wheel drive car developed by Chrysler, the Dodge Intrepid. While closer in exterior size to the Diplomat, the Intrepid nearly matches the St. Regis in interior room.\n\nFollowing its introduction, the Dodge St. Regis saw heavy use as a police car in the United States. Outside of California, a 195-hp 360 V8 engine was available as part of the A38 Police Package; the option package was popular by law enforcement of the time. In California, the St. Regis was fitted with a 190 hp four-bbl 360 V8. For 1980, the 360 was replaced by a 155 hp 318 V8 4-bbl with California emissions to comply with state emissions regulations. The change in powertrain was unpopular, as officers found the top speed of the vehicle was reduced to below 100 mph when fitted with a lightbar (or 65 mph on a grade). \n\nCoinciding with efforts to expedite the retirement of the St. Regis from patrol service, in 1982 the CHP adopted the 'Ford Mustang Severe Service Package' that was a police pursuit vehicle (PPV).\n\nCoinciding with its usage in law enforcement, the St. Regis appeared on multiple 1980s police-based television series, including \"Sledge Hammer!\" and \"T.J. Hooker\". \n\nWhile the St.Regis is of little collector value today (alongside Chrysler/Plymouth R-body counterparts), the mechanical commonality of the R platform with earlier Chrysler vehicles leads collectors to search for scrapped examples for its front disc brakes to upgrade earlier cars (such as the Dodge Dart and Plymouth Barracuda) With the low number built (in comparison to its Ford and Chevrolet competitors) and the high percentage destroyed in film and TV work or retired after police use, very few examples survive today.\n"}
{"id": "2259818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259818", "title": "Long Mott, Texas", "text": "Long Mott, Texas\n\nLong Mott is an unincorporated community in western Calhoun County, Texas, United States, located south of the junction of State Highway 185 and Farm to Market Road 2235. It is part of the Victoria, Texas Metropolitan Statistical Area.\n"}
{"id": "2259819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259819", "title": "William Crawley", "text": "William Crawley\n\nWilliam Crawley is a Belfast-born BBC journalist and broadcaster. He is the presenter of \"Talkback\", a daily radio phone-in show on BBC Radio Ulster, and he is a presenter of \"Sunday\" on BBC Radio 4. He has also made several television series for BBC Northern Ireland.\n\nWilliam Crawley was born and raised in North Belfast. Crawley was educated at Grove Primary School, Dunlambert Secondary School, Belfast Royal Academy and Queen's University, where he read philosophy (B.A., M.Phil.). He read theology (M.Div.) at Princeton Theological Seminary. He was awarded a doctorate in philosophy (Ph.D.) by The Queen’s University of Belfast, for a dissertation on the epistemology of the American philosopher Alvin Plantinga.\n\nPrior to his career in the media, he worked as a university lecturer in philosophy and theology and, having been licensed, then subsequently ordained into the ministry of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland in the mid-1990s, worked as assistant minister in First Presbyterian Church, New York City, and Fisherwick Presbyterian Church, Belfast, before serving as Presbyterian chaplain at the University of Ulster. He later resigned from the ordained ministry and from membership of the church before beginning his career as a journalist. He has described himself as \"a lapsed Protestant.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259830", "title": "Book of Roads and Kingdoms (Ibn Khordadbeh)", "text": "Book of Roads and Kingdoms (Ibn Khordadbeh)\n\nThe Book of Roads and Kingdoms (, \"Kitāb al-Masālik wa’l- Mamālik\") is a 9th-century geography text by the Persian geographer Ibn Khordadbeh. It maps and describes the major trade routes of the time within the Muslim world, and discusses distant trading regions such as Japan, Korea, and China. It was written during the reign of Al-Mu'tamid in around 870 CE, while its author was Director of Posts and Police for the Abbasid province of Djibal.\n\nThe work uses much of the Persian administrative terms, gives considerable attention to pre-Islamic Iranian history, uses \"native Iranian cosmological division system of the world\". These all show \"the existence of Iranian sources at the core of the work\". \n\nClaudius Ptolemy, and Greek and pre-Islamic Iranian history, have clear influence on the work.\n\nThe book is also referred to in English as \"The Book of Roads and Provinces\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2259842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259842", "title": "Ecclesiastical Insurance", "text": "Ecclesiastical Insurance\n\nEcclesiastical Insurance is an insurance company in the United Kingdom founded in 1887. The head office is located in Gloucester.\n\nThe company is formally named Ecclesiastical Insurance Office plc and is authorised and regulated by the FCA and PRA. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ecclesiastical Insurance Group plc which in turn is owned by Allchurches Trust, a registered charity whose objectives are to promote the Christian religion and to provide funds for other charitable purposes. Ecclesiastical Insurance Office plc has over £100m Preference Shares listed on the London Stock Exchange.\n\nIt was established by the Church of England to provide insurance cover for its buildings. It now covers a wide range of insurance business, and in 2006 it ranked 16th in liability insurance and 20th in accident insurance based on UK Net Written Premiums.\n\nCustomers include Gloucester Cathedral and St Paul's Cathedral.\n\nIn 1887, an independent business, the Ecclesiastical Buildings Fire Office, was founded by two MPs, three clergymen, a barrister and a clerk of the House of Lords and its directors comprised five clerics and five laymen. Two of the principal founders were Dean Herbert Gregory and John Duncan.\n\nThey were determined, after a series of high-profile fires had left parishes with ruined churches and no means of restoring them, that there should be a reliable fire insurance service for parishes in their time of need. One of the founding principles was to plough any profits back into charitable work.\n\nIn April 1894 the Company announced that it would add burglary and personal accident insurance to its business, and a year later, because it was no longer restricted to fire business, the company changed its name to Ecclesiastical Insurance Office.\n\nIn 1978, the company launched its first specialist policy for schools, now known as education insurance. This was at a time when schools were starting to have more responsibility for their own budgets and more equipment.\n\nEcclesiastical Insurance founded its investment management arm, Ecclesiastical Investment Management Limited, in 1988, and launched the UK's first socially responsible fund, the UK Amity fund. The investment management business rebranded to EdenTree in July 2015.\n\nEcclesiastical was awarded Chartered Insurer status for its entire UK operations by the Chartered Insurance Institute in 2013.\n\nIn 2015 the company moved its London operations from Billiter Street to new offices in Monument Place.\n\nIn 2016, Ecclesiastical celebrated a milestone of £50million donated to its charitable owner in under three years. This was celebrated by a special Thanksgiving service in Gloucester Cathedral at which a personal message of thanks from Archbishop Justin Welby was read out by Bishop Nigel Stock, honouring the achievement of the insurance group. Ecclesiastical has set itself a new target of reaching £100million for Allchurches Trust by 2020.\n\nIn March 2016, Archbishop Welby's office and Bishop Paul Butler came under considerable criticism for having followed instruction from Ecclesiastical to end contact with a sex abuse survivor. According to the findings of Ian Elliott, who led an independent review of the Church's handling of the case, the instruction from Ecclesiastical was not only reckless but ran counter to the church's stated policies. The Archbishop of Canterbury's office ignored repeated calls for help from the man after staff were told to avoid contact with him to protect the Church of England's financial interests.\n\nIn October 2017, Ecclesiastical received a letter from Bishops Paul Butler, Tim Thornton, and Alan Wilson criticising amongst other things: inconsistent advice to the Church and the practice of 'horse trade' legalism when dealing with CSA cases, with little concern for the impact upon survivors. The letter was copied to Justin Welby and John Sentamu, Archbishops of Canterbury and York, and to William Nye, Secretary General of the Church of England's Synod. The three bishops requested a meeting with Ecclesiastical to look at how the church and the insurer work together in relation to the difficulties in responding to survivors of child sex abuse. Ecclesiastical wrote a strong rebuttal of the letter and did not recognise the picture the bishops gave. Nor did they recognise the criticism previously made in the Elliott Review, which they had claimed in a previous statement on their website had a number of inaccuracies. Their main criticism of the Review was that they had not been given any input to the process of the Review and had been misrepresented. This conflict between the insurer and one of its main clients received considerable media attention.\n\nIn March 2018, the pressure group Mandate Now released a critical analysis of the Church of England's safeguarding policy in which they questioned Ecclesiastical's possible involvement in formulating the policy “which for obvious reasons of conflict of interest ought not to be allowed”. They went on to say that the influence of Ecclesiastical seemed \"omnipresent”, and that it appeared the Church's safeguarding officers might be required to gather information from survivors in order to defeat possible claims for damages.\n\nMandate Now's concerns were borne out in a statement to IICSA by Michael Angell on behalf of the insurer in 2018. His testimony included the statement that Ecclesiastical had been a regular participant in the Church of England Safeguarding Committee from the mid 1990s onwards. This committee made policy recommendations and issued safeguarding guidance within the Church. In 2000, the Church formed a joint safeguarding committee with the Methodist Church, which Ecclesiastical continued to attend. In 2012/13 the two churches returned to separate committees. Ecclesiastical has not attended either since 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259847", "title": "Channel Island milk", "text": "Channel Island milk\n\nChannel Island milk, commonly used to distinguish it from bottles of other types of milk, is a creamy, light-beige coloured milk from Jersey and Guernsey breeds of cattle. Today, Channel Island milk is produced in the UK, Australia, South Africa, Denmark, the United States and Canada as well as the Channel Islands.\n\nChannel Island milk has a higher fat (5.4 per cent) and protein (3.9 per cent) content than whole milk produced by Holstein Friesian cattle (3.9 per cent and 3.3 per cent respectively), and also contains higher levels of calcium, vitamin A and vitamin D than other types of milk. Milk from Guernsey cows is notable for the levels of beta-carotene, Omega-3 fatty acid and A2 β-casein protein.\n\nThe Guernsey and Jersey dairies each have a monopoly on milk supplies on their respective islands, and both distribute a range of full fat, semi-skimmed and skimmed milk from the local pedigree herds. In the UK, Channel Island milk and dairy products are often targeted at the premium end of the market; the UK retail market for Channel Island milk products is more limited than that in Canada and Denmark, where a wider array of yoghurts, cheeses, cream cheeses and ice creams made from Channel Island milk, in full fat and low fat forms, are sometimes available.\n"}
{"id": "2259868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259868", "title": "Wei Wei (singer)", "text": "Wei Wei (singer)\n\nWei Wei (; born 28 September 1963) is a Mandopop singer, philanthropist, and current Standing Committee Member of the Chinese Peasants' and Workers' Democratic Party since 2010. She previously served as Standing Committee Member of the All-China Youth Federation from 2005 to 2010, as China's Forestry Ambassador to the United Nations of the National Forestry and Grassland Administration from 2009 to 2010, and as Ambassador of the Chinese Football Association from 2008 to 2009. \n\nWei is the first Mainland Chinese pop singer after the reform and opening-up period initiated under Deng Xiaoping to have competed abroad officially representing the People's Republic of China, the first Zhuang ethnic minority artist to represent China internationally, the first woman to be selected as China's Olympic Ambassador, and one of China's earliest artists to use the internet for the digital release of music. In 2015, she was awarded an honorary doctorate from the East China University of Political Science and Law and appointed Honorary Dean, and she holds a world record for the largest amount of people to perform a sing-along using sign language. She has sold an estimated 200 million records, making her one of the best-selling Mainland Chinese artist during the 1990's, and leading her to be referred to as \"China's Whitney Houston\", and \"China's Madonna\".\n\nHer breakthrough came in 1986 when she won the National Young Singers contest on Chinese television and The 24th Sopot International Song Festival in Poland, when she also won the \"Miss Photo Category\", and four years later, she was chosen to perform at the 11th Asian Games in Beijing, singing a duet with Spanish singer Julio Iglesias at the 1993 East Asian Games in Shanghai. \n\nLargely associated with sports and the Olympics, Wei has been an Olympic Ambassador for China since 1993 when the Chinese Olympic Committee applied for the games for the first time. She supported the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics by performing at major Olympic events in China and abroad, and in an internet survey conducted in 2004 regarding who should sing the theme song of the Chinese Olympics, she received the most votes. She was the only representative for Asia at the 100 Year Anniversary Show for the Olympic Games in Atlanta, USA in 1996, and has previously performed at the opening ceremony of the Shanghai World Expo, the closing ceremony of the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics, and at the opening and closing ceremonies of the 11th National Games in Nanjing, China. Her songs have become the official theme songs for major Chinese sporting events, such as in 2006 when her single \"I Want to Fly\" was appointed as the official theme song for the 2008 Olympic Sailing events held in Qingdao by the Chinese Olympic Committee and the Sailing Committee of Qingdao, and in 2007, she was named the \"Queen of Sports\" by the All-China Women's Federation.\n\nWei was born to a Zhuang family in Hohhot, Inner Mongolia to Zhang Yu, a People's Liberation Army veteran and Wei Xiuqun. While in kindergarten, she began practicing the performing arts. When she was 7 years old, her family moved to Liuzhou in Guangxi, and at the age of 14, she moved to Beijing and started to work for the China National Song & Dance Ensemble. As a young unit member her education in the performing arts continued, and included dancing, singing, playing instruments, choreography, stage design, and lighting. The unit traveled all over the country, often doing several live performances in one day. She finished her education at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, China.\n\nIn 1986, Wei won the National Young Singers contest on Chinese television with the song \"Wanna Take One More Chance to Look at You\". In 1987, she won the 24th Sopot International Music Festival in Poland as China's first representative to an international pop competition. In 1986 at the age of she was awarded a \"\"2nd Level National Performer Professional Qualification Certificate\"\" by the Ministry of Culture of the People's Republic of China. A year after, the ministry awarded her with a \"\"1st Level National Performer Professional Qualification Certificate\"\", the highest professional qualification of her field in China, equal to a Professional Doctorate, and which enabled her to teach at professor level in music academies in China.\n\nIn 1988, Wei sang the theme song for China Central Television's New Year's Gala, \"Gathering of the Year of the Dragon.\" In 1989, her rendition of the Chinese song \"Dedication of Love -\" a performance credited with truly starting her career – became a national hit in China, and she became a symbol for charity and fund-raising activities as her performance had raised enough funds to help a rural migrant worker from Anhui to recover from spinal surgery. In the same year, her song \"Today is Your Birthday\" won the Gold Medal at the Jian Brand Cup and Beijing Radio Song Competition, and has since been used as a theme song to celebrate China's National Day. In 1990, her new single \"Asian Mighty Winds\" was selected as the theme of the 1990 Asian Games, and she performed it alongside Chinese singer Liu Huan. The song quickly became another national hit, and Wei was dubbed the \"Queen of Sports\" by the Provincial Government of Guangxi, Liuzhou. That same year, she starred in the film \"The Story of A Songstress\" alongside Chinese actor Zhang Guoli, and performed at the \"Miss Asia Pageant\" show in Hong Kong in 1992, also becoming the lead singer in the first concert tour in American major cities arranged by the China Central Song and Dance Group.\n\nIn 1993, Wei was the lead singer at the 1993 East Asian Games opening and closing ceremonies together with Spanish singer Julio Iglesias. She then performed her single \"Asian Mighty Winds\" again at the 1994 Asian Games opening show in Hiroshima, Japan, and the lyrics of her songs became the subject of academic discourse and analysis in Japan. Later that year, she represented the People's Republic of China visited Monaco to campaign for the Beijing Summer Olympic Games, and a year after, in 1994, she was named Star of the Night after her performance of her hit single \"Dedication of Love\" at the CCTV New Year's Gala in Carnegie Hall, New York. In the same year, the song \"Wind Coming From the East\" became a hit at a show in Shanghai Oriental TV, and subsequently became the TV station's theme song. Her first English album was released, titled \"The Twilight\". \n\nIn the year after her performance at Carnegie Hall, she started her concert tour \"Wei Wei and the World\", which included visits and performances in the major cities in Mainland China, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Kunming. She represented Asia and performed in front of 60,000 people at the centennial anniversary of the Olympic Games in Atlanta in 1996, and was portrayed in a CNN fifteen-minute special as the only Asian representative for the Olympic anniversary show. In 1999, Wei's compilation album \"Wei Wei's Devotion\" was the most popular pop music album in China, and she held a concert at Caesar's Palace in Paris, France to further promote the album. In 2000, she joined the Chinese Olympic Committee and represented the People's Republic of China in campaigning for the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics, and performing with the Sydney Opera and Shanghai Opera. Her rendition of \"The Same Song\" won her a Golden Phoenix Prize at the 6th China Music Television Competition. \n\nIn 2003, Wei was invited as a special guest at galas arranged in Beijing in the honor of healthcare staff after the SARS epidemic, and initiated an international management company, \"Wei Wei International Management\", in Stockholm for the purpose of further developing her international career. In 2004, she continued her performances for Olympic and sports related events, and inaugurated the construction start of the new Beijing National Stadium. During this time, she was also the main performer at the opening ceremony show for the Formula 1 Racetrack in Shanghai. At a show for the international unveiling of China's Olympic slogan \"One World, One Dream\", she performed Andrew Lloyd Webber's song \"Love Changes Everything\".\n\nIn 2006, she celebrated twenty years on stage, highlighted by the release of twenty new recordings of her 20 greatest hits. The first one, a medley that consists of parts of her five greatest hits, was launched on 8 May: the \"20X20 Dance Loop\". She also released worldwide on digital download distributor iTunes Music Store, and commenced an international tour for the celebration of the Chinese New Year, which included performances in Los Angeles, Vienna, Barcelona, and Roger's Center in Toronto, where she was welcomed by China's Ambassador to Canada, Lu Shumin and Consulate General of Toronto Chen Xiaoling. During this time, she also served as a judge on China's largest singing competition, The National Young Singers Grand Awards, and performed the Olympic theme song \"One World, One Dream\" at an Olympic Show at the Great Wall together with Olympic athletes. \n\nIn 2007, she was appointed Ambassador for the Chinese Football Association, and her single \"Go, Girl Go!\" was appointed the official theme song of the 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup. FC Barcelona players Carles Puyol, Lionel Messi, Deco and others joined Wei in the \"Go, Girl Go!\" music video as a salute to women's football players.\n\nIn 2008, she performed as part of the Fairchild Media Group, and Shanghai Media Group's \"Chinese New Year All Star Show 2008\". The show was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on 18 January 2008, and included a duet from Wei and classical-crossover soprano Giorgia Fumanti. As the year drew to a close, she collaborated with BoA, Ruth Sahanaya, Despina Vandi, Sonu, Daniela Mercury and others to remix her original hit song \"Dedication of Love\" in English.\n\nAt closing ceremony of the 2008 Summer Olympics held in Beijing, Wei performed \"Surpass\" alongside Chinese singer Sun Nan. \n\nThroughout her career, Wei has performed at a variety of charity shows. In 1991, she performed her song \"Dedication of Love\" at a charity fundraising show in China for victims of the 1998 China floods at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. In 2004 she performed \"Dedication of Love\" together with Yang Haito, a blind Chinese artist, at a charity ball for the handicapped hosted by Deng Pufang, son of the former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping. In 2005 she performed at the charity show \"The Happiness Project\" for mothers in Shenzhen, China.\n\nIn 2012, she attended a charity auction in Beijing alongside her three children to auction the dress she wore during her performance at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. It sold for a record CNY ¥300,000 (US$42,800), and all proceeds were donated to charity. In 2013, to raise funds for cancer research and to spread awareness for cancer patients, she performed \"Dedication of Love\" at the 15th Beijing Hope Run & Dash held in Chaoyang Park, Beijing to an audience of over 5585 people, for which she was awarded a world record for \"the most number of people who sang \"Dedication of Love\" using sign language at the same time in the world\" by the World Record Association of Hong Kong.\n\nWei married American composer Michael Joseph Smith in 1995, and the couple had three children, Symington W. Smith, Remington W. Smith & Vinson W. Smith. They divorced in 2005, and she moved with her children from Stockholm, Sweden to Beijing, China. \n\nWei has been a long-time friend of Hong Kong actor Jackie Chan, who appeared with her and her children at a charity event in Beijing, and Chinese-Singaporean actress Gong Li, who in pictures released by Xinhua News Agency in 2014 showed Gong embracing Wei's eldest son, Symington, at Wei's home in Beijing. \n\nIn December 2009, Swedish tax authorities accused Wei of owing an estimated SEK 80–104 million Swedish kronor (approximately USD $10 million) in taxes to the Swedish government for incomes earned in China during the years 2003–2008. In response, she released a public letter addressed to then-Prime Minister of Sweden, Fredrik Reinfeld, asking for help and arguing that the tax authorities had illegally confiscated her assets. The Swedish tax authority's accusations were ultimately rejected by Swedish courts due to a lack of concrete facts.\n"}
{"id": "2259877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259877", "title": "Guo Si", "text": "Guo Si\n\nGuo Si () (died 197), also known as Guo Duo, was a military general serving under the warlord Dong Zhuo during the late Eastern Han dynasty of China. He assisted Dong Zhuo in his many campaigns and served as a subordinate of Dong Zhuo's son-in-law, Niu Fu, after Dong Zhuo relocated the imperial capital to Chang'an. He later became one of the \"de facto\" regents of Emperor Xian, wherein they occupied the capital and held the emperor and imperial officials hostage. However, his downfall came when he quarrelled with his co-regent, Li Jue. He and Li Jue were ultimately defeated by Yang Feng and Dong Cheng, who assisted the emperor to flee the capital. Guo Si was eventually betrayed and murdered by one of his subordinates.\n\nAs an early supporter of Dong Zhuo, he participated most of Dong Zhuo's major battles, including the subjugation of the Yellow Turban rebels, the battle of Liang Province, and the war with the coalition against Dong Zhuo.\n\nAt the start of the war with the eastern warlords, Guo Si was sent to assist Niu Fu to develop Mei County into an invincible citadel, thus, they built up fortifications and stored 30 years of food supply there before Dong Zhuo moved the capital to Chang'an from Luoyang. After Hu Zhen and Lü Bu suffered a major defeat from the hands of Sun Jian and Dong Zhuo's retreat to Chang'an, Niu Fu, Guo Si and Li Jue were ordered to station in Shan (present-day Shaanxi), which was the front against the anti-Dong-Zhuo coalition. At the time the alliance was having internal conflicts and did not focus on fighting Guo Si and Li Jue, so the senior general Zhu Jun could only ask his old friend, Tao Qian to give him a hand in a futile effort to fight the forces of Dong Zhuo. Tao Qian, despite having a general alliance with Dong Zhuo, indeed sent 3,000 elite Danyang troops to help Zhu Jun in his battle against Guo Si and Li Jue at Zhongmu County, where Zhu Jun was totally crushed. Guo Si, Li Jue and Zhang Ji then performed raids around Chenliu and Yingchuan commanderies, wherein Cao Cao was unable to stop them, and many residents there were hijacked and enslaved.\n\nBecause he was stationed outside the capital, Guo Si was able to return to Liang Province when Dong Zhuo was assassinated by Lü Bu. Along with his comrades Fan Chou, Li Jue and Zhang Ji, Guo Si initially wanted to make Niu Fu their leader, but the latter was so scared and listened to his subordinate, Huchi'er (), to flee with the treasures he had been saved all his life. However, Huchi'er murdered Niu Fu after he decided to take the wealth of his master for himself. Guo Si, along the other three generals, then pleaded the \"de facto\" leader of the Han central government, Wang Yun, for amnesty since they were Dong Zhuo's most trusted aides. To the exact contrary, Wang Yun granted amnesty to all of Dong Zhuo's former subordinates except for these four, so they planned to relinquish their positions and go into hiding. Jia Xu suggested that they should take this opportunity to launch a strike at Chang'an since the Liang Province forces' power base was actually unscathed after the coup. At the beginning of their campaign, not much Liang Province residents joined them, only several thousands soldiers followed the four, but the number grew along the way. Wang Yun sent Xu Rong and Hu Zhen to fight the Liang Province forces en route at An'feng, but Xu was killed in the first encounter and Hu led his troops (which originated from Liang) to join the rebels and the size of the rebel force was now greatly inflated. A fierce battle was fought outside the walls of Chang'an, where Guo Si personally duelled Lü Bu. Even Guo Si himself was defeated and was pierced by Lü Bu's spear, but he survived the wound and the Liang Province army pushed Lu back into the city. The four then surrounded Chang'an with their army and lied that they would leave if Wang Yun would go with them. Wang Yun, thinking that the four rebels only wanted his life and did not have the intention of conquering the city, committed suicide. After Wang Yun's death, the rebels managed to take control of Chang'an and secured power for themselves within the Han central government by taking Emperor Xian hostage and selecting imperial officials for the emperor.\n\nThe four then demanded high ranks, and Guo Si and Li Jue even thought about assassinating the emperor to take the throne, however was dissuaded from doing so by Fan Chou and Zhang Ji. With Li Jue as the leader of the rebels, the four took almost complete control of the court and demoted and promoted anyone at will.\n\nWhen the western forces of Han Sui, Ma Teng and Liu Yan formed an alliance to challenge the Han central government controlled by the four, Li Jue sent his nephew Li Li (), Guo Si and Fan Chou to counter the allied forces. The allied forces suffered a major defeat with casualties numbering up to 10,000 at a location about 13 miles west of Chang'an. Knowing the allied forces were low on supplies, Li Li asked Fan Chou to pursuit and wipe the enemy out, but Fan Chou refused because of his friendship with Han Sui. Li Li later reported this incident to Li Jue upon returning to Chang'an. Li Jue then assembled the officers for a banquet, wherein he openly executed Fan Chou for betrayal and causing the Liang Province officers to distrust him.\n\nAt the time, Guo Si's jealous wife became suspicious that her husband was having an affair with one of Li Jue's concubines so she decided to prevent her husband from attending Li Jue's banquets. She poisoned the gifts of food that Li Jue had given to them and convinced her husband that he should not be so trusting of Li Jue. Later, Guo Si became very drunk at another one of Li Jue's banquets and suddenly convinced himself that he was poisoned. He ingested liquid feces to force himself to vomit, which greatly offended Li Jue and drove the two leaders to battle. The situation ended up with Li Jue kidnapping Emperor Xian and Guo Si kidnapping the emperor's ministers.\n\nHowever, the situation was totally out of control: there were several tens of battles fought everyday in the alleys or market at its peak. The frequent battles had made Chang'an untenable for its inhabitants. Therefore, Emperor Xian asked Jia Xu to request a truce between Guo Si and Li Jue, who listened to Jia Xu and temporarily ceased fighting.\n\nTaking advantage of the chaos and massive confusion caused by the civil war between Li Jue and Guo Si, Emperor Xian sneaked out of Chang'an and was rescued by the leader of the White Wave Bandits, Yang Feng. Yang Feng, along with Dong Cheng, Yang Ding and Xu Huang, defeated Guo Si, who had led his troops in pursuit of the emperor. Guo Si returned to Li Jue to make a last-ditch effort to recapture Emperor Xian. Li Jue and Guo Si gained initial success by defeating Yang Ding, but were driven back by Yang Feng and Dong Cheng. Since then, Guo Si returned to Mei County and never took further action to retrieve the emperor, while Li Jue occupied Chang'an.\n\nCao Cao became the next hegemonist to seize control of Emperor Xian as Dong Zhuo, Li Jue and Guo Si had done before him. The power of Li Jue and Guo Si had greatly diminished resulting from previous infighting and the loss of Emperor Xian. Guo Si was eventually slain by his subordinate Wu Xi (), who led his remnants to join Li Jue in 197.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259881", "title": "Rajshahi District", "text": "Rajshahi District\n\nRajshahi District () is a district in mid-western Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rajshahi Division. The metropolitan city of Rajshahi is in Rajshahi District.\n\nRajshahi region was ruled by the Puṭhia Raj family based in the Puṭhia Rajbaɽi. The Mughal Emperor Akbar had given the Rajshahi region to the Puṭhia Raj family to govern, the governor was Pitambar. The Puṭhia family was given the title of Raja by the Mughal Emperor Jahangir. Rajshahi District was established in 1772. Parts of the districts eventually became Bogura district, Malda district, Natore district, Naogaon district, Nawabganj district, and Pabna district. On 1 April 1876 Rajshahi town was made into municipal town. During the Bangladesh Liberation war in 1971, the town was the site of battles between the Mukti Bahini and Pakistan Army. Pakistan Army fought a battle against the Mukti Bahini on 30 March 1971 which resulted in the death of East Pakistan Rifles member. Between 26 and 30 March, 31 individuals in Godagaɽi upazila were killed by Pakistan Army. On 13 April Pakistan Army killed Rajshahi Cadet College Professor AB Siddiqi. Pakistan Army attacked Tahirpur Haṭ in Bagmara upazila on 24 May and killed 25 people. Mukti Bahini commander Havilder Shafiq led an attack on Pakistan Army boat on 8 August killing 18 Pakistan Army personal. Pakistan Army killed two members of Bangladesh Ansar in a war of attrition. Pakistan Army established a camp in the Zoha Hall of Rajshahi University where they massacred hundreds of civilians. Pakistan Army had also established camps inside Rajshahi Cadet College, Roy Saheb brickfield, Sardaha Pilot School, and Sardah Police Academy. The Pakistan Army tortured members of Mukti Bahini and civilians in the camps. The Pakistan Army also killed hundreds of refugees on the banks of Padma river who were fleeing to India. In a fight between Mukti Bahini and Pakistan Army near Kabasmul, a Pakistan Army major was killed. Pakistan Army retaliated by killing 44 civilians in Gaganbari and Palsa. The Pakistan Army stationed in Pabna and Rajshahi districts surrendered on 18 December 1971, two days after Pakistani forces in Bangladesh signed the Pakistani instrument of Surrender in Dhaka on 16 December 1971. Pakistani military surrendered to Indian Army Captain Nanda in Naṭore. The Pakistan Army camp in Rajshahi University was taken over by Mukti Bahini members 0n 17 December after fighting them. Surrender ceremonies took place on 20 December.\n\nRajshahi town was upgraded to a Municipal Corporation on 13 August 1987. In 1997 the government of Bangladesh made Rajshahi town into a full city corporation, Rajshahi City Corporation. In 2016 Rezaul Karim Siddiquee, a Professor at University of Rajshahi, and a 65 year old Sufi Preacher, Shahidullah, were killed by Islamic extremists.\n\nRajshahi district is bounded by Naogaon District to the north, Natore District to the east, and Chapai Nababganj District and the river Padma to the south.\n\nThere are ten rivers in this district, totaling 146 km in length.\nThe main river is the Padma River (Ganges). Some others are Mahananda, Baral and Barnai river.\n\nRajshahi District has a total population of 2,286,874 of whom 1,184,448 are male and 1,102,426 are female. Muslims are 2,136,702; Hindus are 112,643; Buddhists are 22,765; Christians are 599 while 14,165 identify their religion as other. The district has a high literacy rate with average literacy rate of 99.50%. Male literacy is 99.6% while female literacy is 99.3%.\n\nSub-district or upazilas and thanas of Rajshahi are\n\nRajshahi district has well organized internal communication as well as connection to other parts of the country. There are 96 metalled roads with a total length of about 1270 km, 108 semi-metalled roads of about 546 km length, and six railways of about 63 km total length.\n\nRajshahi Metropolitan is widely known as Silk City of Bangladesh, the Bangladesh Sericulture Development Board (In Bengali : Jatio Resham Board) is situated at Rajshahi. There are seven silk factories in the BSCIC Industrial Town in Rajshahi. Also an Inter-City train is named Silk City express after Rajshahi. The train communicates Rajshahi to Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh. Rajshahi is notable in Bangladesh for producing Mango and Silk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259883", "title": "AIK Fotboll (women)", "text": "AIK Fotboll (women)\n\nAIK Fotboll Damer is a Swedish women's association football club from Stockholm, currently competing in the Elitettan. The team, a section of AIK, is affiliated to the Stockholms Fotbollförbund and plays in the Skytteholms IP in Solna, Stockholm.\n\nFounded in 1970, AIK first earned promotion to the Damallsvenskan in 1992, and avoided relegation for two seasons before ending second to last in . A decade passed before the team was back for the . AIK was promptly relegated but earned its third promotion the next year. The following years marked the team's major successes yet, with AIK reaching the national Cup's final in 2007, which they lost 4–3 against Umeå IK, and ending 4th in . After four years in top flight AIK was relegated in but recovered the category for the 2012 season after topping the Swedish First Division's Norrettan Group. They were relegated to the Norrettan after the 2012 season after finishing in last position. They regained promotion to the Damallsvenskan the following season. They were relegated to the Elitettan, the Swedish second division in 2015.\n\n\"For details of current and former players, see .\"\n\nIn recent seasons AIK Fotboll Dam have had the following average attendances:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259884", "title": "Sharis Cid", "text": "Sharis Cid\n\nSharis Cid (born 5 September 1970 in Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico) is a Mexican actress who has participated in several telenovelas, like \"DKDA\", \"Salud, Dinero y Amor\" and \"La Intrusa\". She was also a singer in \"Roll\" and \"DKDA\".\n\nSharis has a 15-year-old daughter named Kristal. Sharis was also in \"Big Brother VIP\", third season. She did not win and was the character that cried the most in the show. She likes to travel to Spain and Argentina. She has two younger brothers, Sergio and Ricardo. They all live in Mexico. Sharis was also in a play in Mexico City with Jorge Ortiz de Pineda.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259894", "title": "Mazzio's", "text": "Mazzio's\n\nMazzio's Corporation is the parent company of Mazzio's Italian Eatery and the former parent company of Zio's Italian Kitchen. In November 2007, Zio's Italian Kitchen was sold to a private company. Mazzio's specializes in pizzas, pastas, sandwiches, and occasionally other specialty items.\n\nMazzio's began as a pizza parlor and is located throughout Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Iowa, Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee, Mississippi, Georgia, and Illinois. The sole Mazzio's in Louisiana, located in Shreveport, closed in the mid-1990s. It was first founded in 1961, when a young school teacher named Ken Selby opened a restaurant named The Pizza Parlor at 3024 East 11th Street in Tulsa, Oklahoma, which is still operating as a Mazzios location today. In 1965, Selby opened a second location at 15th and Sheridan in Tulsa (also still operating as Mazzios) and changed the name to Ken's Pizza. By 1975, there were more than 100 franchise locations in and around Oklahoma. Zio's Italian Kitchen is located in Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, New Mexico and Texas.\n\nAs the founder of the Ken's Pizza chain found in and around the Tulsa, Oklahoma area. Only franchised Ken's Pizzas remain. In August 2008, Mazzio's Corporation opened a new full service, contemporary, casual Italian concept called Oliveto Italian Bistro in Tulsa.\n\nFounded in 1961 by school teacher Ken Selby, who ran his new business virtually alone and after teaching a full day as well. Four years later in 1965, Selby made pizza his full-time job. He opened a second location, which exceeded the success of his first. Plus, the name changed to Ken's Pizza that solidly branded Selby's popular special recipe sauce and thin crust. By 1975, the links of his two starting stores steadily grew to a strong chain of over 100 company and franchise locations, inside and outside of Oklahoma.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Selby conceived a new business approach. His idea called for more square footage of casual dining space, an expanded menu, thicker pizza served with much more meats and cheeses, sub sandwiches along with a salad bar.\n\nThat new concept was Mazzio's Pizza. In ten years, the Mazzio's chain grew to over 150 locations. Presently, the concept features 165 units in ten states.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259895", "title": "Homer Laughlin", "text": "Homer Laughlin\n\nHomer Laughlin (March 23, 1843 – January 10, 1913) was an American businessman and potter who, with his brother Shakespeare, formed the Laughlin Pottery Company in 1871 in Newell, West Virginia.\n\nHomer Laughlin was born in Little Beaver Ohio on March 23, 1843, he son of a miller, merchant and postmaster, Matthew Laughlin (1799–1876), of Scotch-Irish descent, and Maria (\"née\" Moore; 1814–1888), Homer Laughlin was educated at public schools and later at Neville Institute (now defunct). He did Civil War service from 1862 to 1865. A large part of his service was on detached duty as expert recorder of important military tribunals and he participated in the engagements around Murfreesboro.\n\nAfter he was mustered out of the army, he worked in retail in Pittsburgh for a while, and later he worked in petroleum development in Pennsylvania for a year, boring twelve oil wells. He then became a travelling salesman of Rockingham style crockery throughout the Midwest.\n\nHomer then moved to New York where he worked with his brother Shakespeare Moore Laughlin as an importer of English earthenware. In 1873, they built a pottery in East Liverpool, Ohio, which they ran as Laughlin Brothers until 1879, when Homer bought out Shakespeare. Their crockery became so popular that the company was accused of counterfeiting English trademarks by British manufacturers. In response to this accusation, Laughlin devised an anti-English trademark of a lion supine mounted by a rampant eagle standing on the lion's belly. The company became the largest manufacturer of crockery in the country.\n\nLaughlin Pottery then became the Homer Laughlin China Company. In 1889, William Edwin Wells joined Homer Laughlin, and seven years later the two incorporated the company. Laughlin sold his interest to Wells shortly thereafter. The company moved operations across the Ohio River to West Virginia land purchased from the Newell family. Laughlin moved to Los Angeles in 1897, where he developed the Homer Laughlin Building on Broadway, the first fire-proof office building in Southern California. It was also the first reinforced concrete building erected in Southern California. Laughlin was an intimate friend of President William McKinley for over thirty years and presided over the reception committee when McKinley visited Los Angeles.\n\nLaughlin was president of the U.S. Potters' Association for many years. He was a member of the Republican Club of New York, the California Club, Los Angeles, the Allegheny Commandery No. 35, Knights Templar, and an honorary life member of the Girvan Encampment of Glasgow, Knights Templar of Scotland.\n\nThe Homer Laughlin China Co. moved all operations to Newell, West Virginia, in 1907. Operations continue in that location today.\n\nOn June 18, 1875 Laughlin married Cornelia Battenberg (1846-1907) at Wellsville, Ohio. They had three children, Homer, Jr., Nanette (1883-1891) and Gwendolyn (1886-May 19, 1942). Gwendolyn lived in Los Angeles from the age of 10 when her parents retired there. They bought a large mansion, now demolished, at 666 West Adams Boulevard. At one time Gwendolyn was on the board of directors of Children's Hospital Los Angeles. Homer Laughlin Jr. attended Stanford University, where he married Ada Edwards, a physical culture instructor, in the university chapel.\n\nHomer Laughlin died of pneumonia on January 10, 1913 after an operation for appendicitis. He is interred in Inglewood Park Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259912", "title": "Planner", "text": "Planner\n\nPlanner may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2259924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259924", "title": "Dutch Association for Public Administration", "text": "Dutch Association for Public Administration\n\nThe Vereniging voor Bestuurskunde (Dutch Association for Public Administration) was established in 1973 as a platform for people interested in the field of public administration. It aims to give people the opportunity to gain knowledge about developments in the field of public administration and discuss these with each other.\n\nAt this moment the Vereniging voor Bestuurskunde (Dutch Association for Public Administration) has about 1,000 individual and institutional members. Among them are students, scientists and practitioners in the field of public administration. Members of the last category could be management consultants, civil servants, and others that are interested in public administration.\n\nThe Vereniging voor Bestuurskunde (Dutch Association for Public Administration) aims to play a distinct role in the debate about the developments of public administration in the Netherlands and in more international contexts. Therefore, the Vereniging voor Bestuurskunde (Dutch Association for Public Administration) both tries to generate knowledge about public administration and give the opportunity to engage in debates about opportune topics. In these debates scientific and practical insights are brought together because of the mixed character of the members of the Vereniging voor Bestuurskunde (Dutch Association for Public Administration).\n\nActivities of the Vereniging voor Bestuurskunde (Dutch Association for Public Administration) include:\n\nThrough all these activities, the Vereniging voor Bestuurskunde (Dutch Association for Public Administration) hopes to build a bridge between the practice and the science of public administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259929", "title": "Vancouver Folk Music Festival", "text": "Vancouver Folk Music Festival\n\nThe Vancouver Folk Music Festival (VFMF), founded in 1978, is an outdoor multistage music festival, located at Jericho Beach Park on the west side of Vancouver, British Columbia. It takes place annually, on the third weekend of July.\n\nIt has attracted artists from all over the world and from all walks of life, including Adam Cohen, Ani Difranco, Utah Phillips, Ricky Pinball, Tuvan Throat singers, Sarah Harmer, Veda Hille, Feist, K'naan, and Ferron, among many others. In addition to folk music, the festival features bluegrass, world, blues, Celtic, Americana, soul, rock and pop music.\n\nThe VFMF is produced with the help of over 1,500 volunteers each year, and attracts an audience of over 38,000 over three days.\n\nThe 39th annual festival was held July 15–17, 2016.\n\nThe 38th annual festival was held July 17–19, 2015.\n\n\nThe 37th annual festival was held July 18–20, 2014.\nThe 36th annual festival was held July 19–21, 2013.\n\nThe 35th annual festival was held July 13–15, 2012.\nThe 34th annual festival was held July 15–17, 2011.\n\n\nThe 33rd annual festival was held July 16–18, 2010. Artists included:\n\n\nThe 32nd annual festival was held on July 17–19, 2009.\n\n\n\nThe 31st annual festival was held from July 18–20, 2008. Artists included:\nThe 30th annual festival was held from July 13–15, 2007.\n\n\n\nThe 29th annual VFMF was held from July 14–16, 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259949", "title": "Quo Vadis (band)", "text": "Quo Vadis (band)\n\nQuo Vadis was a melodic death metal band from Montreal, Quebec, Canada, formed in 1992 by Bart Frydrychowicz, Yanic Bercier, and Arie Itman, named after the novel by Polish writer Henryk Sienkiewicz. Since its inception, the band released three studio albums, one compilation album, one demo, one live DVD, one live album and two videos. Not to be confused with another technical death metal band from Poland, bearing the same name.\n\nQuo Vadis was formed in 1992 by guitarists and vocalists Bart Frydrychowicz and Arie Itman and drummer Yanic Bercier. Initially the band's music consisted of Metallica and Megadeth covers. However, over time, the band began to write originals and incorporate them into their live shows. By 1995, the band had written several originals and wanted to record a demo. Bassist Remy Beauchamp was recruited as a permanent member after the band tried out 17 others and soprano vocalist Sebrina Lipari performed on certain songs live. The \"Quo Vadis Demo\" was released on cassette on March 21, 1995 through VomiT Productions and helped the band establish themselves in the Montreal metal community.\n\nIn early 1996, Quo Vadis headed back into the studio and recorded their debut album with Pierre Rémillard, who had previously worked with Cryptopsy, as producer. On April 10, 1996, \"Forever...\" was released and was received favorably by both fans and critics, leading Earth AD Records in Germany and Immortal Records in Poland to sign licensing deals with Quo Vadis. Bart said of the album, \"We recorded a demo which was released as an EP on cassette last year. The reaction was very positive. We were still searching for direction at that time, experimenting with keyboards and femme vox. The music is much more focused now as we have found our sound. Forever... is much more aggressive then the EP was, it's much more melodic and intricate. That may sound like a contradiction but that is the case. I think we had more to say as musicians this time in the studio as well. Our objective was to keep the aggression and not to loose our edge. I think we captured that quite well, at the same time setting free our artistic side. It's pretty weird. You have to listen to both to really understand.\"\n\nAfter signing onto Hypnotic Records in 1999, Quo Vadis received a budget of around $20,000 to record their second album. Recorded at Victor Studios and produced again by Quo Vadis and Pierre Rémillard, \"Day into Night\" was released on March 30, 2000 in Canada. Whereas the composing duties for Forever were credited to all members, a majority of the songs on the Day Into Night album were in fact written and recorded by Arie. However, due to logistical problems, the album was released to Europe in December. To promote the album a video for \"Dysgenics\" was made. Remy commented on the making of the video, \"It was long! We did two days of shooting. It's not the most pleasant thing to do lipsing and pretend to be playing, but it's all worth it in the end. What's really fun is the editing, seeing the whole thing take shape. We did a video release in Music Plus studios in December, but what people saw that day wasn't the finished version. We changed it a lot since and it looks really cool.\" \"Day into Night\" also sold much more than \"Forever...\"; Bart compared them: \"The reactions have been excellent, to give you an idea, we sold as many copies of the new album in the 6 months as of Forever... in 2 years.\"\n\nThe sound of the album was notably different than \"Forever\" as the female vocals and violins had disappeared and the band's focus had shifted away from melody towards more technicality and progressiveness, featuring more complex song structures and time signature changes. Remy Beauchamp elaborated, \"Basically, it was over three years between the recordings of both albums so within that time, the music we listen to has changed. Also, we all improved on our instruments... The female vocals are just something we tried a long time ago. The song was actually written in 1994, and then every band started doing it so we decided to drop it. The violin is not out definitely though, we might be putting some on our next album but for 'Day Into Night', we wanted to have a good heavy album, no extras.\" Bart said that \"the production is much better; we spent 3 months in the studio as opposed to a week and a half... Our budget helped as well - we basically spent ten times the amount that we spent on Forever...\" He also said, \"One thing that many fans asked about... was why there was no violin. At the time we wanted to distance ourselves from all the bands that filled space in their music with different instruments as opposed to writing good music that stood on its own. We did the violin thing five years ago when the idea was a new concept so we wanted to move in. In face, we did record a violin piece for the album but chose not to include it for the reason above. Too many bands with violins. We wanted Day into Night to be heavy and kick ass and not diluted by association.\"\n\nIn 2001, Quo Vadis released \"Passage in Time\", a compilation album, under Skyscraper Music. The compilation album featured the entire \"Quo Vadis Demo\", two live tracks, two remixes, one new song and the \"Dysgenics\" video. Remy commented on the album, \"The demo hasn't been available for over three years and many fans were asking for it so we decided we might as well do something special if we were to re-release it. There will be a whole multimedia-section with it too. It will be an interesting package.\"\n\nIn 2002, Yanic Bercier relocated to Tennessee, United States for work but remained in the band, although not attending a single practice after August 2002. Bart asserted, \"Yanic is one of the most solid and reliable people I've ever known... We are in touch multiple times a day and he participates in the band... Our rehearsals are at the live shows we play... Yanic makes great efforts to stay in touch, practice, to fly in for all the shows, mixing, mastering, etc.\"\n\nIn the same year, vocalist and guitarist Arie as well as bassist Remy quit the band. According to Bart this decision was influenced by several factors; \"I had wanted to bring in someone into the band for vocals all the way back in 2001, this was not possible at the time as some ex-members of the band felt that it would diminish their importance or feel threatened.\" He added, \"...you see, back in 2002, we weren't expecting all this to happen a month before recording - and to have to write the other half of the album in 4 weeks... if there had been no changes at all, we would have had to deal with similar issues anyway. That's because, little did we know at the time, the other guitarist had only one song ready a month before studio (despite telling us he had material for four songs) so either way we would have had four weeks to write the rest of the album. Maybe he chose to deal with it by leaving the band, I don't know and I don't really care.\"\n\nQuo Vadis then recruited Cryptopsy guitarist Alex Auburn for the remainder of 2002 to take over Arie's guitar duties. Will Seghers saw the band perform at the Metropolis, their first show after the line-up changes. After about a year he joined the band temporarily, replacing Alex who had to leave due to his commitments with Cryptopsy.\n\nInstead of searching for and auditioning bassists, Bart decided to opt for an already established name. In 2003, Bart emailed Steve Di Giorgio asking, \"Would you be interested in doing session work in Canada?\" Steve agreed and Bart sent him info on the band and their music. After Steve finished his tour with Testament, he met with Bart for the first time in the Montreal Airport.\n\nFor vocals, Quo Vadis recruited Stéphane Paré to replace Arie. Bart praised his vocals, saying, \"In any case, the most important issue was to fix the weak delivery of vocals live. And that's been addressed when Stéphane came in.\" This new line-up was completed by the addition of Roxanne Constantin, formerly of Negativa, on keyboards, soprano and alto vocals.\n\nAlthough the album was released on November 4, 2004, \"Defiant Imagination\" was written much earlier. By 2002, the song structures had been finalized and the drums were recorded in September 2002, and the bass in August 2003 at Wildsound Studios with Pierre Rémillard as the sound engineer. Cellos were recorded in October 2003 by POJPOWJ. The guitars were recorded sporadically between September 2002 and January 2004 and the choir and the vocals were recorded in January 2004. By May 2004, the entire album had been mixed by Jim Morris and mastered by Bernard Belley between June and September 2004.\n\nBecause the drums were recorded prior to the guitars, Bart had to write his guitar riffs so that they would complement the drums and not vice versa. Bart elaborated, \"Following the September sessions I went back to work out the harmonies and write a whole new set of guitars trying to see them from a different point of view. The main challenge was to stay within the parameters of the drums - either that or we would have to re-record them again. So I had to be very creative to make the songs interesting without introducing new sections or tempo changes. This is why there are so many harmonies and counter melodies. It was challenging - often I would just jam to the recorded tracks for a long time trying to find a different vibe then that already recorded... this is best apparent on To the Bitter End or Tunnel Effect. If you listen to both guitars, they're doing widely different things yet each other really well.\"\n\nThe title of the album was initially \"To the Bitter End\" as the band intended to \"record, or mix, or master until we're 100% happy and NOT settle for compromises\". Bart explained that the artwork did not fit with the title so the band thought of a newer title and decided upon \"Defiant Imagination\".\n\nIn 2005, \"Defiant Indoctrination\", a triple DVD documenting a concert in Montreal on 7 May 2005 was released. Produced by Bart and Roxy, the first two DVDs featured the concert, in which \"Defiant Imagination\" was performed in its entirety along with various other tracks from previous albums, and the third DVD contained drum footage of the entire show, focusing entirely on Yanic Bercier. The mix was handled by Jean-Francois Dagenais (Kataklysm, Misery Index) and Bart. Several guest musicians were featured on the DVD including the famous Quebec cellist Claude Lamothe, Alex Auburn of Cryptopsy fame, bassist Dominique \"Forest\" Lapointe of Augury/Atheretic/Negativa, and a classical choir and violinist.\n\nIn early 2006, William Seghers left the band in order to concentrate on Neuraxis and local progressive metal guitarist Marc-André Gingras of the MAG project was brought in to replace him. In summer 2006, Bart built his own home studio, 40 West Studio, and began working as a producer there with Roxanne as the studio technician. In November 2006, the official Quo Vadis forum was launched. In January 2007, Quo Vadis, along with Kataklysm, toured both Western Europe and Eastern Europe for the first time.\n\nOn May 12, 2007, Quo Vadis released \"Live in Montreal\", a live album containing the audio of the 2005 DVD \"Defiant Indoctrination\". In November 2007, Bart released a guitar and bass tabulature book for \"Defiant Imagination\" and was sponsored by German amp manufacturer, ENGL.\n\nOn 6 September 2008, Quo Vadis played a concert at The Medley in Montreal, at which Stéphane Paré confirmed that Yanic and him would be leaving the band, leaving Bart as the only original member still left in the band. Bart speculated that the distance between the band and Yanic contributed to his departure; \"With regard to Yanic, I know it was a very difficult decision to make on his part. People change, priorities change, personal situations change and he's been flying in from Tennessee for all the shows so you can imagine with the recent developments in the US/gas prices/travel and the fact that we were working remotely on the new record had probably something to do with it. I guess sometimes you have to make difficult decisions and this one was Yanic's. For sure on my end I will miss him on stage and working with him because he's been like a brother to me for 15 years and we've been through so much together.\" At the same show, Bart's right knee, which had both ligaments torn away in a sports injury, gave in completely and he supported his entire weight on his left knee for the rest of the show. However, this was to no avail as eventually Rob \"The Witch\" from Necronomicon and Stephane from BCI had to carry Bart around for the rest of the set, eventually having him sit up on a chair for the remainder of the show. Stéphane proposed cutting the show short but Bart refused and played on till the end. In the following months, both his knees had to have surgery.\n\nAfter the 6 September show, with Stéphane, Yanic and Forest now gone and Bart unable to walk, rumors began to surface on the internet about Quo Vadis being disbanded entirely. However, on 15 September Bart posted a video on YouTube confirming the departures and dismissing the rumors about the break-up, adding that \"a new line-up is in place and we actually have some shows scheduled in October and November... I have been sitting on literally two albums worth of material for the past two years that we were not able to finish for various reasons.\"\n\nThis changed line-up consisted of Patrice Hamelin (of Martyr) as drummer, Trevor Birnie (of Damascus & Annex Theory) as vocalist and Roxanne Constantin (of Negativa) as bassist and keyboardist. A rough mix of a new track, \"Equilibrium\", was released on the band's Myspace page on 25 October 2008. In late 2009, Trevor Birnie left the band's line-up and was replaced with Matthew Sweeney in early 2010 on vocals.\n\nThe band was heavily inspired by Metallica and Megadeth, since they started out by covering them, as well as Carcass, Death, hard rock, classical music, thrash metal. The \"Quo Vadis Demo\" and \"Forever...\" featured violin interludes and female operatic vocals, but by the band abandoned these for \"Day into Night\" as both those things had become prevalent in metal music, according to the band members. \"Day into Night\" was more aggressive and technical than the band's previous offerings, partially due to improved musicianship. Also, guitarist and vocalist Arie was taking guitar lessons from Alex Skolnick of Testament and as a result, he played a few solos on \"Day into Night\" and added a Testament influence to the band. One of Bart's biggest influences is Chuck Schuldiner, and Gene Hoglan's playing on \"Individual Thought Patterns\" and Sean Reinert's playing on \"Human\" are two of Yanic's biggest influences. The album \"Defiant Imagination\" features two songs written about Chuck which are also dedicated to him. For bass duties on \"Defiant Imagination\", Bart had contacted Steve Di Giorgio who had played on Death's \"Individual Thought Patterns\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259964", "title": "Olneyville, Providence, Rhode Island", "text": "Olneyville, Providence, Rhode Island\n\nOlneyville is a neighborhood in Providence, Rhode Island bordered by Atwells Avenue to the north, U.S. Route 6 to the south and Rhode Island Route 10 to the east. The Woonasquatucket River runs through the southern portion of the neighborhood. The area is roughly triangular.\n\nOlneyville Square is a major traffic intersection in Olneyville, defined by the intersection of Westminster Street, Broadway, Hartford Ave, Plainfield Street, and Manton Avenue.\n\nAboriginal people were the first people to live on the land that is now Olneyville. The Narragansett tribe established their presence on the land long before Roger Williams consulted them and founded Providence Plantations, which came to be known as Providence, RI. Nonetheless, settlement in Olneyville began at Olneyville Square in the early 18th century as a center of trade with a nearby Narragansett village. The settlement grew significantly around 1785, after Christopher Olney, for whom Olneyville is named, founded a grist mill and a paper mill on a wide part of the Woonasquatucket River. Olney was a captain during the Revolutionary War and owned a 95-acre farm in the area. By the end of the American Revolutionary War, a forge and foundry and other small industries operated in Olneyville.\n\nThrough the mid-19th century, Olneyville developed as a railroad junction and a mill district, with lots of work available. This helped attract many immigrants from overseas, including Guatemalans, Mexicans, Irish, Italians, Dominicans, Africans, Chinese, Vietnamese, and many others. However, the mill industries declined after World War II\ncausing economic decline. The construction of the Route 6 - Route 10 connector in the 1950s exacerbated these problems by separating Olneyville and other neighborhoods from the rest of the city. In the two decades that followed, Olneyville witnessed a substantial drop in its population.\n\nOn May 15, 1900, Olneyville was the site of one of the few occasions of \"raining fish\", when a late afternoon thunderstorm brought perch and bullspouts falling from the skies.\n\nIn the 1990s, Olneyville became nationally recognized as the home of the Fort Thunder artists collective and the Providence noise rock scene that included groups such as Lightning Bolt, Black Dice and Arab on Radar.\n\nFormer warehouses and mill buildings in Olneyville were home to a number of artist collectives including Fort Thunder in the 1990s. Since 2000, many vacant lots and abandoned buildings have been purchased by developers who hope to rejuvenate the area.\n\nHowever, proposals to redevelop the Olneyville area have met some local opposition, caused by fears of gentrification. In March 2007, the Olneyville Neighborhood Association (ONA) declared its opposition to plans from the United Way to move their headquarters from the East Side to 50 Valley Street in Olneyville. In July 2007, during a meeting of the Providence City Council, the ONA declared a \"tax strike\" to protest a proposed property tax increase. Residents of Olneyville and Silver Lake expressed concerns that the proposed tax increase would force poorer residents from their homes and declared that they would not pay the amount of any property tax increase.\n\nRedevelopments at places like United Way, Calender Mills, The Plant, Rising Sun mills (former National and Providence Worsted Mills), Eagle Square, US Rubber Lofts, American Locomotive Company, The WaterFire Arts Center, The Foundry (also known as Brown and Sharpe Manufacturing Company Complex, The 903, and more, though not all technically being located in Olneyville, have helped create greater means for the improvement of all aspects of the neighborhood, while maintaining its precious character and diversity. Local businesses are getting more work, improving their services, expanding their offerings, and hiring more people, and local homeowners are seeing values rise as a result of the improvement in their quality of life. The neighborhood is rising together.\n\nAlso, parks are being improved the Woonasquatucket River and Greenway are being revitalized, and the neighborhood is getting safer.\n\nChurch groups, including Puerta de Refugio, Church of the Pentecost, King's Cathedral, other non-profits such as Woonasquatucket River Watershed Council, ONE Neighborhood Builders, and other neighbors and local activists work collaboratively on neighborhood vision planning and action initiatives alongside city planners and the City of Providence.\n\nOlneyville's population, 6,495 in the 2000 US Census, is very diverse. As of the 2010 US Census, the racial and ethnic breakdown of Olneyville was\n\n61% Hispanic;\n16% White;\n13% Black or African American; \n4% Asian;\n6% Other\n63% of public school children speak a language other than English as their primary language.\n\nThe housing stock is 18% owner-occupied and 12% single-family housing units, compared with 35% and 26%, respectively, for Providence overall (US Census 2000)\n\nThe median family income is $19,046, well below the citywide average of $32,058. 41.1% of families live in poverty while nearly one in four families receives some form of public assistance.\n\nRates of lead poisoning 14% of children younger than age 6 had elevated blood lead levels, some of the highest in Providence (2004–2008 RI Department of Health, KIDSNET data).\n\n41% of households report not owning a car (US Census 2000)\n\nOnly 3% of total births were less than 2500g, one of the best rates in Providence (2007 RI Department of Health, KIDSNET data)\n\n88% of total births from 2006–2008 were to mothers with public insurance, which is one of the highest rates in Providence (1997–2008 RI Department of Health, KIDSNET data).\n\nOlneyville is divided west to east between Ward 6 and Ward 15. They are represented in the Providence City Council by Democrats Sabina Matos and Council President Pro Tempore.\n\nOlneyville is home to several unique fast-casual dining establishments, as well as common fast-food restaurants.\n\nOne such establishment is New York System. The Hot wiener is a Rhode Island specialty food created in 1927 at the still operating, New York System on Smith Street (U.S. Rt. 44) in the nearby Smith Hill neighborhood, however the Olneyville New York System, in Olneyville, is often cited as the \"definitive\" or \"quintessential\" vendor and dates to its opening by Greek immigrant Anthony Stevens in 1946.\n\nOther unique, yet well-known food establishments in Olneyville include El Rancho Grande, La Lupita, Panederia Maya, La Hacienda, Wes' Rib house, Kennedy's Fried Chicken, La Chama, Easy Entertaining Café, and Crugnale Bakery, to name a few.\n\nOlneyville is home to many great art galleries and artists' studios, including Yellow Peril and GRIN, both of which are contemporary art galleries at The Plant, 60 Valley Street, as well as performance venues like Fete Music Hall, Arcade Bar, and The Dirt Palace.\n\nThe Wilbury Theatre Group moved to its new space in Olneyville in the summer of 2017, where they perform a season of new and established plays.\n\nOlneyville Square, a city hub during the industrial years, is, again, a high-traffic area with lots of entertainment opportunities, including art and performance venues, retailers like Recycle-a-Bike and Christian Thomas Designs furniture store, restaurants, bars, churches, the Music Research Library, and the Olneyville Community Library. Olneyville Square is also home to a number of auto shops, a car wash, salons, and more. Olneyville Square is located between the intersections of Manton Avenue, Hartford Avenue, Planfield Street, Valley Street, Broadway, and Westminster Street.\n\nOlneyville has three parks, connected by the Woonasquatucket River Greenway and Bike Path. The three parks are: John Donigian Memorial Park on Valley Street, Riverside Park on Aleppo Street, and Joslin Park & Recreational area, on Florence Street.\n\nOlneyville also has at least three community gardens and one school garden. Locals plan to organize a regular, seasonal farmer's market, as well.\n\nMesser Street Grounds was home to the Providence Grays baseball team of the National League from 1878-1885.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259967", "title": "W49B", "text": "W49B\n\nW49B (also known as SNR G043.3-00.2 or 3C 398) is a nebula in Westerhout 49 (W49). The nebula is a supernova remnant, probably from a type Ib or Ic supernova that occurred around 1,000 years ago. It may have produced a gamma-ray burst and is thought to have left a black hole remnant.\n\nW49B is a supernova remnant (SNR) located roughly 33,000 light-years from Earth, Radio wavelengths show a shell four arc minutes across. There are infrared \"rings\" (about 25 light-years in diameter) forming a \"barrel\", and intense X-ray radiation coming from forbidden emission of nickel and iron in a bar along its axis. W49B is also one of the most luminous SNRs in the galaxy at gamma-ray wavelengths. It is invisible at optical wavelengths.\n\nW49B has a number of other unusual properties. It shows x-ray emission from chromium and manganese, something seen in only one other SNR. The iron in the nebula is seen only in the western half of the nebula, while other elements are distributed throughout the nebula.\n\nThe outer shell is interpreted as a wind-blown bubble of molecular hydrogen within the interstellar medium, commonly seen around hot luminous stars. Away from the galactic plane, there is little gas and it is very faint optically. The shell is around 10 parsecs across and 1.9 parsecs thick. Inside the shell are the x-ray jets. Where the southeastern jet reaches the shell there is a bow-shock.\n\nThe quantity of iron and nickel within the SNR, and its asymmetric nature, imply a jet-driven type Ib or Ic supernova produced by a star with an initial mass around . Such supernovae are thought to be the source of some long-duration gamma-ray bursts. The properties of the SNR suggest that the supernova occurred about 1,000 years ago.\n\nThe quantities of heavy elements such as chromium and manganese, produced by the explosive nucleosynthesis of silicon during the supernova itself, suggests that the explosion was not sufficiently energetic to produce a gamma-ray burst but does not rule it out entirely.\n\nThe remnant from a core collapse supernova may be a neutron star or black hole. No neutron star can be detected within W49B although it would be expected to be clearly visible. This, and the models which best reproduce the nebula, imply that the remnant is a black hole.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259972", "title": "Tegueste, Santa Cruz de Tenerife", "text": "Tegueste, Santa Cruz de Tenerife\n\nTegueste is a town and a municipality of the northeastern part of the island of Tenerife in the Santa Cruz de Tenerife province, on the Canary Islands, Spain. It is completely surrounded by the municipality of San Cristóbal de La Laguna. The town Tegueste is located 4 km northwest of San Cristóbal de La Laguna and 11 km northwest of the island capital Santa Cruz de Tenerife. Tegueste became independent from San Cristóbal de La Laguna in the 17th century.\n\nCurrently, it is thought that the place name \"Tegueste\" is related to Thagaste, a city in northern Africa where Saint Augustine of Hippo was born and a center of Berber culture.\n"}
{"id": "2259973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259973", "title": "2006 Alaska gubernatorial election", "text": "2006 Alaska gubernatorial election\n\nThe 2006 Alaska gubernatorial general election took place on November 7, 2006. The former mayor of Wasilla, Sarah Palin, was elected governor.\n\nIncumbent Frank Murkowski (R), first elected governor in 2002, ran for reelection but was defeated in a landslide in the Republican primary by former Wasilla mayor Sarah Palin on August 22, 2006. Murkowski's approval rating at the time of the election was 19%. Murkowski also faced opposition from former state lawmaker and Fairbanks businessman John Binkley.\n\nFormer two-term Governor Tony Knowles and state lawmaker Eric Croft competed for the Democratic ticket for governor. Knowles had a substantial lead over Croft, both at the polls and with fund raising.\n\n\n\n\n\nRepublican candidate Sarah Palin, Democratic candidate Tony Knowles, and independent candidate Andrew Halcro faced each other in the general election. Anchorage businessman Andrew Halcro ran as an Independent in the race for governor. Halcro has served in the Alaska State legislature in the past, and is known as a fiscal hawk. Halcro collected about 4,000 signatures to be placed on the general election ballot without party affiliation. Despite Knowles' experience, Palin's charisma and conservatism was able to win.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259976", "title": "Tombs of the Nobles (Amarna)", "text": "Tombs of the Nobles (Amarna)\n\nLocated in Middle Egypt, the Tombs of the Nobles at Amarna are the burial places of some of the powerful courtiers and persons of the city of Akhetaten.\n\nThe tombs are in 2 groups, cut into the cliffs and bluffs in the east of the dry bay of Akhetaten. There are 25 major tombs, many of them decorated and with their owners name, some are small and unfinished, others modest and unassuming. Each seems to reflect the personality and patronage of the tomb's original owner.\n\nThese tombs are located in two groups in the cliffs overlooking the city of Akhetaten, to the north and east of the city. They are split into two groups by a Wadi, and are near one of the Boundary Stelae (Stelae V).\n\nAt a short distance to the west and north of the Northern Tombs lie the remains of three large mud-brick solar altars in the form of platforms with ramps. The reason for their location is not clear. Their connection with an ancient road leading to the Northern Tombs would seem to be a sign that they were for the benefit of those buried in them.\n\nThe southern tombs are located in a series of low bluffs south and east of the main city. Associated with these tombs a recently discovered workers cemetery has been found.\n\nSome the tombs have obviously been open since antiquity, and have been used variously as burial places in the Ptolemaic times, store houses, houses and as coptic churches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259996", "title": "Oğuz Çetin", "text": "Oğuz Çetin\n\nAhmet Oğuz Çetin (born 15 February 1963) is a Turkish football manager and former player.\n\nBorn in Adapazarı, Çetin began playing football with local side Sakaryaspor. He started to play regularly for Fenerbahçe in 1988. He became one of the franchise players for Fenerbahçe and Turkish football generally. He is well known for his superior ability to organize the midfield and also had decent vision, passing and shooting skills. He is known as \"emperor\" by Turkish soccer fans. Mostly walking on the pitch, Oguz Cetin was more of a distributor. Best known for his milimetric passes, he led Fenerbahçe to championship in 1995–96 season but Fenerbahçe chairman Ali Haydar Şen released Oğuz Çetin and his fellow striker Aykut Kocaman with the thought they have been destroying the harmony in the team. Çetin played for Istanbulspor and Adanaspor after he was released by Fenerbahçe in 1996.\n\nHe was capped 70 times for the Turkey national football team. He represented his country at the 1996 UEFA European Championship in England.\n\nAfter his playing career ended, Çetin became assistant manager for Fenerbahçe in 2002. After Werner Lorant's dismissal, he worked as manager for Fenerbahçe. However, he failed to manage the team well. He also worked as manager for Gençlerbirliği and Diyarbakırspor.\n\nHe signed a one-year contract with Azerbaijani football team Khazar Lankaran in June 2014, resigning in the December of the same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260004", "title": "Nam Kiwanuka", "text": "Nam Kiwanuka\n\nNamugenyi \"Nam\" Kiwanuka is a Ugandan-Canadian television personality and journalist. \n\nKiwanuka came to Canada with her family in 1983, following the Ugandan Civil War. She was given the Christian name Mary, which she used while attending the journalism program at Ryerson University in Toronto in the mid-1990s. She was a VJ for MuchMusic from 1999 to 2003 and later hosted basketball and football programming on Rogers Sportsnet that included the weekly \"NBA XL\" program. She is currently a reporter and substitute anchor on TVOntario's newsmagazine series \"The Agenda\". Kiwanuka has volunteered overseas for War Child Canada, Journalists for Human Rights and the Canadian Red Cross.\n"}
{"id": "2260006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260006", "title": "Northwest Corridor Express Lanes", "text": "Northwest Corridor Express Lanes\n\nThe Northwest Corridor Express Lanes (formerly Northwest Corridor HOV/BRT) and locally known as the Tollercoaster, is a completed Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) project which has put Peach Pass-only toll lanes along Interstate 75 (I-75) and I-575 in the northwestern suburbs of the Atlanta metropolitan area. It carries traffic between northwest Atlanta and Cobb and Cherokee counties by adding two lanes for paying vehicles along I-75, with one continuing up a dedicated exit onto I-575 to Sixes Road (mile 11, former exit 6), and the other straight on I-75 to Hickory Grove Road, just past Wade Green Road (mile 273, former exit 118). North of the interchange where they split, the new lanes are located in the median, between the original northbound and southbound lanes. From the Perimeter (I-285 on the north side) to I-575, the road had already been built with 12 to 16 lanes, which required other plans, including via eminent domain.\n\nHOV-only exits would be built at roads which currently cross the highways, but have no access to it. Bus stations would also be built at these points, with park-and-ride parking lots. New lanes would be divided from the regular ones by concrete barriers, not just by white double-stripes as was done by GDOT inside the Perimeter. There were originally no plans to allow or even design for later contraflow lane usage for rush hours.\n\nThere were also plans to add two truck-only lanes in each direction, further expanding the highway by another six lanes (including emergency lanes). Separating traffic was proposed because it would smooth traffic and make the main lanes safer for cars. However, it would also effectively end the subsidy the industry gets by using roads which are mainly paid-for by the public (in contrast with railroads, which maintain their own tracks and pay per-mile taxes on them on top of that).\n\nCiting the enormous cost of the plan (around four billion dollars), in summer 2009 it was scaled back to putting two barrier-separated reversible lanes on I-75 to I-575, and one in the median on each road north of there. There would no longer be HOV exits on I-575, just slip roads to northbound and from southbound lanes for access to and from regular exits. It was not stated how much land would be taken on the southern portion. There was already a provision for a future HOV exit in the median at the Terrell Mill Road underpass, however the remainder has no median, only a wide left shoulder and a concrete barrier. It was also left unknown how the lanes would tie into the interchange at I-285.\n\nThe project was completed and opened to traffic on September 8, 2018. The Cobb County bus system (CobbLinc) and the state-funded commuter bus system (GRTA Xpress) shifted the bus routes previously using I-75 or I-575 to the express toll lanes. When the lanes were opened to the public on September 8 they were toll-free for a two week trial period; however, all who used the lanes during that time were still required to have a Peach Pass (which has a minimum $20 toll load, plus other fees) to access it. Unlike the northeast express lanes on I-85 in Gwinnett, the northwest lanes are still charging high-occupancy vehicles and alternative-fuel vehicles.\nIn 2018, the trade publication Roads & Bridges named the Northwest Corridor Express Lanes the number one road project of 2018 in the United States.\n\nCriticisms of the plan include adding yet more lanes to already-oversized highways, and adding traffic to smaller roads by putting exits on them. Another major criticism is that it fails to consider commuter rail, light rail, or any other rail system seriously as an alternative. There are already state-owned rail tracks running CSX freight trains parallel to I-75, and Georgia Northeastern Railroad tracks branching off parallel to I-575, which would cost far less in terms of both money and disruption from construction. Though cleaner-burning natural gas buses would likely be used, there are no plans that call for them to be trolleybuses with an overhead double-catenary system, such as in Seattle and Vancouver. Part of the problem is also that Georgia's constitution prohibits state gasoline tax money from being spent on anything except roads, which makes other alternatives very difficult to fund, even though their entire intent is to relieve roads.\n\nCobb County is also considering a bus rapid transit system, but along Cobb Parkway instead, which a study showed would worsen traffic there. The state has abandoned BRT as a part of the Northwest Corridor project, although the city of Marietta has still purchased and demolished some of the affordable apartments that were to be eliminated for one of the BRT stations.\n\nThe United States Department of Transportation awarded Cobb County a grant that will help pay for a project to install an exit ramp between the southern terminus of the express lanes and Akers Mill Road. The new ramp would improve access to Cumberland Boulevard from the express lanes. Cobb County's Department of Transportation expects to begin construction of the ramp in 2021.\n\nThe mile markings of the express lanes shares the same numbering as the mainline interstates.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260019", "title": "Catenin", "text": "Catenin\n\nCatenins are a family of proteins found in complexes with cadherin cell adhesion molecules of animal cells. The first two catenins that were identified became known as α-catenin and β-catenin. α-Catenin can bind to β-catenin and can also bind actin. β-Catenin binds the cytoplasmic domain of some cadherins. Additional catenins such as γ-catenin and δ-catenin have been identified. The name \"catenin\" was originally selected ('catena' means 'chain' in Latin) because it was suspected that catenins might link cadherins to the cytoskeleton.\n\n\nAll but α-catenin contain armadillo repeats. They exhibit a high degree of protein dynamics, alone or in complex.\n\nSeveral types of catenins work with N-cadherins to play an important role in learning and memory (\"For full article, see Cadherin-catenin complex in learning and memory\").\n\nCell-cell adhesion complexes are required for simple epithelia in higher organisms to maintain structure, function and polarity. These complexes, which help regulate cell growth in addition to creating and maintaining epithelial layers, are known as adherens junctions and they typically include at least cadherin, β-catenin, and α-catenin. Catenins play roles in cellular organization and polarity long before the development and incorporation of Wnt signaling pathways and cadherins.\n\nThe primary mechanical role of catenins is connecting cadherins to actin filaments, specifically in these adhesion junctions of epithelial cells. Most studies investigating catenin actions focus on α-catenin and β-catenin. β-catenin is particularly interesting as it plays a dual role in the cell. First of all, by binding to cadherin receptor intracellular cytoplasmic tail domains, it can act as an integral component of a protein complex in adherens junctions that helps cells maintain epithelial layers. β-catenin acts by anchoring the actin cytoskeleton to the junctions, and may possibly aid in contact inhibition signaling within the cell. For instance, when an epithelial layer is complete and the adherens junctions indicate that the cell is surrounded, β-catenin may play a role in telling the cell to stop proliferating, as there is no room for more cells in the area. Secondly, β-catenin participates in the Wnt signaling pathway as a downstream target. While the pathway is very detailed and not completely understood, in general, when Wnt is not present, GSK-3B (a member of the pathway) is able to phosphorylate β-catenin as a result of a complex formation that includes β-catenin, AXIN1, AXIN2, APC (a tumor suppressor gene product), CSNK1A1, and GSK3B. Following phosphorylation of the N-terminal Ser and Thr residues of β-catenin, BTRC promotes its ubiquitination, which causes it to be degraded by the TrCP/SKP complex. On the other hand, when Wnt is present, GSK-3B is displaced from the previously mentioned complex, causing β-catenin to not be phosphorylated, and thus not ubiquitinated. As a result, its levels in the cell are stabilized as it builds up in the cytoplasm. Eventually, some of this accumulated β-catenin will move into the nucleus with the help of Rac1. At this point, β-catenin becomes a coactivator for TCF and LEF to activate Wnt genes by displacing Groucho and HDAC transcription repressors. These gene products are important in determining cell fates during normal development and in maintaining homeostasis, or they can lead to de-regulated growth in disorders like cancer by responding to mutations in β-catenin, APC or Axin, each of which can lead to this de-regulated β-catenin level stabilization in cells.\n\nWhile less attention is directed at α-catenin in studies involving cell adhesion, it is nonetheless an important player in cellular organization, function and growth. α-catenin participates in the formation and stabilization of adherens junctions by binding to β-catenin-cadherin complexes in the cell. The exact mechanisms by which α-catenin acts in adherens junctions is still unclear; however, it is likely that α-catenin acts in concert with vinculin to bind to actin and help stabilize the junctions.\n\nF9 embryonal carcinoma cells are similar to the P19 cells shown in Figure 1 and normally have cell-to-cell adhesion mediated by E-cadherin with β-catenin bound to the cytoplasmic domain of E-cadherin. F9 cells were genetically engineered to lack β-catenin, resulting in increased association of plakoglobin with E-cadherin. In F9 cells lacking both β-catenin and plakoglobin, very little E-cadherin and α-catenin accumulated at the cell surface. Mice lacking β-catenin have defective embryos. Mice engineered to specifically have vascular endothelium cells deficient in β-catenin showed disrupted adhesion between vascular endothelial cells. Mice lacking plakoglobin have cell adhesion defects in many tissues, although β-catenin substitutes for plakoglobin at many cellular junctions. Keratinocytes engineered to not express alpha-catenin have disrupted cell adhesion and activated NF-κB. A tumor cell line with defective δ-catenin, low levels of E-cadherin and poor cell-to-cell adhesion could be restored to normal epithelial morphology and increased E-cadherin levels by expression of normal levels of functional δ-catenin.\n\nAs previously mentioned, the same properties of catenin that give it an important role in normal cell fate determination, homeostasis and growth, also make it susceptible to alterations that can lead to abnormal cell behavior and growth. Any changes in cytoskeletal organization and adhesion can lead to altered signaling, migration and a loss of contact inhibition that can promote cancer development and tumor formation. In particular, catenins have been identified to be major players in aberrant epithelial cell layer growth associated with various types of cancer. Mutations in genes encoding these proteins can lead to inactivation of cadherin cell adhesions and elimination of contact inhibition, allowing cells to proliferate and migrate, thus promoting tumorigenesis and cancer development. Catenins are known to be associated with colorectal and ovarian cancer, and they have been identified in pilomatrixoma, medulloblastoma, pleomorphic adenomas, and malignant mesothelioma.\n\nWhile less is known about the exact mechanism of α-catenin, its presence in cancer is widely felt. Through the interaction of β-catenin and α-catenin, actin and E-cadherin are linked, providing the cell with a means of stable cell adhesion. However, decreases in this adhesion ability of the cell has been linked to metastasis and tumor progression. In normal cells, α-catenin may act as a tumor suppressor and can help prevent the adhesion defects associated with cancer. On the other hand, a lack of α-catenin can promote aberrant transcription, which can lead to cancer. As a result, it can be concluded, that cancers are most often associated with decreased levels of α-catenin.\n\nβ-catenin also likely plays a significant role in various forms of cancer development. However, in contrast to α-catenin, heightened β-catenin levels may be associated with carcinogenesis. In particular, abnormal interactions between epithelial cells and the extracellular matrix are associated with the over-expression of these β-catenins and their relationship with cadherins in some cancers. Stimulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, and its role in promoting malignant tumor formations and metastases, has also been implicated in cancers.\n\nThe role of catenin in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (or EMT) has also received a lot of recent attention for its contributions to cancer development. It has been shown that HIF-1α can induce the EMT pathway, as well as the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, thus enhancing the invasive potential of LNCaP cells (human prostate cancer cells). As a result, it is possible that the EMT associated with upregulated HIF-1α is controlled by signals from this Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Catenin and EMT interactions may also play a role in hepatocellular carcinoma. VEGF-B treatment of hepatoma carcinoma cells can cause α-catenin to move from its normal location on the membrane into the nucleus and E-cadherin expression to decrease, thus promoting EMT and tumor invasiveness.\n\nThere are other physiological factors that are associated with cancer development through their interactions with catenins. For instance, higher levels of collagen XXIII have been associated with higher levels of catenins in cells. These heightened levels of collagen helped facilitate adhesions and anchorage-independent cell growth and provided evidence of collagen XXIII's role in mediating metastasis. In another example, Wnt/β-catenin signaling has been identified as activating microRNA-181s in hepatocellular carcinoma that play a role in its tumorigenesis.\n\nRecently, there have been a number of studies in the lab and in the clinic investigating new possible therapies for cancers associated with catenin. Integrin antagonists and immonochemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil plus polysaccharide-K have shown promising results. Polysaccharide K can promote apoptosis by inhibiting NF-κB activation, which is normally up-regulated, and inhibiting apoptosis, when β-catenin levels are increased in cancer. Therefore, using polysaccharide K to inhibit NF-κB activation can be used to treat patients with high β-catenin levels.\n\nIn the short-term, combining current treatment techniques with therapeutics targeting catenin-associated elements of cancer might be most effective in treating the disease. By disrupting Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways, short-term neoadjuvant radiotherapy (STNR) may help prevent clinical recurrence of the disease after surgery, but much more work is needed before an adequate treatment based on this concept can be determined.\n\nLab studies have also implicated potential therapeutic targets for future clinical studies. VEGFR-1 and EMT mediators may be ideal targets for preventing cancer development and metastasis. 5-aminosalicylate (ASA) has been shown to reduce β-catenin and its localization to the nucleus in colon cancer cells isolated from and in patients. As a result, it may be useful as a chemopreventative agent for colorectal cancer. Additionally, acyl hydrazones have been shown to inhibit the Wnt signaling characteristic of many cancers by destabilizing β-catenin, thus disrupting Wnt signaling and preventing the aberrant cell growth associated with cancer. On the other hand, some treatment concepts involve upregulating the E-cadherin/catenin adhesion system to prevent disruptions in adhesions and contact inhibition from promoting cancer metastasis. One possible way to achieve this, which has been successful in mouse models, is to use inhibitors of Ras activation in order to enhance the functionality of these adhesion systems. Other catenin, cadherin or cell cycle regulators may also be useful in treating a variety of cancers.\n\nWhile recent studies in the lab and in the clinic have provided promising results for treating various catenin-associated cancers, the Wnt/β-catenin pathway may make finding a single correct therapeutic target difficult as the pathway has been shown to elicit a variety of different actions and functions, some of which may possibly even prove to be anti-oncogenic.\n\nSummary:\n"}
{"id": "2260020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260020", "title": "Electric bus", "text": "Electric bus\n\nAn electric bus is a bus that is powered by electricity.\n\nElectric buses can store the electricity on board, or can be fed continuously from an external source. \nBuses storing electricity are majorly battery electric buses, in which the electric motor obtains energy from an on-board battery, although examples of other storage modes do exist, such as the gyrobus which uses flywheel energy storage. \nWhen electricity is not stored on board, it is supplied by contact with outside power sources. For example, overhead wires, as in the trolleybus, or with non-contact conductors on the ground, as in online electric vehicles.\nThis article mostly deals with buses storing the electricity on board.\n\nAs of 2019, 99% of the battery electric buses in the world have been deployed in China, with more than 421,000 buses on the road, which is 17% of China's total bus fleet. For comparison, the US had 300, and Europe had 2,250.\n\nElectric vehicles have been around since the 19th century. In the early 19th century, researchers in Hungary, the Netherlands, and the United States began exploring the idea of battery-powered vehicles. There had previously been progress with an electric carriage, a horseless carriage that was powered by an electric motor. However, as people wanted to get around more easily and quickly, cars became a faster and more reasonable alternative to horse-drawn carriages.\n\nIn 1835, American Thomas Davenport is credited with building the first practical electric vehicle, a small locomotive. He developed a battery-powered electric motor which he used to operate a small model car on a short section of track.\n\nThe first successful electric car was made in the United States in 1890. William Morrison of Des Moines, Iowa, built an electric vehicle that could hold up to six passengers and could reach from 6 to 12 miles per hour. Specifications for the 1890 Morrison Electric included 24 storage battery cells mounted under the front seat. The vehicle could travel for a range of 100 miles before needing to be recharged.\n\nThis initial invention helped spark interest in electric cars, and automakers started building their own versions around the globe. Due to the extreme sudden interest, electric cars reached their peak popularity by 1900 and made up a majority of all vehicles on the road.\n\nAt this time electric cars were the preferred vehicles. Gasoline-powered vehicles required a lot of effort to drive, from changing gears to starting the engine with a hand crank, as well as other cons like strong and unpleasant exhaust fumes.\n\nHowever, improvements were made to the gasoline-powered car that caused the electric car to lose some momentum. The hand crank was soon replaced with an electric starter and gasoline-powered vehicles became more affordable. Gasoline cars soon overcame the popularity of electric powered vehicles.\n\nBy 1935, electric cars practically disappeared. It was not until the 1970s when a gas shortage hit, causing gas prices to soar, that electric cars entered back into the marketplace. Gasoline-powered cars still remained more popular due to better performance and reliability.\n\nThe 1990s saw electric cars made more popular as societal concern for the environment began to rise. At the start of the 21st century, the technology of electric cars looked more promising than ever with the release of the Toyota Prius, the first majorly manufactured electric vehicle. Today, electric vehicles are on the rise and continue to advance as more Americans demand a more efficient and eco-friendly vehicle.\n\nOne of the most popular types of electric buses nowadays are battery electric buses. Battery electric buses have the electricity stored on board the vehicle in a battery. such buses can have a range of over 280 km with just one charge, however extreme temperatures and hills may reduce range. These buses are usually used as city buses due to particularities in limited range.\n\nCity driving involves a great deal of accelerating and braking. Due to this, the battery electric bus is superior to diesel bus as it can recharge most of the kinetic energy back into batteries in braking situations. This reduces brake wear on the buses and the use of electric over diesel reduces noise, air and greenhouse gas pollution in cities.\n\nWhen operating within a city, it is important to minimize the unloaded and rolling weight of the bus. This can be accomplished by using aluminium as the main construction material for a bus. Composite paneling and other lightweight materials can also be used. According to Linkkebus their fully aluminium bus construction is about 3000 kg lighter than comparably-sized modern steel buses (curb weight 9500 kg). Reducing weight allows for a greater payload and reduces wear to components such as brakes, tires, and joints bringing cost savings to the operator annually.\n\nBuses may be charged at plug in stations, or on special wireless charging pads.\n\nBuses can use capacitors instead of batteries to store their energy.\nUltracapacitors can only store about 5 percent of the energy that lithium-ion batteries hold for the same weight, limiting them to a couple of miles per charge.\nHowever ultracapacitors can charge and discharge much more rapidly than conventional batteries.\nIn vehicles that have to stop frequently and predictably as part of normal operation, energy storage based exclusively on ultracapacitors can be a solution.\n\nChina is experimenting with a new form of electric bus, known as \"Capabus\", which runs without continuous overhead lines by using power stored in large on-board electric double-layer capacitors, which are quickly recharged whenever the vehicle stops at any bus stop (under so-called electric umbrellas), and fully charged in the terminus.\n\nA few prototypes were being tested in Shanghai in early 2005. In 2006, two commercial bus routes began to use electric double-layer capacitor buses; one of them is route 11 in Shanghai. In 2009, Sinautec Automobile Technologies, based in Arlington, VA, and its Chinese partner, Shanghai Aowei Technology Development Company are testing with 17 forty-one seat Ultracap Buses serving the Greater Shanghai area since 2006 without any major technical problems. Another 60 buses will be delivered early next year with ultracapacitors that supply 10 watt-hours per kilogram.\n\nThe buses have very predictable routes and need to stop regularly, every , allowing opportunities for quick recharging.\nThe trick is to turn some bus stops along the route into charging stations. At these stations, a collector on the top of the bus rises a few feet and touches an overhead charging line. Within a couple of minutes, the ultracapacitor banks stored under the bus seats are fully charged. The buses can also capture energy from braking, and the company says that recharging stations can be equipped with solar panels. A third generation of the product, will give of range per charge or better.\n\nSinautec estimates that one of its buses has one-tenth the energy cost of a diesel bus and can achieve lifetime fuel savings of $200,000. Also, the buses use 40 percent less electricity compared to an electric trolley bus, mainly because they are lighter and have the regenerative braking benefits. The ultracapacitors are made of activated carbon, and have an energy density of six watt-hours per kilogram (for comparison, a high-performance lithium-ion battery can achieve 200 watt-hours per kilogram), but the ultracapacitor bus is also cheaper than lithium-ion battery buses, about 40 percent less expensive, with a far superior reliability rating.\n\nThere is also a plug-in hybrid version, which also uses ultracaps.\n\nSinautec is in discussions with MIT's Schindall about developing ultracapacitors of higher energy density using vertically aligned carbon nanotube structures that give the devices more surface area for holding a charge. So far, they are able to get twice the energy density of an existing ultracapacitor, but they are trying to get about five times. This would create an ultracapacitor with one-quarter of the energy density of a lithium-ion battery.\n\nFuture developments includes the use of inductive charging under the street, to avoid overhead wiring. A pad under each bus stop and at each stop light along the way would be used.\n\nAs with other electric vehicles, climate control and extremely cold weather will weaken the performance of electric buses. In addition, terrain may pose a challenge to the adoption of electric vehicles that carry stored energy compared to trolleybuses, which draw power from overhead lines. Even when conditions are favorable, internal combustion engine buses are frequently diesel powered, and diesel is relatively inexpensive per mile. High local utility rates (especially during periods of peak demand) and proprietary charging systems pose barriers to adoption.\n\nIn 2014, the first production-model all-electric school bus was delivered to the Kings Canyon Unified School District in California's San Joaquin Valley. The Class-A school bus was built by Trans Tech Bus, using an electric powertrain control system developed by Motiv Power Systems, of Foster City, California. The bus was one of four the district ordered. The first round of SST-e buses (as they are called) is partly funded by the AB 118 Air Quality Improvement Program administered by the California Air Resources Board.\n\nThe Trans Tech/Motiv vehicle has passed all KCUSD and California Highway Patrol inspections and certifications. Although some diesel hybrids are in use, this is the first modern electric school bus approved for student transportation by any state.\nSince 2015, the Canadian manufacturer Lion Bus offers a full size school bus, eLion, with a body made out of composites. It is a regular production version that is built and shipped in volume since early 2016, with around 50 units sold until 2017.\n\nTransit authorities that use battery buses or other types of all-electric buses, other than trolleybuses:\n\n\n\nAs of 2016, 156,000 buses are being put into service per year in China.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAbout 650 electric buses were on the road in the US in 2019, about double the 300 estimated to be in use the previous year. In November 2019, orders for new electric buses had outpaced manufacturing capacity.\n\nCities using electric buses include:\nA California mandate (Zero Emission Bus, in short, ZBus) required that 15% of new buses after 2011 be electric. The ZBus Regulation is part of the Fleet Rule for Transit Agencies, which is also referred to as the Public Transit Agencies Regulation.\n\nLong Beach, California and the Antelope Valley Transit Authority charge some of their buses on special wireless charging pads located along bus routes.\n\nBy 2019, more than 200 e-buses were in service in California. Several hundred more e-buses for California were in backlogged orders.\n\nIn 2019, \"only five states, Arkansas, New Hampshire, North Dakota, South Dakota and West Virginia, ... [had] no transit agencies planning to operate electric buses or hydrogen fuel cell buses.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260021", "title": "C. Boyden Gray", "text": "C. Boyden Gray\n\nClayland Boyden Gray (born February 6, 1943) is an attorney in private practice, formerly with Wilmer Cutler & Pickering, then Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr. He is now a founding partner of the DC-based law firm, Boyden Gray & Associates LLP. He is also a former American diplomat and public servant.\n\nGray is the son of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's national security adviser Gordon Gray and grandson of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company president Bowman Gray Sr..\n\nHe attended Fay School and St. Mark's School in Southborough, Massachusetts. He graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Harvard University in 1964, where he wrote for \"The Harvard Crimson\". He also served as a sergeant in the United States Marine Corps Reserve from 1965 to 1970.\n\nGray then attended the University of North Carolina School of Law, where he graduated with high honors in 1968 and served as Editor-in-chief of the North Carolina Law Review.\n\nAfter graduation, Gray clerked for Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren. In 1968 he joined the firm of Wilmer Cutler & Pickering, and become a partner in 1976. Gray took a leave of absence from the firm in 1981 to serve as legal counsel for Vice President George H. W. Bush. He also served as Counsel to the Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief, chaired by Vice President Bush. Gray later served as Director of the Office of Transition Counsel for the Bush transition team, and as Counsel to President Bush from 1989 to 1993. During this time, Gray became one of the main architects of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments that suggested market solutions for environmental problems.\n\nHe returned to Wilmer Cutler & Pickering in 1993 l, where his practice focused on a range of regulatory matters with an emphasis on environmental issues, including those relating to biotechnology, trade, clean air, and the management of risk. He also served as Chairman of the section of Administrative Law and Regulatory Practice of the American Bar Association. Gray also served as co-chairman with former Majority Leader Dick Armey of FreedomWorks.\n\nIn October 2001 rumors indicated that Gray was considering running for an open US Senate seat in his native North Carolina, but he passed on the race. Former US Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole was elected in November 2002 to replace Jesse Helms, who chose to retire, rather than seek a sixth term.\n\nGray served on the Bush-Cheney Transition Department of Justice Advisory Committee, and as White House Counsel to US President George H. W. Bush. In 2002, he founded the Committee for Justice, a Washington, DC-based nonprofit dedicated to screening judicial and US Justice Department nominees.\n\nIn January 2006, President George W. Bush gave him a recess appointment as United States Ambassador to the European Union. He took a leave of absence from the law firm of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr to accept that position. When Gray emerged as Bush's preferred candidate for the post of the US's ambassador to the EU in July 2005, the potential nomination deeply perturbed open source advocates, who viewed his ties to Microsoft with suspicion.\n\nGray's last government position was as Special Envoy for European Affairs and Special Envoy for Eurasian Energy at the Mission of the United States to the European Union, having been nominated by United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on January 11, 2008. On March 31, the White House announced his appointment to the additional post of Special Envoy for Eurasian Energy. President H. W. Bush in 1993 awarded him the Presidential Citizens Medal.\n\nHe is a member of the board of directors at the Atlantic Council, The European Institute, FreedomWorks and America Abroad Media. In addition, Gray is or was a member of the Federalist Society, Harvard University's Committee on University Development, the Board of Trustees of the Washington Scholarship Fund, St. Mark's School, and National Cathedral School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260022", "title": "Maniac Cop III: Badge of Silence", "text": "Maniac Cop III: Badge of Silence\n\nManiac Cop III: Badge of Silence is a 1993 American action slasher film written by Larry Cohen and directed by William Lustig. It is the third and final installment in the \"Maniac Cop\" trilogy.\n\n\"Maniac Cop III: Badge of Silence\" was released in the United States on July 7, 1993, and received negative reviews.\n\nA priest practicing the Voodoo arts resurrects Matt Cordell (Robert Z'Dar), who takes his badge and comes back from the dead to do his bidding. Meanwhile, a pair of cameramen who are hoping to make it big come across a convenience store robbery, where a police officer named Katie Sullivan (Gretchen Becker) intervenes in a hostage situation; she manages to wound the suspect but realizes that the clerk is his girlfriend, and she had let him in purposefully to rob the store. There is a crossfire, and while Kate is severely wounded, she ends up killing the clerk in return.\n\nWhen rushed to the hospital, she is rendered comatose and brain dead, much to the chagrin of investigating officer Sean McKinney (Robert Davi). McKinney catches the report of Katie using excessive force in a hostage situation, which portrays the clerk as an innocent victim and threatens to free the badly injured Frank Jessup. \n\nMeanwhile, stalking Katie's progress, Cordell goes to the hospital to watch her (killing a heckler in the process). He kills one of her supervising physicians with defibrillator paddles, then murders Katie's physician with X Ray radiation. The four reporters who had framed Kate are also slain by Cordell afterwards.\n\nMeanwhile, McKinney and a physician, Susan (Caitlin Dulany), are investigating the murders and the strange behavior experienced by the comatose Kate. Their investigations lead them to Houngan (Julius Harris), who admits that he had brought Cordell back from the dead, and he is interested in Kate who is on the verge of death. At gunpoint, Cordell forces Houngan to attempt the resurrection on her, but he is unable to do so, stating her spirit is refusing to return from the dead to be with him. Cordell kills Houngan, and both he and Kate are set on fire in the process; she is immolated. \n\nAs they escape, Susan and McKinney are chased by Cordell, who survived the fire while remaining ablaze. He chases them in a beat up police car, while they ride in an ambulance. They manage to throw an oxygen tank into the burning car before both crash. However, before Cordell can back up on the other disabled vehicle, the canister goes off, blowing up the car. Later, the charred corpse of Katie is rolled into a morgue, next to the burned remains of Cordell. While the lone coroner, who rolled Katie into the morgue, is busy with his computer, the camera pans to the bodies, which shows Cordell's hand moving over to hold Katie's hand.\n\n\n\"Maniac Cop III\" was rated NC-17 by the MPAA and upheld on appeal. It was released on home video in the United States by Academy Releasing. It premiered on HBO in 1993.\n\nBlue Underground released \"Maniac Cop III\" on DVD and Blu-ray on November 19, 2013.\n\nDVD Talk's Adam Tyner, who gave \"Maniac Cop III\" an overall grade of 1.5 out 5 stars, called the film \"borderline unwatchable\" and said \"nothing about the movie works\" due to drawbacks like the plodding and directionless pace, and witless dialogue. Patrick Naugle of DVD Verdict said the cast was decent, and that while the plot was disjointed and overall the film was forgettable and \"just not very good\" it was still \"an alright time filler\" that was \"worth checking out, if you're a big horror buff\". TV Guide, which awarded a 2 out of 4 stars, opened its review with, \"After ascending to heights unusual for a modern B movie in \"Maniac Cop 2\", the series drops back a couple of notches with this latest entry, which seems at a loss to find new things for its horrific antihero to do\". Michael Gingold of \"Fangoria\" rated it 2 out 4 stars and criticized the lack of emphasis on the film's antagonist. Anthony Arrigo of Dread Central rated it 2.5 out of 5 stars and called it a disappointing sequel that \"only manages to stay above water thanks to a powerhouse performance from Robert Davi\". Mike Pereira of Bloody Disgusting rated it 3 out of 5 stars and wrote, \"It's definitely the weakest of the bunch yet still delivers the qualities that have made the franchise sustain its cult following.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2260037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260037", "title": "Richard Leiterman", "text": "Richard Leiterman\n\nRichard Leiterman (March 7, 1935 – July 14, 2005) was a Canadian cinematographer, best known for documentary and feature film work in the 1960s and 1970s. His cinéma vérité, or direct camera, style helped define Canadian cinema at the time.\n\nBorn in the small town of South Porcupine in northern Ontario in 1935, Leiterman grew up in Vancouver, where he spent his young years working as a waste collector, beachcomber and truck driver. During his mid-20s, he was encouraged by his brother-in-law, Allan King, to take a camera technician course at the University of British Columbia.\n\nLeiterman took to the film camera like a natural. He sold his car to buy a 16mm camera, and proceeded to shoot stock footage, which he then sold to Canadian broadcasters like the CBC. Hired by Allan King as a second camera operator on a documentary, Leiterman went to London and, in 1962, co-founded Allan King Associates with him. The company focused on news-related filmmaking. In 1963, Leiterman went to the Southern U.S. to shoot \"One More River\", a look at racism in America. Over the next few years, his documentary work took him around the world.\n\nIn 1969, Leiterman shot the Allan King-produced \"A Married Couple\", which was featured at the Director's Fortnight at Cannes in 1970. Leiterman next began a series of collaborations with famed Canadian director Donald Shebib, starting with the Canadian classic \"Goin' Down the Road\" (1970), and followed by \"Between Friends\" (1973) and \"Wedding in White\" (1972). Leiterman used his documentary experience to provide a cinéma vérité look to his work.\n\nLeiterman continued to shoot a variety of material over the following three decades, from Canadian features such as \"My American Cousin\" (1985) to American made-for-TV movies such as Stephen King's \"It\" (1990). His cinematography work earned him a Canadian Film Award (1975) a Genie Award, (1981), three Emmy Awards, and, in 2000, the Kodak New Century Award.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, Leiterman shot the Canadian TV series \"Cold Squad\". He taught cinematography for a brief time in the Advanced TV & Film program and Media Arts program at Sheridan College in Oakville, Ontario, then finally retired.\n\nLeiterman died on July 14, 2005 at age 70 due to complications from a rare disease called amyloidosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260044", "title": "2006 Arizona gubernatorial election", "text": "2006 Arizona gubernatorial election\n\nThe 2006 Arizona gubernatorial election was held on November 7, 2006. Incumbent Democratic Governor Janet Napolitano was reelected in a landslide. Napolitano's widespread popularity contributed to her easy reelection; her general approval rating in October 2006, one month before the election, was at 58%. As of 2020, this is the most recent election in which a Democrat was elected Governor of Arizona.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260054", "title": "Abraham J. Williams", "text": "Abraham J. Williams\n\nAbraham Jude Williams (February 26, 1781 – December 30, 1839) was an American politician from Boone County, Missouri. He was the third Governor of Missouri, serving an unelected interim term in 1825 and 1826 following the death of Frederick Bates. He also served in the Missouri State Senate.\n\nAbraham J. Williams was born in Hardy County, Virginia to parents Vincent and Elizabeth Williams. Williams was born physically challenged, with one leg severely atrophied. Very little is known about his childhood or education, as even friends considered him a very private man. Abraham Williams arrived in the Missouri Territory sometime between 1816 and 1820 and settled in Franklin, Howard County, Missouri. At the time Franklin was a hotbed of political activity in the soon-to-be state, with many prominent men in early Missouri history residing there. In 1820 Williams moved a few miles away to Nashville, a small community in Boone County where he and business partner James Harris ran a tobacco warehouse.\n\nWithin a few years, Williams was on the move again, this time to Columbia, Missouri, where he established one of the first dry goods stores in the town, also providing services as a boot and shoe maker. He also purchased a large tract of land in the county and began farming operations. In 1822 Abraham Williams was elected to the Missouri State Senate as a Democratic-Republican, beginning a brief foray into politics that would lead election as governor. When he was re-elected to the senate in 1824 his peer chose him as President-pro-tem. He also served on the Accounts and Education committees, both important positions in the newborn state, and on the committee responsible for planning the new Missouri state capitol building.\n\nAt the time of Governor Frederick Bates death in office on 4 August 1825 Missouri had no Lieutenant Governor, the elected one, Benjamin Harrison Reeves, having previously resigned. Under the state constitution at that time Williams was next in line to serve until a special election could be held. Abraham Williams few months as governor produced nothing remarkable, as it was so limited. The state General Assembly was out of session for most of his time as governor and he made no appointments to state positions or signed any important legislation. One of the few official documents he signed was to offer the then-large reward of two hundred dollars ($200) for the apprehension of escaped prisoner John Patterson, convicted of murder and sentenced to death by St. Francois County jury. The aforementioned special election was held on 5 December 1825 with voters choosing John Miller, who assumed the office from Williams on 20 January 1826.\n\nAbraham Williams resumed his position in the Senate until he was defeated later in 1826 during the regularly scheduled elections. Williams then returned to his large scale farming activities in Boone County. In 1832 his name was put forth to the General Assembly by political allies as a candidate for the United States Senate. However this was the \"Age of Benton\" in Missouri, and Senator Thomas Hart Benton was elected to his third term by an overwhelming margin. Abraham J. Williams died on 20 December 1839. A lifelong bachelor, he left no children or close family and no will. His estate included nearly a thousand acres of farmland south of Columbia, as well as several building lots within the city. Williams is buried in the Columbia Cemetery, Columbia, Missouri.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260057", "title": "South Dakota Highway 10", "text": "South Dakota Highway 10\n\nSouth Dakota Highway 10 (SD 10) is a state highway in the north-central and northeastern portions of South Dakota, United States. It connects SD 1804 in Pollock with the Minnesota state line southeast of Sisseton.\n\nSD 10 was formerly the \"Glacier Trail\", and used to be designated as South Dakota Highway 12 (SD 12).\n\nSD 10 begins at an intersection with SD 1804 in the south-central part of Pollock. It travels to the east on Main Street. After leaving the city limits of Pollock, the highway curves to the northeast and crosses over part of Lake Pocasse. It passes the Pocassee National Wildlife Refuge and curves to the east-southeast. It then heads nearly due east to an intersection with U.S. Route 83 (US 83) north of Herreid. The two highways travel concurrently to the south. They pass the Herreid Livestock Market and the Herreid Municipal Airport and then enters the city limits of Herreid. South of the city, they cross over Spring Creek. They travel just to the west of McClarem Lake and then intersect 112th Street. At this intersection, SD 10 splits off to the east. After an intersection with SD 271 (319th Avenue), the highway enters the west-central part of McPherson County.\n\nSD 10 travels just north of some sewage disposal ponds and just south of Eureka Lake and then has an intersection with SD 47 and the southern terminus of County Road 3 (CR 3; both are parts of 327th Avenue). At this intersection, SD 10 and SD 47 travel concurrently and they enter Eureka. The highways travel just south of an eastern part of Eureka Lake. An intersection with 7th Street leads to the business district of the city. At 328th Avenue, SD 47 splits off to the north, and SD 10 continues to the east. It travels just south of the Rosenthal, Neuharth, Pfeiffle, Morlocks Slough, Odessa Number 2, and Odessa Number 1 state public shooting areas. Then, it has an intersection with SD 45 and the northern terminus of SD 247 (both parts of 341st Avenue). Here, SD 10 and SD 45 travel concurrently to the east. They skirt along the northern edge of the Highway 10 State Public Shooting Area. They travel north of the Moscow State Public Shooting Area and then curve to the southeast. They intersect the southern terminus of SD 239 (350th Avenue). SD 10 and SD 45 curve back to the east. Approximately later, they enter Leola. SD 45 splits off to the south onto Mason Street. This intersection is also the southern terminus of CR 19 (363rd Avenue). SD 10 continues to the east and, at an intersection with 373rd Avenue, enters the northwestern part of Brown County.\n\nSD 10 travels just north of Willow Creek Lake and crosses over Elm River before it intersects US 281 (386th Avenue) southwest of Barnard. The two highways travel concurrently to the north, while the roadway continues as 115th Street. At an intersection with 112th Street, SD 10 splits off to the east. It passes the Sand Lake National Wildlife Refuge and crosses over Sand Lake before traveling through Houghton. The highway curves to the north onto 403rd Avenue and then back to the east onto 110th Street. At 404th Avenue, it intersects SD 37. The two highways travel concurrently to the east for approximately , splitting at 406th Avenue. SD 10 continues its eastward path. At an intersection with the southern terminus of 412th Avenue, the highway enters the west-central part of Marshall County.\n\nSD 10 travels through West Britton before entering Britton. At Main Street, SD 27 begins a concurrency with SD 10. They cross over some railroad tracks of BNSF Railway. At an intersection with the northern terminus of 429th Avenue, SD 27 splits to the north. Then, SD 10 curves to the southeast and then travels through an area that has a lot of lakes. It travels just south of Sixmile Lake and then just south of Cottonwood Lake. Just south-southeast of the appropriately-named Lake City, the highway begins a concurrency with SD 25. This concurrency is just under . SD 10 continues to the southeast, just northeast of Clear Lake. It then slips between North Red Iron Lake and South Red Iron Lake. The highway curves back to the east and enters the northwestern part of Roberts County.\n\nSD 10 continues in a relatively eastward direction and enters Sisseton. It travels just north of the Coteau des Prairies Hospital and then crosses over some railroad tracks of BNSF Railway. Just before leaving the city limits of Sisseton, SD 10 meets the southern terminus of SD 127 (459th Avenue). The highway travels just south of the Sisseton Municipal Airport just before an interchange with I-29/US 81. It then crosses over the Little Minnesota River. After a curve to the south and then to the southeast, it reaches its eastern terminus at the Minnesota state line. Here, the roadway continues as Minnesota State Highway 28 (MN 28).\n\nSD 10 was formerly the \"Glacier Trail\". It was also formerly known as South Dakota Highway 12. The highway was redesignated in 1927, presumably to avoid confusion with nearby US 12.\n\nThe segment of the highway west of US 83 was added in the early 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260063", "title": "Eddie Acuff", "text": "Eddie Acuff\n\nEdward DeKalb Acuff (June 3, 1903 – December 17, 1956) was an American stage and film actor. His best-known recurring role is that of Mr. Beasley, the postman, in the \"Blondie\" movie series that starred Penny Singleton and Arthur Lake.\n\nAcuff was born in Caruthersville, Missouri. He was the son of Mrs. H. N. Arnold, and his maternal uncle was a performer on 19th century showboats along the Mississippi River.\n\nBefore beginning his Hollywood film career in 1934, Acuff performed in Broadway theatre in the early-1930s. His Broadway credits include \"Jayhawker\" (1934), \"Yellow Jack\" (1934), \"John Brown\" (1934), \"Growing Pains\" (1933), \"Heat Lightning\" (1933), and \"The Dark Hours\" (1932).\n\nIn 1935, Warner Bros. signed Acuff to a long-term contract and scheduled him to debut on film in \"Anchors Aweigh\". He had a recurring role as the postman in the \"Blondie\" film series. Acuff was seen in three film serials — as Curly in \"Jungle Girl\", as Red Kelly, in \"Daredevils of the West\", and as Spud Warner in \"Chick Carter Detective\".\n\nOn December 17, 1956, Acuff died of a heart attack in Hollywood, California. He is buried in Valhalla Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260070", "title": "Vinculin", "text": "Vinculin\n\nIn mammalian cells, vinculin is a membrane-cytoskeletal protein in focal adhesion plaques that is involved in linkage of integrin adhesion molecules to the actin cytoskeleton. Vinculin is a cytoskeletal protein associated with cell-cell and cell-matrix junctions, where it is thought to function as one of several interacting proteins involved in anchoring F-actin to the membrane.\n\nDiscovered independently by Benny Geiger and Keith Burridge, its sequence is 20%-30% similar to α-catenin, which serves a similar function.\n\nBinding alternately to talin or α-actinin, vinculin's shape and, as a consequence, its binding properties are changed. The vinculin gene occurs as a single copy and what appears to be no close relative to take over functions in its absence. Its splice variant metavinculin (see below) also needs vinculin to heterodimerize and work in a dependent fashion.\n\nVinculin is a 117-kDa cytoskeletal protein with 1066 amino acids. The protein contains an acidic N-terminal domain and a basic C-terminal domain separated by a proline-rich middle segment. Vinculin consists of a globular head domain that contains binding sites for talin and α-actinin as well as a tyrosine phosphorylation site, while the tail region contains binding sites for F-actin, paxillin, and lipids.\n\nEssentially, there is an 835 amino acid N-terminal head, which is split into four domains. This is linked to the C-terminal tail with a linker region.\n\nThe recent discovery of the 3D structure sheds light on how this protein tailors its shape to perform a variety of functions. For example, vinculin is able to control the cell’s motility by simply altering its shape from active to inactive. When in its ‘inactive’ state, vinculin’s conformation is characterized by the interaction between its head and tail domains. And, when transforming to the ‘active’ form, such as when talin triggers binding, the intramolecular interaction between the tail and head is severed. In other words, when talin’s binding sites (VBS) of α-helices bind to a helical bundle structure in vinculin’s head domain, the ‘helical bundle conversion’ is initiated, which leads to the reorganization of the α-helices (α1- α-4), resulting in an entirely new five-helical bundle structure. This function also extends to cancer cells, and regulating their movement and proliferation of cancer to other parts of the body.\n\nCell spreading and movement occur through the process of binding of cell surface integrin receptors to extracellular matrix adhesion molecules. Vinculin is associated with focal adhesion and adherens junctions, which are complexes that nucleate actin filaments and crosslinkers between the external medium, plasma membrane, and actin cytoskeleton. The complex at the focal adhesions consists of several proteins such as vinculin, α-actinin, paxillin, and talin, at the intracellular face of the plasma membrane.\n\nIn more specific terms, the amino-terminus of vinculin binds to talin, which, in turn, binds to β-integrins, and the carboxy-terminus binds to actin, phospholipids, and paxillin-forming homodimers. The binding of vinculin to talin and actin is regulated by polyphosphoinositides and inhibited by acidic phospholipids. The complex then serves to anchor actin filaments to the membrane and thus, helps to reinforce force on talin within the focal adhesions.\n\nThe loss of vinculin impacts a variety of cell functions; it disrupts the formation of the complex, and prevents cell adhesion and spreading. The absence of the protein demonstrates a decrease in spreading of cells, accompanied by reduced stress fiber formation, formation of fewer focal adhesions, and inhibition of lamellipodia extension. It was discovered that cells that are deficient in vinculin have growth cones that advance more slowly, as well as filopodia and lamellipoida that were less stable than the wild-type. Based on research, it has been postulated that the lack of vinculin may decrease cell adhesion by inhibiting focal adhesion assembly and preventing actin polymerization. On the other hand, overexpression of vinculin may restore adhesion and spreading by promoting recruitment of cytoskeletal proteins to the focal adhesion complex at the site of integrin binding. Vinculin's ability to interact with integrins to the cytoskeleton at the focal adhesion appears to be critical for control of cytoskeletal mechanics, cell spreading, and lamellipodia formation. Thus, vinculin appears to play a key role in shape control based on its ability to modulate focal adhesion structure and function.\n\nVinculin is present in equilibrium between an active and inactive state. The active state is triggered upon binding to its designated partner. These changes occur when vinculin interacts with focal adhesion points to which it is binding to. When vinculin resides in its inactive form, the protein is kept designated to the cytoplasm unlike the focal adhesion points bound from the active state. The molecule talin is thought to be the major initiator of vinculin activation due to its presence in focal complexes. The combinatorial model of vinculin states that either α-actinin or talin can activate vinculin either alone or with the assistance of PIP2 or actin. This activation takes place by separation of the head-tail connection within inactive vinculin.\n\nVinculin binding sites are predominantly found in talin and talin-like molecules, enabling binding of vinculin to talin, stabilising integrin-mediated cell-matrix junctions. Talin, in turn, links integrins to the actin cytoskeleton. The consensus sequence for Vinculin binding sites is LxxAAxxVAxxVxxLIxxA, with a secondary structure prediction of four amphipathic helices. The hydrophobic residues that define the VBS are themselves 'masked' and are buried in the core of a series of helical bundles that make up the talin rod.\n\nSmooth muscles and skeletal muscles (and probably to a lower extent in cardiac muscle) in their well-differentiated (contractile) state co-express (along with vinculin) a splice variant carrying an extra exon in the 3' coding region, thus encoding a longer isoform meta-vinculin (meta VCL) of ~150KD molecular weight — a protein whose existence has been known since the 1980s. Translation of the extra exon causes a 68- to 79-amino acid acid-rich insert between helices I and II within the C-terminal tail domain. Mutations within the insert region correlate with hereditary idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.\n\nThe length of the insert in metavinculin is 68 AA in mammals and 79 in frog. Compared metavinculin sequences from pig, man, chicken, and frog, and found the insert to be bipartite: the first part variable and the second highly conserved. Both vinculin isoforms co-localize in muscular adhesive structures, such as dense plaques in smooth muscles, intercalated discs in cardiomyocytes, and costameres in skeletal muscles. Metavinculin tail domain has a lower affinity for the head as compared with the vinculin tail. In case of metavinculin, unfurling of the C-terminal hydrophobic hairpin loop of tail domain is impaired by the negative charges of the 68-amino acid insert, thus requiring phospholipid-activated regular isoform of vinculin to fully activate the metavinculin molecule.\n\nVinculin has been shown to interact with:\n\nIn cases of Small Intestinal Bacterial Overgrowth presented as IBS symptoms, anti-CdtB antibodies have been identified to affect vinculin function, which is required in gut motility.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260075", "title": "W. V. Grant", "text": "W. V. Grant\n\nWalter Vinson Grant, Jr., who goes by W. V. Grant (born May 25, 1945), is a televangelist whose ministry has been based in the Greater Dallas area.\n\nGrant began his career in Cincinnati, Ohio, in the mid-1970s with the \"Cathedral of Compassion\" in the Over-the-Rhine area of Cincinnati before relocating to the suburbs of St Bernard until the early 1980s. The son of minister Walter Vinson Grant, Sr., in 1983 Grant took over Soul's Harbor Church (located in the Oak Cliff section of Dallas) and expanded its ministry, later renaming the church as \"Eagles Nest Cathedral\". In 1987, Grant purchased in the southwest section of Dallas (near Dallas Baptist University) and built the \"Eagle's Nest Family Church\", and continued pastoring the 5000-seat church until 1996.\nGrant was convicted in 1996 of tax evasion, and since his release from prison he has restarted his ministry.\n\nHe is married to Brenda Gayle Hayes, and has three adult children, Misty, Barry and Mark.\n\nAs of August 2011, Grant's website said about the minister's education and honorary degrees:\n\nAfter attending Southwestern Assemblies of God Bible University, he started in the full-time ministry. He received his undergraduate degrees in English Literature and Religion, as well as his Master's Degree in History from Dallas Baptist University. He has two honorary degrees from Kingsway Bible University (Des Moines, Iowa) and the Colonial Academy (Chicago).\n\nParanormal investigator James Randi examined Grant's practices in his 1987 book, \"The Faith Healers\". About Grant's degrees, Randi wrote:\n\n. . . even Grant's college degree is phony. He claims that he obtained it from \"Midstates Bible College\" in Des Moines in 1972. He displays the diploma on his office wall. But Midstates wasn't then and isn't now accredited with the Iowa Department of Public Instruction, as all parochial and public schools are required to be. It wasn't recorded with the secretary of state's office in Iowa as a corporation; nor was it listed in the county recorder's office. It didn't even show up in the telephone directory.\n\nGrant told a reporter in 1986 that he did not graduate from a seminary but, in Grant's words, had \"more or less an honorary D.D. (doctor of divinity) degree\" from Mid-States Bible College in Des Moines, Iowa, which later changed its name to Kingsway Christian College. \"They take a formula of how many books you've written, how long you've been in the ministry, maybe how many times you've been on radio and TV,\" he said.\n\nGrant has denied being a faith healer, stating that \"whatever healing there is, is a gift from God\", for which he is merely \"a mortal conduit\".\n\nIn 1996, an Internal Revenue Service investigation into Grant's ministry resulted in Grant's imprisonment for tax evasion. He was found guilty of failing to report $375,000 in taxable income in the purchase of two homes, including his $1 million residence. An undercover video tape was alleged to show Grant admitting that he used $100,000 in 1988 from church members as a down payment on a $1.2 million home overlooking a Desoto, Texas, country club and not reporting it as income. Judge Joe Kendall criticized Grant for attempting to withdraw his plea, asking Grant, \"Did you watch the same videotape I watched?\" He continued, \"He's all over it admitting he's guilty. He swore to God under oath he is guilty\". The judge sentenced Grant to 16 months in prison and a $30,000 fine, to be paid after his release, when he would also serve an additional year of probation. Kendall also ordered Grant to \"perform 100 hours of community service, publish details of his arrest and sentence for everyone on his mailing list and provide complete, continuing financial reports to the court.\"\n\nHis wife was indicted on charges of blocking the IRS and evading taxes.\n\nGrant was released from prison on September 18, 1997, \"and has since restarted his ministry, again under the name Eagles Nest Cathedral, in the eastern part of Dallas.\"\n\nIn August 2012, W.V. Grant purchased a historic property in downtown Dallas. The former home of \"First Church of Christ, Scientist,\" located at 1508 Cadiz Street, Dallas, Texas 75201 where \"The Eagle's Nest Cathedral\" and Grant now hold almost nightly services normally lasting from 7:00 PM – 9:00 PM.\n\n1986–87: Scientific skeptic and professional stage magician James Randi reported that Grant had been supplied with notes concerning the ailments of audience members before the show, that he used a \"sleight of hand\" trick to make a person's leg appear to grow, and that he had members of the audience who walked into the event placed into wheelchairs beforehand, then, during the service, he asked them to stand and walk. Randi also claimed that Grant's wife first gathered information about members of the audience, which she relayed to her husband via slips of paper in a Bible he displayed during his presentations. \"They're agnostics,\" Grant said of his critics in 1986, \"Or even atheists.\"\n\n1987: Chicago Tribune religion writer Bruce Buursma reported the experiences of one of Randi's fellow investigators, Andrew A. Skolnick, who was twice \"healed\" by Grant and once by televangelist faith healer Peter Popoff.\n\n1991: Grant was investigated by ABC News and Trinity Foundation for an exposé report on \"Primetime Live\" (with Larry Lea and Robert Tilton). A 2006 opinion article in the Dallas Observer claimed that the examination of documents in various lawsuits revealed deceptive journalistic techniques were utilized by ABC News, and concluded that a key element of the televised Primetime Live report relating to Tilton was \"bogus\".\n\nThe Trinity Foundation also found photos of a naked Grant in his trash and published one in the centrefold of their satirical magazine, \"The Door.\"\n\n1996: The Dallas Morning News reported that one of Grant's fundraising letters was apparently written by Gene Ewing, who heads a multi-million dollar marketing empire, writing donation letters for other evangelicals like Don Stewart and Robert Tilton.\n\n2003: Atlanta television station WAGA-TV conducted an investigation on Grant and found that Grant liked to arrive at his revivals early, hours before they were supposed to begin. WAGA reporters showed up early as well, with hidden cameras, and watched the preacher talk to several people already in the church. As it turned out, many of them were people Grant would later pick out of the crowd and \"miraculously\" announce their name and their disease.\" The report concluded that of three people Grant claimed to heal, two were in worse condition after, and one assisted Grant with the setup with no sign of the condition he claimed during the service. In addition, \"healing the short leg\" was a magic trick demonstrated on a reporter by magician James Randi.\n\n2006: Richmond, Virginia television station WWBT-TV aired an investigation on Grant while he conducted faith healing services at the Richmond Christian Center.\n\n2010: \"Free Inquiry\", the magazine of the Council for Secular Humanism, discussed how Grant's act had changed little in the preceding twenty years and detailed his \"miracles\" at a venue.\n\n2011: British mentalist Derren Brown produced a program \"Miracles for Sale\" broadcast on Channel 4. As part of the program, Brown and his team made two visits to Grant's church in Dallas. During the first visit, Grant claimed that \"God\" had told him the name of a member of Brown's team, but the name he gave out was a false one that the person had written on a contact card prior to the start of the service. This indicated that Grant's knowledge came from the card and not from any supernatural means. On their second visit, Grant performed his leg lengthening \"miracle\" on Brown himself. The footage showed Grant using the same shoe-manipulation technique that Brown had exposed earlier on the program.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260079", "title": "Bianca Beauchamp", "text": "Bianca Beauchamp\n\nBianca Beauchamp (, born October 14, 1977) is a Canadian fetish model, known for her glamour, erotic and latex fetish modelling.\n\nBeauchamp was born in Montreal, Quebec to a French Canadian father and an Italian mother. She was named after Bianca Jagger. Growing up in the low-income neighbourhood, Beauchamp managed to pass the entrance exam for an exclusive private school. She realised that she was bisexual at the age of 15. After having difficulty at home, she moved away soon after graduating high school, and began a course in French literature at CEGEP, hoping to become a high-school French teacher. After achieving her certificate, she began studying French and teaching at the Université du Québec à Montréal.\n\nBeauchamp had met aspiring photographer Martin Perreault at the age of 17. Perreault convinced her to pose for photographs as his muse, and she began modelling for him. She bought her first latex dress at the age of 18.\n\nIn 1998, Beauchamp and Perreault founded the website \"Latex Lair\". During a teaching internship at her old high-school, one of the staff discovered the website and advised her to shut it down (although at the time it contained no nudity), which she did. However she re-opened the site after completing the internship, prompting the university to threaten to fail her if it remained on-line during her remaining internships. Beauchamp realised her passion for modelling outweighed that for teaching, therefore she left university at the age of 23 to pursue her modelling career.\n\nBeauchamp soon appeared in photoshoots for \"Bizarre\", \"Heavy Rubber\", \"Marquis\", \"Nightlife\", \"Penthouse\", \"Playboy\", \"Skin Two\", and \"Whiplash\", working at McDonald's, a video store, a sex shop and as a strip-club waitress while establishing her career.\n\nIn January 2007, Beauchamp became the first model to appear on the front cover of \"Bizarre\" magazine six times, and later in the same year represented Hype Energy at the 2007 Canadian Formula 1 Grand Prix. Her photos have also been in several Playboy Special Editions and on the cover of \"Book of Lingerie\". She has also been on the cover of Playboy's Girls of Canada calendar twice. In partnership with her website and Ritual Entertainment, she portrayed the character Elexis Sinclaire for the video game \"SiN Episodes\".\n\nIn January 2008, Beauchamp was named 31st in Askmen.com's Top 99 Women of the Year, a popular \"Hot List\" for celebrities. The following year, she improved her ranking to 24th. In January 2009, she appeared on the cover of Bizarre magazine, her 9th cover for the UK magazine, confirming her lead as the model who appeared the most times on Bizarre. \n\nSoon after deciding to focus on modelling, Beauchamp began a fitness regime in order to stay in shape. When this caused her breasts to sag, she made the decision to undergo breast augmentation surgery, increasing her cup size from a 32C to a 34D. After a year, finding the saline implants unsatisfactory, she underwent surgery a second time, getting slightly bigger silicone implants and increasing her cup size to 32DD. In 2009, Beauchamp went for an additional breast surgery, this time increasing the silicone implants to 800cc and her cup size 32FF. She dismisses criticism about the implants, deeming it hypocritical to applaud people for improving their intellects while condemning them for improving their bodies.\n\nIn 2006, Beauchamp released the self-published book \"Bianca Beauchamp – Fetish Sex Symbol\" which focuses on her modelling career as a latex fetish model.\n\nIn 2007, she released her film \"Bianca Beauchamp: All Access\", a reality-documentary directed and edited by her partner Martin Perreault. The 85 minute film was premiered at Fantasia Film Festival in July 2007 and issued as a 2-disc Special Edition DVD in September 2007. The film was acquired by distributor HALO 8 Entertainment at the Fantasia Festival and was slated for a wide release in North America on January 29, 2008.\n\nIn August 2008, Beauchamp premiered \"Bianca Beauchamp All Access 2: Rubberised\" at the Montreal Fetish Weekend, with full red carpet treatment and a sold out theatre. The DVD was released the same day. In 2014, she appeared along with Daniel Baldwin, Ron Jeremy, Michael Madsen and Malcolm McDowell in the slasher film Lady Psycho Killer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260080", "title": "2006 Minnesota gubernatorial election", "text": "2006 Minnesota gubernatorial election\n\nThe 2006 Minnesota gubernatorial election took place on November 7, 2006. Incumbent Tim Pawlenty was endorsed by the state Republican convention on June 2, 2006, while the state Democratic–Farmer–Labor convention endorsed Mike Hatch on June 10, 2006. The party primaries took place on September 12, 2006, with Hatch defeating DFL challengers Becky Lourey and Ole Savior and incumbent Pawlenty defeating Sue Jeffers. In the November 7 general election Pawlenty received a plurality of the votes, defeating Hatch by a margin of one percent. As of 2020, it is the most recent time a Republican was elected governor of Minnesota, or won any statewide race.\n\nIt is widely believed that Hatch's lead in the polls quickly evaporated just days before the election after his running mate's response to a question about ethanol posed by a KSAX-TV reporter.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn November 7, 2006, Tim Pawlenty narrowly won the general election, 46.7% to 45.7%, in a four-way race between himself, DFL candidate Mike Hatch, Independence Party candidate Peter Hutchinson, and Green Party candidate Ken Pentel. After Pawlenty opted out of spending limits, Hatch followed suit. Outspending Hatch by $1 million, Pawlenty's campaign set a new spending record for a Minnesota gubernatorial campaign. The race was also affected by negative advertising by 527 groups, as well as issue-oriented groups opposing liberal causes in the state.\n\nA major issue in the campaign that was considered to have hurt the DFL nominees was lieutenant gubernatorial candidate Judi Dutcher's response to a question about E-85. When asked about the impact of the gasoline alternative on the economies of rural Minnesota by then KSAX-TV anchor Corey Poppe, Dutcher was unable to comment, asking Poppe to define E-85. In the subsequent questioning about her response, gubernatorial candidate Mike Hatch reportedly called a Forum Communications reporter \"a Republican whore\" and promptly hung up the phone. Hatch claimed he had said \"hack\", not \"whore\", but the incident, occurring only three days before the last poll listed in this article, is believed to have swung the race. It put Hatch on the defensive in the campaign's last week.\n\nAdditionally, Pawlenty made illegal immigration an issue, running ads accusing Hatch of trying to give illegal immigrants college tuition. Hatch responded with an ad saying that illegal immigration laws had not been enforced under Pawlenty's tenure. Pawlenty also ran ads accusing Hatch of being responsible for raising health care costs, a claim Hatch disputed. Pawlenty campaigned on a record of leading the state through hard times, balancing record budget deficits without raising major state tax rates or diminishing the state's \"nation-leading\" status on most socioeconomic indicators.\n\nPawlenty won by piling up large margins in suburban counties as well as in central and southern Minnesota regions anchored by St. Cloud and Rochester. In his victory speech, noting that he would have to deal with a DFL House and Senate, Pawlenty said it was \"a time tonight to be humble and time to be grateful.\" He promised that \"the next four years are going to be different than the last four years\" and that he would build \"a common agenda\" with DFLers who swept legislative and constitutional offices.\n\nHatch ran ahead in Minneapolis, St. Paul and their inner-ring suburbs, and won by large margins around Duluth and the Iron Range. In his concession speech, Hatch advocated that legislators get back to \"sitting down and getting to know each other in private\" to establish common ground for bipartisan legislation, and called for an end to partisan rancor. Had the Hatch/Dutcher ticket been successful, he stated that this would have been one of his administration's first goals.\n\n\nCampaign Websites (Archived)\nOther\n"}
{"id": "2260083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260083", "title": "Clyde Tunnel", "text": "Clyde Tunnel\n\nThe Clyde Tunnel is a crossing beneath the River Clyde in Glasgow, Scotland. Two parallel tunnel tubes connect the districts of Whiteinch to the north and Govan to the south in the west of the city.\n\nEfforts to improve the transport infrastructure of Glasgow post-World War II were hit by the problem of crossing the Clyde. Downstream of Jamaica Street in the city centre, it was perceived to be impossible to build a bridge due to the prevalence of shipping in what had been the second city of the British Empire still reliant on the sea. The solution — to build a tunnel beneath the river — was not a new one, with the Harbour Tunnel at Finnieston having been built in the 1890s. However, the Clyde Tunnel project was to be built in the boom of the car era and would be a much larger project. It was given the green light in 1948 but financial difficulties prevented work from beginning until 1957.\n\nA tunnelling shield, based on Marc Isambard Brunel's design used for the Thames Tunnel a century earlier, was used to dig the two tunnels. The tunnels were cut perfectly circular with the road deck sitting a third of the way up. Under each road deck is the pedestrian/cycle tunnel and ventilation ducts. 16 miners operated the shield working shifts in a compressed air environment to ensure that the rock and the river above did not collapse into the tunneling area. The digging itself would be done only with great difficulty due to the geology of the area, hard rock sitting under a soft silt layer beneath the river.\n\nThe techniques for decompression after a period of working in a high pressure atmosphere had not been perfected at this time and – also owing to the prevalence of workers refusing to go through the decompression sequence given the length of time required (around an hour) – there were a number of cases of decompression sickness diagnosed as a result, resulting in two fatalities. Work on the tunnel was halted for a time after an explosion when compressed air escaped through the tunnel lining into the river, flushing outward in a fountain.\n\nThe first completed tunnel tube, for northbound traffic, was eventually opened by Queen Elizabeth II on 3 July 1963, with the southbound tunnel opening in March 1964. The total cost of the project was £10 million. By this point, the migration of port facilities downstream to the deeper waters of the Firth of Clyde and improvements in engineering technology had allowed the consideration of bridges downstream of the city centre, namely the Kingston Bridge and, much further downstream than the Tunnel, the Erskine Bridge.\n\nThe tunnels are each 762 metres (2,500 feet) long with a gradient approaching 6% or 1:16. The width of the river at this point is . Each road tunnel carries two lanes of traffic as part of the A739 road, and are completely separate except for a very small crossover passage between the road tunnels at the nadir (barely large enough for a single pedestrian). They are monitored and controlled from the two Portal towers, one at each end of the tunnel, where CCTV monitors the entirety of the tunnel. Beneath the tunnel decks run foot and cycle tunnels, and below those the tunnels' services.\n\nThe estimate for traffic levels in the tunnel was between 9,000 and 13,000 vehicles per day during construction; on the first day of opening, 22,000 vehicles used the tunnel. Current estimates for traffic levels are around 65,000 vehicles per day. These unanticipated high volumes of traffic have increased the wear rate for the tunnel, causing it to close repeatedly for repair and renovation work, which has disrupted traffic in the area for over a decade, and has arguably led to the increase in traffic causing similar problems on the Kingston Bridge.\n\nThe latest set of repairs, costing as much as the initial outlay for construction, is for a second modern fireproof layer to allow the tunnel to meet European safety standards after St Gotthard and Mont Blanc tunnel fires, along with new air extraction systems and new lighting. For these works, which began in March 2005 and were scheduled to last until at least April 2006, one of the tunnels remains closed during off-peak hours (19:00 to 07:00 daily). This work, however has been beset with problems, the works were completed in 2010.\n\nSigns informing road users of the temporary tunnel bore closures have had the completion date blanked out. The roadworks are coinciding with the Hold Your Breath project aiming to add an artistic experience to travel through the tunnel. The pedestrian tunnel is also having its years of graffiti removed as part of its beautification project, however it is an ongoing problem, and often is replaced within weeks of being removed.\n\nA popular game amongst local children, and some adults, is attempting to hold one's breath for the duration of the journey through the Clyde Tunnel. This is possible due to the short length of the tunnel – a car travelling at the limit takes 57 seconds to pass through, and at off peak times traffic is often flowing at around , resulting in a transit duration of 42 seconds. Success is hampered by snarlups (particularly at the interchange on the north end) slowing traffic. The breath-holding game was the subject of Scottish artist Roderick Buchanan's video \"Gobstopper\", for which he won the Beck's Futures art prize in 2000.\n\nBoth tunnels are open to pedestrians in both directions. The eastern tunnel is open to cyclists going southbound, and the western tunnel to cyclists going northbound. In 2008, CCTV secure entry systems were installed at the portals of the pedestrian tunnels in order to reduce crime and anti-social behaviour in the tunnels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260096", "title": "Leonard Leo", "text": "Leonard Leo\n\nLeonard A. Leo (born 1965) is an American lawyer and conservative activist.\n\nLeo has led campaigns to support the Supreme Court nominations of John Roberts, Samuel Alito, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. In 2017 (before Justice Kavanaugh's appointment and confirmation), legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin wrote that Leo was \"responsible, to a considerable extent, for one third of the justices on the Supreme Court.\" Leo described himself in 2019 as \"a leader of the conservative legal movement.\"\n\nLeo was born on Long Island, New York in 1965, and raised in suburban New Jersey to a family of practicing Catholics. His grandfather, an Italian immigrant, was a vice-president of Brooks Brothers. He attended Cornell University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1986, and working as an intern in the office of Senator Orrin Hatch. Leo completed a J.D. degree at Cornell Law School in 1989, then clerked for federal judge A. Raymond Randolph of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.\n\nWhile studying law at Cornell, Leo founded a student chapter of the Federalist Society in 1989, and subsequently went to work for the Society in 1991 in Washington, D.C.\n\nLeo served as National Co-Chairman of Catholic Outreach for the Republican National Committee, and as the 2004 Bush presidential campaign's Catholic Strategist. He was appointed by President George W. Bush and the United States Senate to three terms on the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom. He has been a U.S. Delegate to the UN Council and UN Commission on Human Rights as well as the Organization of Security and Cooperation and World Health Assembly. Leo has served as an observer at the World Intellectual Property Organization and as a member of the U.S. National Commission to UNESCO.\n\nLeo organized efforts in support of the confirmations of John Roberts and Samuel Alito to the U.S. Supreme Court. He received the 2009 Bradley Prize.\n\nLeo has been published in the \"New York Times\", \"Wall Street Journal\", and \"Huffington Post\". He is a board member of the National Catholic Prayer Breakfast and a member of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.\n\nHe met Clarence Thomas while clerking in the Appeals Court and the two became close friend. Leo delayed his start at the Federalist Society to assist Thomas in his Supreme Court confirmation hearings.\n\nIn 2003, when George W. Bush intended to criticize the practice of affirmative action in a speech but praise racial diversity, Leo called White House officials to complain. Leo said that the praise for racial diversity would \"disgust any conservative who thinks that this is a matter of principle.\" Leo told the Washington Post, he \"was conveying the widely shared belief among conservatives that discriminating on the basis of race is always wrong and inconsistent with the dignity and worth of every person.\" Leo helped to push the Bush administration's nomination of Miguel Estrada to the judiciary.\n\nIn 2012, Leo was on the boards of the Catholic Association and its affiliate Catholic Association Foundation. These two organizations ran campaigns opposing the legalization of same-sex marriage. \n\nIn 2016, after the death of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, Leo helped arrange funding to rename George Mason University's Law School the Antonin Scalia Law School. Leo was also identified by 2017 Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch as the person who first contacted Gorsuch about the possibility of President Donald Trump appointing Gorsuch to the seat vacated by Scalia's death.\n\nIn 2019, \"The Washington Post\" wrote of Leo, \"few people outside government have more influence over judicial appointments now than Leo.\" Between 2014 and 2017, Leo raised more than $250 million in \"dark money\" donations (donations where donors do not have to disclose their identity), which was in part used to support conservative policies and judges. Leo has said of Mitch McConnell, who has broken records in seating Republican judicial nominees, that he was \"the most consequential majority leader, certainly, in modern history.\"\n\nIn January 2020, Leo announced that he would be leaving his position as vice president at the Federalist Society to start a new group, CRC Advisors. CRC Advisors is a conservative public affairs consulting firm modeled off of the liberal advisory group Arabella Advisors. Leo remained in his role as co-chairman of the Federalist Society's board of directors.\n\nLeo is Roman Catholic. He has seven children with his wife, Sally. Their daughter Margaret died in 2007 at the age of 14 from spina bifida. Leo has spoken about the profound impact her life had on him. Justice Thomas considered her a friend and keeps drawings from her under the glass on his desk. \n\nIn 2019, \"The Washington Post\" reported that the Federalist Society had paid Leo an annual wage of more than $400,000 for a number of years. In 2016, Leo received $120,000 for his work for the Catholic Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260101", "title": "Gormlaith ingen Murchada", "text": "Gormlaith ingen Murchada\n\nGormlaith ingen Murchada (960–1030), sometimes spelled Gormflaith, was an Irish queen.\n\nShe was born in Naas, County Kildare, Ireland, as the daughter of Murchad mac Finn, King of Leinster, sister of his successor, Mael Mórdha mac Murchada. According to the annalistic accounts, she was married to Olaf Cuaran, the Viking king of Dublin and York until his death in 981; and mother to his son, King Sigtrygg Silkbeard. Additionally, and perhaps most famously, after her son, Sigtrygg's defeat at the Battle of Glenn Máma in 999, Gormlaith was married to Brian Boru, the King of Munster and High King of Ireland, and mother to his son and later King of Munster, Donnchad. It is also alleged that she married Máel Sechnaill mac Domnaill after Olaf's death, but this is somewhat contentious as the sources for this marriage are less reliable. The Irish annals record Gormlaith's death in 1030.\n\nGormlaith is most infamous for allegedly inciting men to such a degree that she caused the Battle of Clontarf in 1014. Given that her goading episode exists only in literary sources not contemporary with her lifetime, and, indeed, written long after her death, it is highly unlikely that such an event ever occurred. Since the majority of depictions of Gormlaith were composed well after her life, very little is known about the actual historical figure.\n\nThe first annalistic account regarding Gormlaith appears in the \"Annals of Inisfallen\". This is a major extant record of Munster history, and as such maintains a preference for Munster kingship and ancestry. The entry of her death was composed some 62 years after her death, making it the most contemporary and temporally proximate. This account stated, \nGormlaith's father was Murchad, son of Finn and this statement paired with Queen of Munster, leaves little doubt amongst scholars that this reference is to Gormlaith.\nThe \"Annals of Tigernach\" are the next chronologically contemporaneous account with a reference to Gormlaith. These annals, compiled in the Irish midlands, stated,\nGormlaith also appears in genealogical accounts written more than 100 years after her death. The first of these accounts is found in the \"Banshenchas\", which is essentially a catalogue of famous medieval Irish women. The entry in this account echoed the annalistic accounts and names Olaf Cuaran and Brian Boru as her husbands and Sigtrygg and Donnchad as her sons.\nGormlaith also appears in the twelfth century genealogies found in the \"Book of Leinster\" dating from 1150-1201. From this entry derives the famous \"three leaps\" of Gormlaith poem, which states she made a \"leap in Dublin, a leap in Tara and a leap in Cashel\". Some scholars have used these \"three leaps\" as evidence of her three marriages to Olaf Cuaran, Brian Boru and Máel Sechnaill, contradicting the annalistic accounts which refer to only two marriages. \nIn particular, the validity of this third marriage to Máel Sechnaill and her alleged divorce from Brian Boru, have been of serious contention amongst scholars. The \"three leaps\" poem contained in 12th century genealogies is the only medieval Irish account to potentially suggest a third marriage. However, some scholars have argued that the reference here to \"three leaps\" is referring instead to children and not, in fact, to marriages.\n\nGormlaith has been depicted in many contexts since her death, and she is arguably best known for her portrayal in the \"Cogadh Gaedhil re Gallaibh\" This literary work of propaganda was composed between 1103 and 1111 by a descendant of Brian Boru, Muirchertach Ua Briain. This text detailed the ascent to power of his illustrious ancestor in an effort to highlight the prestige of his dynasty. Gormlaith makes her appearance in a singular scene in which she has garnered much notoriety in subsequent sources, is her inciting scene. To provide context: prior to this her brother, Mael Mordha, has ceded vassalage to Brian Boru. \n\nIn this depiction, Gormlaith, unsuccessfully, attempted to goad her brother into going to war against her husband Brian Boru.\n\nNjál's Saga, a thirteenth century Icelandic literary work, referred to her as Kormloð, and portrayed her as a jealous divorcee bent on revenge on her ex-husband Brian Boru. In this narrative, she goads her son Sigtrygg, unlike the Cogadh, where she attempted to incite her brother, Mael Mordha. She prompted Sigtrygg into gathering support from Vikings outside Ireland, most notably Earl Sigurd of Orkney and Brodir of the Isle of Man, by promising her hand in marriage. This is the first work to introduce the idea that Gormlaith was divorced from Brian Boru.\n\nA separate strain of wholly negative conceptions of Gormlaith appeared in Geoffrey Keating's \"Foras Feasa Ar Eirinn\" composed in 1634. In this text Keating makes explicit the link between Gormlaith's goading and Máel Mórda's declaration of war. Gormlaith's remarks in this Early Modern account weighed on Máel Mórda, contributing to his quarrel with Murchad and eventually lead the “Leinster king to seek allies in the war against the Dál Cais”. As to why Keating decided to place the cause of hostilities with Gormlaith is up for some debate. One scholar, Meidhbhín Ní Úrdail suggested that he was influenced by Meredith Hamner's \"Chronicle of Ireland\" published in 1633, where the cause of Clontarf is attributed not to Gormlaith, but an anonymous \"merchant's wife\". Keating's work would in turn influence a slightly later text of the same period, \"Cath Cluana Tarbh\". Only one version of this work contains a reference to Gormlaith, but the depiction is derived from Keating.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260106", "title": "Epidemic Intelligence Service", "text": "Epidemic Intelligence Service\n\nThe Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) is a program of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The modern EIS is a two-year, hands-on post-doctoral training program in epidemiology, with a focus on field work.\n\nThe Epidemic Intelligence Service was established in 1951 by Alexander Langmuir. It arose from biological warfare concerns relating to the Korean War.\n\nThe EIS is operated by the CDC's Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services (CSELS), in the Office of Public Health Scientific Services (OPHSS).\n\nPersons participating in the program, known colloquially as \"disease detectives\", are formally called \"EIS officers\" (or EIS fellows) by the CDC and have been dispatched to investigate hundreds of possible epidemics created by natural and artificial causes. Since 1951, more than 3,000 EIS officers have been involved in domestic and international response efforts, including the anthrax, hantavirus, West Nile virus in the United States, and the 2014–16 Ebola epidemic in West Africa.\n\nEIS officers begin their fellowship with a one-month training program at CDC headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia; however, 95% of their two-year term consists of experiential rather than classroom training. For the remainder of their service, EIS officers are assigned to operational branches within the CDC or at state and local health departments around the country. Placement is determined via a highly competitive matching process. The CDC pairs EIS officers with a Public Health Advisor or \"PHA\", forming a scientist (EIS officer) and operations (PHA) team. EIS is a common recruiting pathway into the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.\n\nThe EIS is the prototype for Field Epidemiology Training Programs (FETP), which operate in numerous countries with technical assistance provided by the CDC.\n\nSince the inception of the EIS, officers have been involved with treatment, eradication, and disease-control efforts for a variety of medically related crises. Below is an abridged timeline of their work.\n\n\nEIS officers attend an annual conference in Atlanta, Georgia, to present components of their work from the preceding year.\n\nDuring the conference, the Alexander D. Langmuir Prize is awarded \"to a current officer or first-year alumnus of the EIS for the best scientific publication. The award consists of a $100 cash prize, an engraved paperweight, a case of ale or beer redolent of the John Snow Pub in London, and an inscription on the permanent plaque at CDC.\"\n\nA complete list of Langmuir Prize winners is included below:\n\nIn the 2011 film \"Contagion\", the character Doctor Erin Mears (portrayed by Kate Winslet) is a physician and investigator with the Epidemic Intelligence Service who was tasked by the CDC to discover the origin of a highly contagious and deadly virus known as MEV-1 which was rapidly spreading throughout the world following initial outbreaks in Kowloon, Hong Kong and Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260120", "title": "Siemens S40", "text": "Siemens S40\n\nThe Siemens S40 is a mobile phone. Originally developed as the Bosch 1886 in 2000, the phone was branded as the Siemens S40 after Siemens acquired the Bosch mobile phone division. The Siemens S40 is a tri-band mobile phone that operates on the GSM-900, GSM-1800, and GSM-1900 networks. Communication with a computer can be done either through the infrared port (IrDA) on the phone or a USB or serial port data cable. Its more distinctive features include the voice memo recorder, the mute feature for conversations, the ability to record phone conversations, and the ringtone composer (a useful alternative for those unsatisfied with the 47 monophonic ringtones). Another notable fact about this phone is its very low SAR (specific absorption rate) of 0.33, making it #10 on the CNET's list of ten lowest-radiation cell phones as of 2005. Also it was one of the first phone with HSCSD.\n\nThe phone also supports WAP 1.1, SMS, HSCSD, and T9 predictive text input.\n\nThe S40 includes a 104x64 pixel monochrome liquid-crystal display with a blue backlight, an internal antenna, and rubbery buttons to prevent accidental dialing.\n\nPhone was also branded as the Siemens S42, with the only differences being the keypad cover and a more rounded form factor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260123", "title": "Van der Woude syndrome", "text": "Van der Woude syndrome\n\nVan der Woude syndrome (VDWS) is a genetic disorder characterized by the combination of lower lip pits, cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CL/P), and cleft palate only (CPO). The frequency of orofacial clefts ranges from 1:1000 to 1:500 births worldwide, and there are more than 400 syndromes that involve CL/P. VWS is distinct from other clefting syndromes due to the combination of cleft lip and palate (CLP) and CPO within the same family. Other features frequently associated with VWS include hypodontia in 10-81% of cases, narrow arched palate, congenital heart disease, heart murmur and cerebral abnormalities, syndactyly of the hands, polythelia, ankyloglossia, and adhesions between the upper and lower gum pads.\n\nThe association between lower lip pits and cleft lip and/or palate was first described by Anne Van der Woude in 1954. The worldwide disease incidence ranges from 1:100,000 to 1:40,000.\n\nVan der Woude syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant disease caused by a mutation in a single gene with equal distribution between the sexes. The disease has high penetrance at about 96% but the phenotypic expression varies from lower lip pits with cleft lip and cleft palate to no visible abnormalities. Approximately 88% of VWS patients display lower lip pits, and in about 64% of cases lip pits are the only visible defect. Reported clefting covers a wide range including submucous cleft palate, incomplete unilateral CL, bifid uvula, and complete bilateral CLP. VWS is the most common orofacial clefting syndrome, accounting for 2% of CLP cases.\n\nThe majority of VWS cases are caused by haploinsufficiency due to mutations in the interferon regulatory factor 6 gene (\"IRF6\") on chromosome 1 in the 1q32-q41 region known as VWS locus 1. A second, less common, causative locus is found at 1p34, known as VWS locus 2 (VWS2). More recent work has shown that GRHL3 is the VWS2 gene. \"Grhl3\" is downstream of \"Irf6\" in oral epithelium, suggesting a common molecular pathway leading to VWS. Prior work also suggested \"WDR65\" as a candidate gene. \"IRF6\" contains two non-coding and seven coding exons and is part of a family of nine transcription factors with a highly conserved helix-turn-helix DNA binding domain called the Smad-interferon regulatory factor binding domain (SMIR). Mutations in coding or non-coding \"IRF6\" exons can result in Van der Woude syndrome. Due to the wide range of expressivity, it is also believed that other unidentified loci contribute to disease development.\n\nAn example of the clear phenotypic variability is a monozygotic twin study conducted by Jobling et al. (2010). Two monozygotic female twins had the same \"IRF6\" mutation; however Twin A was born with a bilateral cleft lip, whereas Twin B had bilateral lip pits and no orofacial clefting. Both twins were diagnosed with VWS. The twins' father had lip pits alone and a family history of CLP, CP, CL, and/or lip pits. Both twins were diagnosed with VWS. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification was done for all exons of \"IRF6\", and a missense mutation was discovered in exon 4. The tyrosine in the normal protein at this position is conserved across mammals, frogs, and chickens, so despite the fact that it was a previously unreported mutation, it was expected to be deleterious. This study is not the first case of different phenotypes occurring between monozygotic twins. Possible causes of phenotypic variability include variations in the intrauterine environment, epigenetic differences, or chance effects.\n\nLip pits were first reported in 1845 by Demarquay who thought they were indentations made by the upper incisors. Today it is known that they occur during embryogenesis due to \"IRF6\" mutations. On day 32 of embryonic development there are four growth centers of the lower lip divided by two lateral grooves and one median. By day 38 of normal development, the grooves have disappeared. However, when growth of the mandibular process is impeded, a lip pit occurs. Lip pits begin to develop on day 36. Cleft lip begins to develop on day 40, and cleft palate emerges on day 50 of development.\n\nThere are three types of lip pits, which are classified according to their location: midline upper, comissural, and lower lip. The most common phenotype is two symmetrical lower lip pits flanking both sides of the midline in the bilateral paramedial sinuses. Lower lip pits may also be bilaterally, unilaterally, or medially asymmetrical. The occurrence of a single lip pit is considered incomplete expression, and it typically occurs on the left side of the lower lip. There are also three different shapes for lip pits, the most common being circular or oval; less common forms include slit-like or transverse. The lip pits extend into the orbicularis oris muscle, ending in blind sacs surrounded by mucous glands. In some cases mucous is excreted when the muscles contract.\n\nClinical diagnosis based on orofacial clefts and lip pits typically occurs shortly after birth. Certain defects may be difficult to diagnose, particularly a submucous cleft palate. This form of CP may not be detected except through finger palpation, as the mucosa covering the palate is intact, but the muscles underneath have lost their proper attachments. Feeding problems, impaired speech, and hearing loss are symptoms of a submucous cleft palate. Furthermore, approximately 15% of VWS cases with orofacial clefts, in the absence of prominent lip pits, cannot be easily distinguished from non-syndromic forms of orofacial clefting. Therefore, it is very important to closely examine these patients as well as their relatives for lip pits, especially when there is a family history of mixed clefting, in order to make the VWS diagnosis. Dentists may also play an important role in diagnosing cases not detected at birth, as they detect hypodontia commonly associated with VWS. The \npatients most commonly lack the upper second premolars followed by the lower second premolars and upper lateral incisors. The absence of these teeth might play a role in the constricting of the dental arches.\n\nThe clinical signs seen in VWS are similar to those of popliteal pterygium syndrome (PPS), which is also an autosomal dominant disease. Approximately 46% of affected individuals have lip pits; other features include genital abnormalities, abnormal skin near nails, syndactyly of fingers and toes, and webbed skin. The disease is also caused by mutations in \"IRF6\"; however, they occur in the DNA-binding domain of \"IRF6\" and result in a dominant negative effect in which the mutated IRF6 transcription factor interferes with the ability of the wild type copy to function, in the case of a heterozygous individual.\nGenetic counseling for VWS involves discussion of disease transmission in the autosomal dominant manner and possibilities for penetrance and expression in offspring. Autosomal dominance means affected parents have a 50% chance of passing on their mutated \"IRF6\" allele to a their child. Furthermore, if a cleft patient has lip pits, he or she has a ten times greater risk of having a child with cleft lip with or without cleft palate than a cleft patient who does not have lip pits. Types of clefting between parents and affected children are significantly associated; however, different types of clefts may occur horizontally and vertically within the same pedigree. In cases where clefting is the only symptom, a complete family history must be taken to ensure the patient does not have non-syndromic clefting.\n\nLip pits may be surgically removed either for aesthetic reasons or discomfort due to inflammation caused by bacterial infections or chronic saliva excretion, though spontaneous shrinkage of the lip pits has occurred in some rare cases. Chronic inflammation has also been reported to cause squamous-cell carcinoma. It is essential to completely remove the entire lip pit canal, as mucoid cysts can develop if mucous glands are not removed. A possible side effect of removing the lip pits is a loose lip muscle. Other conditions associated with VWS, including CL, CP, congenital heart defects, etc. are surgically corrected or otherwise treated as they would be if they were non-syndromic.\n"}
{"id": "2260130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260130", "title": "2006 New Hampshire gubernatorial election", "text": "2006 New Hampshire gubernatorial election\n\nThe 2006 New Hampshire gubernatorial election took place on November 7, 2006. Incumbent Democrat John Lynch defeated Republican James B. Coburn and won a second term as Governor of New Hampshire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260133", "title": "Tequisquiapan", "text": "Tequisquiapan\n\nTequisquiapan (; Otomi: Ntʼe) is a town and municipality located in the southeast of the state of Querétaro in central Mexico. The center of the town has cobblestone streets, traditional rustic houses with wrought iron fixtures, balconies, and wooden windowsills, which is the legacy of its 300-year heritage as a colonial town populated mostly by indigenous people. This, the climate, and the local natural water springs have made the town a popular weekend getaway for cities such as Querétaro and Mexico City, which has led to the construction of weekend homes in the town.\n\nTequisquiapan is part of Querétaro's Ruta de Vino (Wine Route) with La Redonda as the municipality's major producer. Grape production began in the early 1960s, but has become important enough to be featured on the municipality's seal. The town hosts the annual Feria Nacional del Queso y el Vino, (National Cheese and Wine Fair) which showcases southern Querétaro's cheese and wine production.\n\nThe town of Tequisquiapan in southwestern Querétaro is a tourist town, which mostly caters to weekend visitors from Mexico City and the city of Querétaro. These visitors come to see the parish church, walk the cobblestone streets filled with traditional houses, and visit recreational attractions such as the area's 18-hole golf course and spas/water parks (called “balneários”) such as El Oasis, Thermas del Rey, Fidel Velásquez and La Vega.\nThe town is centered on the main square, named after Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla and the Santa María de la Asunción Temple. Hidalgo Square is a large open, paved area, facing which is the town's parish church and a series of arches. On the east side of the plaza, there is a kiosk made of gray sandstone and metal, which often has bands playing live music such as jazz and rock and roll. Along one entire side, there are sandstone arches behind which are a number of business such as galleries, cafés and shops selling sweets, silver, furniture and crafts. It also contains some of the town's better restaurants such as Capricho's, which offers French-Mexican fusion cooking. Another side of the square is taken up by the parish church of Santa María. This church was established in the 16th century, but the current construction is from the 19th century. It is in Neoclassical style with simple lines and made of pink sandstone. The clock in the tower dates from 1897.\n\nAround the main square, much of the construction remains traditional with cobblestone streets and buildings that relatively simple and rustic. This is because this town was dominated by the indigenous for the first three hundred years of its existence. Many of the buildings are two stories tall painted in bright colors such as yellow and green and with balconies. They also have wrought iron fixtures with wooden sills and frames on their doors and windows. Flowerpots are a common sight as well. The narrowness of the roads means that vehicular traffic is commonly jammed, especially on weekends. Efforts at modernization have destroyed many of the town's old trees; however, most of the original junipers along the river remain. Away from the historic center, many of the newer sections of town consist of subdivisions of weekends homes more recently built. However, these mostly follow the architectural styles of the older structures.\n\nThe town is home to a number of important legends. As it is a tourist town there is a trolley-replica bus to take visitors around the various landmarks. These landmarks include places where Tequisquiapan's legends are set and on weekends and holidays, actors in period costumes re-enact these stories.\n\nAnother attraction of the town is shopping, especially for handcrafts and folk art. The two most traditional crafts of the area are baskets and furniture made from wood, wicker, rattan and other materials. However, crafts from many parts of Mexico are available for sale as well. The main markets, which are the municipal market and the handcrafts markets are located on Ezequiel Montes Street near Salvador Carrizal. In addition to these markets there are a number of street vendors who sell from stalls or by walking around the streets. One common type of merchandise, especially in the main square are sweet breads, dried fruit, fruits in syrup and other sweets. One unique sweet of the town is crystallized nopal cactus. Otomi women can be seen in the main plaza and other locations selling their crafts. Most of these vendors are from the neighboring municipality of Amealco. These crafts generally consist of embroidered napkins and other textiles, rag dolls, ceramics and baskets.\n\nThe most important park in the municipality is La Pila, which is located just north of the main town square. It contains fresh water springs and large areas of trees and grass for picnicking and other activities. The park was the site of an old water mill. Its namesake, a reservoir to store water built in 1567, can still be seen. It is said that there was an indigenous temazcal at the La Pila site. Before it became a park, it was the site of a commercial water park for children. Today, it is an area filled with Montezuma cypress and ash trees and is the site of the annual Feria Nacional del Queso y el Vino. Other parks include El Portón, La Recámara and El Salitrillo.\nThe Callejón del Piojo (lit. Louse Alley) is a historic street in the town which was recently renovated to promote fine arts and handcrafts as well as to serve as a venue for cultural and recreational events.\n\nThe Centro Cultural or Cultural Center hosts expositions of painting and crafts as well as concerts and workshops. It also has an extensive library.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Mexican president Venustiano Carranza passed through Tequisquiapan on his way to the city of Querétaro. He issued a decree announcing that the town was the “geographical center of the country.” However, today that distinction is widely considered to be in Zacatecas. However, there is a monument in the town at Centenario and 5 de Mayo Streets to commemorate the decree.\n\nThe two oldest neighborhoods of the town are the Barrio de la Magdalena and San Juan, where many of the chapels built for the indigenous population of the colonial era were built. The main chapel of the Barrio de la Magdalena has a large mesquite tree in its atrium where it is said that the mass celebrated to found the town occurred. This founding is re-enacted here each year in June.\n\nThe town contains a bullring which hosts bullfights as well as exhibitions of flamenco dance and concerts. There is a Bullfight Fair in March.\n\nThe old Bernal railroad station is located on Avenida Juarez. It was built when the rail line was constructed through the municipality. Today, it served as a viewpoint to see much of the city. It also conserves a locomotive from the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nThe Casa de Caballo is located near the river and offers horseback riding in the Barrio de la Magdalena.\n\nIntercity bus service operates out of the town's main terminal, which is served by Flecha azul, Transportes Tequis; Flecha Blanca; Flecha Amarilla; Autotransportes Queretanos and Enlaces Terrestres Nacionales. Two rail lines pass through here connecting Mexico City with Guadalajara and Nuevo Laredo.\n\nThe town has a number of festivals and traditions which are especially important or unique to it. The festival of the Holy Cross on May 3 is particularly important in the San Juan neighborhood with the dance of Moors and Christians as the highlight. Preparations for this event begin months in advance.\n\nThe feast day for the patroness of the town, Our Lady of the Assumption, occurs on August 15. This day is observed by all in the municipality, many of which come to the parish church in the center of town for the festivities. These festivities include traditional dances, which last from early and through the day. This is also a popular day for confirmations, first communions and other similar ceremonies. The day ends with a large frame called a castillo (castle ) filled with fireworks which is set alight.\n\nFor Holy Week, the town holds an annual Passion Play. This event begins in the main square in front of the Santa María de la Asunción Temple and passes through the streets of the town to a site called Monte Calvario, named after the place where Jesus was crucified. Here the crucifixion of Christ is re-enacted. Afterwards, an image of the deceased Jesus is carried from the area in a glass coffin. On Holy Saturday, images of Judas are burned along with those of devils and other unliked figures .\n\nThe founding of the town is celebrated each year in the Barrio de la Magdalena neighborhood on June 24, where the founding mass took place. This commemoration includes a re-enactment of the founding with actors in 16th century clothing.\n\nThe annual pilgrimage to the chapel on the Cerro Grande occurs on September 13. This procession climbs the hill where the chapel is located the day before and spends the night there. The following day, after mass, there is picnicking and spending the day in the countryside. It is not known how or when this tradition started, but it attracts not only those from Tequisquiapan, but those from Santa Rosa Xajay, El Cerrito, Bordo Blanco and San Nicolás.\n\nThe feast of Isidore the Laborer on May 15 is important in the town which is centered on a procession from the Santa María de la Asunción church to the El Llano chapel. The purpose of the feast is to ask for good crops for that growing season. The El Llano chapel is located in the agricultural center of the area.\n\nThe feast of Mary Magdalene, patroness of the Barrio de la Magdalena is celebrated on September 8. The feast of the Apostle John, patron of the San Juan neighborhood, takes place on December 27. One Christmas tradition in the town is to have a parade through the town on Christmas Eve. This parade features floats with Biblical scenes.\n\nOne local tradition is the creation of “cruces de animas” (crosses of encouragement) which can be seen on family altars or in family shrines. These crosses represent loved ones who have died and can be very elaborate although most are simple. These are most common in the former Indian neighborhoods of San Juan and Barrio de la Magdalena where they can be seen in the local chapels.\n\nThe Feria Nacional del Queso y el Vino began in the 1980s as a means to promote the region's wine and cheese production. The fair promotes the 1,200,000 million bottles of wine and 400,000 kilograms of cheese the state produces each year. Most of the activity occurs at the La Pila Park, in the town center, but there are also cultural events, conferences, contests, charreadas, concerts and more associated with it. The main tent contains wine and cheese producers from the local area as well as the rest of Mexico and international companies. The event crowns a festival queen, who is crowned by the municipal president.\n\nThe fair is sponsored with money from the municipality, the state of Querétaro and the federal Secretary of Tourism. Artists who have played at the event include de Paco Rentería, Sonora Dinamita, Playa Limbo, Titanes de Durango, Grupo Mediterráneo, Guitarras de América, Carlos Eduardo Rico, Jorge Falcón, Sandoval, Pambo and singer María José .\n\nThe 2011, the fair resulted in 100 percent hotel occupancy and an economic impact of forty million pesos for the town. However, the fair has had problems with the uncontrolled sale of alcoholic beverages and large number of young people simply getting drunk. This has led to incidents of fighting and other illegal behavior. There have also been cases of alcohol intoxication requiring medical attention.\n\nAs municipal seat, the town of Tequisquiapan is the local governing authority for about two hundred other communities, which together cover a territory of 343.6 km. However, over 77% of the population is concentrated in five communities, with about 51% in the town of Tequisquiapan alone. The other major population centers are San Nicolás, La Fuente, Fuentezuelas and El Tejocote. The main economic activity of San Nicolás is the production of cinderblock, followed by agriculture. La Fuente's main economic activity is agriculture with chili peppers, corn, tomatoes and beans as principle crops. La Trinidad is the center of opal mining in the municipality, but it also cultivates corn and beans.\n\nThe town and municipality are located in the far southeast of the state of Querétaro, just north of the small industrial city of San Juan del Río, and within one hour driving distance from the city of Querétaro and two hours from Mexico City. This is one reason why it is a popular place to visit on weekends and many second homes have been constructed here. The municipality borders the municipalities of Colón, Ezequiel Montes, San Juan del Río and Pedro Escobedo with the state of Hidalgo to the east. The municipal government consists of a municipal president and thirteen officials called “regidors” to represent the various communities of the municipality.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of the population is Catholic, with a small but growing number in Evangelical groups and Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nThere is one special education school which serves 160 students with sixteen teachers. There are sixteen preschools serving over two thousands young children between four and six years of age. There are thirty six primary schools. Middle school education is offered through two modes, distance education called “telesecundaria” and a general middle school system. Most attend the latter which are located in the larger population centers near the municipal seat. The telesecundarias are located in the communities of La Fuente, Los Cerritos, Fuentezuelas, El Tejocote, San José la Laja, Santillán, El Sauz, La Trinidad and San Nicolás. High school and vocational school education is offered on five sites.\n\nAlmost all residences in the municipality are occupied by their owners, with an average of 4.9 occupants per household. Basic municipal services such as running water, garbage and other services are available to 90% or more of the population with the exception of street lighting, which is available to only 60%. Residential construction has changed significantly since the mid 20th century with the introduction of concrete and cinderblock, which is now used in almost all new construction. This is common in Mexico but there is a local variation on roofing which is a vault with a ridgeline in two styles. Constructions dating from before the 1950s are now considered to be “rustic.” These are mostly found in the historic center of Tequisquiapan and a number of the oldest communities in the municipality. New constructions tend to imitate this style.\n\nThe main highway for the municipal is Federal Highway 120, which connects it south to San Juan del Río and north to the Sierra Gorda region of Querétaro into Xilitla in San Luis Potosí. Other important roads include State Highway 200 which connects it with Galeras, Huichapan and the city of Querétaro, and State Highway 126, connecting it to Tecozautla. Almost all of the municipality's roads are paved with only 2.3% left as dirt or paved with stone. There are also roads that connect the eighteen communities of the municipalities as well as to the state of Hidalgo.\n\nLa Trinidad has an archeological site. The site was excavated in 2009 and 2010 and dates from 750 to 900 CE., around the time of the fall of Teotihuacan. It has been proposed to make it an ecotourism site called Dö Mëkuni. In addition to conserving the areas flora and fauna, it proposes to offer activities such as rappelling, zip-lines, rock climbing, fishing and more, along with a museum dedicated to the archeological site.\n\nThe municipality sponsors the annual Rally de Tequisquiapan, which is affiliated with the PAC auto championships. The rally begins in the town and winds its way along the highways of Querétaro in the mountain areas of the state.\n\nThe name comes from Nahuatl and means “place of tequesquite (potassium nitrate)” a type of natural salt used to flavor food since pre Hispanic times. The municipality's seal was adopted in 1989 at a contest held in conjunction with the annual Feria Nacional del Queso y el Vino. This seal contains elements related to the area such as the sun, grapes, the Tequisquiapan River and the parish church of Santa María de la Asunción.\n\nThe presence of humans in the modern state of Querétaro is estimated at between 1500 and 2500 BCE, with the oldest human remains found at a cave in the San Nicolás community. This site gives no indication that these early humans had either agriculture or pottery. Much later human remains in the same cave indicate the presence of both and perhaps influence from the Las Ranas site to the north. This would put the area within the sphere of influence of this culture, which was Huastec and part of the early Pre Classic period.\n\nBy the Post Classic period, the area was dominated by the Otomi people in the east near the Hidalgo border and by the Chichimeca in the rest. The main Chichimeca settlements were just south and west of the modern municipal seat, where fresh water springs were most abundant and the land was the most fertile. Around this same time, the area had a reputation for its fresh water and thermal springs for medicinal purposes. The area did not have any major cities during the pre Hispanic period but a number of important trade routes ran through it. By the time the Spanish arrived, most of the area was allied with the Otomi at Xilotepec, itself a tributary of the Aztec Empire. The Otomi outnumbered the Chichimecas but both lived in the area peacefully.\nThe area around Tequisquiapan was taken over by the Spanish relatively peacefully, but the Chichimecas did resist. This resistance remained sporadic until the last battle of the Chichimecas in Querétaro against the Spanish called the Battle of Media Luna which occurred to the north in the Sierra Gorda.\n\nThe official founding date for the city is 1551 by indigenous cacique Nicolás de San Luis Montañez, who was allied with the Spanish. The settlement received its royal seal founded as Santa María de la Asuncón y de las Aguas Calientes. The foundation grouped local Chichimecas and Otomí onto the site and the foundation was celebrated with a Mass. With the pacification of southern Querétaro, lands in the area were redistributed among the Spanish and the evangelized Otomi, leading to three hundred years of intense agricultural development. However, much of this came at the expense of most of the indigenous population. By 1656, it had been definitively named Tequisquiapan.\n\nDespite the exploitation, the population of the town and municipal area remained mostly indigenous. For this reason, the town has kept much of its rustic architecture.\n\nIn the decades before the Mexican War of Independence, Tequisquiapan experienced a number of small rebellions on area haciendas, by indigenous people whose socioeconomic status was still serf-like. However, during Independence and other major conflicts of the 19th century, there were no major battles in the area and little information as to how this area was affected. It was officially declared a town in 1861, with the name of Villa de Mateos Tequisquiapan.\n\nDuring the Mexican Revolution, army loyal to Villa, Carranza and Obregón passed through but no battles were fought in the municipality. However, these armies did sack area haciendas and other locations, mostly for supplies. The Centenario Dam was inaugurated in 1910. Venustiano Carranza visited the thermal springs of the area before heading to the city of Querétaro to sign the 1917 Constitution. This Mexican president also declared the town as the “geographic center of the country.” There is a monument in the town to this effect; however, today the geographic center is considered to be in Zacatecas .\n\nShortly after the end of the Revolution, there was political instability in the state and Tequisquiapan was designated as the provisional capital in 1920.\n\nAlthough its first municipal status was gained in 1861, but its current municipal organization was not formalized until 1939.\n\nThe growing of grapes in the municipality begin in the early 1960s, with the planting of 120,000 vines for wine grapes in the community of San José Buenavista by the Sofimar enterprise, affiliated with Martelli in France. Initial varieties were ugni blanc (used for brandy), cabernet sauvignon and Grenache, for reds, whites and rosés.\n\nThe latter 20th century saw significant population growth, as the town transformed from a small traditional farming village to a popular weekend getaway. This growth has also been spurred by the growth of the nearby industrial city of San Juan del Río . Since 1950, the population of the municipality has grown from 10,877 to 54,929 in 2005. However, the indigenous population has severely decline, from an indigenous majority in the 19th century to only 120 people speaking an indigenous language in the entity as of 2005.\n\nIn 2007, the PRD municipal president Noé Zárraga, was shot twice by unknown persons.\n\nThe territory is located in the Mexican Plateau on the southeast side of the Sierra Gorda. The land is relatively flat with rolling hills and small valleys which are mostly farmland. The terrain contains both volcanic and sedimentary rock due to its geological history. The elevations in the area are small with mostly porous rock. In some areas there are quartz and opal deposits. In other areas, there are deposits of rhyolite and pearlite. The highest elevations in the east and are formed by volcanic basalt. This rock varies in color between black and red.\n\nThe San Juan/Tequisquiapan River crosses the municipality in the south on which are the Centenario Dam, near the town of Tequisquiapan and the Paso de Tablas Dam near the border with Hidalgo. The latter has an inactive hydroelectric plant. There are subsurface currents of water which feed a number of freshwater springs on either side of the San Juan River. Near the river a number of fruit and nut trees are grown such as walnuts, peaches, pomegranate, avocado, apricots, limes, guavas and fig. There is also vineyards which have not yet reached peak potential.\n\nThe main dam for the municipality is the El Centenario Dam, located just south of the town of Tequisquiapan. Although its reservoir is important for water storage, it has had serious problems with pollution from industrial waste. The first major disaster occurred in 1999, when over 2,000 wild ducks died from the contaminated water. A more recent spill, traced to a textile plant in San Juan del Río killed more than 6,000 fish in 2005. This incident also caused health concerns for those living near the water. The area around the dam is subject to flooding during the rainy season, which at times has affected the hotels and restaurants which are nearby. The flooding and contamination problems have had a negative effect on tourism in general.\n\nThe climate is temperate with two well-defined seasons each year. Most rain falls between June and October, with the dry season extending from November to April. Annual precipitation is 511.8mm. Summers are hot and winters are moderately cold leading to an average annual temperature of 17.5C. The coldest months are October to February, and freezes are not uncommon, occurring an average of 18 days per year. Dominant winds flow from the northeast to the southwest.\n\nNatural vegetation is suited for temperate and relatively dry climates. In the higher elevations, there are forests of low and medium height. In the hotter, dryer lowlands vegetation such as pirul (Schinus molle), mesquite, palo bobo (Tessaria integrifolia), various types of cactus and arid land scrub.\n\nPopulation growth since the Conquest, and especially in the 20th century has had a negative impact on wildlife in the municipality and other parts of Querétaro. A number of species have already disappeared, such as the jaguarondi and the puma with others in danger of extinction. Species such as deer, coyotes, owls, eagles and foxes have diminished in part due to the contamination of the waters of the Centenario Dam. The most common species of the area are the rabbit, skunk, squirrel, opossum, doves, other species of birds, rattlesnakes and coral snakes.\n\nAfter tourism, agriculture and livestock is the most important economic activity of the municipality, employing just under fifteen percent of the working population. This is despite the fact that it is not very profitable due to the high operating costs, obsolete technology, insufficient credit and inadequate commercialization. The main crops are corn, beans, sorghum, alfalfa, grapes, chili peppers, tomatoes and tomatillos. Tequisquiapan is the largest producer of pasilla chili peppers in Mexico, but this production is under pressure due to imports of a similar chili pepper from Peru and China, and sold as pasilla. The municipality is asking for a registration to mark authentic pasilla chili peppers from the imported variety.\n\n19,703 hectares of the municipality is ejido or other communally owned property. These are owned by thirteen ejidos and one agricultural and livestock cooperative. 11,078 hectares of the municipality are used for agriculture, with 4,867 irrigated and the rest planted during the rainy season.\n\nLivestock mostly consists of the raising of bulls for bullfights. Some of the better known ranches for this include Xajay, La Gloria, San Martín and Fernando de la Mora. Outside of this, the municipality is not especially dependent on the raising of livestock although cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and horses can be found. The town contains a bullring which hosts bullfights as well as exhibitions of flamenco dance and concerts. There is a Bullfight Fair in March.\n\nThe growing of grapes in the municipality began with wine grapes in the early 1960s and has grown to be one of the most important agricultural products, featured on Tequisquiapan's municipal seal. Reds, whites and rosés are produced but most are sparkling wines. The major producer in the municipality is Viñedos La Redonda, about twelve km outside of the town proper. The vineyards are mostly planted with vines of French origin such as Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Malbec for reds and Chenin blanc and Trebbiano for whites. It has guided tours for visitors, especially at harvest time. One major producer of table grapes is Rancho San Miguel. The ranch extends over forty hectares and primarily produces Red Globe and Ribier Negra grapes. The ranch also raises 1,200 sheep which helps the ranch maintain an ecological balance through the production of fertilizer. The ranch produces 3,200 crates of the fruit daily during harvest.\nJust under fifty percent are employed in industry, construction, and the making of handcrafts. The production and sale of rustic furniture and other handcrafts is an important part of the municipality's economy. Furniture is made with wood, rattan, wicker and willow and pine branches, mostly in colonial or “rustic” style. Basketry is the other traditional craft, mostly woven from willow branches and wicker for household use. The commercialization of these baskets began after the railroad was constructed through here in the early 20th century, with baskets going to Mexico City. Later the train was substituted by buses. The space that baskets would normally take on a transport led to a system of semi construction in the town, with final assembly taking place in the place of sale. The most traditional baskets are still made of willow, but other materials have been adapted such as synthetic, rattan, fabric and more. The town's reputation for handcrafts is part of its attraction for tourism. Tourism has impacted the production of crafts with greater quantity and variety. The most common types to the area are basketry and the making of furniture with willow branches, as well as wood. There are also artisans producing wool items, ceramics, opal items and clothing. There are several textile factories Confecciones San Nicolás S.A. de C.V., Confecciones 1910 S.A. de C.V., Piel GI S.A. de C.V. and Maklo S.A. de C.V.\n\nQuesos Vai is the largest cheese producer in the region, with their main ranch on the Querétaro-Tequisquiapan highway and stores in the town itself. The main cheeses are Oaxaca and manchego, with the latter often containing epazote or chipotle .\n\nMining is focused on non-metallic minerals with opals and kaolin the most important products. The most important opal deposits are located in the southwest of the municipality in small mountain chain near the community of La Trinidad. The most productive mines include El Iris, La Carbonera, La Esperanza and El Rendón producing gems of size, quality and a variety of colors. Most kaolin deposits are found in northeast near the communities of El Sombrerete and Los Charcos. La Carbonera is an opal mine open to the public. Tours include miners telling stories about mining in the area and visitors are encouraged to look for the stones.\n\nJust over thirty three percent are employed in commerce and services, including tourism. The tourism and service sector of the town employs about four hundred people directly, along with 200 more during the busy seasons and 450 jobs indirectly depend on it. The municipality has forty one hotels and thirty eight large restaurants. Retail commercial establishment include those catering to tourists and those catering to the local population. The municipality contains one wholesale food market, a crafts market, an open-air market for crafts, three warehouses for grain and over 2100 small retail businesses. The main market for groceries remains the municipal market .\n\nTequisquiapan is the second most important tourist destination in the state of Querétaro. The major tourist attractions for the town and municipality include the food, the hot springs, the crafts and the climate. It has had a reputation as a place to visit for its thermal and fresh water springs since the pre Hispanic era. However, many of these springs have dried up due to the pumping of groundwater, requiring spas and hotels to pump the spring and thermal water from below ground as well. Today, other attractions of the town include its climate, the layout of its streets, the traditional facades of its houses and the variety of handcrafts and folk art available in its markets. Spas and water parks include Balneario La Vega, Parque Acuático El Oasis, Parque Acuático Termas del Rey, Fantasía Acuática and Balneario San Joaquín. Some of the water parks feature thermal springs and other have water slides and other rides for children. \n\nThe town is part of the Ruta de Vino (Wine Route), a tourist route dedicated to the state's wine and cheese production as well as the Peña de Bernal.\n\nHotels range from the inexpensive to five star accommodations. The town contains twenty nine hotels with a total of 792 rooms. Restaurants have increased in number and size as tourism grows, offering national and international cuisine. However, economical eateries including those in the Santa Cecilia tianguis market are still readily available. The cuisine of the area maintains is pre Hispanic base of corn, nopal cactus and chili peppers. Typical dishes in the municipality include barbacoa made from goat, menudo, a type of blood pudding, mole Querétaro style, rice with the viscera of chicken or turkey, quesadillas with squash flowers or huitlacoche, carnitas, tamales and gorditas. Bread is an important staple as well, where bakeries such as La Charamusca sometimes have lines of people waiting to buy sweet bread and cookies. Beverages include atole, pulque and aguardiente (a liquor made from sugar cane from the Sierra Gorda region). Although there is wine production here, it is generally not consumed by the local populace.\n\nThere are hot air balloon flights for tourists, conducted by the Club Aerostático Nacional. Balloon rides are offered only in the mornings due to wind speed.\n\nDespite its long history of being a place to visit for its hot springs and proximity to Mexico City, hotel occupancy is only around twenty to twenty five percent during the year. One reason for this is that many of the visitors stay for only a day or weekend. Most visitors to the municipality are from Mexico City and the city of Querétaro, as these are within easy driving distance of the town for weekend visits. The municipality tried to gain a line of credit with the government finance agency Banobras in order to improve the area's tourism infrastructure.\n"}
{"id": "2260138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260138", "title": "Kajsa Bergqvist", "text": "Kajsa Bergqvist\n\nKajsa Margareta Bergqvist (; born 12 October 1976 in Sollentuna, Stockholm) is a Swedish former high jumper. She won one bronze medal in the Olympic Games, one gold and two bronze medals in the World Championships in Athletics and one gold and one bronze in the European Championships. Her personal outdoor record of 2.06 m, set in Germany in 2003, is also a Swedish record. Her indoor record of 2.08 m, set at the Hochsprung mit Musik meeting in 2006, is the world indoor record.\n\nBergqvist was born up in Sollentuna Municipality in Stockholm County. Her interest in sport began when she was 6 years old and tried sports such as football, volleyball, badminton, swimming and cross-country skiing, none of which was able to keep her interest.\n\nWhen she was 10 years old, she was persuaded by her big brother, Anders, to compete in Rösjöloppet, a long-distance track event. After that event, she began to try out several athletic events.\n\nBergqvist continued to train in several athletic events until she was 15 years old, when a new coach, Bengt Jönsson, came to her club, Turebergs FK. Soon after his arrival, he and Bergqvist chose to concentrate on the event that was her best, high jump.\n\nShe attended Southern Methodist University in Dallas (USA) in 1995–1999, with a degree in Advertising. She was the NCAA champion in 1997 with a clearance of 1.93 in the rain at the Indiana University over Amy Acuff of UCLA ending her streak at two. She won the NCAA meet again in 1999 with a height of 1.90 in Boise. In the season 1999, she tied Acuff's collegiate outdoor record of 1.95 (6-6). That record is sometimes omitted as it was set in international competition after the NCAA meet.\n\nDuring 2001–2008 she lived in Monaco.\n\nBy 2004, lack of progress and long travel distances caused Bergqvist to end the relationship with her coach, Bengt Jönsson. She joined a group of athletes (including Olympic gold medalist Christian Olsson) under Yannick Tregaro.\n\nAt a competition in Båstad, on 18 July 2004, Bergqvist tore her Achilles tendon. Due to the injury, she missed the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, but managed to return to form just in time for the 2005 World Championships in Athletics in Helsinki. There she made an impressive series of jumps to edge out Chaunté Howard for the gold medal. Her Helsinki victory earned the Svenska Dagbladet Gold Medal for that year.\n\nIn 2006, she had been ranked the number one female high jumper in the world but failed to win in that summer's European Championships in front of her home fans in Gothenburg, having to settle for a bronze medal.\n\nAt the Hochsprung mit Musik meeting in Arnstadt, Germany, on 4 February 2006, Bergqvist set her first world record: she made an indoor leap of 2.08 on her first attempt, surpassing Heike Henkel's 2.07 m leap on 8 February 1992. The record was not totally unexpected since she jumped 2.00 m already in the warm up for the competition.\n\nBergqvist chose not to compete in the 2007 European Indoor Athletics Championships, opting, instead, to concentrate on defending her world outdoor crown. She had not started the indoor season well, and was nowhere near the form which had seen her set the world record the year before. It did not pay off as she finished 7th in Osaka.\n\nBergqvist married director Måns Herngren on New Year's Eve in 2007 and shortly afterwards, on 7 January 2008, announced that she would retire from high jumping. She had found her life entering \"a new phase\" and that she no longer felt as motivated to keep competing, even after her break in 2007.\n\nSince her retirement, she has been an ambassador for both UNICEF and the IAAF.\n\nBergqvist married director Måns Herngren on New Year's Eve in 2007. The couple announced their divorce in early 2011.\n\nIn December 2011, Bergqvist confirmed in an interview that she is in a relationship with a woman, and stated: \"As lesbian as I feel today, as heterosexual I felt when I was together with Måns. But when I get old and look back on my life, perhaps one can think that I'm bisexual.\" This announcement came after a period of rumours concerning Bergqvist's personal life.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260140", "title": "Surface roughness", "text": "Surface roughness\n\nSurface roughness often shortened to roughness, is a component of surface texture. It is quantified by the deviations in the direction of the normal vector of a real surface from its ideal form. If these deviations are large, the surface is rough; if they are small, the surface is smooth. In surface metrology, roughness is typically considered to be the high-frequency, short-wavelength component of a measured surface. However, in practice it is often necessary to know both the amplitude and frequency to ensure that a surface is fit for a purpose.\n\nRoughness plays an important role in determining how a real object will interact with its environment. In tribology, rough surfaces usually wear more quickly and have higher friction coefficients than smooth surfaces. Roughness is often a good predictor of the performance of a mechanical component, since irregularities on the surface may form nucleation sites for cracks or corrosion. On the other hand, roughness may promote adhesion. Generally speaking, rather than scale specific descriptors, cross-scale descriptors such as surface fractality provide more meaningful predictions of mechanical interactions at surfaces including contact stiffness and static friction.\n\nAlthough a high roughness value is often undesirable, it can be difficult and expensive to control in manufacturing. For example, it is difficult and expensive to control surface roughness of fused deposition modelling (FDM) manufactured parts. \nDecreasing the roughness of a surface usually increases its manufacturing cost. This often results in a trade-off between the manufacturing cost of a component and its performance in application.\n\nRoughness can be measured by manual comparison against a \"surface roughness comparator\" (a sample of known surface roughness), but more generally a surface profile measurement is made with a profilometer. These can be of the contact variety (typically a diamond stylus) or optical (e.g.: a white light interferometer or laser scanning confocal microscope).\n\nHowever, controlled roughness can often be desirable. For example, a gloss surface can be too shiny to the eye and too slippery to the finger (a touchpad is a good example) so a controlled roughness is required. This is a case where both amplitude and frequency are very important.\n\nA roughness value can either be calculated on a profile (line) or on a surface (area). The profile roughness parameter (Ra, Rq...) are more common. The area roughness parameters (Sa, Sq...) give more significant values.\n\n The profile roughness parameters are included in BS EN ISO 4287:2000 British standard, identical with the ISO 4287:1997 standard. The standard is based on the ″M″ (mean line) system.\nThere are many different roughness parameters in use, but formula_1 is by far the most common, though this is often for historical reasons and not for particular merit, as the early roughness meters could only measure formula_1. Other common parameters include formula_3, formula_4, and formula_5. Some parameters are used only in certain industries or within certain countries. For example, the formula_6 family of parameters is used mainly for cylinder bore linings, and the \"Motif parameters\" are used primarily in the French automotive industry. The MOTIF method provides a graphical evaluation of a surface profile without filtering waviness from roughness. A \"motif\" consists of the portion of a profile between two peaks and the final combinations of these motifs eliminate ″insignificant″ peaks and retains ″significant″ ones. Please note that formula_1 is a dimensional unit that can be micrometer or microinch.\n\nSince these parameters reduce all of the information in a profile to a single number, great care must be taken in applying and interpreting them. Small changes in how the raw profile data is filtered, how the mean line is calculated, and the physics of the measurement can greatly affect the calculated parameter. With modern digital equipment, the scan can be evaluated to make sure there are no obvious glitches that skew the values.\n\nBecause it may not be obvious to many users what each of the measurements really mean, a simulation tool allows a user to adjust key parameters, visualizing how surfaces which are obviously different to the human eye are differentiated by the measurements. For example, formula_1 fails to distinguish between two surfaces where one is composed of peaks on an otherwise smooth surface and the other is composed of troughs of the same amplitude. Such tools can be found in app format.\n\nBy convention every 2D roughness parameter is a capital R followed by additional characters in the subscript. The subscript identifies the formula that was used, and the R means that the formula was applied to a 2D roughness profile. Different capital letters imply that the formula was applied to a different profile. For example, Ra is the arithmetic average of the roughness profile, Pa is the arithmetic average of the unfiltered raw profile, and Sa is the arithmetic average of the 3D roughness.\n\nEach of the formulas listed in the tables assume that the roughness profile has been filtered from the raw profile data and the mean line has been calculated. The roughness profile contains formula_9 ordered, equally spaced points along the trace, and formula_10 is the vertical distance from the mean line to the formula_11 data point. Height is assumed to be positive in the up direction, away from the bulk material.\n\nAmplitude parameters characterize the surface based on the vertical deviations of the roughness profile from the mean line. Many of them are closely related to the parameters found in statistics for characterizing population samples. For example, formula_1 is the arithmetic average value of filtered roughness profile determined from deviations about the center line within the evaluation length and formula_13 is the range of the collected roughness data points.\n\nThe arithmetic average roughness, formula_1, is the most widely used one-dimensional roughness parameter.\n\nHere is a common conversion table with also roughness grade numbers:\nSlope parameters describe characteristics of the slope of the roughness profile. Spacing and counting parameters describe how often the profile crosses certain thresholds. These parameters are often used to describe repetitive roughness profiles, such as those produced by turning on a lathe.\nOther \"frequency\" parameters are S, formula_15 and formula_15. S is the mean spacing between peaks. Just as with real mountains it is important to define a \"peak\". For S the surface must have dipped below the mean surface before rising again to a new peak. The average wavelength formula_15 and the root mean square wavelength formula_15 are derived from formula_19. When trying to understand a surface that depends on both amplitude and frequency it is not obvious which pair of metrics optimally describes the balance, so a statistical analysis of pairs of measurements can be performed (e.g.: R and formula_15 or R and Sm) to find the strongest correlation.\n\nCommon conversions:\n\nThese parameters are based on the bearing ratio curve (also known as the Abbott-Firestone curve.) This includes the Rk family of parameters.\n\nThe mathematician Benoît Mandelbrot has pointed out the connection between surface roughness and fractal dimension. The description provided by a fractal at the microroughness level may allow the control of the material properties and the type of the occurring chip formation. But fractals cannot provide a full-scale representation of a typical machined surface affected by tool feed marks, it ignores the geometry of the cutting edge. (J. Paulo Davim, 2010, \"op.cit\".). Fractal descriptors of surfaces have an important role to play in correlating physical surface properties with surface structure. Across multiple fields, connecting physical, electrical and mechanical behavior with conventional surface descriptors of roughness or slope has been challenging. By employing measures of surface fractality together with measures of roughness or surface shape, certain interfacial phenomena including contact mechanics, friction and electrical contact resistance,can be better interpreted with respect to surface structure. \n\nAreal roughness parameters are defined in the ISO 25178 series. The resulting values are Sa, Sq, Sz... Many optical measurement instruments are able to measure the surface roughness over an area. Area measurements are also possible with contact measurement systems. Multiple, closely spaced 2D scans are taken of the target area. These are then digitally stitched together using relevant software, resulting in a 3D image and accompanying areal roughness parameters.\n\nSoil-surface roughness (SSR) refers to the vertical variations present in the micro- and macro-relief of a soil surface, as well as their stochastic distribution. There are four distinct classes of SSR, each one of them representing a characteristic vertical length scale; the first class includes microrelief variations from individual soil grains to aggregates on the order of 0.053–2.0 mm; the second class consists of variations due to soil clods ranging between 2 and 100 mm; the third class of soil surface roughness is systematic elevation differences due to tillage, referred to as oriented roughness (OR), ranging between 100 and 300 mm; the fourth class includes planar curvature, or macro-scale topographic features.\n\nThe two first classes account for the so-called microroughness, which has been shown to be largely influenced on an event and seasonal timescale by rainfall and tillage, respectively. Microroughness is most commonly quantified by means of the Random Roughness, which is essentially the standard deviation of bed surface elevation data around the mean elevation, after correction for slope using the best-fit plane and removal of tillage effects in the individual height readings. Rainfall impact can lead to either a decay or increase in microroughnesss, depending upon initial microroughness conditions and soil properties. On rough soil surfaces, the action of rainsplash detachment tends to smoothen the edges of soil surface roughness, leading to an overall decrease in RR. However, a recent study which examined the response of smooth soil surfaces on rainfall showed that RR can considerably increase for low initial microroughness length scales in the order of 0 - 5 mm. It was also shown that the increase or decrease is consistent among various SSR indices .\n\nSurface structure plays a key role in governing contact mechanics, that is to say the mechanical behavior exhibited at an interface between two solid objects as they approach each other and transition from conditions of non-contact to full contact. In particular, normal contact stiffness is governed predominantly by asperity structures (roughness, surface slope and fractality) and material properties.\n\nIn terms of engineering surfaces, roughness is considered to be detrimental to part performance. As a consequence, most manufacturing prints establish an upper limit on roughness, but not a lower limit. An exception is in cylinder bores where oil is retained in the surface profile and a minimum roughness is required.\n\nSurface structure is often closely related to the friction and wear properties of a surface. A surface with a higher fractal dimension, large formula_1 value, or a positive formula_5, will usually have somewhat higher friction and wear quickly. The peaks in the roughness profile are not always the points of contact. The form and waviness (i.e. both amplitude and frequency) must also be considered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260157", "title": "Dubrow's Cafeteria", "text": "Dubrow's Cafeteria\n\nDubrow’s (dubrow’s) was a family owned chain of cafeteria-style restaurants in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Miami Beach. Dubrow’s was established on the Lower East Side of New York City in 1929 by Benjamin Dubrow (née Mowsoha Bencian Dubrowensky), an immigrant from Minsk, Russia. Benjamin was married to Rose Solowey from the country now known as Belarus. They had five children: George, Minnie, Lila, Sylvia and Ruth.\n\nGeorge (who married Fannie Feldman and had three children: Irwin, Helene, and Leonard), together with his brothers in law, Max Tobin (who married Minnie and had three children: Sheila, Paul, and Anita), Benjamin Adler (who married Lila and had two sons: Joseph and Robert), Irving Kaplan (who married Sylvia and had three daughters: Beth Wald, Bonnie Lyons, and Laura Levin) and their descendants went on to establish and operate four new cafeterias and bakeries, three restaurants, a take-out shop, and Toby’s, a southern style chain of cafeterias in Florida. Ruth, George’s youngest sister, who married Seymour Gruber, a physician, had three children, Michael, Steven, and Joanne.\n\nWhen George Dubrow died in an automobile accident in Florida, his eldest son Irwin assumed his responsibilities in managing Dubrow’s. Irwin’s brother Leonard subsequently joined him. In the following years, Paul Tobin took over for his father, and Joseph and Robert Adler worked part-time with their father. Irving Kaplan stayed with Dubrow’s until the last location’s closing.\nDubrow's was a New York City landmark for many decades with restaurants in both Manhattan and Brooklyn and later in Miami Beach.\n\nThere were two Dubrow’s Cafeterias in Brooklyn, one on Kings Highway and one on Eastern Parkway. The Dubrow’s Cafeteria in Miami Beach was located on Lincoln Road. The Manhattan Dubrow's was an important part of New York's Garment district in the early- to mid-twentieth century. It was a hub of activity for the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union.\n\nMany famous politicians used both the Brooklyn and the Manhattan locations as stumping spots for their political campaigns. These included Presidents John F. Kennedy, and Jimmy Carter when they were running for office, Robert Kennedy, and Hugh Carey and W. Averell Harriman, both former governors of New York. According to multiple biographies, baseball player Sandy Koufax announced his decision to sign with the Brooklyn Dodgers in front of Dubrow's Cafeteria on Kings Highway in Brooklyn. The children's author Bruce Coville also wrote about working at Dubrow's for a brief period of time. The Manhattan Dubrow's was the site of the American Playhouse production \"The Cafeteria\", based on the short story (today online here) by Isaac Bashevis Singer, which was featured on PBS.\n\nThe last Dubrow's, located in the Garment District in Manhattan, closed in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260160", "title": "Come Get It!", "text": "Come Get It!\n\nCome Get It! is Rick James and the Stone City Band's debut album on Motown sub-label Gordy Records. It was released in April 1978. The singles, \"You and I\" and \"Mary Jane\" pushed \"Come Get It!\" to gold status.\n\nAll tracks composed and arranged by Rick James\n\nSide A\n\nSide B\n\n2014 digital remaster bonus track\n\n2014 \"Complete Motown Albums\" bonus tracks\n\n"}
{"id": "2260168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260168", "title": "Damián 666", "text": "Damián 666\n\nLeonardo Carrera Gómez (born June 9, 1961) is a Mexican professional wrestler best known under the name Damián 666. He has worked for World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling (FMW), Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA), World Wrestling Association (WWA) and various promotions on the Mexican independent circuit, including \"Perros del Mal Producciones\" (PdM). Carrera also worked under the ring name Galaxy in WCW, a masked Luchador. Carrera often teams with Halloween, leading to the formation of the team \"Mexico's Most Wanted\", which has worked extensively in North America for such promotions as Xtreme Pro Wrestling (XPW) and Revolution Pro Wrestling (RPW). Carrera's son currently wrestles for on the international independent circuit as Bestia 666.\n\nCarrera made his debut in 1985 after being trained by Luis Canales, he would later receive additional training by Rey Misterio. Carrera's first ring persona was a masked persona called \"Caballero 2000\" (Spanish for \"Knight 2000\"). After working as Caballero 2000 for a couple of years, Carrera's ring persona was recast in the fall of 1987. He became Ultraman II, patterned after the Japanese Tokusatsu TV show Ultraman, and worked as a successor for the now unmasked Ultraman (Milo Ventura). \"Lucha Libre\" Magazine renamed him Ultraman 2000 in 1988. Carrera began working for the Mexican wrestling promotion World Wrestling Association (WWA), where he teamed up with Aguila del América and Kiss to win the WWA World Trios Championship from Bill Anderson, Louie Spicolli and Tim Paterson (masked as Los Mercenarios Americanos) on December 12, 1991; this was Carrera's first title victory.\n\nDuring 1991 Carrera began working in Japan for Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling (FMW) where he was billed as \"Amigo Ultra\", to avoid any legal problems over the \"Ultraman\" trademark. While working in FMW Carrera's wrestling style was influenced by the Hardcore style of wrestling that FMW promoted. Atsushi Onita gave Garrera a new character: Demian, inspired in the movie The Omen. On July 16, 1993, Demian debuted in the Korakuen Hall. He and Zombi beat Battle Ranger and Eiji Ezaki. His ring persona was diabolical, so he wore facepaint and dark clothes instead of the mask and bright colors of Amigo Ultra. On December 7, 1993, Demian begins a society with The Sheik and Sabu wrestling against Onita, Sambo Asako and Mr. Gannosuke in Chiba's Choshishi Gym. Demian and Sabu participate in a Barbed Wire Tag Tournament in January, 1994. In March, 13, the trio was defeated by Mr. Pogo, Goro Tsurumi and Hideki Hosaka in the Heiwajima TV Theater in Tokyo. The Sheik blamed Demian for the losing and a feud started. The feud culminated on May 5, 1995, at the 6th Anniversary Show at the Kawasaki Stadium, where he wrestled two matches. In the first match, Carrera competed as Amigo Ultra and teamed with Ultra Taro to defeat Battle Ranger Z and Mach Hayato and then he competed as Damian against Sheik, in a match which he lost.\nLater on his name was modified to \"Damián 666\", with the addition of 666 stemming from the fact that he had taken to painting those numbers on his forehead. Damién 666's ring persona earned him the nickname \"La Bestia del Apocalipsis\" (Spanish for \"The Beast of the Apocalypse\"). By 1995 Carrera returned to North America working as Ultraman 2000 on some shows in Mexico and as Damién 666 in the US and some shows in Mexico. He teamed up with Aguila de American and Kiss once again to capture the WWA World Trios Championship. He also captured the WWA Middleweight Championship, working as Ultraman 2000 and also won the Mexican National Welterweight Championship from Psicosis in a \"title vs. title\" match on an Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) show. On March 16, 1996 Carrera lost the Ultraman 2000 gimmick in a \"Luchas de Apuestas\" mask vs. mask match against Psicosis. After being unmasked, Carrera abandoned the Ultraman 2000 ring persona completely and started working exclusively as Damién 666. This change meant that he had to vacate the Mexican Welterweight title.\n\nIn the fall of 1996 Carrera was one of the many Mexican Luchadors brought in to work for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) to bolster their Cruiserweight division. Carrera worked both as \"Damian\", his regular ring persona and as \"Galaxy\", a masked \"Space Cadet\" type of character, without any public acknowledgement that it was the same man working as both characters. He was a part of the 60 man Battle Royal at the World War 3 1996, 1997 and 1998. Beyond the three appearances, Carrera worked mainly as a low-card wrestler without much in-ring success. When Eddie Guerrero formed the Latino World Order (lWo) Carrera was one of the Luchadors that joined, but never made much headway in the group.\n\nDuring Carrera's stint in WCW he began teaming with Halloween (who also worked as \"Ciclope\"), something which they decided to continue to do after both wrestlers left WCW. The two of them began working for South Californian promotions such as Revolution Pro and Xtreme Pro Wrestling (XPW) under the moniker \"Mexico's Most Wanted\". In 2000 and 2001 Damián 666 and Halloween toured with All Japan Pro Wrestling, working tag team and some times six man tag team matches with other Luchadors. On July 20, 2002 Mexico's Most Wanted defeated the teams of American Wild Child and Shady, Juantastico and Pogo The Clown and the New Panthers (K-Malik Shabazz and Raphael Muhammed) to become the first ever XPW World Tag Team Champions. On December 21, 2002 they lost the title to Youthanazia (Josh Prohibition and M-Dogg 20), but regained then just a month later. A week after winning the titles for the second time Mexico's Most Wanted lost them back to Youthanasia before leaving XPW. Later in 2003 Mexico's Most Wanted defeated The Aerial Express (Quicksilver and Scorpio Sky) to win the vacant Revolution Pro Tag Team championship, which they held for nine months.\n\nIn 2002 Damián 666 and Halloween began working for Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Mexico's largest and the world's oldest wrestling promotion. They were joined by Nicho el Millonario to form a group called \"La Familia de Tijuana\", playing off the fact that all three wrestlers got their start in Tijuana and knew each other from back then. La Familia banded together to defeat \"Los Nuevos Infernales\", the team of El Satánico, Averno and Mephisto, to win the Mexican National Trios Championship on September 27, 2002. La Familia defended the title well into 2003 until Nicho left the company in June 2003. By the end of June the team was stripped of the championship, as they could not defend the title.\n\nAfter Nicho left CMLL the \"La Famila\" group was disbanded and instead Damián 666 and Halloween was made part of a new super group that was forming, Los Perros del Mal, led by Perro Aguayo, Jr.. In December, 2005 Halloween injured his neck and knee, forcing him out of the ring while he recovered. During Halloween's injury Damián 666 began teaming regularly with fellow Perros del Mal member Mr. Águila. When Halloween returned the trio of Damián 666, Halloween and Mr. Águila defeated Máximo, El Sagrado and El Texano, Jr. for the Mexican National Trios Championship. The trio lost the championship to El Sagrado, La Sombra and Volador Jr. in August 2007 after which Halloween left CMLL. Damián 666 remained in CMLL and remained with Los Perros del Mal ending the 8-year run as Mexico's Most Wanted. In June 2008, Damián 666 was backstage at the World Wrestling Entertainment PPV One Night Stand and worked a tryout match later on. It was reported that the WWE considered offering Damián 666 a contract but nothing came of it.\n\nIn November 2008, Perro Aguayo, Jr. left CMLL over creative differences. Damián 666 and Mr. Águila followed Aguayo out of CMLL and helped launch their own promotion, \"Perros del Mal Producciones\". Besides working in Producciones Perros del Mal as the matchmaker, Damián 666 has also worked for Alianza Universal De Lucha Libre (AULL) and International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG). In 2009 Halloween joined the Perros del Mal promotion, reuniting with Damián 666. In June 2010, Damián 666 became a major part of a storyline, where \"Los Perros del Mal\" invaded AAA. On August 14, 2010, at \"Verano de Escandalo\", in the first major match between \"Los Perros del Mal\" and AAA, El Hijo del Perro Aguayo, Damián 666 and L.A. Park defeated El Mesías, Cibernético and La Parka in a six-man tag team match. On June 18, 2011, at Triplemanía XIX, Halloween, Damián 666 and X-Fly defeated \"Los Psycho Circus\" in a tournament final to become the first ever AAA World Trios Champions. On July 31 at \"Verano de Escándalo\", \"Los Perros del Mal\" faced \"Los Psycho Circus\" in a steel cage match, where the last person left in the cage would lose either his hair or mask. The match ended with Psycho Clown escaping the cage, leaving X-Fly inside and forcing him to have his hair shaved off. After a \"Perros del Mal Producciones\" event on August 20, Carrera announced his retirement from professional wrestling as soon as he had fulfilled the rest of his commitments for AAA and various independent promotions. On August 28, Damián 666, his son Bestia 666 and X-Fly defeated \"Los Psycho Circus\", \"Los Temerarios\" (Black Terry, Durok and Machin) and \"Los Villanos\" (Kortiz, Ray Mendoza, Jr. and Villano IV) in a steel cage match to win the IWRG Intercontinental Trios Championship during IWRG's \"La Jaula de la Muerte\" (\"The Cage of Death\") show. On October 9 at Héroes Inmortales, \"Los Perros del Mal\" and \"Los Psycho Circus\" ended their year-long rivalry, when Damián 666, Halloween and Nicho el Millonario were defeated in a Masks vs. Hairs steel cage match and were all shaved bald. After a five-month break from the rivalry, \"Los Perros del Mal\" lost the AAA World Trios Championship to \"Los Psycho Circus\" on March 11, 2012. The following day, Damián 666, Halloween and X-Fly announced that they had quit \"Los Perros del Mal\".\n\nOn March 13, 2012, Damián 666, Bestia 666, Halloween, Super Nova and X-Fly announced that they were forming \"La Familia de Tijuana\", a group of independent wrestlers, much like \"Los Perros del Mal\", with the exception that they were not looking to form their own promotion. It was also revealed that originally only Damián and his son were looking to get out of \"Los Perros del Mal\", but the others joined them after learning of their intentions. On March 29, IWRG was officially announced as \"La Familia de Tijuana\"'s new home promotion. On April 19, Damián 666's longtime partner Halloween severed his ties with \"La Familia de Tijuana\" and returned to \"Los Perros del Mal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260172", "title": "Julian II", "text": "Julian II\n\nJulian II may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2260175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260175", "title": "Bustin' Out of L Seven", "text": "Bustin' Out of L Seven\n\nBustin' Out of L Seven is Rick James' second album on Motown sub-label Gordy Records. Included on the album is the top ten R&B hit, \"Bustin' Out (On Funk)\". \nThis album was issued on CD in Germany and has become very rare and highly sought after by Rick James fans.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260176", "title": "Captative verb", "text": "Captative verb\n\nCaptative verbs indicate catching and hunting of a specific animal or other target, e.g. English \"to fish\". \n\nUsually captatives are not separately marked, but some Uralic languages do this. Nenets, Sami languages and Finnish have a captative marker for marking captative verbs; in Nenets, the marker is exclusively used for this purpose. For example, Northern Sami \"murjet\" \"to pick berries\" is derived from \"muorji\" \"berry\". Also, Finnish has captative verbs marked by \"-sta-\", e.g. \"marja/sta/a\" \"to pick berries\", \"kala/sta/a\" \"to fish\", \"metsä/stä/ä\" \"to hunt\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2260181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260181", "title": "Lance C. Wade", "text": "Lance C. Wade\n\nWing Commander Lance Cleo \"Wildcat\" Wade DSO, DFC & Two Bars (November 18, 1916 – 12 January 1944) was an American pilot who joined the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War and became a flying ace. He remained with RAF until his death in a flying accident in 1944 in Italy. He was described as a \"distinguished American fighter ace who epitomized perhaps more than any other American airman the wartime accords between Britain and the United States\".\n\nWade was born in the small farming community of Broaddus, Texas, in 1915. He was the second son of Bill and Susan Wade, who named him L.C. (only after the RAF demanded a forename did he call himself Lance Cleo Wade). After the family moved to a farm near Reklaw, Texas, in 1922 he worked on the family farm and attended the local school. He was unable to join the US Army Aviation Cadet Program due to a lack of a college education. He began flying at age 17, at Tucson, Arizona. In 1934, at age 19, Wade joined the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) in Arizona.\n\nHe joined the RAF in Canada in December 1940 and trained with No. 52 Operational Training Unit (OTU). Wade was then sent to the British aircraft carrier HMS \"Ark Royal\" and flew off her deck in a Hawker Hurricane to reinforce the depleted ranks of aircraft on the island of Malta. He was then sent to Egypt as a Hurricane Mk I pilot in September 1941, and was posted to 33 Squadron. The squadron's mission was to provide close air support for Operation Crusader, the British assault launched on November 18, 1941, against the German \"Afrika Korps\". His first kills were two Fiat CR.42s on 18 November. He attained the rank of \"ace\" on 24 November 1941. On 2 December, his Hurricane was damaged by debris from a bomber that he had just shot down. Wade was forced to land 25 miles behind enemy lines, but evaded capture and returned to British lines on foot. He began flying Hurricane Mk IIs in April 1942, and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC). He had 13 victories to September 1942.\n\nHe spent the next several months back in the US on various RAF projects including evaluating some American fighters at Wright Field. He also sold war bonds, which he disliked. Upon his return to operational duty in the Middle East, Wade reportedly said that this duty was more exhausting than air combat.\n\nHe returned to combat as a flight commander in 145 Squadron with a bar to his DFC, flying Supermarine Spitfire Mk Vs. Promoted to squadron leader, he had a busy 60 days, as by the end of April his score was 21, by then flying Spitfire Mk IXs. His squadron moved to Italy, and as a Spitfire VIII pilot he claimed two Focke-Wulf Fw 190s of \"Schlachtgeschwader\" 4 on 2 October 1943. His last claims were three Fw 190s (again of SG 4) damaged on 3 November.\n\nWade was promoted to wing commander and joined the staff of the Desert Air Force but was there only briefly, as he was killed in a flying accident on 12 January 1944 at Foggia, Italy.\n\nHe was credited with 23 victories (including two shared), one probable and 13 damaged. He is also credited with one destroyed and five damaged on the ground.\n\nWing Commander Wade is usually listed with 25 victories but official RAF records show that he had 22 solo victories and half each of two more for a total of 23, not counting one probable. Regardless of whether his score is 25, or 23 victories, he is still the leading American fighter ace to serve exclusively in any foreign air force.\n\nSince he never transferred to the USAAF, or any other American air service, Wade never had the publicity that other American aces received and thus is more obscure than his peers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260184", "title": "Ana Cláudia Michels", "text": "Ana Cláudia Michels\n\nAna Cláudia Michels (born July 31, 1981) is a Brazilian model and physician.\n\nMichels was born in Joinville, Brazil. At the age of 14 she began to take a model course with the encouragement of her father. She was discovered by an agency in Florianópolis and immediately invited to a parade in Itajaí, Santa Catarina. At age 15, Ana Claudia started to parade for Ellus, Beneducci and Zoomp. At age 16, she left Brazil and went to New York. On the same occasion, Ana Claudia was chosen to integrate the Chanel Tour and to cross Japan.\n\nAna Claudia started modeling in 1997 with the Mega Agency, when she was introduced to the owners by a friend. She has appeared in catalogs for Victoria's Secret and Le Lis Blanc, a noted Brazilian clothing company, as well as Calvin Klein advertisements. She has also appeared in ads for companies like Burberry, Giorgio Armani, Louis Vuitton, Macy's, Nike, and Tommy Hilfiger, and has graced the covers of multiple international editions of \"Vogue\".\n\nIn 2012, Ana Claudia was accepted by São Camilo Medical School in São Paulo, Brazil, from which she earned a medical degree in 2019. She joined the efforts against COVID-19 as a general practitioner.\n"}
{"id": "2260187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260187", "title": "Hybrid electric bus", "text": "Hybrid electric bus\n\nA hybrid electric bus is a bus that combines a conventional internal combustion engine propulsion system with an electric propulsion system. These type of buses normally use a Diesel-electric powertrain and are also known as hybrid Diesel-electric buses.\n\nThe introduction of hybrid electric vehicles and other green vehicles for purposes of public transport forms a part of sustainable transport schemes.\n\nA hybrid electric bus may have either a parallel powertrain (e.g. Volvo B5LH) or a series powertrain (e.g. some versions of the Alexander Dennis Enviro400 MMC).\n\nA plug-in hybrid school bus effort began in 2003 in Raleigh, NC when Advanced Energy began working between districts across the country and manufacturers to understand the needs of both. The effort demonstrated both a technical and business feasibility and as a result was able to secure funding in 2005 from NASEO to purchase up to 20 buses. The resulting RFP from Advanced Energy was won by IC Bus using a product jointly produced with Enova for a 22-mile plug-in hybrid product with a $140k premium over existing buses. The buses performed well in testing with 70% reductions in fuel usage although only in specific conditions.\n\nThe United States Department of Energy (USDOE) announced the selection of Navistar Corporation for a cost-shared award of up to $10 million to develop, test, and deploy plug-in hybrid electric (PHEV) school buses. The project aims to deploy 60 vehicles for a three-year period in school bus fleets across the nation. The vehicles will be capable of running in either electric-only or hybrid modes and will be recharged from a standard electrical outlet. Because electricity will be their primary fuel, they will consume less petroleum than standard vehicles. To develop the PHEV school bus, Navistar will examine a range of hybrid architectures and evaluate advanced energy storage devices, with the goal of developing a vehicle with a electric range. Travel beyond the range will be facilitated by a clean Diesel engine capable of running on renewable fuels. The DOE funding will cover up to half of the project's cost and will be provided over three years, subject to annual appropriations.\n\n\nA report prepared by Purdue University suggests introducing more hybrid Diesel-electric buses and a fuel containing 20% biodiesel (BD20) would further reduce greenhouse emissions and petroleum consumption.\n\nCurrent manufacturers of Diesel-electric hybrid buses include Alexander Dennis, Azure Dynamics Corporation, Ebus, Eletra (Brazil), New Flyer Industries, Tata (India), Gillig, Motor Coach Industries, Orion Bus Industries, North American Bus Industries, Daimler AG's Mitsubishi Fuso, MAN, Designline, BAE Systems, Volvo Buses, VDL Bus & Coach, Wrightbus, Castrosua, Tata Hispano and many more.\n\nIn 2006, Nova Bus, which had previously marketed the RTS hybrid before that model was discontinued, added a Diesel-electric hybrid option for its LFS series. as well\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Wrightbus has introduced a development of the London \"Double-Decker\", a new interpretation of the traditional red buses that are a feature of the extreme traffic density in London. The Wright Pulsar Gemini HEV bus uses a small Diesel engine with electric storage through a lithium ion battery pack. The use of a 1.9-litre Diesel instead of the typical 7.0-litre engine in a traditional bus demonstrates the possible advantages of serial hybrids in extremely traffic-dense environments. Based on a London test cycle, a reduction in CO emissions of 31% and fuel savings in the range of 40% have been demonstrated, compared with an \"Euro-4\" compliant bus.\n\nAlso in 2005 General Electric introduced its hybrid electric gear shifters on the market. Toyota claims to have started with the Coaster Hybrid Bus in 1997 on the Japanese market. In May 2003 General Motors started to tour with hybrid electric buses developed together with Allison. Several hundreds of those buses have entered into daily operation in the U.S. The Blue Ribbon City Hybrid bus was presented by Hino, a Toyota affiliate, in January 2005. Mitsubishi Fuso have developed a Diesel engine hybrid bus using lithium batteries in 2002, and this model has since seen limited service in several Japanese cities.\n\nSince 1999, Hybrid electric buses with gas turbine generators have been developed by several manufacturers in the US and New Zealand, with the most successful design being the buses made by Designline of New Zealand. The first model went into commercial service in Christchurch since 1999, and later models were sold for daily service in Auckland, Hong Kong, Newcastle upon Tyne and Tokyo.\n\nNew Flyer Industries, Gillig, North American Bus Industries, and Nova Bus produce hybrid electric buses using either BAE System's HybriDrive, or Allison Transmission's electric drive system.\n\nThe Whispering Wheel bus is another HEV.\n\nList of former hybrid bus manufacturers:\nISE Corporations Thundervolt (filed for bankruptcy in 2010)\nAzure Dynamics (filed for bankruptcy in 2012)\n\nHybrid Electric Vehicle Technologies (HEVT) makes conversions of new and used vehicles (aftermarket and retrofit conversions), from combustion buses and conventional hybrid electric buses into plug-in buses.\n\nTransit authorities that use hybrid electric buses:\n\nFederal funding generally comes from the federal Diesel Emissions Reduction Act.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\netc.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Green Bus Fund is a fund which is supporting bus companies and local authorities in the UK to help them buy new electric buses.:\n\n\n\n\nEgypt IMUT http://www.i-mut.net/en/about-us\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260196", "title": "Fire It Up (Rick James album)", "text": "Fire It Up (Rick James album)\n\nFire It Up is the third album by American musician Rick James, released on October 16, 1979, on the Motown sub-label Gordy Records. This album was certified gold by the RIAA, and between 1978 and 1982 was a period where Rick James established himself as the historical bridge between P-Funk and Prince.\n\"Fire It Up\" was released on CD for the first time in 2010, by Universal Records. This item soon went out of print and has become a much sought after and very rare item for fans of Rick James and funk in general.\n\n\"All tracks composed by Rick James.\"\n\nSide A\n\nSide B\n\n2010 Bonus Track / 2014 digital remaster bonus track / 2014 \"Complete Motown Albums\" bonus track\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260197", "title": "Hortex", "text": "Hortex\n\nHortex is a company in Poland that produces frozen foods and branded fruit juices.\n\nThere are over 1600 employees that work for Hortex in Poland. There are many seasonal employees that are hired during the time of processing fruits and vegetables. The processing plants are located in Przysucha, near Radom, Ryki and Skierniewice. There are 90,000 retail outlets throughout Poland that sell Hortex products.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260212", "title": "Garden of Love (album)", "text": "Garden of Love (album)\n\nGarden of Love is Rick James' fourth album on Motown sub-label Gordy. \n\n\"All tracks composed by Rick James; except where indicated.\"\n\nSide A\n\nSide B\n\n2010 bonus tracks / 2014 digital remaster bonus tracks / 2014 \"Complete Motown Albums\" bonus tracks\n\n"}
{"id": "2260219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260219", "title": "List of Korean-language poets", "text": "List of Korean-language poets\n\nThis is a list of Korean-language poets.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: Some or all of these poets, though Korean, wrote in Chinese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260225", "title": "Throwin' Down", "text": "Throwin' Down\n\nThrowin' Down is a Rick James album from 1982. It was released on the Gordy Records imprint of Motown Records. Although not as popular as \"Street Songs\", \"Throwin' Down\" saw another RIAA certified gold album from James. With appearances by The Temptations, Teena Marie and Jefferson Airplane/Starship lead vocalist Grace Slick, the record was nominated for an American Music Award for Favorite Soul/R&B Album.\n\nAll tracks composed by Rick James, except where noted.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260228", "title": "Vietnam People's Navy", "text": "Vietnam People's Navy\n\nThe Vietnam People's Navy (), commonly known as the Vietnamese Navy or the Vietnamese People's Navy, is the naval branch of the Vietnam People's Army and is responsible for the protection of the country's national waters, islands, and interests of the maritime economy, as well as for the co-ordination of maritime police, customs service and the border defence force.\n\nOn 19 July 1946, Acting President of Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRV) Huỳnh Thúc Kháng signed into law a decree establishing the modern Vietnamese navy. Then, on 10 September of that year, General Võ Nguyên Giáp started to build a flotilla as the core of the new navy. On 8 March 1949, Vietnam established the Department of Naval Research under the General Staff. This department has performed both research and training to prepare for combat missions.\n\nFollowing the Geneva Conference in 1954, the DRV went about creating its own naval forces. On 7 May 1955 the Vietnam People's Navy was created with the establishment of the General Directorate of Coastal Defence, it formed the basis for the Navy Operational Command (based on the Vietnamese Ministry of Defence decree No. 284/ND signed by General Võ Nguyên Giáp to established Naval Research Board, under the General Staff, on 8 March 1949). The primary mission of the Navy was to patrol the coastal areas and the inland waterways.\n\nThroughout the Vietnam War the role played by the Vietnam People's Navy (or North Vietnamese Navy) was largely unknown to the public. However, on 2 August 1964, three North Vietnamese Swatow-class patrol boats attacked the destroyer in what became known as the Gulf of Tonkin Incident. The second attack, which the United States claimed to have occurred on 4 August, was dismissed by the North Vietnamese as a fabrication.\n\nThe North Vietnamese, however, had maintained their own version of the events which took place. According to official VPN accounts \"Maddox\" penetrated North Vietnamese waters on 31 July 1964, and provoked a battle with the North Vietnamese. In response to American provocation, three 123K-class torpedo boats from the 135th Torpedo Boat Battalion were dispatched to intercept the American destroyer. The resulting clash became known as the 'Battle of Thanh Hóa' in which North Vietnamese \"torpedo boats succeeded in driving the Maddox out of Vietnam's territorial waters, shooting down a U.S. aircraft and damaging another\".\n\nApart from patrolling territorial waters, the Navy also had the mission of transporting military supplies to support the People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) and the Vietcong during the Vietnam War. On 31 October 1961, a sea route version of the Ho Chi Minh trail was established by the Navy, with the 759th Transport Unit responsible for carrying military supplies and other goods for the Communist ground forces in South Vietnam. To avoid detection by the South Vietnamese and U.S navies, North Vietnamese transport ships were often disguised as fishing trawlers. On 16 February 1965, a 100-ton North Vietnamese trawler from the Transportation Group 125 was discovered at Vung Ro Bay. This led to the creation of Operation Market Time by the US Navy to intercept disguised enemy ships.\n\nOn 19 April 1972, the Navy and Vietnam People's Air Force (VPAF) participated in the Battle of Đồng Hới off the coast of North Vietnam]. During this battle it was believed that the U.S Navy destroyed a Soviet-made cruise missile for the first time. The destroyer was damaged after a VPAF MiG-17 dropped a bomb, destroying a aft gun mount.\n\nIn the years following the complete withdrawal of U.S and other allied forces, the North Vietnamese went back on the offensive. As part of the Ho Chi Minh Campaign, the Navy increased the transportation of military supplies, food and uniform to the Communist forces in the South. When the PAVN occupied the northern provinces of South Vietnam in 1975, captured Republic of Vietnam Navy (RVNN) vessels were pressed into service with the Navy. In April 1975, ex-RVNN vessels carried North Vietnamese troops to capture the Spratly Islands. Opening battle in the island Southwest Cay \"(Vietnamese: Song Tử tây)\" on 4 April 1975, amphibious raid by sea of the Naval Marine corps number 1 (precursor of the 126th Brigade Naval Marine corps) and three vessels of the 125 corps coordinated with the commandos of the 5th Military Region, after 30 minutes, the Navy controlled the main battle area, facilitating the capture of the other islands. The Navy gained control of Sand Cay island (26 April), Namyit Island (27 April), Sin Cowe Island (28 April) and Spratly Island (29 April). The Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) had captured the Paracel Islands from the South Vietnamese in January 1974. These islands are also claimed by Vietnam, however they have no current presence there.\nPrior to 1975, the Navy operated fewer than forty patrol boats along with the coastal junk force. With the collapse of South Vietnam on 30 April 1975, the Navy was expanded with ships from the defunct RVNN. Captured vessels included two patrol frigates, over one hundred patrol craft, and about fifty amphibious warfare ships.\n\nIn the late 1970s the naval infantry (or marines) was formed to be stationed on the areas claimed by the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in the Spratly Islands. The naval infantry is equipped with PT-76 light tanks, BTR-60 personnel carriers and naval infantrymen are armed with AK-74 rifle, AKM-47 assault rifles, Makarov PM pistol (Officers), and PKM machinegun infantry weapons, and more.\n\nIn March 1988, the Navy fought against the PLAN at Johnson Reef, causing the losses to the Vietnamese of several transport ships and up to 64 deaths. The battle was won by the PLAN who outgunned and outnumbered them, using a fleet of frigates against Vietnamese lightly armed transport ships. This prompted the Navy to modernise its weapons and its overall naval capabilities.\n\nOrganisational levels of Vietnam People's Navy, from highest to lowest are:\n\nOn 26 October 1975, the Ministry of Defence issued Decision No.141/QD-QP which established five Coastal Areas of Naval Command and jurisdiction provisions of the five regions. In 1978, they were renamed as the following naval regions:\n\nThe Vietnam People's Navy system does not feature the rank of Fleet Admiral. Vietnam People's Navy ranks are divided into four categories: Commissioned Officer, Non-commissioned Officer, and Soldiers/Seamen. Officer ranks use the executive curl on the sleeves of their service and full dress blue uniforms, similar to those used in various navies worldwide.\n\nThe Vietnamese naval academy, with its headquarters in Nha Trang, is the main institute for training naval commanding officers for the divisional level, and commanding staffs at tactical/campaign levels. Students include both undergraduates and postgraduates serving in the military.\n\nThe forerunner of the Vietnam Naval Academy, the Coastal Training School, was established on 26 April 1955 by the General Staff. The school has changed name several times, such as the Naval Training School in 1959, the Naval School of Vietnam in 1961, the Naval Officers School in 1967, and the School of Naval Engineering Command in 1980. The school renamed itself the Naval Academy in 1993.\n\nAfter 55 years of development, combat and growth, the academy has trained thousands of officers and technical staff for major specialised fields such as vessel control, mining and anti-mine operations, anti-submarine missiles, gunships, information, radar, sonar, coastal radar, shipyard work, the Coast Guard, and Border Defence Force.\n\nIn addition, the naval academy has trained officers for both the Royal Cambodian Navy and the Lao People's Navy.\n\nThe current total manpower of the navy is around 50,000 officers and enlisted personnel, including naval infantry and other specialised units.\n\nMain article: List of equipment of the Vietnam People's Navy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260241", "title": "Reiji Oyama", "text": "Reiji Oyama\n\nReiji Oyama may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2260246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260246", "title": "Art Sanders", "text": "Art Sanders\n\nArt Sanders is a news anchor for KOMO/1000 AM in Seattle, Washington. In 2004, he auditioned for the announcer's spot on television's longest running game show, \"The Price Is Right\", after the death of Rod Roddy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260252", "title": "Hercynian Forest", "text": "Hercynian Forest\n\nThe Hercynian Forest was an ancient and dense forest that stretched eastward from the Rhine River across southern Germany and formed the northern boundary of that part of Europe known to writers of antiquity. The ancient sources are equivocal about how far east it extended. All agree that the Black Forest, which extended east from the Rhine valley, formed the western side of the Hercynian.\n\nAcross the Rhine to the west extended the \"Silva Carbonaria\" and the forest of the Ardennes. All these old-growth forests of antiquity represented the original post-glacial temperate broadleaf forest ecosystem of Europe.\n\nRelict tracts of this once-continuous forest exist with many local names: the Black Forest, the Ardennes, the Bavarian Forest, the Vosges, the Eifel, the Jura Mountains, the Swabian Jura, the Franconian Jura, the Polish Jura, the Palatinate Forest, the Teutoburg Forest, the Argonne Forest the Odenwald, the Spessart, the Rhön, the Thuringian Forest, the Harz, the Rauhe Alb, the Steigerwald, the Fichtelgebirge, the Erzgebirge, the Riesengebirge, the Bohemian Forest, and the forested Carpathians. The Mittelgebirge seem to correspond more or less to a stretch of the Hercynian mountains. Many present-day smaller forests were also included like the Bienwald and the Haguenau Forest. The Hercynian Forest probably extended to the Białowieża Forest.\n\n\"Hercynian\" has a Proto-Celtic derivation, from \"ɸerkuniā\", later \"erkunia\". Julius Pokorny lists Hercynian as being derived from *' \"oak\" (compare \"quercus\"). He further identifies the name as Celtic. Proto-Celtic regularly loses initial ' preceding a vowel, hence \"Hercynia \" (the \"H-\" being prothetic in Latin, the Latin \"y\" signifying a borrowing from Greek). The corresponding Germanic forms have an \"f-\" by Grimm's Law: Old English \"firgen\" = \"mountains\", Gothic \"faírguni\" = \"mountain range\". The assimilated ' would be regular in Italo-Celtic, and Pokorny associates the Celtiberian ethnonym \"Querquerni\", found in Hispania in Galicia.\n\nIt is possible that the name of the Harz Mountains in Germany is derived from Hercynian, as \"Harz\" is a Middle High German word meaning \"mountain forest.\" Also, the Old High German name \"Fergunna\" apparently refers to the Erzgebirge and \"Virgundia\" (cf. modern Virngrund forest) to a range between Ansbach and Ellwangen. The name of Pforzheim (\"Porta Hercyniae\") in southwest Germany and the tiny village of Hercingen are also derived from \"Hercynian\".\n\nHercyne was the classical name (modern Libadia) of a small rapid stream in Boeotia that issued from two springs near Lebadea, modern Livadeia, and emptied into Lake Copais. It did not have any geographical association with the Hercynian Forest, so logically it may have been a parallel derivation from similar etymology.\n\nThe name is cited dozens of times in several classical authors, but most of the references are non-definitive, e.g., The Hercynian Forest is Pomponius Mela's \"silvis ac paludibus invia\", \"trackless forest and swamps\" (Mela, \"De Chorographia\", iii.29), as the author is assuming the reader would know where the forest is. The earliest reference is in Aristotle's (\"Meteorologica\"). He refers to the \"Arkýnia\" (or \"Orkýnios\") mountains of Europe, but tells us only that, remarkably in his experience, rivers flow north from there.\n\nDuring the time of Julius Caesar, this forest blocked the advance of the Roman legions into Germania. His few statements are the most definitive. In \"De Bello Gallico\" he says that the forest stretches along the Danube from the territory of the Helvetii (present-day Switzerland) to Dacia (present-day Romania). Its implied northern dimension is nine days' march. Its eastern dimension is indefinitely more than sixty days' march. The concept fascinated him, even the old tales of unicorns (which may have represented reindeer). Caesar's references to moose and aurochs and of elk without joints which leaned against trees to sleep in the endless forests of Germania, were probably later interpolations in his \"Commentaries\". Caesar's name for the forest is the one most used: Hercynia Silva.\n\nPliny the Elder, in \"Natural History\", places the eastern regions of the Hercynium jugum, the \"Hercynian mountain chain\", in \"Pannonia\" (present-day Hungary) and Dacia (present-day Romania). He also gives us some dramaticised description of its composition, in which the close proximity of the forest trees causes competitive struggle among them (\"inter se rixantes\"). He mentions its gigantic oaks. But even he—if the passage in question is not an interpolated marginal gloss—is subject to the legends of the gloomy forest. He mentions unusual birds, which have feathers that \"shine like fires at night\". Medieval bestiaries named these birds the \"Ercinee\". The impenetrable nature of the \"Hercynian Silva\" hindered the last concerted Roman foray into the forest, by Drusus, during 12..9 BCE: Florus asserts that \"Drusus invisum atque inaccessum in id tempus Hercynium saltum\" (Hercynia saltus, the \"Hercynian ravine-land\") \" patefecit\".\n\nThe isolated modern remnants of the Hercynian Forest identify its flora as a mixed one; Oscar Drude identified its Baltic elements associated with North Alpine flora, and North Atlantic species with circumpolar representatives. Similarly, Edward Gibbon noted the presence of reindeer—pseudo-Caesar's \"bos cervi figura\"—and elk—pseudo-Caesar's \"alces\"—in the forest. The wild bull which the Romans named the \"urus\" was present also, and the European bison and the now-extinct aurochs, \"Bos primigenius\".\n\nIn the Roman sources, the Hercynian Forest was part of ethnographic Germania. There is an indication that this circumstance was fairly recent; that is, Posidonius states that the Boii, were once there (as well as in Bohemia which is named for them).\n\nMonks sent out from Niederaltaich Abbey (founded in the eighth century) brought under cultivation for the first time great forested areas of Lower Bavaria as far as the territory of the present Czech Republic, and founded 120 settlements in the Bavarian Forest, as that stretch of the ancient forest came to be known. The forest is also mentioned in \"Hypnerotomachia Poliphili\" as the setting for the dream allegory of the work.\n\nThe German journal \"Hercynia\", published by the Universities and Landesbibliothek of Sachsen-Anhalt, pertains to ecology and environmental biology.\n\nSome geographers apply the term Hercynian Forest to the complex of mountain ranges, mountain groups, and plateaus which stretch from Westphalia across Middle Germany and along the northern borders of Austria to the Carpathians.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260256", "title": "El Rosario, Tenerife", "text": "El Rosario, Tenerife\n\nEl Rosario is a municipality in the northeastern part of the island of Tenerife in the Santa Cruz de Tenerife province, on the Canary Islands, Spain. The seat of the municipality is the town La Esperanza, in the mountainous interior of the island. The municipality includes the coastal town Radazul. The TF-1 motorway passes through the southern part of the municipality.\n\nThe population is 15,542 (2013), its area is 39.43 km².\n\nThe Deutsche Schule Santa Cruz de Tenerife, a German international school, is located in the Tabaita Alta section of El Rosario.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260259", "title": "Holcus lanatus", "text": "Holcus lanatus\n\nHolcus lanatus is a perennial grass. The specific epithet ' is Latin for 'woolly' which describes the plant's hairy texture. Common names include Yorkshire fog, tufted grass, and meadow soft grass. In North America, where it is an invasive species, names include velvet grass and common velvet grass\"'.\n\nIn parts of northern Europe the grass is a common native species and a hardy pasture grass.\n\n\"Holcus lanatus\" has velvety grey-green leaves. The stems are round. The bases of the stems are white with pink stripes or veins; this character has been called the \"stripy pyjamas\". The inflorescence is robust and often tinged purple. It produces a large amount of seed and is a rapid coloniser of disturbed ground. It prefers wetter ground; it is often seen around drainage ditches. The ligule is long, blunt, and hairy.\n\nThis species can be distinguished from \"H. mollis\" by the beardless nodes on its culm, the absence of rhizomes, and the awn becoming hooked when dry and not projecting beyond the tips of the glumes. It has been known to hybridize with \"H. mollis\", producing a male sterile hybrid with 2\"n\" = 21 chromosomes. Hybrids tend to resemble \"H. lanatus\" in their morphology.\n\nIt spreads vegetatively by developing new shoots and roots at its nodes. Plants form a blanket of runners on the soil surface. Semi-prostrate rosettes of shoots called 'mops' may form at the end of the runners. These mops root readily in contact with moist soil.\n\nIn a European survey of weed contamination in cereal seed in 1970, \"Holcus lanatus\" seed was found in 1% of samples. \"H. lanatus\" is an indicator of poor soil, low grazing levels, and poor drainage. It is tolerant of a range of soil pH, but grows best between 5.0 and 7.5. It exhibits climatic tolerance over a wide altitude range, but severe frosts can kill it. It does not survive trampling and puddling. It can be controlled in some European locations by increasing available potassium and phosphorus, increasing stock, and improving drainage. These remedies are not as effective in North America.\n\n\"Holcus lanatus\" is a significant pest weed in Australia, as it is a winter-growing C grass and survives droughts and hot summers as seed. It is distasteful to stock unless it is young and little other plant material is available. The flowers are wind-pollinated and usually out-crossing. The first seeds become viable 5 to 9 days after flowering and all are viable after 20 days. Seeds are shed from in summer and early autumn. One panicle has 100 to 380 seeds, with 177,000 to 240,000 seeds per plant, depending on time of emergence.\n\nIn North America, \"Holcus lanatus\" is an invasive species in native grasslands and other ecosystems. In Yosemite National Park it is one of nine priority noxious weeds to control for habitat restoration and regenerating native plant balances. It forms dense stands that can exclude other plants.\n\nIt is also established in Chile.\n\n\"Holcus lanatus\" in its natural habitat is a food source for butterflies such as the speckled wood, the wall, and especially the small skipper. It is rarely utilized by the Essex skipper. In its native range it may occur in plant associations such as the \"Juncus subnodulosus\"–\"Cirsium palustre\" fen-meadow habitat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260260", "title": "Whissonsett", "text": "Whissonsett\n\nWhissonsett is a village and a civil parish in the English county of Norfolk. The village is south of Fakenham, west-north-west of Norwich and north-north-east of London. The nearest railway station is at King's Lynn for the Fen Line which runs between King's Lynn and Cambridge. The nearest airport is Norwich International Airport. The parish had in 2001 census, a population of 483 in 206 households, increasing to a population of 488 in 209 households at the 2011 Census. For the purposes of local government, the parish falls within the district of Breckland. The village lies close to the source of the River Wensum.\n\nThe name Whissonsett is thought to derive from \"Witcingkeseta\" as it has been known as in the past and means either the settlement of the Witcing tribe or a place of watery meadows.\n\nWhissonsett has an entry in the Domesday Book of 1085. In the great book Whissonsett is recorded by the names \"Witcingkeseta\". The main landholders being Roger Bigod with the main tenant being Ranulf Fitz Walter. The survey also mentions seven Beehives and ¼ of a Fishery. In the Domesday survey fractions were used to indicate that the entry, in this case the fishery, was on an estate that lay within more than one parish.\n\nSaint Mary's parish church was built mainly during the Early English period (cica 1250) and is constructed from flint with freestone dressing. The church has undergone considerable restoration over the past centuries.\n\nOne of the features of Saint Mary's are the large image niches, one in the nave and two in the chancel, either side of the east window. The one in the nave contains the large head of an Anglo-Saxon cross, unearthed in the graveyard by grave diggers in 1902.\n"}
{"id": "2260262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260262", "title": "El Rosario", "text": "El Rosario\n\nEl Rosario may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260269", "title": "Girish Kasaravalli", "text": "Girish Kasaravalli\n\nGirish Kasaravalli (born 3 December 1950) is an Indian film director, in the Kannada cinema, and one of the pioneers of the Parallel Cinema. Known internationally for his works, Kasaravalli has garnered fourteen National Film Awards, including four Best Feature Films; \"Ghatashraddha\" (1977), \"Tabarana Kathe\" (1986), \"Thaayi Saheba\" (1997) and \"Dweepa\" (2002). In 2011, he was awarded Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award by Government of India.\n\nA gold medalist from the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, The film he made to fulfill his diploma, \"Avashesh\", was awarded the Best Student Film and the National Film Award for Best Short Fiction Film for that year. He has received thirteen National Film Awards.\n\nGirish Kasaravalli was born in Kesalur, a village in the Tirthahalli taluk in Shimoga district on 3 December 1950 to Ganesh Rao, an agriculturist, as well as a freedom fighter, and Lakshmidevi, a homemaker, one of 10 children (five brothers and four sisters). He had his primary education in Kesalur and middle school education in Kammaradi. Hailing from a family of book lovers, he was initiated to reading from a young age by his father. His father was a patron of Yakshagana, a folk system of dance native to Karnataka.\n\nHe was attracted to the touring talkies which visited his village once in a while to screen popular Kannada films. This was his first exposure to the world of cinema. Another relative who supported his love for creative arts was his maternal uncle K.V.Subbanna, a Magsaysay award winner who founded Neenasam, a critically acclaimed and popular drama company.\n\nHe shifted to Shimoga where he graduated from Sahyadri College. College was transformative for Kasaravalli as poets G S Shivarudrappa and Sa Shi Marulaiah were his Kannada teachers. He then enrolled for the B.Pharma course in the College of Pharmacy, Manipal. The college was a common place for many cultural activities and kept Kasaravalli's creative interests alive. After completing his degree, he went to Hyderabad for training. But, due to his pre-occupations in cinema and art, he found it difficult to manage his profession and interest together. He decided to quit the career in Pharmacy and join the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), Pune.\n\nKasaravalli graduated from FTII Pune in 1975, with a specialisation in film direction. The world of Kurosawa, Ray, Ozu, Fellini and Antonioni inspired him, and his conviction in neo-realist cinema deepened. In an interview many years later, he recollected how he was inspired by these filmmakers, especially Ozu. While in his final year, he was chosen to be the assistant director for B. V. Karanth for the film \"Chomana Dudi\". He passed out of the FTII with a gold medal to his credit. His student film \"Avasesh\" won the President's Silver Lotus award for the best experimental short film of the year.\n\nHis first film as an independent director was \"Ghatashraddha\" in 1977; it won him the Golden Lotus and a few international awards. This film was followed by many more masterpieces. For a short while, he served as the principal of a film institute in Bangalore.\n\nHe has worked as associate director for T. S. Nagabharana's \"Grahana\" movie during 1981\nHe won his second Golden Lotus for \"Tabarana Kathe\" in 1987. Considered as one of the best edited films in India, it deals with the futile efforts of a retired government servant to earn his pension. In 1997, he came up with another masterpiece, \"Thaayi Saheba\" which won him his third Golden Lotus award. \"Thaayi Saheba\" is considered to be the most mature work of the director, dealing with the transition in the Indian society from the pre- to the post-independence periods.\n\nThe narrative structure was unique, and it had a powerful way of depicting a social situation. He repeated his success with \"Dweepa\" in 2002 starring late actress Soundarya. It won his fourth Golden Lotus award. \"Dweepa\" was different from his earlier films: It used music extensively and was visually stunning. Apart from these four films winning Golden Lotus awards, Kasaravalli directed \"Akramana\" in 1979, \"Mooru darigalu\" in 1981, \"Bannada Vesha\" in 1988, \"Mane\" in 1990, \"Kraurya\" in 1996, \"Hasina\" in 2004 and \"Naayi Neralu\" in 2006.\n\n\"Naayi Neralu\" dealt with a very intense and bizarre concept of reincarnation, based on the novel with the same name by S.L. Bhyrappa. Kasaravalli has given a different interpretation of the subject. It won the Best Film award at KARA film festival, Karachi thus making it the first ever Kannada film to win the top honour in any international festival.\n\nIn 2008 he directed \"Gulabi Talkies\" based on a short story of the same name by Vaidehi. It was shown in many international film festivals, winning awards and accolades. In 2010, he made \"Kanasemba Kudureyaneri\" (Riding the Stallion of Dreams) which, too, won him many international awards. He has finished his \"Koormavatara\" (The Tortoise, an Incarnation) which won the National film award for the best Kannada film of 2011. In 2015 he made a documentary film on Adoor Gopalakrishnan named \"Images/Reflections\".\n\nThe International Film Festival of Rotterdam held a retrospective of Kasaravalli's films in 2003. In August 2017, the Entertainment Society of Goa organized a film festival in Goa in his honour.\n\nKasaravalli married actress Vaishali on 21 April 1978. They have two children: son Apoorva and daughter Ananya. Vaishali died of illness in 2010, aged 59.\n\nKasaravalli is a voracious reader and counts the works of K. Shivaram Karanth, Kuvempu and U. R. Ananthamurthy among his influences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260272", "title": "Debt (game show)", "text": "Debt (game show)\n\nDebt was an American game show hosted by Wink Martindale which aired on Lifetime from June 3, 1996 to August 14, 1998. The show featured contestants who were trying to earn money to get out of debt.\n\nThe game was conceived by Sarah Jane West. Its host was Wink Martindale, and Kurt Engstrom was featured as an assistant playing the role of a security guard. Julie Claire was the show's announcer.\n\nThree new contestants competed per episode, each having accumulated several thousand dollars' worth of debt (usually between $6,000 and $10,000) for various reasons (school loans, paying for a wedding, etc.). For scoring purposes, their debts were averaged before the game began. Scores were shown in negative amounts to indicate their remaining debts.\n\nIn the first round, contestants faced a gameboard with five categories, each with five questions in negative dollar values ranging from −$50 to −$250, in increments of $50. The first selection went to the contestant who had the lowest debt before averaging the scores. The contestant in control chose a category and value, and Martindale asked \"Who am I?\" toss-up question. (Example: \"I'm the name of the fictitious, mustachioed 'ranking officer' who hawks the Quaker Oats cereal Peanut Butter Crunch.\") Contestants buzzed-in to answer and were required to phrase their response as \"You are...\" to receive credit (although the contraction \"You're\" also was accepted). (The correct answer to the example is \"You are Cap'n Crunch.\") A correct answer deducted the question's value from the contestant's debt. A wrong answer or failing to respond within the time frame added the value, increasing the contestant's debt, and allowed the others to buzz-in. The contestant who answered correctly then chose the next question from the board. If no one did so, the contestant who gave the last correct answer kept control.\n\nA \"Debt-onator\" was hidden behind one question, judged by the producers to be the most difficult one of the round. Regardless of the displayed value, it was played for −$500.\n\nThe players were warned when the round entered its final two minutes. Once time ran out or all 25 questions had been asked, the contestant with the highest debt was eliminated and received a consolation prize of a $200 savings bond, along with a piggy bank.\n\nAs originally conceived, the first-round gameplay for \"Debt\" was almost indistinguishable from that of the popular game show \"Jeopardy!\", which prompted the show to make changes for \"Debt's\" second and final season.\n\nAfter the debts were averaged, Martindale asked a toss-up question that awarded −$1 and initial control of the round. Rather than selecting an individual question, the contestant in control chose one of five categories from the board and Martindale asked five questions in succession, with values increasing from −$50 to −$250. The \"Debt-onator\" was hidden behind one category and doubled the value of its questions (−$100 to −$500). The contestant who gave the last correct answer in a category chose the next one. Finally, contestants were no longer required to start their answers with the \"You are...\" phrase at any point in the game.\n\nA category was revealed, and the contestants bid back and forth as to how many of its five questions they could answer correctly. Bidding continued until one contestant either reached the maximum of five or challenged the other to \"Prove it!\" If the high bidder was able to fulfill his/her claim, the value of the category was subtracted from his/her debt; otherwise, it was subtracted from the opponent's debt. Five categories were played, with values of −$300, −$400, −$500, −$750, and −$1,500. The contestant with the lower remaining debt after round one started the bidding on the first category, and the winner of each category placed the first bid on the next one.\n\nAt the end of the round, the contestant with the higher debt was eliminated and received a piggy bank and a $500 savings bond. However, the round could end early if one contestant fell so far behind that he/she could not catch up even by winning all of the remaining categories (referred to by Martindale as being \"mathematically eliminated\"). The winning contestant advanced to the bonus round.\n\nThe bonus round was played in two parts. In the first part, \"Get Out of Debt,\" the contestant had 60 seconds to answer 10 questions in a given category. If he/she passed or missed a question, Martindale asked another one in its place. If the contestant succeeded, his/her entire original debt (before averaging) was paid off; otherwise; he/she kept all money won during the first two rounds.\n\nFor the second part, \"Bet Your Debt,\" the contestant was given the option to stop playing and keep his/her winnings, or risk them on one question from his/her favorite topic in the world of popular culture. If he/she chose to take the risk, Martindale asked the question and gave the contestant 10 seconds to respond. A correct answer doubled the contestant's winnings, while a miss forfeited everything. In the latter case, the contestant received a piggy bank and a savings bond worth either $1,500 (for winning the first part of the round) or $1,000 (for losing it). If the contestant chose not to take the risk, he/she was still asked the question and given a chance to respond, in order to find out what would have happened.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260279", "title": "Marlene Streit", "text": "Marlene Streit\n\nMarlene Stewart Streit, (born March 9, 1934) is a Canadian amateur golfer, and a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame.\n\nShe was born in Cereal, Alberta. She learned golf from Gordon McInnis Sr. at the Lookout Point Golf Club in Fonthill, Ontario. She is the most successful Canadian amateur female golfer, and the only golfer in history to have won the Australian, British, Canadian and U.S. Women's Amateurs. She graduated from Rollins College in 1956 and won the national individual intercollegiate golf championship that same year.\n\nStreit was a member of the Canadian team at the Espirito Santo Trophy in 1966, 1970, 1972, and 1984. She owns a home in Wellington, Florida. She won the Bobbie Rosenfeld Award for best Canadian female athlete for the fifth time in 1963.\n\n\n\nAmateur\n\n"}
{"id": "2260288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260288", "title": "Prince-Bishopric of Eichstätt", "text": "Prince-Bishopric of Eichstätt\n\nThe Prince-Bishopric of Eichstätt (German: \"Hochstift Eichstätt, Fürtsbistum Eichstätt, Bistum Eichstätt\") was a small ecclesiastical principality of the Holy Roman Empire. Centered on the town of Eichstätt, it was located in the present-day state of Bavaria, somewhat to the west of Regensburg, to the north of Neuburg an der Donau and Ingolstadt, to the south of Nuremberg, and to the southeast of Ansbach. \n\nGeographically, the territory of the Prince-Bishopric was very fragmented and, as of 1789, consisted of one main part to the east that was bordered by Bavaria in the north, east, and south, and by Pappenheim and Brandenburg-Ansbach in the west. The rest of the principality was located to the west and consisted of several fragments of various sizes enclaved mostly within Brandenburg-Ansbach. The total area was about 1100 km², with a population of 58,000 (as of 1855).\n\nThe Diocese of Eichstätt was established in 741, when the Anglo-Saxon missionary Willibald was consecrated to the episcopate by Saint Boniface and turned to the church of Eichstätt in the German stem duchy of Bavaria. His successors achieved the status of a Prince-Bishop, when they inherited the Franconian territories of their former \"Vogt\" officials, the extinct Counts of Hirschberg (at Hirschberg Castle in the present-day town of Beilngries). In reaction to the Protestant Reformation, Eichstätt joined the Catholic League in 1617. The lands of the bishopric were a centre of the Counter-Reformation and the site of numerous witchcraft trials.\n\nIn the course of the 1802 German mediatization following the French Revolutionary Wars, the bishopric was secularized and was in 1803, along with the Archbishopric of Salzburg, given in compensation to Archduke Ferdinand of Habsburg-Lorraine, brother of Emperor Francis II and former Grand Duke of Tuscany. Three years later, following Austria's defeat by Napoleon at the Battle of Austerlitz, the area was given to the Kingdom of Bavaria according to the Treaty of Pressburg. From 1817 to 1855, the Principality was recreated as a fief of Bavaria for the benefit of Napoleon's stepson Eugène de Beauharnais.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260305", "title": "Li Ru", "text": "Li Ru\n\nLi Ru ( 189–192), courtesy name Wenyou, was an official serving under the warlord Dong Zhuo during the Eastern Han dynasty of China.\n\nLi Ru was from Heyang County (), Zuopingyi (), which is in present-day Heyang County, Shaanxi. He served as Prefect of the Gentlemen of the Palace of Hongnong Kingdom () when Dong Zhuo controlled the Han central government and the figurehead Emperor Xian between 189 and 192. After Dong Zhuo's death in 192, he served under Li Jue, a former subordinate of Dong Zhuo. In 190, Dong Zhuo sent Li Ru to poison the Liu Bian (the deposed Emperor Shao). In the winter of 192, Li Jue recommended Li Ru to be a Palace Attendant (), but Emperor Xian refused to endorse the recommendation and said: \"(Li) Ru was formerly a Prefect of the Gentlemen of the Palace under the Prince of Hongnong (Liu Bian). He killed my elder brother and ought to be punished.\" In defence of Li Ru, Li Jue said, \"It was not Li Ru's intention to follow Dong Zhuo's order. We should not punish the innocent.\"\n\nLi Ru has a greater role as a minor character in the 14th-century historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", which romanticises the events before and during the Three Kingdoms period. In the novel, he is not just a trusted adviser of Dong Zhuo, but also a son-in-law of the warlord. As Dong Zhuo's advisor, he has a strong influence over many of the key decisions Dong Zhuo makes. For example, among other things, he advises Dong Zhuo to induce Lü Bu into defecting to his side, replace Emperor Shao with Emperor Xian, and relocate the imperial capital from Luoyang to Chang'an. When Dong Zhuo falls for the \"beauty's trap\" involving him, Lü Bu and Diaochan, Li Ru tries to warn Dong Zhuo about it but Dong Zhuo fails to heed his advice. After Dong Zhuo meets his end at the hands of Lü Bu in 192, Li Ru is arrested and executed for being an accomplice to Dong Zhuo's \"crimes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260306", "title": "European plaice", "text": "European plaice\n\nThe European plaice (\"Pleuronectes platessa\") is a commercially important flatfish.\n\nThe geographical range of the European plaice is off all coasts from the Barents Sea to the Mediterranean, also in the Northeast Atlantic and off Greenland. In some locales such as the Irish Sea, this species is considered fully exploited by commercial fishing.\n\nIt is a common flatfish, occurring on the sandy and muddy bottoms of the European shelf, usually at depths between 10 and 50 m, where it tends to burrow in sediment during day time and remain stationary for long periods. They can be found at depths to about 200 m. Young fish in particular come right inshore in very shallow water.\n\nThey are able to survive low salt concentrations and may occur in some cases in brackish or even in fresh water.\n\nThe European plaice is characterised above by their dark green to dark brown skin, blotched with conspicuous, but irregularly distributed, orange spots. The underside is pearly white. The skin is smooth with small scales. They are able to adapt their colour somewhat to match that of their surroundings, but the orange spots always remain visible. The skin lacks any prickles.\n\nIts maximum length is about , but adults, caught in fishing nets, are usually between in length. Its maximum published weight is and its maximum recorded age is 50 years.\n\nThe outline of adults is oval. The head is rather small and is less than 25% of the total length. The pointed mouth is terminal and fairly small with its maxilla reaching just below the right eye. Both eyes are located at the right side of the body. The bony ridge behind the eyes is another characteristic for this species. The lateral line curves slightly above the pectoral fin. The dorsal fin reaches the eye. The dorsal and anal fins are distant from the caudal fin. The anal fin contains 48 to 59 soft rays and is preceded by a spine. The dorsal fin has 65–79 soft rays, the pectoral fin 10 to 11, and the ventral fin six.\n\nIt is active at night and feeds on polychaetes, crustaceans and bivalves. Young plaice (between 1 and 2 years old) tend to consume mainly shrimps.\n\nThe main spawning grounds in the North Sea are located in the Southern Bight and in the eastern English Channel. Plaice are determinate spawners in which fecundity is determined before the onset of spawning. Females mature, i.e. are able to spawn, at ages from 3 to 7 years. However, in the North Sea, most females mature at 3 years. Ovary development begins around late August to September with the spawning being from December to May. Each female releases eggs in batches every 3 to 5 days for around a month.\n\nThe eggs hatch after about two weeks and drift passively in the plankton. The larvae drift in the plankton and metamorphose after about 8 to 10 weeks, dependent on temperature, at which time they settle in the intertidal zone of sandy beaches. The larvae exhibit what is sometimes called semiactive tidal transport. As the larvae cannot swim against the prevailing currents, they make use of their ability to alter their vertical position in the water column to ensure they are transported to suitable habitat. On incoming or flood tides (water level is rising), the larvae move up into the water column and are thus transported towards land. On the outgoing or ebb tides (water level is falling), the larvae move down the water column and are not transported away from the intertidal by the tidal currents.\n\nWhen the larvae have reached a suitable site for settlement, the metamorphosis to the asymmetric body shape takes place. This can take up to 10 days.\n\nRecently transformed juveniles settle onto shallow intertidal beaches. The very youngest juveniles will, for a period of up to a week, strand themselves in very shallow pools on the intertidal once the tide has receded. The reasons for this behaviour are not clear. During the first year of life (when the fish are called 0+ group), the juveniles will stay in these shallow intertidal habitats for up to 7 months (depending on latitude and/or temperature), before migrating to deeper waters. Some of these fish will return the next year (when they are I+ group) and even fewer when they are II+ group; however, the majority of juveniles do not return after they have migrated during their first year.\n\nPlaice is sometimes used as the fish in fish and chips, in countries where the dish is popular.\n\nIn North German and Danish cuisine, plaice is one of the most commonly eaten fishes. Filleted, battered, and pan-fried plaice is popular hot or cold as an open sandwich topping together with remoulade sauce and lemon slices. Battered plaice can also be served hot with french fries and remoulade sauce as a main dish; this fish and chips variant is commonly available as a children's special in Danish restaurants. Breaded frozen plaice, ready to be baked or fried at home, is readily available in supermarkets. Fresh plaice is also oven-baked.\n\nPlaice, along with the other major demersal fish in the North Sea such as cod, monkfish, and sole, is listed by the ICES as \"outside safe biological limits.\" Moreover, they are growing less quickly now and are rarely older than six years, whereas they can reach 40. The World Wildlife Fund says, in 2006, \"of the eight plaice stocks recognised by ICES, only one is considered to be harvested sustainably while three are overexploited. Data are insufficient to assess the remaining stocks; however, landings for all stocks are at or near historical lows.\"\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International has added the European plaice to its seafood red list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260307", "title": "Alison Sealy-Smith", "text": "Alison Sealy-Smith\n\nAlison Sealy-Smith (born 1959) is a Barbados-born Canadian actress, who is raised in Toronto.\n\nSealy-Smith attended Mount Allison University in New Brunswick, Canada, where she studied psychology on a scholarship. She is the founding director of Obsidian Theatre, a company that specializes in Black Canadian drama. Sealy-Smith was awarded a Dora Mavor Moore Award for her 1997 star turn in Djanet Sears' \"Harlem Duet\".\n\nHer film and television credits have included the series \"Street Legal\", \"This is Wonderland\" and \"The Line\", and a recurring role in \"Kevin Hill\". She also had a small role in the 1998 film \"My Date with the President's Daughter\".\n\nSealy-Smith also voiced characters in various animated series such as Storm on the 1990s \"X-Men\" and Scarlett on the Teletoon series \"Delilah and Julius\". She also played Sergeant Rose in the film \"Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen\" opposite Lindsay Lohan. She has also appeared in many Hollywood films, including \"Honey\" opposite Jessica Alba, \"Dark Water\" with Jennifer Connelly and \"Talk to Me\" with Don Cheadle. As of the mid-2000s, she had a recurring role as Ms. Mann in the children's series \"Naturally, Sadie\". In 2009, she performed as Nurse Lydia in the HBO Canada series \"Bloodletting & Miraculous Cures\".\n\nHer daughter Makyla Smith is also an actress.\n\nSealy-Smith won a Dora Mavor Moore Award in 1997 for Best Female Performance for her role in \"Harlem Duet\". She also won a Dora Mavor Moore Award in 2009 for Outstanding Performance By A Female In A Principal Role with her role as Lena in \"A Raisin In The Sun\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2260310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260310", "title": "Califone", "text": "Califone\n\nCalifone is an experimental rock band from Chicago. The band is named after Califone International, an audio equipment manufacturer. Their work has been critically acclaimed.\n\nCalifone has released an album and feature film, both of which are titled \"All My Friends Are Funeral Singers\". The album was released October 6, 2009 on Dead Oceans. The feature film was made available in 2010, and the band toured as a live soundtrack to the film.\n\n\"All My Friends Are Funeral Singers\" is the follow-up album to 2006's \"Roots & Crowns\", which \"The New York Times\" called \"enthralling.\"\n\nIn 2011, a feature-length tour documentary about Califone, called \"Made a Machine by Describing the Landscape\", was released by IndiePix. The film was directed by Solan Jensen and Joshua Marie Wilkinson, and presents an intimate portrait of the band on tour in Europe and the US after the release of \"Heron King Blues\".\n\nAfter the breakup of his former band Red Red Meat, frontman Tim Rutili formed Califone as a solo project. Rutili's solo effort soon became a full-fledged musical project with a regular and rotating list of contributors, including many former members of Red Red Meat and some members of other Chicago bands.\n\nAccording to Rutili, Califone started as a home project: \"The statement of intent would have been 'easy listening' compared to what we were doing with Red Red Meat. This was supposed to be making little pop songs out of found pieces. It was supposed to be just a little home project, and it slowly grew from there. Now it seems like just about anything goes.\"\n\nCalifone's sound is a combination of Red Red Meat's blues-rock and experimental music, with inspiration drawn from early American folk music, pop, as well as electronic and groups like Psychic TV. Listeners familiar with Red Red Meat can quickly tell that Califone is not an attempt to revive the old band; elements from a number of musical styles contribute to their distinctive sound.\n\nMost recently their single \"Funeral Singers\" appears on the soundtrack of the video game \"Watch Dogs\".\n\nIn 2019, Califone undertook a tour of house concerts and other small venues. The lineup consisted of Rutili, Massarella, and second percussionist Rachel Blumberg.\n\nMany of Califone's albums are individually thematic, sometimes inspired by stories (\"All My Friends Are Funeral Singers\"), dreams (\"Heron King Blues\"), and silent era films (\"Deceleration\" albums).\n\nThe album's companion film is about a psychic woman who lives alone in the woods. According to Rutili, who wrote the screenplay and directed the film,\nShe lives in a house full of ghosts, and one day, the ghosts realize they’re trapped, and she has to find a way–even though she doesn’t want them to go–to get them out of the house. Then they start destroying her life.\n\nCalifone's 2004 release \"Heron King Blues\" is a concept album involving a recurring dream:\nRutili has had a recurring dream since his youth, involving a giant man-bird creature, and then he discovered that the creature was actually a representation of an ancient Druid god called the heron king, which the British feared so deeply that they fled the battlefield when an effigy of the heron king was hoisted above the heads of the opposing army, and that Rutili realized that he had somehow been manifesting an image of this long-dead god figure in his head since he was a child.\n\nCalifone has released instrumental albums that were recorded while the band played live soundtracks for films recorded in the 2000s. \"Deceleration 1\" and \"Deceleration 2\" were released in 2002 and 2003, respectively. \"Decelerations\" 3 and 4 are rumored to be released sometime in the future.\n\nIn 1997, members of Red Red Meat collaborated with members of oRSo and Rex to record as Loftus for Perishable Records.\n\nIn 2002, Tim Rutili and Ben Massarella collaborated with Modest Mouse frontman Isaac Brock and others to release the album \"Sharpen Your Teeth\" under the band name Ugly Casanova.\n\nIn 2003, Tim Rutili, Ben Massarella and Jim Becker collaborated with Ottawa musician Miche Jetté, to record five of his songs for an independent mini-disc. This recording would later be released properly in 2005 as the first side of Jette's debut solo album (under his stage name Flecton), for the Canadian label, Kelp Records. The latter half Flecton's \"Never Took a Wife\" was recorded with Memphis indie rockers, the Grifters.\n\nIn 2005, Califone collaborated with Freakwater as a backing band to record the album \"Thinking of You\".\n\nIn 2006, Tim Rutili teamed up with Wil Hendricks and Michael Krassner under the name The Unseen Hand to record the soundtrack for \"Rank\", a documentary about bullriding.\n\nIn 2006, Califone teamed up with animator/musician Brent Green on a series of performance art pieces featuring animation, live music, and spoken word. That same year, they were featured on the soundtrack for the movie \"Stranger than Fiction\".\n\nIn December 2008, the Canadian band Flecton released \"The Bright Side of Dying\", with Califone as the backing band. The album was recorded in Chicago and features Ben Massarella, Tim Rutili, Joe Adamik, and Jim Becker). The eight song vinyl LP (including a cover of Merle Haggard's \"Workin' Man Blues\") was released on Ottawa's Kelp Records.\n\nMembers of Califone made significant contributions to The Fruit Bats' 2009 album \"The Ruminant Band\". Tim Rutili contributed vocals to the title song on the album, and Jim Becker provided vocals on the songs \"Feather Bed\" and \"Flamingo\", and guitar and fiddle on the songs \"Tegucigalpa\" and \"Feather Bed\". Members of Califone have also contributed to past Fruit Bats albums.\n\nMembers of Califone helped record Iron and Wine's 2011 album, \"Kiss Each Other Clean\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260316", "title": "Okeechobee Waterway", "text": "Okeechobee Waterway\n\nThe Okeechobee Waterway or Okeechobee Canal is a relatively shallow man-made waterway in the United States, stretching across Florida from Fort Myers on the west coast to Stuart on Florida's east coast. The waterway can support tows such as barges or private vessels up to wide x long which draw less than , as parts of the system, especially the locks may have low water depths of just ten feet. The system of channels runs through Lake Okeechobee and consists of the Caloosahatchee River to the west of the lake and the St. Lucie Canal (C-44) east of the lake.\n\nA downloadable map of the Okeechobee Waterway can be found by clicking here. Geologically and geographically, the north bank of the canal is the official southern limit of the Eastern Continental Divide.\n\nIt was built/finished in 1937 to provide a water route across Florida, allowing boats to pass east–west across the state rather than traveling the long route around the southern end of the state.\n\nLake Okeechobee and the Okeechobee Waterway Project is part of the complex water-management system known as the Central and Southern Florida Flood Control Project. The projects cover 16,000 square miles starting just south of Orlando and extending southward through the Kissimmee River Basin to the Everglades National Park to Florida Bay.\n\nThe U.S. Army Corps of Engineers manages five locks and dams along the Okeechobee Waterway.\n\nThe St. Lucie lock was built in 1941 for navigation and flood-control purposes. In 1944, the connecting spillway structure was built for flood and regulatory flow control through the St. Lucie Canal to manage the water level in Lake Okeechobee.\n\nThe Port Mayaca Lock and Dam was built in 1977 for navigation purposes, to permit the raising of water levels in Lake Okeechobee, and to moderate the effects of higher lake stages along the St. Lucie Canal (C-44).\n\nThe Ortona Lock and Dam were constructed in 1937 for navigation purposes.\n\nIn 1934, the locks were dredged by Captain James B. Cox, who worked on the Hoover Dike, with Robert Pierce as engineer. The first lockmaster was Jack O'Day, then Captain Cox, afterward.\n\nThe Moore Haven Lock and Dam were constructed in 1935 for navigation and flood-control purposes.\n\nThe W.P. Franklin Lock and Dam were constructed in 1965 for flood control, water control, prevention of saltwater intrusion, and navigation purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260318", "title": "Reflections (Rick James album)", "text": "Reflections (Rick James album)\n\nReflections is a compilation of Rick James songs released in 1984. It also contains three until then unreleased tracks: \"17\", \"Oh What a Night (4 Luv)\", \"You Turn Me On\" and also contained a double sided poster. It was released on the Gordy Records imprint of Motown Records.\n"}
{"id": "2260328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260328", "title": "Route 121 (Rhode Island–Massachusetts)", "text": "Route 121 (Rhode Island–Massachusetts)\n\nRoute 121 is a numbered state highway running in Rhode Island and in Massachusetts. It is part of the route connecting the city of Woonsocket (via Route 114) with the town of Wrentham.\n\nIn Rhode Island, Route 121 exists entirely in a rural section of Cumberland. It proceeds for from an intersection with Route 114 along Wrentham Road to the Massachusetts State line. Now in Wrentham, Massachusetts, the road proceeds for to an intersection with Route 1A. In Massachusetts, it is known as Cumberland Road and West Street\n\nThe route from Woonsocket to Wrentham was assigned as Route 142 in the early 1920s when the New England states began numbering their state highways. Route 142 ran for about between Route 122 and current Route 1A (then designated as U.S. Route 1). It used present-day Route 114 from Route 122 in Woonsocket and Cumberland, then along present-day Route 121 to Wrentham.\n\nAround 1933, the entire route (in both Rhode Island and Massachusetts) was renumbered as Route 11 and its northern end extended into Dedham along old Route 1 (current Route 1A) when Route 1 was realigned. Route 11 was later cut back to its original length after a few years when Route 1A was designated in the area.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, the southern end of the route was truncated by about to its current southern terminus at the intersection of Pine Swamp Road and Diamond Hill Road in Cumberland. This was due to the westward extension of the Route 114 designation into the city of Woonsocket. At the same time, the route was renumbered to Route 121.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260329", "title": "Maniac (1980 film)", "text": "Maniac (1980 film)\n\nManiac is a 1980 American psychological slasher film directed by William Lustig and written by C. A. Rosenberg. It stars Joe Spinell as Frank Zito, an Italian-American serial killer residing in New York City who murders and scalps young women. Spinell was also co-writer of the film.\n\nWith a minuscule budget, many scenes in the film were shot guerrilla style. Originally considered an exploitation film, \"Maniac\" has since attained a cult following despite receiving polarized reviews and being released in limited theaters by Analysis Film Releasing Corp. The film was remade in 2012 by director Franck Khalfoun and produced by Alexandre Aja, starring Elijah Wood in the lead role.\n\nWhile not prosecuted for obscenity nor officially listed as a video nasty, \"Maniac\" was seized by various police forces across Greater Manchester and Lancashire during the video nasty panic, presumably based on the film's notorious reputation overseas.\n\nFrank Zito (Joe Spinell) was abused as a child by his prostitute mother, and as a result, becomes a serial killer who murders young women, scalps them and attaches their hair to mannequins. After he awakens from a nightmare about killing a couple on a beach, he dresses and leaves his apartment towards Manhattan into Times Square. When Frank is randomly invited inside a hotel by a prostitute (Rita Motone), she kisses him before he abruptly strangles and scalps her. He returns home, dresses a mannequin with the dead prostitute's clothing and nails her scalp to its head. Frank tells himself that beauty is a crime punishable by death.\n\nSometime later, he dresses again and takes a collection of weaponry with him, including a double-barrelled shotgun, before leaving. He drives around Brooklyn and the Queens area, where he finds a couple exiting a local disco and parking near the side of the Verrazano Bridge. When the boyfriend (Tom Savini) starts up the vehicle after his date sees Frank spying on them, Frank kills the couple with his shotgun and then adds the woman to his mannequin collection. After seeing his recent crime on television, he talks to himself and the mannequins as he sobs himself to sleep.\n\nDuring the next day in Central Park, Frank follows a photographer named Anna (Caroline Munro) after she takes a photo of him and a little girl riding a bicycle in the distance. At night, Frank sees a nurse (Kelly Piper) leaving the Roosevelt Hospital, where he then stalks her inside the subway station and murders her with a bayonet before adding her to his mannequin collection. Days later, Frank heads to Anna's apartment and is invited inside by Anna after she recognizes him from the photo she took of him. Upon him asking her out to dinner, he later shows her a photo of his mother who died in a car crash years ago. A few days later, Frank is invited by Anna to a studio during a photography session, and she introduces one of her models Rita (Abigail Clayton) to him. After seeing the two talking and holding hands, he steals Rita's necklace and leaves. Later that same night, he arrives at Rita's apartment to give her her necklace, before then attacking her and tying her to the bed. Frank begins talking and addresses her as his mother and stabs her with a switchblade before scalping her for his collection.\n\nOne night, Frank takes Anna on a date and they stop by a cemetery to visit his mother's grave. While laying some flowers beside the headstone, Frank begins to mourn over one of his early victims and attacks Anna. He chases her around the cemetery, but she hits him in the arm with a shovel before fleeing. He hallucinates his decomposing mother attacking him from the grave. He runs back to his apartment, where he sees his mannequins suddenly coming alive. They mutilate Frank with his weapons before ultimately tearing off his head.\n\nThe next morning, two police officers break into Frank's apartment and see Frank lying dead on his bed; he has committed suicide. As the officers leave the apartment, Frank's eyes suddenly open.\n\nDirector William Lustig, who previously had worked as a director of pornographic films, used profits from his 1977 film \"Hot Honey\" to make \"Maniac\".\n\nPrincipal photography began on October 21, 1979, and wrapped on January 18, 1980. Many scenes had to be filmed guerrilla-style because the production could not afford city permits, including the shotgun sequence, which was filmed in just an hour.\n\nThe infamous sequence where Frank murders the boyfriend (played by Tom Savini) was loosely inspired by the \"Son of Sam\" murders committed by serial killer David Berkowitz, who shot people in parked cars with a .44 Special revolver. Savini, who served as the film's make-up artist, received the role for the male victim from him having already made a cast of his own head, which was filled inside with leftover food and fake blood. Since Savini used live ammunition for the scene, he immediately threw the shotgun into the trunk of a waiting car driven by an assistant Luke Walter, who was a friend of Spinell, to avoid being caught by the police.\n\n\"Maniac\" was one of the three films that Spinell and co-star Caroline Munro worked together; the other films being \"Starcrash\" and later \"The Last Horror Film\".\n\nAccording to a \"Variety\" report, \"Maniac\" was scheduled for a midnight screening at the Cannes Film Festival on May 10, 1980. The film had its U.S. premiere in New York City on January 30, 1981, followed by a Los Angeles premiere on March 6, 1981.\n\nSince the film was not submitted to the MPAA, the film was released unrated, with the designation \"For adults only.\" Despite the poster stating \"No one under 17 will be admitted\", a severely-edited version of the film received an R-Rating in the South and was distributed in March 1981 in several other States such as California, of the unrated version shortly after its first U.S. domestic release in New York in January 1981.\n\nThe film was refused a classification by the British Board of Film Classification upon its original cinema release and was additionally banned for video in 1998, but was later passed at an 18 certificate in 2002 with 58 seconds of cuts.\n\nIn Australia, the film's promotional campaign featured a censored version of the theatrical poster image, which blacked out the scalp held in the killer's hand.\n\nThe film was originally released on Beta and VHS by Media Home Entertainment in 1981.\n\nThe film was released on DVD and VHS in North America by Anchor Bay Entertainment in 2001. Blue Underground re-released \"Maniac\" on Blu-ray on October 26, 2010.\n\nUpon its theatrical release, \"Maniac\" received numerous unfavorable reviews, with many critics lambasting the film for its depiction of violence.\n\nFilm critic Gene Siskel described how sickened he was by the film on \"Sneak Previews\" and had walked out of the theater after the shotgun murder scene, citing the film could not redeem itself\" after the amount of violence shown up to that point. However, when Siskel had been asked if he had ever walked out of a movie, he did not mention the film, responding he left the 1996 film \"Black Sheep\" due to his dislike of Chris Farley, and the 1971 Disney film \"The Million Dollar Duck\".\n\nVincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"Good sense, if not heaven, should protect anyone who thinks he likes horror films from wasting a price of admission on \"Maniac\", a movie that shows how an aging, pot-bellied maniac slices up young women of no great intelligence.\"\n\nOn the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, \"Maniac\" holds a 37% approval rating based on 19 critic reviews, with an average rating of 4.5/10.\n\nStuart Galbraith IV (\"DVD Talk\") said of the film \"Despite some good direction and a sincere, even daring performance by character actor Joe Spinell (\"Rocky\"), who also co-produced and co-wrote its screenplay, Maniac (1980) is alternately repellent and boring, despite the obvious intelligence that went into its making. A low-budget slasher film notable for its extremely graphic splatter effects by Tom Savini - who also appears in the picture - Maniac is mostly a character study, anticipating the much superior (if no less unpleasant) \"\" (1986).\"\n\nTom Becker of \"DVD Verdict\" said \"That the film is so effective is due in no small part to the performance of Joe Spinell as Frank, the schlubby-looking guy whose darkness overwhelms him. This is not the standard, amateurish, paint-by-numbers horror villain turn. Spinell creates a fully formed portrait of this monster that goes far beyond the surface. He mutters to himself, talks to mannequins, growls like an animal when stalking his prey—yet he can be charming as well, and while the pairing of Spinell and Munro as lovers has a definite \"Beauty and the Beast\" quality to it, it's not entirely unbelievable. Had \"Maniac\" been more of a mainstream film, Spinell might have been remembered as one of the great horror heavies.\"\n\n\"The Hollywood Reporter\" cites the film as \"something of a grubby touchstone among genre fans.\"\n\nFilm scholar John Kenneth Muir wrote that the film \"positively oozes sleaze and despair, and that's a compliment...After watching \"Maniac\", you'll want to take a deep breath, maybe even a shower, but you won't have wasted ninety minutes on something that has no meaning, no pulse, and no heart.\" Jim Harper, in his book \"Legacy of Blood: A Comprehensive Guide to Slasher Movies\", praised Spinnell's performance, noting it as the \"centerpiece\" of the film.\n\n\"Maniac\" has been cited by some media outlets as one of the greatest slasher/horror films ever made. \"Esquire\" placed it at #18 in their list of \"The 55 Scariest Movies of All Time\". It was ranked at #44 in \"Paste\" magazine's \"50 Best Slasher Movies of All Time\".\n\nA horror short promotional film was shot in 1986 by Joe Spinell and director Buddy Giovinazzo entitled \"Maniac 2: Mr. Robbie\" as a remake of the 1973 film \"The Psychopath,\" about a psychopathic children's television show host who murders abusive parents. The short was done to raise financing for a sequel to \"Maniac\".\n\nThe short film was included with the 30th anniversary edition release of \"Maniac\".\n\nThe feature-length version of the film was never shot after Spinell died in 1989.\n\nLustig planned a remake. During the 2009 edition of the New York Horror Film Festival, while receiving a Lifetime Achievement Award, Lustig announced that the deal for a remake has been sealed. During a Q&A session at the Sunshine Cinema in New York City on November 19, 2010, Lustig announced that the remake rights had been acquired by a French production company with Alexandre Aja attached. He also stated that he would love to see Tom Sizemore take over the Frank Zito role, as he feels Sizemore is a lot like Spinell, and that he had recommended as much to the French production company.\n\nOn November 4, 2011, Elijah Wood was cast as Frank Zito and the plan was to begin filming later in the year. Aja produced the film and Franck Khalfoun was signed on to direct the remake. In December, America Olivo and Morgane Slemp were cast, alongside previously announced Nora Arnezeder and Genevieve Alexandra.\n\nOn January 31, 2012, in an interview with Arnezeder, she discussed the remake using POV shots and Elijah Wood's character as half-angel/half-devil. Arnezeder described her role in the film as an artist who develops a friendship with Wood's character. She declined to reveal more, but hinted at a different take on the original. She said she was drawn to the concept of the film as a psychological horror, stating it would not be that interesting if the movie was just blood and screams. The film finished shooting in Los Angeles in December 2011 and was released in 2012.\n\n\"Maniac\" was nominated for a Saturn Award by the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films, USA, for Best Low-Budget Film in 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260332", "title": "Santa Rita, New Mexico", "text": "Santa Rita, New Mexico\n\nSanta Rita is a ghost town in Grant County in the U.S. state of New Mexico. The site of Chino copper mine, Santa Rita was located fifteen miles east of Silver City.\n\nCopper mining in the area began late in the Spanish colonial period, but it was not until 1803 that Franscisco Manuel Elguea, a Chihuahua banker and businessman, founded the town of Santa Rita. He named it \"Santa Rita del Cobre\" (Saint Rita of the Copper), after Saint Rita of Cascia and the existing mine. During the early 19th century the mine produced over 6 million pounds of copper annually. The crudely smeltered ore was shipped to Chihuahua for further smelting and then sent to Mexico City on mule back. The area was relatively peaceful, despite an occasional attack from the Warm Springs (Mimbres) band of the Chiricahua Apache, who lived nearby at the headwaters of the Gila and Mimbres rivers. \n\nIn 1837, however, an American trader named John Johnson lured the Apaches to a gathering and then massacred them to sell their scalps for the bounty offered by the Mexican government. Johnson's massacre inflamed the Apache rather than intimidated them. The rich Santa Rita copper mine in New Mexico was a principal target of Mangas Coloradas and his followers. In 1838, 22 fur trappers were killed nearby and the Apache severed the mine's supply line. The 300 to 400 inhabitants of Santa Rita fled south toward the Janos presidio, 150 miles away, but the Apache killed nearly all of them en route. Afterwards, the Santa Rita mine was only occasionally in operation until 1873 when Apache chief Cochise signed a peace agreement with the U.S. and the mine was reopened.\n\nMartin B. Hayes reopened the mine in 1873 after Cochise signed a treaty of peace; however, the town continued to be subject to Apache attacks from Geronimo, Victorio and other Apache warleaders until 1886, when Geronimo surrendered for the last time. A post office opened in 1881 and the coming of the railroad five years later spurred further development of the mine. \n\nAfter the Santa Rita mine was converted to an open pit in 1901, the town was forced to move several times as the pit grew. Shortly after the town relocated in 1957, heavy rains washed boulders and mud into the new townsite. The town was abandoned once and for all in 1967, and the school system for the area was discontinued in 1972.\n\nThe population of Santa Rita was about 500 in 1884. By 1915 it was 2,500, and by 1920 had reached 6,000. It remained at 6,000 until significant layoffs at the mine started in the 1950s.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260334", "title": "Glow (Rick James album)", "text": "Glow (Rick James album)\n\nGlow is a 1985 Rick James album, released on the Gordy Records imprint of Motown Records. Despite its success, to date, it is the only Rick James album not available on compact disc.\n\nAll tracks composed and arranged by Rick James.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2260335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260335", "title": "Obsidian Theatre", "text": "Obsidian Theatre\n\nObsidian Theatre is a Canadian professional theatre company that specializes in works by Black Canadian artists. The company is located in Toronto, Ontario. The declared mandate of the company is a threefold mission: to produce plays, to develop playwrights and to train theatre professionals. Obsidian is dedicated to the exploration, development, and production of the Black voice. They produce plays from a world-wide canon focusing primarily, but not exclusively, on the works of highly acclaimed Black playwrights. Obsidian provides artistic support, promoting the development of work by Black theatre makers and offering training opportunities through mentoring and apprenticeship programs for emerging Black artists. \n\nFounded in February 2000, Obsidian Theatre Company has grown into a large independent theatre company with a full schedule of productions, playwright/play development and professional training programs. Since the company’s inception, Obsidian has worked to change the profile of culturally diverse theatre in Canada by encouraging companies to re-evaluate the way artists of colour are involved in the work. The company does not manage its own physical theatre and rather partners with other theatre companies to produce works.\n\n\n\n\nAn integral part of the company is the Obsidian Playwrights Unit, a venue for exploration of ideas. \n\nPlaywrights commit to monthly meetings over a yearlong period (September to June). The group is headed by the Play Development Coordinator and is focused on playwright development as opposed to full-length play creation. This allows for each playwright to work on a short piece for workshop production and also explores a number of philosophical ideas that stimulate ideas and conversation. \n\nIn June, the playwrights are matched with three directors to work on staging the plays for a workshop production, culminating in a Performance showcase.\n\n\n"}
