{"id": "2293690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293690", "title": "Glossary of British ordnance terms", "text": "Glossary of British ordnance terms\n\nThis article explains terms used for the British Armed Forces' ordnance (i.e.: weapons) and also ammunition. The terms may have slightly different meanings in the military of other countries.\nBetween decks: applies to a naval gun mounting in which part of the rotating mass is below the deck, and part of it is above the deck. This allows for a lower profile of turret, meaning that turrets need not be superfiring (i.e. they can be mounted on the same deck and not obstruct each other at high angles of elevation.)\n\nThe term BL, in its general sense, stood for breech loading, and contrasted with muzzle loading. The shell was loaded via the breech (i.e. the gunner's end of the barrel, which opened) followed by the propellant charge, and the breech mechanism was closed to seal the chamber.\n\nBreech loading, in its formal British ordnance sense, served to identify the gun as the type of rifled breechloading gun for which the powder charge was loaded in a silk or cloth bag and the breech mechanism was responsible for \"obturation\" i.e. sealing the chamber to prevent escape of the propellant gases. The term BL was first used to refer to the Armstrong breechloaders, introduced in 1859. Following the discontinuation of Armstrong breechloaders and the period of British rifled muzzle-loaders (RML), British breechloaders were re-introduced in 1880. At this point the term RBL was retrospectively introduced to refer to the Armstrong breechloaders, which had a totally different breech mechanism, and since then the term BL has applied exclusively to the type of breechloader introduced from 1880 onwards using interrupted-screw breeches.\n\nEarly British Elswick breechloaders in the 1880s used a steel \"cup\" obturation method. This was quickly superseded in guns designed by the Royal Gun Factory by the French de Bange method, the basic principle of which is still in use today. In British service this became a Crossley pad with an interrupted thread screw block e.g. a Welin screw. The shell was loaded via the breech, followed by the propellant charge in a cloth bag. A single-use \"vent sealing tube\", a type of primer not dissimilar in appearance to a blank rifle round, was inserted into the breech for firing the gun.\n\nWhile originally, the term \"BL\" contrasted with \"ML\", or \"muzzleloader\" guns, after muzzleloaders were discontinued, the term came to distinguish between traditional, non-obturating guns with fabric propellant bags and separately loaded shells, and quick-firing QF guns which used self-sealing brass cartridge cases, and which usually had the propellant and projectile fixed together as a unit for faster handling and loading. For instance, Britain before World War I had both QF and BL 6 inch guns. Both were \"breech loading\" in the general sense, but in the formal nomenclature it separated 6-inch guns with breeches designed for charges in brass cartridge cases (QF) from those designed for cloth bag charges (BL).\n\nShells designed for one type were not necessarily suitable for use in the other type; for instance, a BL shell relied upon the tight fit of its driving band in the gun bore to prevent it slipping back when the gun was elevated, but a QF shell could rely upon the cartridge case, either fixed or separate, to prevent it slipping back. This presented difficulties for BL guns at high angles. A special cartridge was developed for BL 9.2 inch guns on HA mountings, with provision for a wooden (beech) stick to be inserted through the centre to prevent the shell slipping back on elevation.\n\nAlthough fixed ammunition allows for a rapid rate of fire in small to medium guns, BL is a better choice for heavy calibre guns; propellant was loaded in a number of small fabric bags, because a single bag holding the full charge would be far too big and bulky for the handlers to lift. Using fabric allows for the charge to be broken into small, easily handled units, while it would be difficult to design a system by which multiple small metallic-cased charged were loaded and fired at the same time. Using multiple small fabric bags also allows the gunners to use a reduced charge if need be.\n\nThe term \"BLC\" stood for \"BL converted\" and referred to a breech and breech mechanism modified from an early long-screw three- or four-motion to modern short-screw single-motion. An example is the conversion of the BL 15 pounder to BLC 15 pounder.\n\nCalibre radius head: the radius of a circle with the curve of the shell's nose on its circumference, expressed in terms of the shell's calibre. The longer and more pointed (and hence streamlined) the shell's nose, the higher the C.R.H. Typical C.R.H. for British shells leading up to World War I was two: e.g. the curve of the nose of a two C.R.H. six-inch shell was equivalent to the curve of a circle with a radius of 12 inches. Shells of four C.R.H. were soon developed in World War I, identified by an \"A\" following the shell mark number, \"B\" for six, and so on. For modern streamlined shells post-World War I, two numbers were necessary to more correctly denote a shell's C.R.H. characteristics. For instance, the World War I 6 inch 26 cwt howitzer shell was two C.R.H., the World War II Mk 2D shell was referred to as \"5/10 C.R.H.\".\n\n\"Cartridge\" in British ammunition terminology typically refers to the physical object containing the propellant that a gunner loads:\n\nHeavy naval guns may require up to (e.g.) four separate cartridges to be loaded, each consisting of a ¼ charge to make up the full service charge.\n\nHowitzer cartridges, both BL and separate QF, contained a central core of cordite surrounded by several stacked bags in the shape of rings, containing cordite. To obtain the appropriate \"charge\" for the required range and angle of elevation, the gunner removed and discarded one or more rings before loading.\n\nSee charge for how QF 25-pounder charges varied in World War II.\n\nThe case, usually brass, holding the propellant charge. Used with small arms and QF artillery ammunition. The QF cases in 1915 could be cleaned and then reloaded up to a maximum of six firings with Cordite charges, with the record detailing the \"life of the case\" marked on the base. The limitation on the number of firings was due to the case expanding on firing, having to be \"rectified\" by turning metal off the lower part, which restored the correct dimensions but progressively weakened the case.\n\nCharge was a concept or category label rather than a specific item. It can be described as \"the standard amount of propellant specified to carry out a particular purpose\" :-\nFor practical purposes, specific cartridges were specified for use to obtain the required charge. A gunner dealt with cartridges and would know that he could load (e.g.) cartridge X or Y for a full service charge for his gun, and cartridge Z to fire a star shell. Cartridges were sometimes made up of fractions of charges e.g. a 6-inch gun cartridge may be made up of 2 x 1/2 charges or 1 x 2/5 and 1 x 3/5 charge laced together. A gun normally fired all rounds using the full charge, and varied the range by elevating or depressing the barrel.\n\nA howitzer gunner's job was more complicated because the range table would specify different \"charges\", or fractions of the full service charge, for different ranges and angles of shell descent. The standard cartridge for his gun which as a whole made up the full service charge, would consist of a central \"mushroom\" Cordite core and several smaller Cordite rings in bags stacked around the core like doughnuts, all tied together. It was designed so that one or more rings could be quickly removed and discarded before loading, hence providing progressively smaller charges. e.g. if the gunner on a QF 4.5 inch howitzer was ordered to load charge four he would know he had to remove the top ring from the cartridge, leaving four rings; for charge three he would remove two rings. Discarded rings were burned after the action. This was the standard procedure for howitzers up to and including World War II.\nIn World War II a different system was introduced for varying charges for the QF 25 pounder gun-howitzer, which used separate-loading QF ammunition. A separate 2.7 lb \"super charge\" cartridge was available for firing the 20-pound high-velocity anti-tank AP shot, and an additional 4.5oz \"super charge increment\" could be added to that for even higher velocity. The cartridge for firing the standard 25-pound shell came ready-loaded with a red bag at the bottom containing the basic charge (charge one), together with white and blue bags laid lengthwise, as in a conventional gun charge, to make up the full service charge (charge three). The blue and white bags could be removed to provide progressively reduced charges (charge two and charge one). From 1944 one or two 4oz \"intermediate charge increments\" could be added to the standard charge (replacing the blue bag) for high-angle fire and to provide greater control over angle of shell descent.\n\nFor small arms or fixed QF ammunition, where the charge could not be varied by the gunner, the term charge was used to identify the Cordite propellant within the cartridge case, and the round as a whole was referred to as a full or reduced charge. E.g. an 18 pounder star round consisted of a cartridge case containing a reduced charge, and an attached star shell.\n\nBritish explosive shells filled with Lyddite were initially designated \"common lyddite\" and beginning in 1896 were the first British generation of modern \"high explosive\" shells. Lyddite is picric acid fused at 280 °F and allowed to solidify, producing a much denser dark-yellow form which is not affected by moisture and is easier to detonate than the liquid form. Its French equivalent was \"melinite\", Japanese equivalent was \"shimose\". Common lyddite shells \"detonated\" and fragmented into small pieces in all directions, with no incendiary effect. For maximum destructive effect the explosion needed to be delayed until the shell had penetrated its target.\n\nEarly shells had walls of the same thickness for the whole length, later shells had walls thicker at the base and thinning towards the nose. This was found to give greater strength and provide more space for explosive. Later shells had 4 c.r. heads, more pointed and hence streamlined than earlier 2 c.r.h. designs.\n\nProper detonation of a lyddite shell would show black to grey smoke, or white from the steam of a water detonation. Yellow smoke indicated simple explosion rather than detonation, and failure to reliably detonate was a problem with lyddite, especially in its earlier usage. To improve the detonation \"exploders\" with a small quantity of picric powder or even of TNT (in smaller shells, 3 pdr, 12 pdr - 4.7 inch) was loaded between the fuze and the main lyddite filling or in a thin tube running through most of the shell's length.\n\nLyddite presented a major safety problem because it reacted dangerously with metal bases. This required that the interior of shells had to be varnished, the exterior had to be painted with leadless paint and the fuze-hole had to be made of a leadless alloy. Fuzes containing any lead could not be used with it.\n\nWhen World War I began Britain was replacing lyddite with modern \"high explosive\" (HE) such as TNT. After World War I the term \"common lyddite\" was dropped, and remaining stocks of lyddite-filled shells were referred to as HE (high explosive) shell filled lyddite. Hence \"common\" faded from use, replaced by \"HE\" as the explosive shell designation.\n\nCommon lyddite shells in British service were painted yellow, with a red ring behind the nose to indicate the shell had been filled.\n\nFor shellite, a successor of lyddite, see HE below.\n\nCommon pointed shells, or CP were a type of common shell used in naval service from the 1890s - 1910s which had a solid nose and a percussion fuze in the base rather than the common shell's nose fuze. The ogival two C.R.H. solid pointed nose was considered suitable for attacking shipping but was not armour-piercing - the main function was still explosive. They were of cast or forged (three- and six-pounder) steel and contained a gunpowder bursting charge slightly smaller than that of a common shell, a tradeoff for the longer heavier nose.\n\nIn British service common pointed shells were typically painted black, except 12-pounder shells specific for QF guns which were painted lead colour to distinguish them from 12-pounder shells usable with both BL and QF guns. A red ring behind the nose indicated the shell was filled.\n\nBy World War II they were superseded in Royal Navy service by common pointed capped (CPC) and semi-armour piercing (SAP), filled with TNT.\n\n\"Common shell\" designated early (i.e. 1800s) British explosive shells filled with \"low explosives\" such as \"P mixture\" (gunpowder) and usually with fuzes in the nose. Common shells on bursting (they did not \"detonate\") tended to break into relatively large fragments which continued along the shell's trajectory rather than laterally. They had some incendiary effect.\n\nIn the late 19th century \"double common shells\" were developed, lengthened so as to approach twice the standard shell weight, to carry more powder and hence increase explosive effect. They suffered from instability in flight and low velocity and were not widely used.\n\nAs at 1914, common shells six inch and larger were of cast steel, smaller shells were of forged steel for service and cast iron for practice. They were replaced by \"common lyddite\" shells in the late 1890s but some stocks remained as late as 1914.\n\nIn British service common shells were typically painted black with red bands behind the noses to indicate the shells were filled.\n\nCentral pivot: was applied to a naval gun mounting that rotates around a central pivot that could be bolted to the deck without any structural alterations being required.\n\nThe abbreviation cwt stands for hundredweight, which, despite the name, is equal to , and signifies the weight of the gun barrel and breech. It is sometimes included in the name of a gun to differentiate it from other guns of the same caliber or weight of shot. For example, the QF 12 pounder 18 cwt naval gun is a different (and heavier) weapon than the QF 12-pounder 8-cwt Mk I naval gun, though they both fire shells of the same approximate weight ().\n\nThe \"director-control tower\" (DCT in British usage or \"director\" in US usage) was a feature of naval ships. It was a trainable turret incorporating the gun-laying sights and often a rangefinder. From here the gunnery officer could select targets and take the range, bearing and rates of change. This data would be provided to the transmitting station (TS), where a firing solution would be calculated and passed on to the gun turrets as the correct degree of training and elevation.\n\nGun barrels naturally experience internal wear when fired, caused by mechanical wear from the projectile moving along the barrel, and thermal and chemical wear from propellant gases. This wear can reduce muzzle velocity and hence range, affect accuracy, produce unstable projectile flight, and, eventually, cause the gun barrel to fail.\n\nMost guns are capable of firing different types of ammunition with varying charges, and not all of these combinations produce the same firing damage per round fired. The concept of ‘effective full charge’ provides a means of estimating the remaining life of a gun barrel taking into account the varying charges that can be fired from it before it becomes so worn as to be unusable, or no longer safe.\n\nTo illustrate, the round (i.e. the combination of projectile and propelling charge) that produces the most firing damage is assigned an effective full charge (EFC) value of “one”. Other round combinations are assigned lesser values derived from testing and experience.\n\nIf a gun barrel is capable of firing three different round types: round A (EFC = 1); round B (EFC = 0.75); and round C (EFC = 0.25), and if 100 of each round type is fired, then the barrel is said to have fired (100*1.00) + (100*0.75) + (100*0.25) = 200 EFCs.\n\nIf it had previously been determined from testing and experience that this type of barrel has an estimated wear life of 250 EFCs, this specific barrel is at about 80% of its useful life. Plans would be made to order a replacement barrel within the time an additional 50 EFCs were expected to be fired. However the actual decision to retire any specific barrel would be made on examination and measurement of actual wear rather than that predicted by the EFC count.\n\nIn practice a barrel might be replaced before reaching its EFC life, or the limits of wear. In the case of the 15-inch guns fitted to the World War I Marshal Ney-class monitors a gun was generally condemned when wear reached about 0.74 inches at one inch from the start of the rifling. However it was the usual practice to replace guns when their projected remaining life fell below the ship's normal full outfit of ammunition per gun, which ensured that the entire magazine could be safely fired in action.\n\nThis was the term for a gun together with its carriage, i.e. the complete set of equipment needed to be able to fire the gun, as the gun could only be fired when mounted on its correct carriage. The carriage could be a wheeled carriage, a static siege carriage or include both a traversing mounting and railway wagon in the case of a railway gun. For example, a complete deployable gun might be described as ordnance QF 18 pdr gun Mk II on carriage, field, QF 18 pdr gun Mk I.\n\nBritain employed gunpowder as a propellant until superseded by Cordite Mk I from 1892, and as an explosive filling in common shells until slowly superseded by lyddite from the late 1890s.\n\nIn World War I gunpowder was still in wide British use :\n\nBritish gunpowder designations were :\n\nAttached to the base of RML artillery shells from 1878 onwards to avoid gas wastage on firing, and to rotate studless shells. It was an interim measure between studs and modern driving bands.\n\nRelated terms:\n\n(Note: The term \"gas-check\" was hyphenated in official British government publications of the late 1800s and early 1900s. These publications also used the term \"automatic gas-check\" while acknowledging that the term \"rotating gas-check\" had been used previously.\n\nHigh angle: a naval designation equivalent to AA (anti aircraft), for a gun mounting which was capable of an elevation exceeding 50° from the horizontal, allowing the gun to be used against aircraft.\n\n\"High angle / low angle\" : a naval designation, equivalent to \"dual purpose\", for a weapon intended for engaging both surface targets and aircraft, on a mounting capable of elevating above 50 degrees but also effective at low elevations. Typical examples were the QF 4 inch Mk XVI, QF 5.25 inch gun and QF 4.5 inch gun used in World War II and later.\n\n\"HE\" in British terminology initially designated only shells filled with modern \"high explosive\" such as Trotyl (the British term for TNT), which was being introduced when World War I began, and Amatol from 1915. It contrasted with common shells, which were filled with older explosives such as gunpowder, and common lyddite, the earlier British high-explosive shell. Britain also used Tetryl before World War I under the designation \"composition exploding\" (C.E.).\n\nThe HE shell filling was detonated by a fuze, usually augmented by a \"gaine\" to ensure complete ignition, causing the thick steel shell case to shatter into large and small fragments at great velocity in all directions.\n\nBritain first used pure TNT for land warfare shells from late 1914, but this proved expensive and difficult to manufacture in the necessary large quantities, and was also inefficient as much energy was output as heavy black smoke. Amatol, a mixture of cheap ammonium nitrate and TNT (initially \"40/60\" : 40% ammonium nitrate and 60% TNT for land shells and 80/20 from 1917) proved 27% more powerful than pure TNT and was soon adopted as the preferred HE filling in World War I. TNT and Amatol were approximately 20% less sensitive to shock and hence safer than lyddite, and Amatol 80/20 cost only 7d per pound to produce in 1917 compared to 1s 11d for lyddite and 1s 3d for TNT.\n\nBritain was slow to move from 40/60 Amatol to the preferred 80/20 mixture during World War I, due to manufacturing difficulties. The preferred method for filling explosive shells was by pouring the molten mixture through the fuze hole in the shell nose or base. This was well suited to Lyddite filling, but it was found that Amatol with more than 40% ammonium nitrate did not pour well. Hence it was not simply a case of switching existing filling machinery from Lyddite to Amatol. Dry filling with Amatol 80/20 in block form and by pressing was used but was not considered to be a success. By the end of World War I the process for pouring 80/20 Amatol as a shell filling for land warfare shells had finally been perfected and was in large–scale production.\n\nThe Royal Navy resisted switching from Lyddite to Amatol for its shells because it considered Amatol was too hygroscopic (water-absorbing) to be suitable for use at sea, and instead used pure TNT as its high-explosive replacement for Lyddite. After World War I, remaining stocks of Lyddite-filled naval shells were redesignated \"H.E. shell filled Lyddite\", and henceforth the term H.E. encompassed all Lyddite, TNT and subsequent high-explosive shell types. From 1919 into the 1930s a less sensitive and safer version of Lyddite named \"Shellite\", consisting of 70% Lyddite and 30% dinitrophenol was used in naval AP shells.\n\nAmatol continued in field use to 1945 when it began to be replaced by a 60/40 mixture of RDX and TNT.\n\nHigh-explosive shells were typically painted yellow in British service in World War I, with a red ring below the nose to indicate the shell was filled and a green ring round the body to indicate filling with TNT or Amatol. In World War II they were typically painted olive green.\n\nLow angle: a naval designation for a gun mounting not capable of high angles of elevation, and intended solely for firing at surface targets. In theory any CP mounting was an LA mounting by default.\n\nMuzzle-loading. By World War II there were no muzzle loading artillery guns in British use, so ML was used only for mortars, as the mortar bomb was dropped tail-first down the barrel from the muzzle.\n\nIn British use, ordnance meant the barrel and breech, without mounting, of a gun. The gun with its mounting was called an equipment. For example, a complete deployable gun might be described as ordnance QF 18 pdr gun Mk II on carriage, field, QF 18 pdr gun Mk I.\n\nP refers to a \"pedestal\" mounting for a gun, and was used by the Royal Navy. It differed from a central pivot mounting in that the mounting rotated around a fixed pedestal, rather than being bolted directly to the deck.\n\nMany British naval and army artillery pieces of this period continued to be categorised by their pound rating, the weight in pounds of the shell that they fired, rather than by their bore. For example, a gun firing 32-pound rounds was called a \"32-pounder\", abbreviated pdr. Larger guns, such as the RML 9 inch 12 ton gun, were more often categorised by their bore. This system was used until after World War II. A rough pound rating to bore conversion for that time is 1-pounder-37mm, 2-pounder-40mm, 3-pounder-47mm, 6-pounder-57mm, 17-pounder-76.2mm, 25-pounder-87.6mm, 60-pounder-127mm.\n\nThis term used in the 1800s specified the amount by which the breech end of a gun mounted on trunnions was heavier than the muzzle end. This was determined by the location of the trunnions, the lugs on the barrel by which it rotated in its mounting, which were usually located slightly forward of the gun's centre of gravity. E.g. if the preponderance was quoted as 4 tons 2½ cwt as for the RML 17.72 inch \"100-ton\" gun, the breech end sat with that weight on its mounting, enough to ensure stability but not enough to hinder changes in elevation. The preponderance of British muzzle-loading guns was typically stamped on the end of one of the trunnions. The term was dropped when it became meaningless with the replacement of trunnions by more modern methods of mounting guns on recoil slides in the 20th century.\n\nThe term QF came from \"quick-firing\". The designation was put into use in the late 19th century in two different meanings. In naval terms it was first used for small guns firing fixed ammunition i.e. a complete round formed from a metal (brass) cartridge case containing the propellant and projectile in one unit thus enabling higher firing rates. An early example was the QF 6 pounder Hotchkiss. In later pieces, the charge was sometimes separated from the shell to reduce the individual weight of loading, but the charge was still loaded in a brass case, rather than a cloth or silk bag typical of \"BL\" guns.\n\nIn formal British ordnance terminology the term QF came to mean that the propellant charge is loaded in a metal, usually brass, case which provides obturation i.e. seals the breech to prevent escape of the expanding propellant gas. The term QF hence referred to both the breech-sealing mechanism and the method of loading propellant charges. Ordnance of other countries employed other techniques, and hence this description and distinction is limited to British ordnance.\n\nFollowing the early success of the light QF Hotchkiss and Nordenfelt guns in the 1880s, the Royal Navy implemented QF guns in all calibres up to 6 inch in the 1890s, and also converted various 4 inch and 6 inch BL guns to QF under the designation QFC. This all-QF era ended in 1901 with the BL 6 inch Mk VII gun and a swing back to BL guns. Since 1914 the trend has been to use QF for naval guns below 6 inch and BL for guns 6 inch and over.\n\nIn lighter QF guns, including field guns and anti-aircraft guns, the round was complete: \"fixed ammunition\", where the shell was attached to the cartridge case like a large rifle round. Examples are QF 3 pounder Vickers, QF 18 pounder field gun, QF 4 inch Mk V anti-aircraft gun and the current 4.5 inch Mark 8 naval gun. Fixed QF was suited for rapid loading, especially at high angles, and was limited by the total weight of cartridge and projectile, which had to be easily handled by one man. A maximum total weight of approximately 80 lb was generally considered suitable for sustained manual loading of fixed ammunition rounds; for modern automatic loading guns since World War II the maximum weight is no longer the limiting factor. The Royal Navy gun standard was the 4.5 inch Mark 8 naval gun, using a fixed round weighing .\n\nIn other guns, typically naval guns 3 inches or above, such as the QF 12 pounder 12 cwt and QF 6 inch naval gun, and howitzers, such as the QF 4.5 inch howitzer and ordnance QF 25 pounder gun-howitzer, the projectile was loaded separately to the cartridge case containing the propellant: \"separate ammunition\". This system was suitable for howitzers as it allowed the gunner to remove part of the cordite charge before loading if required for shorter ranges. Separating the cartridge and projectile also allowed the weight of loading to be shared by two men.\n\nIn all types, the primer for the round was in the cartridge case base. The term \"QF\" in British use referred to the breech sealing mechanism, in which the brass cartridge case provided the gas seal. This allowed a sliding block, which can generally be operated faster than a BL screw mechanism, and is characteristic of small to medium artillery. Early QF guns offered the advantage over BL guns that no time was wasted in inserting vent tubes after loading, as the primer was built into the case, and sponging out of the chamber was not necessary between rounds. QF also removed the risk of back-flash. QF also, by rigidly fixing the position of the primer, igniter and cordite charge in the case relative to each other, improved the chances of successful firing compared to BL with its flexible bags.\n\nBy the early 20th century British doctrine held that QF ammunition, while allowing faster-operating breeches, had the disadvantage that ammunition is heavier and takes up more space, which was limited on warships. For guns larger than 6 inches it becomes impractical as the cartridge case becomes unwieldy for manual operation, and it does not allow charges to be loaded via multiple bags as BL does. Also, dealing with misfires was simpler with BL, as another tube could simply be tried. With QF the gunner had to wait a time and then open the breech, remove the faulty cartridge and reload. Already by 1900, modern BL breeches allowed the gunners to insert vent tubes while the gun was being loaded, obviating one of the previous QF advantages, and hence the Royal Navy abandoned the QF 6 inch gun and returned to BL 6 inch guns with the Mk VII.\n\nAnother potential disadvantage associated with QF came with the horizontal sliding block breech, as used with the QF 4.5 inch Howitzer. With the gun traversed at high elevation, the block could not be operated as it came into contact with the inside of the box carriage. Not all British QF guns in fact used sliding blocks - the QF 2.95 inch and QF 3.7 inch mountain guns and the QF 18 pounder used screw breeches. The thing to note is that their screw mechanism were much lighter and simpler than BL screw mechanisms and served merely to lock the cartridge in place.\n\nBritish artillery doctrine considered QF, even separate-loading, as unsuited for guns over 5 inches following experiences with the QF 6 inch in the 1890s, while European militaries such as Germany continued to use separate QF with sliding-block breeches for large guns up to 15 inches, with larger German guns loading part of the propellant charge in cloth bags followed by the main charge in the metal cartridge case.\n\nIn colloquial use, \"quick firing\" is artillery having attributes like recoil buffers and quick shell loading characteristics, introduced in the late 19th century.\n\nQF converted: in the 1890s there was much enthusiasm for QF technology, and many older BL guns had their breeches modified to use the same QF cartridges as the new QF guns of the same calibre. Examples were conversion of BL 6-inch Mk IV and VI guns which became e.g. QFC I/IV, and some BL 4-inch guns.\n\nQuick firing, semi-automatic: applied to naval QF guns where there was a mechanism to automatically open the breech and eject the case after firing. This was useful to enable a high rate of fire. An example was the QF 3 inch 20 cwt anti-aircraft gun.\n\n\"Rifled breech loading\": refers to the first generation of British rifled breech loading guns introduced in 1859 which used the unique Armstrong \"screw breech\" and included the RBL 12 pounder field gun and RBL 7 inch naval gun. These guns were originally known as \"BL\" (breech loading); the term \"RBL\" was introduced retrospectively in the 1880s to differentiate these Armstrong designs from the second unrelated generation of rifled breech loaders beginning in 1880 which are referred to as BL. The \"RBL\" guns were considered to be failures and Britain reverted to RML (rifled muzzle-loading) guns from the mid-1860s to 1880.\n\"Recuperator\" was the British name for the mechanism which returned the gun barrel to its firing position after recoil. US ordnance uses the term \"run-out cylinder\".\n\n At the beginning of World War I runout after recoil was most commonly achieved in British 1904-vintage field guns and pre-1914 naval guns by a set of springs which were compressed when the barrel recoiled and then expanded again. This configuration was referred to as \"hydro-spring\" in which piston(s) moving through an oil reservoir dampened the recoil and springs collected the recoil energy and then used it to \"run out\" the barrel to firing position. Typical examples were in the QF 13 pounder, 18 pounder and BL 60 pounder Mk I guns, all dating from 1904 to 1905, where the oil, pistons and springs were integrated in a tubular housing above the barrel. This configuration made the entire recoil system vulnerable to enemy gunfire, and it was protected to some extent in the field by being wound with thick rope. Other guns, typically naval guns, had the pistons in separate housings below the barrel. Note that \"hydro-\" refers here to hydraulic machinery, not water: as is common in such systems, oil was the liquid used, not water. For other applications of this type of system, see hydrospring.\nWhen World War I began, both the army and navy were in the process of introducing a \"hydro-pneumatic\" recoil system in which the recuperators were driven by air compression rather than springs. Examples were the navy's new QF 4 inch Mk V gun and the army's new BL 9.2 inch howitzer.\n\nThe unexpectedly heavy rates of fire experienced (mainly on the Western front) early in World War I caused many spring breakages in the 1904 generation field artillery (including in the Mk I 60 pounders at Gallipoli) and led to field modification of the 18 pounder which replaced the springs in the housing above the barrel with a pneumatic unit. By the end of the war the hydro-pneumatic system had become standard for a new generation of field artillery, typically seen in a box-shaped unit below the barrel in the 18 pounder Mk IV, 60 pounder Mk II, 6-inch and 8-inch howitzers and 6 inch Mk 19 gun.\nSee Segment shell\n\nRifled muzzle loading: introduced in British service in the mid-1860s following the unsatisfactory service performance of the Armstrong RBL (rifled breech loading) guns. The inside of the barrel had spiral grooves into which \"studs\" on the shell fitted, to spin the shell and hence improve accuracy and range. The propellant charge, followed by the projectile, is loaded through the muzzle. \"RML\" became necessary to distinguish between the new rifled and old unrifled smoothbore muzzle loaders (ML).\n\nThe first generation of British RML guns in the mid-1860s typically used William Armstrong's design of a wrought-iron \"A\" tube surrounded by multiple wrought-iron coils. Later marks of guns built by the Royal Gun Factory from the late 1860s onward introduced a toughened mild steel \"A\" tube to increase the gun's strength, and also used fewer but heavier coils to reduce the cost of manufacture. RML guns in British government service were designed by the Royal Gun Factory, Woolwich, and typically had only a few (three to nine) broad shallow rifling grooves, compared to the many sharp-edged grooves (\"polygroove\") of the Armstrong system. They were hence referred to as \"Woolwich\" guns.\n\nFrom 1878 onwards \"gas-checks\" were attached to the base of RML shells to seal the bore and reduce windage; it was also found that these gas-checks could be used to rotate the shell, allowing studs to be dispensed with, which was an improvement as the slots in the shell for studs were found to be weak points leading to shells fracturing. The gas-checks evolved into the driving bands still in use today. Modern RML examples are rifled field mortars.\n\nThe largest RML gun built was the RML 17.72 inch gun, known as the 100-ton gun. In the 1870-80s four each went to the Italian ironclads \"Duilio\" and \"Dandolo\", and two each to coastal batteries at Gibraltar and Malta.\n\nThe last recorded active deployment of British RML guns was some RML 2.5 inch mountain guns in German East Africa in 1916, although several batteries of RML 9 inch Mk VI high-angle coast defence guns were in service in England throughout World War I.\n\nThe complete set of components needed to fire the gun once. Consists of a projectile, a propellant cartridge and primer or igniter tube. A fixed round had all the components integrated into a brass cartridge case with the projectile attached, e.g. a rifle cartridge or QF 18-pounder round, in which case Round is synonymous with cartridge. A separate round required the projectile and propellant cartridge (either in bags or brass case) to be loaded separately.\n\nRemote power control: this is where a gun turret or a gun director automatically trains and elevates to follow the target being tracked by the DCT and the table (computer) in the transmitting station (see above). Mountings would also have local control in the event of the RPC or director tower being disabled.\n\nSemi armour-piercing: introduced after World War I as the successor to common pointed shells for naval use. They had a heavy solid nose and a medium amount of TNT explosive, giving them the capability to penetrate steel superstructures and a small thickness of armour. They were employed as the main shell for naval and coastal guns 8 inches and below in action against warships. Later shells were streamlined with the addition of a pointed ballistic cap, and were designated SAP/BC. In World War II they were typically painted olive green, with a red nose.\n\nSlow burning cocoa powder: a form of brown prismatic powder, i.e. gunpowder, with more charcoal, saltpetre and moisture but less sulphur than black powder. Cocoa referred to the appearance rather than composition. Used in the late 19th century for early large long-barreled guns, where its slow-burning properties gave the projectile a prolonged smooth acceleration instead of the short violent acceleration typical of black powder. This powder was inefficient because most energy was expended as smoke, and enormous quantities were required, such as 960 lb for the BL 16.25 inch gun of 1888. Required a primer of black powder to ignite.\n\nSmooth bore muzzle loading denotes a barrel that is not rifled and where the projectile is loaded via the muzzle of the barrel. Most early cannons were of this type. British SBML guns of the mid-19th century were typically made of cast iron. The last cannon of this type in British service was the 68 pounder 95 cwt introduced in the 1840s. Modern weapons using this method of loading are light field mortars, in which the mortar bomb is dropped into the mortar barrel for firing; in these modern weapons the projectiles are spin-stabilised, but by fins rather than rifling.\n\nSegment shells, also known as ring shells : this anti-personnel explosive shell originated in British service in 1859 as design by William Armstrong for use with his new breechloading field guns. The projectile was made up of layers of iron rings within a thin cast-iron shell wall, held together with lead between them, with a hollow space in the centre for the bursting charge of gunpowder. The rings broke up into segments on explosion. The explosive charge was typically about half that employed in an equivalent calibre common shell as less explosive was needed to separate and break up the rings than to burst the shell wall of a common shell, hence allowing more iron to be employed for the same weight of shell. It could be employed in the role of shrapnel, case or common shell. It was generally phased out in favour of common and shrapnel shells.\n\nAn explosive mixture of picric acid and dinitrophenol or picric acid and hexanitrodiphenylamine in a ratio of 70/30. It was typically used as a filling in Royal Navy, armour-piercing shells after World War I. Known as \"Tridite\" in US service.\n\n\"Steel shell\" was the British term for the Hotchkiss 3 and 6 pounder common pointed shells and some others such as the QF 1-pounder base-fuzed round. They had attributes of British common pointed shells as they were filled with gunpowder, had base percussion fuzes and a heavy pointed nose (almost three C.R.H.). But the nose was closer in design to British A.P. shells - the solid section was longer than common pointed, and the body held proportionately less powder than common pointed. It was intended for naval use.\n\nIn common usage, \"steel shell\" served to differentiate a shell constructed of steel from one constructed of cast iron (C.I.).\n\nIn the Royal Navy a table refers to a gunnery computer, such as the Dreyer Table, high angle control system table, or Admiralty Fire Control Table. The name probably originated with the Dreyer Table.\n\nSee vent-sealing tube.\n\nUpper deck : a naval gun mounting in which the rotating mass of the turret is mounted above the deck, with usually only the ammunition feed trunking piercing the deck.\n\n\"Velvril paint\" was used to line larger common shells in the early 20th century to prevent the gunpowder filling from coming into contact with the iron or steel shell wall. This was both to avoid the saltpetre from causing corrosion in the presence of any moisture, and also provided a smooth surface that prevented friction between the gunpowder and shell wall, hence reducing the risk of spontaneous ignition when the shell was fired. It was made up of 24 parts zinc oxide, 3.5 yellow ochre, 0.5 red iron oxide, 15 nitrated castor oil, 7.5 nitro-cellulose of very low nitration, 60 acetone oil.\n\nUsually abbreviated to \"V.S. tube\" or just tube. This was the traditional, reliable British method of fully igniting powder charges in BL guns to fire projectiles, especially large shells. Briefly, after the powder cartridge was loaded (or even during the loading process), the tube was inserted through a vent in the breech. Early vents were \"radial\" i.e. at right-angles to the barrel length, bored through the top of the barrel into the chamber; later vents were \"axial\" through the centre of the breech mechanism and \"mushroom\" into the chamber. When the breech was closed, one of several methods was then used to trigger the tube, which then sent a powerful flash into the breech. The flash ignited a special \"igniter\" material in the end of the cartridge, and the igniter in turn ignited the main propellant charge (some form of gunpowder or cordite). A powerful reliable flash from the tube was required because with bag charges, especially in the stress of combat or with variable howitzer charges, it could not be guaranteed that the igniter in the cartridge would be up close to the vent - it may have been pushed in too far, leaving a gap. The tube was designed to expand on ignition and seal the vent, preventing escape of gas. Tube types:\n\nFrom 1904, the new generation of field artillery was QF with propellant in brass cases with self-contained percussion primers, while small naval QF cases had self-contained electric primers. From then on, tubes were used only for guns of 60 pounder (5 inch) and upwards, usually percussion tubes; and for a few small BL guns such as the 2.75 inch mountain gun, usually friction tubes. However, Britain entered World War I with many old BLC 15 pounders which continued to require T tubes until phased out by 1916. To approach a QF rate of fire they used a special \"push\" version of the T friction tube which was inserted into an axial vent in the breech like a BL percussion tube and fired by a similar mechanism to a firing pin activated by a lever rather than being pulled by a lanyard.\n\nTubes could also be used with QF cartridges fitted with tube adaptors in place of primers, as with the QF 12 pounder.\n\n\"Windage\" as applied to British muzzle-loading ordnance referred to the difference between a gun's bore and the projectile's diameter, typically 0.1 - 0.2 inch. This gap was necessary to allow the projectile to be rammed down the length of the barrel on loading. The word windage was also used for the amount of propellant gas that escaped around the loosely fitting projectile on firing, and hence failed to contribute to accelerating the projectile. Up to half of the gas was lost in this way in old smoothbore artillery. From 1859, Armstrong rifled guns used a deformable lead coating on the projectile to minimise windage and simultaneously to engage the rifling. The elimination of windage necessitated a new design of timed fuze, because the burning propellant gas escaping past the head of the shell had been used to ignite the gunpowder timer train in the fuze in the shell nose. The new fuses used the shock of firing to ignite the timer. When Britain reverted to muzzle-loaders in the late 1860s, projectiles were rotated by studs protruding from the shell body engaging in deep rifling grooves in the barrel, but the windage caused excessive barrel wear. From 1878, after several years of unsuccessful trials, a fairly effective system of concave copper discs called gas-checks was introduced between the charge and projectile; they expanded on firing and sealed the bore. The gas-checks were soon incorporated into the projectile itself and became the driving bands still in use today.\n\n\"Wire-wound\" or simply \"wire\" guns were a gun construction method introduced for British naval guns in the 1890s, at which time the strength of large British steel forgings could not be guaranteed in sufficiently large masses to make an all-steel gun of only two or three built-up tubes. One or more central \"A\" tubes were tightly wound for part or the full length with layers of steel wire, and the wire was covered by a jacket. It was first used on the QF 6 inch Mk II (40 calibre) of 1892, and the first large calibre gun was the BL 12 inch Mk VIII (35 calibre) of 1895. It provided greater radial strength, i.e., it better withstood the gas pressure attempting to expand the gun's diameter, than previous \"hoop\" construction methods of similar weight. This was necessitated by the introduction of cordite as a propellant in 1892, which generated higher pressures along the length of the barrel than the gunpowder used before. However, it provided less axial strength, i.e. lengthwise rigidity, and early longer wire-wound guns suffered from droop and inaccuracy. A combination of wire and traditional methods was eventually adopted to solve this problem. The successful British wire naval guns of World War I were typically shorter than German and US guns of the same calibre, which did not use wire-wound construction, e.g. British 45 calibres in length, or only 42 calibres in the 15-inch gun, compared to 50 calibres in guns of other countries. The method was found satisfactory for use with field guns and howitzers which had much shorter barrels (as well as much smaller projectiles and much lower \"chamber pressures\") than naval guns. Britain abandoned wire-wound construction for naval guns after the 16 inch Mk I of the 1920s, and later 1930s - 1940s designs used monobloc (single-piece) (e.g. 12-pdr 12 cwt Mk V) or built-up all-steel construction (e.g. 6 inch Mk XXIII and 14 inch Mk VII).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293693", "title": "Mobil 1", "text": "Mobil 1\n\nMobil 1 is a brand of synthetic motor oil and other automotive lubrication products. Originally developed by the Mobil oil company, and is now globally marketed and sold by ExxonMobil.\n\nMobil 1 engine oil was introduced in 1974. The brand range now includes a variety of engine oils, oil filters, chassis grease, transmission fluids, and gear lubricants.\n\nIn 1998, Mobil sued Castrol over the discovery that Castrol was processing conventional oil and calling it synthetic. At the time, Mobil 1 was still created using a true synthetic basestock, which is more expensive. Mobil lost the lawsuit, and, as a result, the \"new\" definition of 'synthetic oil' became much looser. In order to stay competitive, Mobil needed to downgrade their process to the more affordable process. The result is a hydrocracked, hydroisomerized conventional oil. Lubes N' Greases magazine has reported shortcomings in the ability to pass the tests that the original Mobil 1 formula was able to.\n\nMobil 1 is an official recommended motor oil for Porsche, Chevrolet (mostly Corvette), Cadillac, Buick, Holden, Bentley and Mercedes-Benz (predominantly Mercedes-AMG models, shared with Petronas from 2010) for automobiles only.\nMobil 1's relationship with Honda Group covering Honda and Acura only for auto racing and motorcycle racing categories while Mobil 1's commercial relationship with Honda only for road motorcycles.\nMobil 1's relationship with Toyota Group covering Toyota, Lexus, Daihatsu, Hino, Perodua and Ranz started in 1950s by providing original lubricants and other fluid components for all across Toyota Group cars.\n\nAll Toyota Group genuine factory-fill motor oils are jointly-developed by Toyota and Mobil 1. All Hino trucks and buses are also utilizing Mobil Delvac 1 lubricants for Hino-powered diesel engines.\n\nFormula One team Williams had Mobil sponsorship from 1978 to 1988. In 1987 it switched to Benetton, until 1992. Team Lotus also used Mobil 1 in 1994. From 1995 until 2016, Mobil 1 iconically sponsored McLaren for motor oil and other fluid components. Mobil 1 was also lubricants supplier for Toyota F1 team in 2002 until 2009, Brawn GP in 2009 and also Force India in 2009 until 2013. In 2017, Mobil 1 switched to Red Bull Racing and its sister team, Scuderia Toro Rosso (currently Scuderia AlphaTauri).\n\nNASCAR Cup Series driver Rusty Wallace was sponsored by Mobil from 1987. In 1991, he carried his sponsorship to Penske Racing. Jeremy Mayfield had Mobil as the primary sponsorship in 1998, and later Ryan Newman and Sam Hornish Jr. took it as well. Penske's IndyCar operations also had Mobil 1 sponsorship from 1991, until the deal was ended after the 2010 season. Since 2011, Tony Stewart has carried the Mobil 1 sponsorship in his No.14 Stewart-Haas Racing car. Toyota Racing Development-supported NASCAR teams also use Mobil oil. They currently sponsor all four of the Stewart-Haas Racing Ford's of Clint Bowyer, Kevin Harvick, Cole Custer and Aric Almirola.\n\nMobil 1 was a lubricants supplier of DTM team Mercedes-AMG from 1995 until 2010. It supports Porsche and Corvette sports car programs as lubricants provider since 1996. The Bentley Continental GT3 factory cars are also sponsored by Mobil 1 since 2013.\n\nMobil 1 currently providing sponsorship for Lexus-backed 3GT Racing since 2017 season.\n\nMobil, from 1985 to 1993, was title sponsor of Peter Brock's Holden Dealer Team and Advantage Racing that competed in the Australian Touring Car Championship and in the 1986 European Touring Car Championship. Brock from 1985 until his death in 2006, appeared in advertising for Mobil 1, including an international campaign that ran in the United States in 2000. Since 1994, Mobil has been a sponsor of Supercars team Walkinshaw Andretti United.\n\nAs well as sponsoring teams, the brand sponsored the German Grand Prix from 1987 to 2006 and the French Grand Prix from 1998 to 2004 . Since 2003, Mobil 1 has been the official sponsor of NASCAR and sponsors the Command Performance Award, which pays a monetary bonus to the highest-finishing Mobil 1 using team. Since 2002, it has been the title sponsor of the 12 Hours of Sebring. Since 2008, it has been the title sponsor of the Porsche Supercup.\n\nIn 2001, Mobil 1 became the primary jersey sponsor of French Ligue 1 football side Sochaux, which was founded and is owned by the Montbéliard-based Peugeot automobile manufacturers. Sochaux has alternated in recent seasons between wearing partner brands Esso and Mobil 1 across the chest of their jerseys, favoring the latter for their 2012-13 Ligue 1 campaign.\n\nOn the YouTube channel, \"Project Farm\", Mobil 1 Annual Protection 5W30 Ultimate Full Synthetic as well as 15 other oils were tested for bearing wear, cooked oil evaporation amounts, and subzero viscosity testing of the cooked and uncooked version of the oils. Mobil 1 Annual Protection 5W30 Ultimate Full Synthetic placed 12th overall.\n"}
{"id": "2293709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293709", "title": "2 Brothers on the 4th Floor", "text": "2 Brothers on the 4th Floor\n\n2 Brothers on the 4th Floor is a Dutch musical group created in 1990 by brothers Martin and Bobby Boer. The group has had success in many countries including the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Greece, Czech Republic, Norway, Finland, South Africa, Argentina, Chile, Israel, the United States and the United Kingdom. The most recent members of 2 Brothers on the 4th Floor are Martin and Bobby Boer, Dutch singer , and rapper D-Rock.\n\nThe Boer brothers had already been experimenting with music in a small bedroom when they finally gained note in 1990, when their single \"Can't Help Myself\" was picked up by Dutch radio stations and became an international hit. The brothers then brought together rapper Da Smooth Baron MC and singers Peggy \"The Duchess\" and Gale Robinson to form their stage act. The release of their next single, \"Turn Da Music Up\" was somewhat less successful, but helped the band to gain name recognition.\n\n2 Brothers on the 4th Floor made two hit singles together before separating. Martin Boer moved into a new professional studio and started making remixes under the name Dancability Productions, making remixes for artists such as Becky Bell, Twenty 4 Seven and Luv' (for their Megamix '93), while Bobby Boer designed record covers and CD inlays for other artists.\n\n2 Brothers on the 4th Floor was revived by the Boer brothers in 1993. Bobby joined Martin in his studio and, after some time, released the single \"Never Alone\". This single was the first to be launched with rapper D-Rock (René Philips) and singer Desirée Manders (stage name: Des'Ray). The song \"Dreams\", which is the title song of the band's first album, was a song that captured the essence of Eurodance. Due to the genre's popularity when the song was released in 1994, the song became a hit both nationally and internationally. The band's renewed style and concept was accepted well by Dutch audience. \"Never Alone\" topped the charts for weeks and went gold. \"Dreams\", the band's subsequent single, went straight to number one and remained on the charts for weeks (as well as reaching the top 30 on \"Billboard's\" Hot Dance Club Songs chart in the United States) and \"Let Me Be Free\", its successor, remained in the top ten nationally for some time.\n\nIn 1995 and 1996, 2 Brothers on the 4th Floor further widened their success with the singles \"Fly (Through the Starry Night)\", \"Come Take My Hand\" and \"Fairytales\", changing their style to happy hardcore. These singles topped the charts in various European countries. At the end of 1996, the band released the single \"There's a Key\" and its second album, \"2\".\nAfter \"2\", the band shifted styles and first recorded the single \"One Day\", an R&B track that departed from their typical Eurodance style. Afterwards, they returned to their previous Eurodance style with the single \"I'm Thinkin' of U\".\n\nIn March 1998, 2 Brothers on the 4th Floor released the single \"Do U Know\", a mid to low tempo pop track. At the beginning of autumn 1998, the single \"The Sun Will Be Shining\" was released. It contains remixes by Mark van Dale & Enrico, Dance Therapy and the Dub Foundation. Packaged with \"The Sun Will Be Shining\" was a CD-ROM featuring the videos of \"The Sun Will Be Shining\" and \"The Making Of\".\n\nOn 5 February 1999 the single \"Heaven Is Here\" was released. 29 October that year saw the release of the single \"Living In Cyberspace\". On 16 June 2000 the single \"Wonderful Feeling\" was released. On 29 June 2001 the single \"Stand Up And Live\" was released.\n\nThe duo had never released its third album due to problems with record companies. Currently, the band is touring, with performances planned for 2018. The group released \"The Very Best of\" in April 2016. In addition to their duties with 2 Brothers on the 4th Floor, Des'Ray has a solo career, and D-Rock is working with the band E-Life.\n"}
{"id": "2293711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293711", "title": "Pastoral Provision", "text": "Pastoral Provision\n\nThe Pastoral Provision, in the context of the Catholic Church in the United States, is a set of practices and norms by which bishops are authorized to provide spiritual care for Roman Catholics coming from the Anglican tradition, by establishing parishes for them and ordaining priests from among them. The Pastoral Provision still provides a way for individuals to become priests in territorial dioceses, even though Anglicanorum Coetibus was declared which led to the establishment of Personal Ordinariates, another mechanism for former Anglicans to join the Catholic Church.\n\nThe provision was authorized by Pope John Paul II in 1980 and announced in 1981, in response to requests from former United States Episcopalians and members of the Continuing Anglican movement. It allows diocesan bishops to establish personal parishes for former Anglicans, which use the liturgical forms of the Book of Divine Worship that keeps some elements of the Anglican liturgy. These forms of the Roman Rite are known as Anglican Use.\n\nThe provision also enables bishops to ordain married former clergy as diocesan priests, when the Holy See grants a dispensation from the usual rule requiring Latin Rite Catholic priests to be celibate (i.e., unmarried).\n\nSince 1981, over 100 ordinations have taken place under the Pastoral Provision, and several personal parishes were established within dioceses. Starting in 2012, most of those parishes were transferred from their dioceses to a new nationwide jurisdiction, the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter.\n\nIn 2017 the Vatican ordered that all parishes within the Pastoral Provision enter into the North American Ordinariate. As of late 2017, only one chaplaincy in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston established under the Pastoral Provision remains in diocesan jurisdiction, after the parish in San Antonio was transferred to the Ordinariate. It is expected that the Boston congregation will eventually be transferred also. The Pastoral Provision remains in force for married former Anglican clergy petitioning for orders in any diocese that is not the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of St. Peter.\n\nIn 1977, some of those who desired union with the Catholic Church contacted individual Catholic bishops, the Apostolic Delegate Archbishop Jean Jadot and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith in Rome, to inquire about the possibility for married Anglican priests to be received into the Catholic Church and function as Catholic priests.\n\nIn 1979, after the United States National Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith had reacted favourably to the proposals that had been put before them, a formal request for union was presented in Rome on 3 November for acceptance into the Roman Catholic Church, for steps to be taken to eliminate any defects that might be found in their priestly orders, and that they be granted the oversight, direction, and governance of a Catholic bishop.\n\nThe decision of the Holy See was officially communicated in a letter of 22 July 1980 from the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith to the President of the United States episcopal conference, who published it on 20 August 1980.\n\nThough admittance of the Episcopalians in question to the Catholic Church was considered as reconciliation of individuals, a pastoral provision or statute gave them a common group identity.\n\nThat identity involved the possibility, after a period of being subject to the local Latin Church bishop, of being granted some distinct type of structure; the use, with the group, but not outside it, of a form of liturgy that retained certain elements of the Anglican liturgy; married Episcopalian priests may be ordained as Catholic priests, but not as bishops.\n\nAn Ecclesiastical Delegate, a Catholic who is preferably a bishop, was appointed to oversee the implementation of the decision and to coordinate with the Congregation.\n\nIn March 1981, the Vatican appointed then Most Rev. Bernard Francis Law, then Bishop of Springfield-Cape Girardeau and subsequently Archbishop of Boston, Cardinal, and Archpriest of the Basilica of St. Mary Major, as the Ecclesiastical Delegate. The Vatican subsequently appointed Most Rev. John J. Myers, Archbishop of Newark, to this post in 2003 and Most Rev. Kevin W. Vann, then Bishop of Fort Worth and now Bishop of Orange, to this post in 2011. Rev. William H. Stetson, a priest of the Personal Prelature Opus Dei, is Secretary to the Ecclesiastical Delegate.\n\nThe Congregation for Divine Worship gave provisional approval for the group's liturgy, the Book of Divine Worship, in 1984, an approval rendered definitive in 1987. This book incorporates elements of the 1928 Book of Common Prayer, but the Eucharistic liturgy is from the 1979 Book, with the Eucharistic Prayers taken from the Roman Missal and the ancient Sarum Rite (with the modern English Words of Institution inserted in the latter).\n\nThe number of personal parishes established is only 7, but, since 1983 over 80 former Anglicans have been ordained for priestly ministry in various Catholic dioceses of the United States.\n\nThe Vatican erected the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of St. Peter, a jurisdiction canonically equivalent to a diocese, for former Anglicans in the United States and Canada on January 1, 2012, and appointed then-Rev. Jeffrey N. Steenson, a married priest ordained under the pastoral provision who formerly had served as the Bishop of the Rio Grande in The Episcopal Church, as the first \"ordinary\" of this jurisdiction, subsequently naming him an apostolic protonotary (the highest rank of monsignor). The \"ordinary\" is canonically equivalent to a diocesan bishop, but receives episcopal ordination only if he is celibate. In 2015, the Vatican appointed then-Msgr. Steven Lopes, who was ordained as a bishop at his installation, as the second ordinary of this jurisdiction.\n\nSince at least the early 1950s, former Anglican, Lutheran and other clergy who join the Catholic Church have been granted exceptions to the norm of celibacy, in a practice mentioned in Pope Paul VI's encyclical \"Sacerdotalis caelibatus\" of 1967.\n\nAs of November 2012, approximately 70 married men have been ordained as priests under the Pastoral Provision. This number does not include married former Protestant clergy, whose petitions for dispensation from the norm of celibacy continue to go through the normal channels. The majority of married diocesan priests historically have not served as pastors of diocesan parishes, though there are now some exceptions. A few priests work at secular occupations to support their families, but the majority serve in chaplaincies and in teaching or administrative positions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293715", "title": "Mejía Canton", "text": "Mejía Canton\n\nMejía is a canton in the province of Pichincha in northern Ecuador. It is named after Ecuadorian political figure José Mejía Lequerica. The canton includes a volcano in the Central Cordillera of the Ecuadorian Andes called Rumiñahui. The seat of the canton is called Machachi.\n\nMachachi is located to the south of the capital of Ecuador, Quito. It is a very beautiful city surrounded by the volcanos Atacazo, Corazon, Rumiñahui, Illinizas peaks, Viudita hill, Pasochoa, Sincholagua and is also owns part of the Cotopaxi volcano, a great active volcano which measures 5,897 m (19,347 ft) in altitude. The valley contains 8 volcanoes, the reasons why Alexander von Humboldt named the region Avenue of Volcanoes.\n\nIn the Panzaleo language, Machachi means \"Great active land.\" Machachi is the cradle of many slopes, and the same ground is a perennial thermal and mineral water outcrop. In the fertile valleys of San Pedro there are approximately 22 sources of chemicals which have invaluable theurapeutical properties.\n\nMachachi has a similar temperature to Quito, fluctuating from 19°C (66°F) average high to 10°C (50°F) average low. These averages are for the whole year with the dry months being June, July and August.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293718", "title": "Pedro Moncayo Canton", "text": "Pedro Moncayo Canton\n\nPedro Moncayo is a canton in the north of the Pichincha Province, Ecuador. The seat of the canton is the city of Tabacundo. The canton is named after politician Pedro Moncayo. The canton is separated by the Mojanda volcano from the canton of Otavalo in the province of Imbabura in the north. It borders the same-province cantons of Cayambe and Quito.\n"}
{"id": "2293719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293719", "title": "Donald Arseneault", "text": "Donald Arseneault\n\nDonald Arseneault (born in Dalhousie, New Brunswick) is a New Brunswick politician. He is the former member of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick for the riding of Dalhousie-Restigouche East.\n\nAt the time one of the youngest members of the legislature, Arseneault worked in the civil service before being elected in the 2003 election. He was named to the opposition shadow cabinet following the election as critic for both the Office of Human Resources and the Department of Intergovernmental and International Relations. He was elected caucus chair in 2004 and was shuffled to be critic for tourism in early 2005.\n\nHe was re-elected in 2006 and his party formed the government and he became Minister of Natural Resources. He also chairs a cabinet committee on forestry issues consisting of fellow ministers Victor Boudreau, Greg Byrne and Jack Keir. On 12 November 2008, he became minister of post-secondary education, training and labour.\n\nIn the Brian Gallant government, which won the 2014 New Brunswick general election, he was named the Minister of Energy and Mines.\n\nAfter being shuffled out of Cabinet on September 5, 2017, Arseneault came under fire a month later when he accepted the government relations manager for Canada's Building Trades Unions and announced he would simultaneously hold his seat as a Member of the Legislative Assembly. Although he was cleared by Integrity commissioner Alexandre Deschênes, who warned him that while there were things he should avoid doing whilst holding the job, nothing in the law prevented him from taking it. As a result of the controversy and given an ultimatum by Premier Brian Gallant, Arseneault announced he would resign as an MLA, effective November 30, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293721", "title": "Pedro Vicente Maldonado Canton", "text": "Pedro Vicente Maldonado Canton\n\nPedro Vicente Maldonado is a canton in the west of the province of Pichincha in Ecuador. It is named after the 18th-century Ecuadoran scientist Pedro Vicente Maldonado. Arashá Spa, a tropical forest resort, is located in this canton.\n"}
{"id": "2293722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293722", "title": "Puerto Quito Canton", "text": "Puerto Quito Canton\n\nPuerto Quito is a canton in Pichincha Province, Ecuador. It has only one parish, the urban parish of Puerto Quito, which is also the seat of the canton.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293729", "title": "Los Bancos Canton", "text": "Los Bancos Canton\n\nSan Miguel de los Bancos, or simply Los Bancos, is a canton in the province of Pichincha, Ecuador. The long name of the town refers to dedication of the area to the archangel Michael. Local tradition attributes the \"Los Bancos\" part of the name to the use of tree trunks as benches at the junction of the through road from Quito to Esmeraldas with the road into the Rio Blanco valley.\n\nThe canton is in the Guayllabamba river basin, which, in turn, is part of the river basin of the Esmeraldas river, which flows into the Pacific Ocean. The climate of the canton is subtropical because of its mid-high altitude, as opposed to the climate of higher altitudes in the province between the Western and Central Cordilleras, which enclose the highlands of the Ecuadorian Andes.\n\nThe canton is divided into two parishes: the urban parish San Miguel de los Bancos and the rural parish Mindo.\n\nAs with other cantons in the province of Pichincha, Los Bancos' economy is mainly agricultural, based especially on cattle-raising. Recently, there has been considerable growth in eco-tourism, most notably at Mindo.\n"}
{"id": "2293732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293732", "title": "Santo Domingo Canton (Ecuador)", "text": "Santo Domingo Canton (Ecuador)\n\nSanto Domingo de los Colorados or simply known as Santo Domingo, is the biggest canton in the Santo Domingo de los Tsáchilas Province, after La Concordia officially became part of the province on May 31, 2013. The canton is named after its seat, the town of Santo Domingo. The canton partially occupies the Toachi river basin. The Toachi river flows into the Daule river.\n\nEthnic groups as of the Ecuadorian census of 2010:\n"}
{"id": "2293742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293742", "title": "Atlases of the flora and fauna of Britain and Ireland", "text": "Atlases of the flora and fauna of Britain and Ireland\n\nThe biodiversity of Great Britain and Ireland is one of the most well-studied geographical areas of its size in the world. This biota work has resulted in the publication of distribution atlases for many taxonomic groups. This page lists these publications.\n\nA full atlas is generally regarded as a definitive work on distribution, whereas a provisional atlas is typically produced as an interim stage to show survey progress.\n\nOne of the bodies responsible for publishing a great number of distribution atlases is the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology. Each atlas presents 10 km² distribution maps for the species within its scope. Maps typically use different symbols to signify records from differing time-periods - solid symbols for 10-km squares (hectads) that have recent records, and unfilled symbols for 10-km squares for which only older records exist, according to a defined cut-off date.\n\nThe atlases are produced by the Biological Records Centre (BRC), which is run by the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology, part of the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology based at CEH Wallingford, Crowmarsh Gifford, Oxfordshire. The data used to produce the maps is gathered by volunteer biological recorders and collated by the BRC Recording Schemes.\n\nThe atlases fall into two groups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293747", "title": "Oberalp Pass", "text": "Oberalp Pass\n\nOberalp Pass (Romansh: \"Alpsu\" or \"Cuolm d'Ursera\", German: \"Oberalppass\") (el. 2044 m.) is a high mountain pass in the Swiss Alps connecting the cantons of Graubünden and Uri between Disentis and Andermatt.\n\nThe public road that crosses the pass is closed in winter, but the Furka-Oberalp railway line, now part of the Matterhorn Gotthard Bahn, runs year round and provides a limited shuttle for cars in winter (reservation required). When the road closes depends on snowfall and varies between the end of October and the beginning of December. The road opens again in spring, usually by the end of April but sometimes not until mid May.\n\nIn winter, a ski area extends to the Graubünden side, connecting the pass well into the Tujetsch territory to Dieni, near Rueras.\n\nThe Rhine springs from a source nearby (Tomasee), which can be accessed by hiking two hours from Oberalp Pass. A multiday trekking route is signposted across Oberalp pass and along the young Rhine called \"Senda Sursilvana\".\n\nOberalpsee is located 20 m below, in the direction of Andermatt.\n\nA railway station is located next to the Oberalppass road. It is at the base of the Oberalp ski area. The station is owned and run by the Matterhorn Gotthard Bahn. It has 3 platforms, one of which is a bay platform from Andermatt, and is often closed during the winter. The railway on both sides of the station is a single line, so Oberalppass is an important passing place. The station is the highest point on the Matterhorn Gotthard Bahn network.\n\nThe Oberalp Pass passes the Oberalp ski area, which is part of the Gotthard Oberalp Arena.\n\nThere are currently plans for the ski area to be linked up with Nätschen, the neighbouring mountain, which is also part of the Gotthard Oberalp Arena. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293748", "title": "Naranjal Canton", "text": "Naranjal Canton\n\nNaranjal is a canton in the province of Guayas in western continental Ecuador. The canton was named after its seat, Naranjal.\n\nEthnic groups as of the Ecuadorian census of 2010:\n"}
{"id": "2293755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293755", "title": "Susten Pass", "text": "Susten Pass\n\nSusten Pass (German: \"Sustenpass\") (el. 2260 m.) is a mountain pass in the Swiss Alps. The pass road, built from 1938–1945, connects Innertkirchen in the canton of Bern with Wassen in the canton of Uri. A 300-metre long tunnel crosses the pass at 2,224 metres.\n\nThe pass is popular with tourists, especially for the views of the Stein Glacier on the south side.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293759", "title": "Sonia Fowler", "text": "Sonia Fowler\n\nSonia Fowler (also Jackson) is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera, \"EastEnders\", played by Natalie Cassidy. Her first appearance was on and she departed on She returned briefly in 2010 along with other members of the Jackson family, and re-appeared in the soap from and again in January 2011. Sonia returned as a permanent character on , as part of a storyline that saw her mother Carol (Lindsey Coulson) develop breast cancer. Cassidy took maternity leave in 2016 and Sonia left on 20 September 2016 for her dream job in Kettering. Cassidy made two guest stints during her maternity leave, on 25 December 2016 via webcam and for a three episode arc from 14 to 18 April 2017. She returned full-time on 27 June 2017.\n\nSonia has been featured in storylines including affairs, feuds, bereavements, family problems, teenage pregnancy and a cancer scare. In 2000, Sonia discovers that she is pregnant at 15 and gives birth to a daughter Rebecca Fowler (Jasmine Armfield) whom she puts up for adoption. She begins a relationship with Jamie Mitchell (Jack Ryder) who is later killed on Christmas Day 2002. Sonia is known for her problematic marriage with Martin Fowler (James Alexandrou/James Bye), which ends in 2006 when Sonia begins an affair with nurse Naomi Julien (Petra Letang). The pair eventually reconcile for their daughter Rebecca, however Sonia begins a feud with Martin's mother Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard) which ends when Pauline is murdered. Sonia is originally arrested for her murder, however, Pauline's husband Joe Macer (Ray Brooks) is her murderer.\n\nSince her return in 2014, Sonia's storyline has included divorcing Martin, coming out as bisexual, a cancer scare, relationships with Tina Carter (Luisa Bradshaw-White) and Gethin Pryce (Cerith Flinn), supporting Bex through her attempted suicide, feelings for her ex-husband Martin returning, and stealing money from Dot to help pay off Martin's hit-and-run victim who had been blackmailing her.\n\nSonia and her family move to Albert Square. She is the third of Carol Jackson's (Lindsey Coulson) four children and the result of her mother's relationship with Terry Cant, whom Sonia never knew and who was violent towards Carol. During her childhood, she becomes close friends with Clare Tyler (Gemma Bissix) and the two are inseparable until Clare falls in with the wrong crowd at school and starts bullying Sonia but they reconcile before Clare leaves in 1998. Sonia has sex with Martin Fowler (James Alexandrou) but starts dating Jamie Mitchell (Jack Ryder). Not knowing she is pregnant, Sonia goes into labour and gives birth to Martin's daughter. Baby Chloe is subsequently given up for adoption and renamed Rebecca, despite protests from Martin's mother Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard). However, Sonia becomes obsessed with her daughter and abducts her, locking herself in her house with the baby. Despite pleas from Rebecca's adoptive parents, it is Sonia's step-grandmother, Dot Cotton (June Brown), who persuades Sonia to return the baby.\n\nSonia and Jamie get engaged, but due to Jamie's fling with Zoe Slater (Michelle Ryan) and constant rowing, the relationship ends. Sonia dates Gus Smith (Mohammed George), who plans to propose, but he is devastated when Sonia reconciles with Jamie after he is brutally assaulted by his godfather Phil (Steve McFadden). Sonia helps him, nursing him through his injuries and they decide to marry but their happiness is short-lived as Martin accidentally hits Jamie with his vehicle. Sonia keeps a bedside vigil and is with Jamie when he dies.\n\nSonia eventually forgives Martin and as they grow closer, they fall in love and eventually elope. Sonia begins nursing training and she and Martin live with Pauline but struggle to cope with her interference. Martin gets unwittingly involved with a stalker, Sarah Cairns (Alison Pargeter), who tries to ruin his marriage. This culminates in Sarah holding Sonia and Martin hostage and stabbing Martin, until Sonia knocks her unconscious. Sonia and Martin face further upset when they discover that their daughter's adoptive parents have died in a car crash. They visit Rebecca's (Jade Sharif) guardian, Margaret Wilson (Janet Amsden), hiding their true identity but when Margaret realises who they are, she asks them to leave. Pauline also interferes and visits Rebecca with Martin. Sonia is furious when she learns this and animosity in the Fowlers' home puts a strain on Martin and Sonia's relationship so she spends her time with a colleague, Naomi Julien (Petra Letang); feelings develop and they begin an affair. Martin is heartbroken when his marriage ends and the situation is complicated further by Rebecca, who, on Margaret's request, is spending more time at the Fowlers'. Margaret decides to make the Fowlers' Rebecca's legal guardians but does not include Sonia when she finds out about her lesbian fling. Margaret dies and Martin takes custody of Rebecca and Pauline tries to stop Sonia having any contact with Rebecca. This makes Sonia distraught and preoccupied with Rebecca. Feeling neglected, Naomi ends their relationship.\n\nSonia becomes depressed and begins to neglect her work and drink alcohol, until Gus helps her straighten her life out. Sonia and Gus begin a second romance, which ends due to Sonia's lingering feelings for Martin. Sonia and Martin receive their divorce papers. However, both regret getting divorced and they reconcile. Pauline eventually finds out and tells Martin that she is dying from a brain tumour to stop him moving in with Sonia. Just as Pauline intends, Martin ends his relationship with Sonia in order to care for her, but when the truth finally comes out, a furious Martin moves out anyway. Pauline responds with ire, threatening to cut her son from her life. Sonia tries to build bridges with Pauline but an argument ends with Sonia slapping Pauline. When Pauline is found dead later that day, Sonia fears that she caused her death. She discovers that Rebecca witnessed the slap and tries to silence her daughter, but Rebecca tells Dot at Pauline's funeral. Appalled, Martin refuses Sonia access to Rebecca. Fearing imprisonment Sonia goes on the run, abducting Rebecca. Martin is frantic, but days later Sonia returns and she is arrested on a murder charge; however, that night Dot uncovers the identity of Pauline's real murderer — Pauline's husband Joe Macer (Ray Brooks), who had argued with Pauline on Christmas Day and struck her over the head, causing her death. Sonia is released and decides to leave Walford for Manchester. After making peace with Martin, she takes a taxi and is about to leave Walford when she sees Martin and Rebecca obstructing the road; Martin has decided that he wants to go with Sonia. The Fowlers reunite and leave as a family. They spend time touring the USA before settling in Manchester.\n\nBianca invites Sonia to her wedding to Ricky and Sonia attends alone. She rejects a phone call from Martin and gets very drunk. The following day, Sonia walks in on Dot slapping her granddaughter Dotty Cotton (Molly Conlin) across the legs, leading to Dot's arrest, though she is released without charge. Bianca notices Sonia has continuously avoided talking about Martin and Rebecca. Sonia visits Jamie's grave and later returns to The Queen Victoria pub, and drunkenly berates Phil, Jamie's godfather, about his treatment of Jamie. Phil says he considers Jamie to be one of his own children and tells Sonia to go upstairs to sober up. She misunderstands him and gets into his bed, naked. As Phil sees Sonia in bed, Shirley Carter (Linda Henry) walks in and slaps Phil across the face. Sonia confides in Carol about her marriage problems and Carol advises her to try to stay together for Rebecca's sake. After Ricky and Bianca's wedding, Sonia decides she must make a fresh start with Martin and leaves again. However, it is later revealed that Sonia and Martin are no longer together.\n\nIn January 2014, Carol informs Sonia, who is having marital problems with Martin again, about her breast cancer diagnosis. Carol has the BRCA gene and Sonia finds out she has inherited it. Sonia kisses Tina Carter (Luisa Bradshaw-White), which Tina's girlfriend, Fiona \"Tosh\" Mackintosh (Rebecca Scroggs), finds out about, so Tina end her friendship with Sonia to protect her relationship. Sonia, who has started a weight loss class, arranges to have a gastric band in Bulgaria, telling friends and family she is on a course. When she returns, she tries to confess to her class but collapses before she can do so. Sonia and Martin (now played by James Bye) separate and Sonia starts to feel isolated and depressed. Sonia is supported by Tina but Sonia backs away when Tina goes to kiss her as Sonia is unsure of her feelings.\n\nMartin moves back into the area and Rebecca (now played by Jasmine Armfield) moves in with him, as she resents Sonia for leaving Martin. Martin believes he can repair his marriage, but Tina and Sonia share a kiss, which Martin sees. He tells everyone in The Vic about Sonia and Tina, but Sonia ends their relationship. Martin sends Rebecca, who now wants to be called Bex, to live with Sonia so she can spend more time with her mother. Sonia also repairs her relationship with Tina. Martin moves in with Stacey Branning (Lacey Turner), while Sonia and Tina embark on a full relationship. Sonia and Martin's divorce is finalised. After Tina drunkenly humiliates Sonia at an awards ceremony and Sonia rejects her, Tina has sex with Sophie Dodd (Poppy Rush) and regrets it, but before she can tell Sonia, Sonia reveals she has found a lump in her breast. Sonia forgives Tina for the humiliation, but Sophie tells Sonia that Tina cheated and their relationship ends, but they soon reunite. After having her breast lump checked, Sonia is given the all-clear.\n\nSonia receives a lucrative job offer at a private hospital in Kettering and, having realised she no longer loves Tina, ends their relationship. Bex is furious and thinks Sonia is abandoning her. Bex later calms down and she says an emotional farewell. Several months later, following Madison Drake (Seraphina Beh), Alexandra D'Costa (Sydney Craven) and her former friend Louise Mitchell (Tilly Keeper) continuously bullying Bex, Sonia returns after Bex phones her in tears. Sonia accuses Martin and Stacey of not caring about Bex and tells Martin she wants Bex to live with her. Sonia meets Bex's teachers before returning to Kettering. Sonia returns to Walford and lets herself into Dot's house, finding Dot on the floor after tripping. Sonia and Robbie, who has also returned, move in with Dot to help care for her. It is revealed that Sonia is hiding a secret from her time in Kettering meaning she no longer wants to return there. Although Sonia wants Bex to move in with them, Bex chooses to stay with Martin and Stacey.\n\nSonia starts dating Bex's teacher Gethin Pryce (Cerith Flinn) but is unaware that Bex is infatuated with him. Bex and Gethin kiss and after Bex's attempts to pursue him and he eventually confesses to Sonia. Gethin subsequently resigns his job at the school and leaves Walford, and Sonia tells Bex that she has done nothing wrong. In December 2017, Sonia discovers Kim Fox (Tameka Empson) having a miscarriage and supports her when she believes that she has left her husband Vincent Hubbard (Richard Blackwood) down. In January 2018, it is discovered that Stacey has slept with Max, which subsequently fractures Martin and Stacey's relationship. Stacey kicks Martin out and Sonia agrees for him to move into No. 25 with her and Bex. Sonia discovers that she may still be in love Martin and agrees to go on a date with him. However Martin still has feelings for Stacey, which upsets Sonia. When Bex decides that she doesn't want to go to university, Sonia pressures Bex into applying to Oxbridge University, much to Bex's annoyance. Bex tells Sonia that she is feeling upset since her boyfriend Shakil Kazemi (Shaheen Jafargholi) was killed and that she isn't ready for university, and Sonia supports Bex's decision. Sonia and Dot care for Harold Legg (Leonard Fenton) when he becomes ill and he moves into No.25. A swastika is graffitied on Dot's door which causes Dr Legg to fall into a panic attack. Sonia blames Dot's new lodger Stuart Highway (Ricky Champ) for the attack and threatens to report him to the police if she comes anywhere near No. 25. However Stuart is innocent and the perpetrators behind the attack are young youths. Sonia's niece Tiffany Butcher (Maisie Smith) is involved in a drug ring and Sonia discovers this when Bernadette Taylor (Clair Norris) informs her. Sonia and the Brannings try to help Tiffany and promise to pay off the drug dealers that Tiffany and her friend Evie Steele (Sophia Capasso) owe money to, in order for Tiffany to stay. Tiffany discovers that Sonia is lying and attempts to leave, but Sonia stops her from leaving causing Tiffany to slap her. They lock Tiffany in and finally release her when she agrees to speak up about the drug ring.\n\nWhen Bex takes an overdose, Sonia finds her and is dismayed when she realises it was a suicide attempt. She blames herself. Martin returns to Walford and Sonia is angry with Martin for being absent. She is forced to give him a false alibi when police question him about stolen vehicles and convinces him to tell the truth. She forgives him but Martin's behaviour continues and he is injured during an attack so Sonia throws him out. She forgives him again and realises that she still has feelings for him. When Martin and Charlie \"Tubbs\" Savage (Tayla Kovacevic-Ebong) knock down George Watson (Jack Bennett), Sonia visits George in hospital to question him about the hit-and-run. Upon realising Sonia and Martin are in a relationship, George blackmails Sonia and threatens to report Martin to the police unless she gives him £10,000. Sonia steals the money from Dot's bank account.\n\n1994 was a \"historic\" year for \"EastEnders\", as in April, a third weekly episode was introduced. Due to the programme's increased frequency, a number of new characters were introduced to the regular cast in the latter part of 1993 and early 1994. Among them were the Jackson family: mother Carol (Lindsey Coulson), her four children, Bianca (Patsy Palmer), Robbie (Dean Gaffney), Sonia (Natalie Cassidy), and Billie (Devon Anderson), as well as Carol's partner Alan Jackson (Howard Antony). Though Carol and Alan were not initially married in the serial, and though Alan was only the biological father of Billie, the whole family took on Alan's surname. The family was created by writer Tony McHale.\n\nVarious members of the family began to appear sporadically from November 1993 onwards, but in episodes that aired early in 1994, the Jacksons moved from Walford Towers, a block of flats, to the soap's focal setting of Albert Square. Their slow introduction was a deliberate attempt by the programme makers to introduce the whole family over a long period. The Jacksons have been described by \"EastEnders\" scriptwriter Colin Brake as a \"classic problem family\".\n\nCassidy was 10 years old when she joined the soap as Sonia. She was spotted doing improvisations at the Anna Scher Theatre School by Tony McHale and \"EastEnders\"' Casting Advisor Jane Deitch. They liked Cassidy and she was asked to audition at Elstree studios, after which she was offered the part. None of the actors cast as the Jackson family were matched for appearance or screen compatibility. Cassidy commented, \"it was all decided without doing that. I don't think it particularly mattered that none of us Jackson kids looked like each other because all our characters had different dads!\"\n\nEarly on in the character's narrative, Sonia was given a trumpet to play, which she did badly, infuriating her family and neighbours. According to Cassidy, this was on the behest of Storyliner and future Executive Producer of \"EastEnders\", John Yorke. Cassidy revealed that she took lessons to play the trumpet, but that when she began to play well, she was asked by the producers to pretend to play it badly as Sonia was supposed to be playing it badly. Other storylines included a period where Sonia was bullied by her friend Clare Bates (Gemma Bissix) after she fell in with the wrong crowd at school. Despite the bullying storyline, Cassidy said that she and Bissix were good friends during their time together on the soap.\n\nIn 1997, the actress who played Sonia's mother Carol decided to quit \"EastEnders\". It was at this stage that the producers made a decision to write the majority of the Jackson family out. Cassidy commented, \"I thought I was out of a job [on \"EastEnders\"] forever!\". Cassidy made several temporary returns on-screen months later to visit Clare or Bianca, but she was still uncertain about the future of her character: \"I didn't come back to the show for about four months or so after [ I was written out in 1997]. And after Clare left the Square [in 1998] I was gone for another eight months. I just got on with school and all that\". However, later in 1998 the producers asked Cassidy to return to the serial full-time, which she said she was \"thrilled\" about.\n\nIn April 2006, it was announced that Cassidy would take a break from \"EastEnders\", saying \"it's time to try new things. But it doesn't mean Sonia won't be back\". A BBC spokesperson added, \"Natalie is a valued member of the \"EastEnders\" cast and we wish her all the very best during her break from the show\". Sonia departed on screen in February 2007, along with her former husband Martin, as his actor, James Alexandrou, also left the serial. Their departing storyline was the culmination of the death of Pauline Fowler, following actress Wendy Richard's high-profile resignation from the serial in 2006. In the storyline, Pauline dies in suspicious circumstances and Sonia is blamed for killing her, although Sonia is eventually vindicated when Pauline's husband Joe Macer (Ray Brooks) admits to manslaughter. Sonia and Martin and their daughter Rebecca leave Walford as a united family for the United States. In 2010, Cassidy said one of the reasons she decided to leave the show was because of Sonia's affair with Naomi Julien (Petra Letang), saying it was wrong for the character.\n\nDespite Cassidy's departure being specified as a \"break\", Cassidy commented in 2008, \"I feel that door's closed now and I need to go and do other stuff [...] Maybe in nine years I might go back.\" More recently, in 2009, press reports suggested that the actress was keen to reprise the role. Patsy Palmer, who returned to \"EastEnders\" as Sonia's sister Bianca, publicly called for the actress's return: \"I would love her to come back. I mean, she is family! I've told bosses that it's a good time, when you think about it, as the Jacksons are back now as well.\"\n\nOn 25 October 2009 it was announced that Cassidy would return to the soap to reprise her role as Sonia, along with Coulson, Gaffney and Anderson. The characters would reunite with Bianca who returned in 2008. Cassidy is quoted as saying \"To be invited back to \"EastEnders\" is such an honour and I am very, very excited that Sonia is coming back. For me, to be reunited with the original Jacksons is a dream come true and I think it will be a fantastic storyline.\" A source told entertainment website Digital Spy: \"Everything's being kept hush-hush about the Jacksons' return at the moment, but there are certainly a load of questions to be answered. Will the frosty relationship between Carol and Bianca thaw? Are Sonia and Martin still together? And how will Robbie react when he learns of his beloved Wellard's death? Everyone's so pleased to have them back.\" The family returned for Bianca's second wedding to Ricky Butcher as part of the show's 25th anniversary. Executive producer Diederick Santer explained that he wanted great stories to get people talking, saying \"The wedding is the perfect opportunity for us to bring back the much-loved Jackson characters – Carol, Sonia, Robbie and Billie.\" After departing once again in 2011, Sonia returned permanently on 14 January 2014.\n\nIn February 2016, Cassidy announced she was expecting her second child, meaning she would be taking maternity leave. Cassidy confirmed the baby is due in \"summer\" 2016. It was expected that Cassidy would leave in spring 2016, with Sonia departing on-screen in summer 2016. Sonia departed on-screen on 20 September 2016. After returning for a short stint from 14 April 2017 to 18 April 2017, Cassidy returned to the role of Sonia permanently, with the return being broadcast on 27 June 2017.\n\nNatalie Cassidy won the award for \"Best Actress\" for the role of Sonia, at the 2001 \"British Soap Awards\". Additionally, in 2004, Cassidy was awarded \"best dramatic performance by a young actor or actress\" for the role.\n\nReferencing Sonia's foray into lesbianism in 2005, TV critic Grace Dent branded the character \"the worst lesbian ever\", adding, \"The only lesbians with less lesbian tendencies than you are the women on the front cover of the Horny Triple-X Lesbian Specials which they keep at eye level by the sweets in my corner shop. Time to make a u-turn.\" Lesbian website AfterEllen.com was also critical of the storyline that saw Sonia experimenting with her sexuality and then returning to her heterosexual orientation shortly after. Sharon Hadrian writes: \"It was the first time in over a decade that a lesbian couple had been depicted in the East London drama, lending cautious optimism to the idea that the BBC was finally integrating its traditionally heterosexual soaps [...] Lesbian fans, meanwhile, are struggling to care at all after being led on by the show's failed attempts at writing a decent lesbian story line [...] Despite their troubles, Martin and Sonia got married in 2004 and — given their past — many fans believe they are meant to be together. If this seems like the most inopportune time to turn Sonia into a lesbian, well, the show's writers did it anyway [...] Sonia's sudden lesbian affair was met with disapproval from all sides, and nobody — the fans, characters or even the actors — was particularly supportive of her relationship. As a result, perhaps, the writers wrote what was expected of them [...] there was hardly room in the script for any affection or sympathy at all; instead, their relationship was written around its impact on Martin and the other Albert Square residents. The reaction of Rebecca's guardian, Margaret, was especially hurtful. When the [lesbian] relationship became public, she immediately sought to award sole custody of Rebecca to Martin, citing Sonia's sexual orientation as the reason she would be an unfit mother. This vitriolic response to Sonia and Naomi's relationship could have been a pivotal moment had the program's producers used the opportunity to prove either the quality of their relationship or to reinforce Sonia's parenting abilities. Unfortunately, they did neither of these things. Instead, Margaret's reaction was surprisingly representative of the public response to their relationship. Fans of the show were upset that anyone (let alone a lesbian) had come between Sonia and Martin. Naomi came off looking especially predatory — a common trait in media representations of gay and lesbian characters — by seducing a formerly heterosexual woman and convincing her to leave her family [...] not too surprisingly, Naomi and Sonia broke up. Afterward, Naomi faded into the background and Sonia ended up back with Martin, seeming to forget entirely about the same-sex attractions she once had [...] It was a sad but not unexpected ending to a rare chance for the BBC to acknowledge lesbian sexuality in its programming and for viewers to witness a positive lesbian relationship that didn't ruin anybody's life [...] Sonia or Naomi [...] had the potential to develop a loving depiction of lesbian sexuality but were failed by the show's writers and, arguably, the BBC's institutionalized homophobia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2293768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293768", "title": "Maryse Choisy", "text": "Maryse Choisy\n\nMaryse Choisy (1903–1979) was a French philosophical writer, journalist and founder of the journal \"Psyché\". Born in Saint-Jean-de-Luz Saint-Jean-de-Luz on 1 February, she was brought up by her rich aunts in a historical castle in the Basque country. After the end of the First World War, she went to study at Girton College, part of the University of Cambridge.\n\nIn 1927, she sought psychoanalytical treatment from Sigmund Freud and upon recounting an anxiety dream to him Freud apparently concluded, correctly, that she had been an illegitimate child.\n\nChoisy was a critic of André Breton's Surrealist Manifesto saying that it was based on a misunderstanding of Freud's concept of the unconscious mind and as a response to the Surrealist Movement, she published her \"Manifeste Surridealiste\" in Les Nouvelles littéraires on 22 October 1927. It can also be found in her novel \"Mon Coeur dans une formule: C6 H8 (Az O3)6.\"\n\nAfter meeting Pierre Teilhard in 1938 she converted to Catholicism and began to connect science, religion and psychoanalysis in her work. Her role in the founding of the journal \"Psyché\" (1946) reflected her concerns with the \"ideals of the Roman Catholic church\". She went back to receiving psychoanalysis from René Laforgue in this period. \n\nHer most controversial work was \"Un mois chez les filles\" which literally means 'A month among the girls' however when it was published in 1961 in English in the United States the titled changed to \"Psychoanalysis of the Prostitute\". Choisy attempted to characterise sex workers as more human than in previous literature and avoided \"moralising or...aestheticism\".\n\nShe received multiple awards in her lifetime including the National Order of Merit, a silver medal of \"Arts, Lettres, et Sciences\", and the Lamennais Prize in 1967.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293797", "title": "D. M. Marshman Jr.", "text": "D. M. Marshman Jr.\n\nDonald McGill Marshman Jr. (December 21, 1922 – September 17, 2015) credited as D. M. Marshman, was an American screenwriter known mainly for his contribution to the film script for \"Sunset Boulevard\".\n\nMarshman was the son of Donald McGill and Maud Louise (McMurray) Marshman.\n\nHe was educated at Andover and Yale, receiving his B.A. in 1945. Originally hired as an editorial researcher at \"Life Magazine\", he eventually became the magazine's movie editor before moving to \"Time Magazine\", where he was the film critic.\n\nIn 1946, Marshman collaborated with T. O. Cole on \"Poets Corner,\" a comedy in three acts. In 1948, Marshman was recruited by Charles Brackett and Billy Wilder to help write the screenplay of \"Sunset Boulevard\". He suggested that a gigolo be introduced to the story as a romantic interest for the heroine. Characteristics of the main character can be attributed to Marshman, such as name similarity, personality, and identical birthday. He shared a screenwriting credit with Wilder and Brackett. The trio won an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. Marshman has two other films to his credit, the 1953 productions \"Taxi\" (screenplay) and \"Second Chance\" (story).\n\nHe chose to return to the East Coast in 1953, where he pursued a career in advertising for Young & Rubicam and other agencies, including one he started himself. From 1974 to 1979, he conducted a fund-raising campaign for Yale University, and spent later years as a freelance consultant, writing speeches for corporate CEOs, and doing other business writing.\n"}
{"id": "2293799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293799", "title": "John Betts (Canadian politician)", "text": "John Betts (Canadian politician)\n\nJohn Willis Betts, (born February 17, 1949) is a Canadian teacher and politician, who was a member of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick for the riding of Moncton Crescent from 1999 to 2014.\n\nBetts was born in Moncton, New Brunswick. He earned an ice hockey scholarship to Gordon College in Boston, Massachusetts and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree. He went on to earn a Bachelor of Education and a Master's Degree in Education Administration from the University of Moncton.\n\nBetts was a longtime member of the Moncton City Council, having been elected in 1986, 1989, 1992, 1995 and 1998. He resigned from council upon his election to the legislature in 1999. He was re-elected to the legislature in 2003 and 2006.\n\nHe sits as a Progressive Conservative. From 2003-2006, his party held only a one-seat majority which could have collapsed upon the long term absence of any of its members. Betts, who previously had a quadruple heart bypass in 1994, was hospitalized in early 2005 with what was thought to be a minor heart attack forcing the government to delay several votes. Betts since returned to work in good heath having only suffered severe indigestion.\n\nOn December 7, 2005, he was named deputy speaker replacing Trevor Holder who had been elevated to the cabinet. He ceased being deputy speaker on August 18, 2006 with the dissolution of the legislature for a general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293809", "title": "Islamization", "text": "Islamization\n\nIslamization (also spelled Islamisation, see spelling differences; , ), Islamicization or Islamification, is the process of a society's shift towards the religion of Islam and becoming Muslims, such as found in the Levant, North Africa, Horn of Africa, Iran, Pakistan, Malaysia or Indonesia. In contemporary usage, it may refer to the perceived imposition of an Islamist social and political system on a society with an indigenously different social and political background.\n\nThe English synonyms, muslimization and \"arabization\", in use since before 1940 (e.g., \"Waverly Illustrated Dictionary\") convey a similar meaning. Muslimization has recently been used as a term coined to describe the overtly Muslim practices of new converts to the religion who wish to reinforce their newly acquired religious identity.\n\nArabization describes a growing cultural influence on a non-Arab area that gradually changes into one that speaks Arabic and/or incorporates Arab culture. It was most prominently achieved during the 7th-century Arabian Muslim conquests which spread the Arabic language, culture and—having been carried out by Arabian Muslims as opposed to Arab Christians or Arabic-speaking Jews—the religion of Islam to the lands they conquered. The result: some elements of Arabian origin combined in various forms and degrees with elements taken from conquered civilizations and ultimately denominated \"Arab\", as opposed to \"Arabian\".\n\nModern day Islamization appears to be a return of the individual to Muslim values, communities, and dress codes, and a strengthened community.\n\nAnother development is that of transnational Islam, elaborated upon by the French Islam researchers Gilles Kepel and Olivier Roy. It includes a feeling of a \"growing universalistic Islamic identity\" as often shared by Muslim immigrants and their children who live in non-Muslim countries:\n\nThe increased integration of world societies as a result of enhanced communications, media, travel, and migration makes meaningful the concept of a single Islam practiced everywhere in similar ways, and an Islam which transcends national and ethnic customs.\nThis does not necessarily imply political or social organizations:\nGlobal Muslim identity does not necessarily or even usually imply organized group action. Even though Muslims recognize a global affiliation, the real heart of Muslim religious life remains outside politics—in local associations for worship, discussion, mutual aid, education, charity, and other communal activities.\n\nA third development is the growth and elaboration of transnational military organizations. The 1980s and 90s, with several major conflicts in the Middle East, including the Arab–Israeli conflict, Afghanistan in the 1980s and 2001, and the three Gulf Wars (1980–88, 1990–91, 2003–2011) were catalysts of a growing internationalization of local conflicts. Figures such as Osama bin Laden and Abdallah Azzam have been crucial in these developments, as much as domestic and world politics.\n\nOn December 2, 1978, General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq delivered a nationwide address on the occasion of the first day of the Hijra calendar. He did this in order to usher in an Islamic system to Pakistan. In the speech, he accused politicians of exploiting the name of Islam, saying that \"many a ruler did what they pleased in the name of Islam.\"\n\nAfter assuming power the task that the government set to was its public commitment to enforce \"Nizam-e-Mustafa\" (Islamic System) a 180 degree turn from Pakistan's predominantly Common Law. As a preliminary measure to establish an Islamic society in Pakistan, General Zia announced the establishment of Sharia Benches. Speaking about the jurisdiction of the Sharia Benches, he remarked, \"Every citizen will have the right to present any law enforced by the government before the 'Sharia Bench' and obtain its verdict whether the law is wholly or partly Islamic or un-Islamic.\"\n\nBut General Zia did not mention that the Sharia Benches' jurisdiction was curtailed by the following overriding clause: \"(Any) law does not include the constitution, Muslim personal law, any law relating to the procedure of any court or tribunal or, until the expiration of three years, any fiscal law or any law relating to the collection of taxes and fees or insurance practice and procedure.\" It meant that all important laws which affect each and every individual directly remained outside the purview of the Sharia Benches. However, he did not have a smooth sailing even with the clipped Sharia Benches. The Federal Sharia Bench declared rajm or stoning, to be un-Islamic; Ziaul Haq reconstituted the court, which then declared rajm as Islamic.\n\nThe influence of Islamic groups in the Gaza Strip has grown since the 1980s, especially as poverty has risen and fighting with Israel began in 2000. The efforts to impose Islamic law and traditions continued when Hamas forcefully seized control of the area in June 2007 and displaced security forces loyal to the secular President Mahmoud Abbas. After the civil war ended, Hamas declared the \"end of secularism and heresy in the Gaza Strip.\" For the first time since the Sudanese coup of 1989 that brought Omar al-Bashir to power, a Muslim Brotherhood group ruled a significant geographic territory. Gaza human rights groups accuse Hamas of restricting many freedoms in the course of these attempts.\n\nWhile Ismael Haniyeh officially denied accusations that Hamas intended to establish an Islamic emirate, Jonathan Schanzer wrote that in the two years following the 2007 coup, the Gaza Strip has exhibited the characteristics of Talibanization, a process whereby the Islamist organization imposes strict rules on women, discourages or punishes activities commonly associated with Western or Christian culture, oppresses non-Muslim minorities, imposes their own interpretation of sharia law and deploys religious police to enforce these laws.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, the Hamas-controlled government of Gaza stepped up its efforts to \"Islamize\" Gaza in 2010, efforts that included the \"repression\" of civil society and \"severe violations of personal freedom.\" Arab-Israeli journalist Khaled Abu Toameh wrote in 2009 that \"Hamas is gradually turning the Gaza Strip into a Taliban-style Islamic entity.\" According to Mkhaimar Abusada, a political science professor at Gaza's al-Azhar University, \"Ruling by itself, Hamas can stamp its ideas on everyone (...) Islamizing society has always been part of Hamas strategy.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293810", "title": "Floatstick", "text": "Floatstick\n\nA floatstick is a device to measure fuel levels in modern large aircraft. It consists of a closed tube rising from the bottom of the fuel tank. Surrounding the tube is a ring-shaped float, and inside it is a graduated rod indicating fuel capacity. The float and the top of the rod contain magnets. The rod is withdrawn from the bottom of the wing until the magnets stick, the distance it is withdrawn indicating the level of the fuel.\n\nWhen not in use, the stick is secured within the tube.\n\nOlder aircraft use a dripstick, which leaks fuel when used.\n"}
{"id": "2293817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293817", "title": "Phoebe Thomas", "text": "Phoebe Thomas\n\nPhoebe Thomas (born 12 April 1983) is a British actress.\n\nThomas made a name for herself playing Holly Curran on \"Night and Day\" from 2001 to 2003. In 2005 she went on to star in the Five soap, \"Family Affairs\", as homeless Jane Hughes. She has also had a role in Channel 4 comedy \"Teachers\" and played nurse Maria Kendall in BBC medical drama \"Holby City\" from 28 November 2006 to 19 May 2010. She is also playing Hetty Feather in the stage adaptation of Hetty Feather. She was \"Thea Holmes\" in \"Death in Paradise\" Series 3 Episode 2 (The Wrong Man).\n\nShe has previously acted the role of \"Lady Godiva\" in an independent film based on a script by Vicky Jewson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293818", "title": "Saint Paul Island (Alaska)", "text": "Saint Paul Island (Alaska)\n\nSaint Paul Island () is the largest of the Pribilof Islands, a group of four Alaskan volcanic islands located in the Bering Sea between the United States and Russia. The city of St. Paul is the only residential area on the island. The three nearest islands to Saint Paul Island are Otter Island to the southwest, Saint George slightly to the south, and Walrus Island to the east.\n\nSt. Paul Island has a land area of . St. Paul Island currently has one school (K-12, 100 students), one post office, one bar, one small store, and one church (the Russian Orthodox Sts. Peter and Paul Church), which is listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nSaint Paul is the largest of the Pribilof Islands and lies the farthest north. With a width of at its widest point and a length of on its longest axis (which runs from northeast to southwest), it has a total area of . Volcanic in origin, Saint Paul features a number of cinder cones and volcanic craters in its interior. The highest of these, Rush Hill, rises to on the island's western shore, though most of the upland areas average less than in elevation. Most of the island is a low-lying mix of rocky plateaus and valleys, with some of the valleys holding freshwater ponds. Much of its of shoreline is rugged and rocky, rising to sheer cliffs at several headlands, though long sandy beaches backed by shifting sand dunes flank a number of shallow bays.\n\nLike the other Pribilof Islands, Saint Paul rises from a basaltic base. Its hills are primarily brown or red tufa and cinder heaps, though some (like Polavina) are composed of red scoria and breccia. \nThe island sits on the southern edge of the Bering-Chukchi platform, and may have been part of the Bering Land Bridge's southern coastline when the last ice age's glaciers reached their maximum expansion. Sediment core samples taken on Saint Paul show that tundra vegetation similar to that found on the island today has been present for at least 9,000 years. The thick rough turf is dominated by umbellifers (particularly \"Angelica\") and \"Artemisia\", though grasses and sedges are also abundant.\nThe Aleut peoples knew of the Pribilofs long before westerners discovered the islands. They called the islands \"Amiq\", Aleut for \"land of mother's brother\" or \"related land\". According to their oral tradition, the son of an Unimak Island elder found them after paddling north in his boat in an attempt to survive a storm that caught him out at sea; when the winds finally died, he was lost in dense fog—until he heard the sounds of Saint Paul's vast seal colonies.\n\nRussian fur traders were the first non-natives to discover Saint Paul. The island was discovered by Gavriil Pribylov on St. Peter and St. Paul's Day, July 12, 1788. Three years later the Russian merchant vessel \"John the Baptist\" was shipwrecked off the shore. The crew were listed as missing until 1793, when the survivors were rescued by Gerasim Izmailov.\n\nIn the 18th century, Russians forced Aleuts from the Aleutian chain (several hundred miles south of the Pribilofs) to hunt seal for them on the Pribilof Islands. Before this the Pribilofs were not regularly inhabited. The Aleuts were essentially slave labor for the Russians—hunting, cleaning, and preparing fur seal skins, which the Russians sold for a great deal of money. The Aleuts were not taken back to their home islands; they lived in inhumane conditions, they were beaten, and they were regulated by the Russians down to what they could eat and wear and whom they could marry.\n\nSaints Peter and Paul Church, a Russian Orthodox church, was built on the island in 1907.\n\nSaint Paul's climate is strongly influenced by the cold waters of the surrounding Bering Sea, and is classified as polar (Köppen \"ET\") due to the raw chilliness of the summers. It experiences a relatively narrow range of temperatures, high wind, humidity and cloudiness levels, and persistent summer fog. There is high seasonal lag: February is the island's coldest month, while August is its warmest; the difference between the average low temperature in February and the average high temperature in August is only . Although the mean average temperature for the year is above freezing, at , the monthly daily average temperature remains below freezing from December to April. Low temperatures at or below occur an average of 4.7 nights per year (mostly from January to March), and the island is part of USDA Hardiness Zone 6. Extreme temperatures have ranged from on March 14, 1971, up to on August 25, 1987. Winds are strong and persistent year-round, averaging around . They are strongest from late autumn through winter, when they increase to an average of nearly , blowing mostly from the north. In the summer, they become weaker and blow primarily from the south.\n\nThe island's humidity level, which averages more than 80 percent year round, is highest during the summer. Cloud cover levels peak during the summer as well. Although high year-round, with an average of 88 percent, cloud cover levels rise to 95 percent in the summer. Fog too is more common in the summer, occurring on roughly one-third of the days. The island receives about of precipitation per year, with the highest monthly totals occurring between late summer and early winter, when Bering Sea storms batter the island. Snowfall levels are highest between December and March, averaging per year. Other than trace amounts, the period from June to September is generally snow-free. High winds and relatively warm temperatures combine to keep snow levels low, resulting in monthly mean snow depths of less than . Hours of daylight range from a low of 6.5 hours in midwinter to a high of 18 hours in midsummer.\n\nSaint Paul Island, like all of the Pribilof Islands, is part of the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge. Its seabird cliffs were purchased in 1982 for inclusion in the refuge. The island has also been designated as an Important Bird Area.\n\nIt is the breeding grounds for more than 500,000 northern fur seals and millions of seabirds, and is surrounded by one of the world's richest fishing grounds.\n\nWoolly mammoths survived on Saint Paul Island until c. 3,750 BC, which is the most recent survival of North American mammoth populations.\nIt is thought that this population died out as a result of diminishing fresh water, brought on by climate change.\n\nA mass die-off of puffins at St. Paul Island between October 2016 and January 2017 has been attributed to ecosystem changes resulting from global warming.\n\nSaint Paul Island has the largest Aleut community in the United States, one of the U.S. government's officially recognized Native American \"tribal entities\" of Alaska. Out of a total population of 532 people, 457 of them (86 percent) are Alaska Natives.\n\nSome of the island's residents only stay part of the year and work in the crab and boat yards. The large boats that have been fishing the Bering Sea offload their fish onto the island and workers prepare them for shipping around the world. The native peoples of the island (Aleut tribe), who make up the vast majority of the population, are Russian Orthodox, if they consider themselves religious.\n\nTDX Power's first energy generation facility was built on St. Paul Island. Completed in 1999, the wind energy based electric and thermal cogeneration facility was widely regarded as one of the more technologically advanced wind energy power projects in America. The TDX Power wind/diesel hybrid facility is known for its efficiency and reduction in diesel fuel consumption. The -tall turbine is a major point of pride for the ecologically conscious Aleut community of Saint Paul. Two additional units were installed in 2007. Each unit is rated at 225 kW and the blade lengths are 44.3 ft (13.5 m).\n\nThe island is the scene of the Rudyard Kipling story \"The White Seal\" and poem \"Lukannon\" in \"The Jungle Book\".\n\nSt. Paul Island is served by KUHB-FM 91.9, an NPR affiliate that broadcasts a wide variety of programming and music. The island also has two low-power translators of the statewide Alaska Rural Communications Service on Channel 4 (K04HM) and Channel 9 (K09RB).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293827", "title": "EyeToy: Play 2", "text": "EyeToy: Play 2\n\nEyeToy: Play 2 is the second PlayStation 2 game in the \"\" series. It uses EyeToy camera technology to project the player on to the television screen, allowing them to interact with on screen objects. The game contains twelve new minigames, that allow for single or multiplayer modes. The game also introduces a tournament mode, that allows several players to compete in a series of minigames, earning points for each game won.\n\nThe game also takes advantage of some EyeToy capabilities that the original did not, including being able to detect the speed and force of motion, and increased accuracy. This allows for more depth in games like \"Baseball\", where points can be awarded for more forceful hitting of the ball. In addition, the game features \"SpyToy\", enabling players to turn their EyeToy camera into a security system that will record anyone that passes by. It is possible to capture photos or record video, and record a message that will play on the television screen should anyone come within range. It also contains a demo of \"\" in which one races on a hover board.\n\nThe game was released in North America on 16 August 2005 as a bundled package with the EyeToy camera. It was also released in November 2004 in Europe, and in June 2005 in Japan.\n\n\"EyeToy: Play 2\" contains 87 games. There are 12 games and 75 bonus games. Some games are, \"Goal Attack\", a soccer game where the object is to defend your team's goal while the opposing team attempts to hit the soccer ball into your team's goal. You have to move constantly, defending your goal by moving different directions while the EyeToy captures your movements and moves you accordingly. Another game is called \"Table Tennis\". The object of this game is to play Table Tennis against CPU controlled opponents while hitting the ball with your hand. As you beat your opponents, the opponents change and are slightly harder to defeat. Your first opponent is named \"Suzi Swift\". If you defeat her, you must face \"Max Armstrong\". And if you defeat him, you must face \"Dragon Pants Jim\". And if you defeat him, you face your next and last opponent, \"Master Pong\". This game mainly focuses around minigames. There is also an demo included with the game.\n\nThe game received \"favorable\" reviews, albeit slightly less than the original \"EyeToy: Play\", according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293828", "title": "Staats Model School", "text": "Staats Model School\n\nThe Staats Model School is situated on the corner of Lilian Ngoyi (previously Van der Walt) and Nana Sita (previously Skinner) Streets in Pretoria, Gauteng Province, Republic of South Africa. It originated from a school established in 1893 to train teachers in the Zuid Afrikaansche Republik, or ZAR.\n\nSytze Wierda, chief architect of the ZAR, designed the building in 1895, and its construction was completed by Te Groen in 1896. The structure consists of brick and Stinkwater sandstone and adheres to the Neo Dutch Renaissance school of architecture.\n\nOn 11 October 1899 the school closed its doors as a result of the outbreak of the Anglo-Boer War. During the war the building functioned as a hospital for Boer soldiers and as a prison for British officers. The escape of Winston Churchill, war correspondent and later British prime minister, from the building has become legend.\n\nThe school regained some life from 1901 as \"Pretoria High School\", and from 1902 to 1909 as the \"Pretoria College for Boys\", which later became \"Pretoria Boys High School\". In 1910 the college moved to larger premises and the Staats Model School building housed several other schools after that, including, in 1946, the ‘Hamilton Primary School’ (Robert Hamilton was a well-known businessman and benefactor of the school). The Library Services of the Transvaal Education Department, or TED, moved in during 1951.\n\nThe building was declared a national monument on 8 April 1960.\n"}
{"id": "2293837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293837", "title": "David Deida", "text": "David Deida\n\nDavid Deida (born March 18, 1958) is an American author who writes about the sexual and spiritual growth of men and women. His ten books have been published in 25 languages. He conducts spiritual growth and intimacy workshops and is one of the many founding associates at the Integral Institute. He has conducted research and taught classes at the University of California at Santa Cruz, Lexington Institute in Boston, San Jose State University and Ecole Polytechnique in Paris. He is the author of numerous essays, articles, and books on human spirituality including \"The Way of the Superior Man\", \"Finding God Through Sex\", and \"Blue Truth\" and the autobiographical novel \"Wild Nights\".\n\nDeida was born David Greenberg in Cleveland, Ohio and later changed his surname to Deida. After receiving the 1974 National Writing Award, Deida was admitted to the Florida Scholars Program at the University of Florida. While there, Deida founded the Plexus Interdisciplinary Center, researching medicine and consciousness in affiliation with the teaching hospital Shands at the University of Florida.\n\nIn 1982, he graduated from the University of Florida with a bachelor's degree in Theoretical Psychobiology. That same year, Deida was granted a fellowship at the Laboratory for Theoretical Neuroscience at the University of California, San Diego Medical School. As a graduate student at the University of California at Santa Cruz, he conducted research in the ontogeny of self/non-self boundaries and the evolution of the nervous system and its relationship to space-time dimensionality and was awarded a master's degree in biology from the University of California in 1989.\n\nDeida was an instructor in Artificial Intelligence at California State University, San Jose and was elected as a Fellow of the Lexington Institute Boston. From 1976 to 1989, Deida engaged in research with the neuroscientist Francisco Varela and he conducted research with Varela at the Pasteur Institute and Ecole Polytechnique. From 1983 to 2000, he collaborated with yoga teacher Sofia Diaz to develop yoga techniques for intimate relationships. In the mid-1990s, Deida began publishing non-academic books on spiritual practice, sociocultural evolution, and non-dual sexuality.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1988, Deida studied with the American spiritual teacher Adi Da Samraj and 1988 Deida was awarded the Chateaubriand Fellowship by the French government, for his Ph.D. thesis. Deida began writing non-academic books for publication and departed the university before completing his doctoral thesis. Deida published several papers from 1985 to 1991 including, “The Form of Duality: Objectification as Implicate Time (1985)”, “Some Fundamental Aspects of the Indicational Calculus and the Eigenbehavior of Extended Forms (1985)”, “The Indicational Calculus and Trialectics (1985)”, “An Approach to a Mathematics of Phenomena: Canonical Aspects of Reentrant Form Eigenbehavior in the Extended Calculus of Indications (1988)”, and “Multiplicity and Indeterminacy in the Dynamics of Formal Indicational Automata (1991).”\n\nDeida published the book \"Intimate Communion\" in 1995 and \"It’s a Guy Thing\" in 1997 outlining his ideas on psycho-sexual development and universal masculine and feminine identities. In 1997 he published \"The Way of the Superior Man\" and in 2001 a series of personal essays called \"Waiting to Love: Rude Essays on Life After Spirituality\". His book \"Finding God Through Sex\" was released in 2002 and outlined practices for dissolving fear and self-boundaries during intercourse. Deida's semi-autobiographical novel \"Wild Nights: Conversations with Mykonos about Passionate Love, Extraordinary Sex, and How to Open to God\" was published in 2005 and tells the story of developing friends, sexual intimacy, and God awareness through the guidance of a spiritual teacher. Deida published his book \"The Enlightened Sex Manual: Sexual Skills for the Superior Lover\" in 2004 and he discusses the topics of love and expanded awareness in his 2007 book \"Instant Enlightenment\".\n\nDeida's ecumenical approach has caused some to question his discrimination for audiences but Deida characterizes his recent work as “spiritual theater” rather than “religious teaching”. This orientation has led one critic to suspect Deida's spiritual depth and integrity, specifically questioning whether his approach has conflated post-modern nihilism with mystical nondualism. Other criticism questions Deida's political stance, alleging an element of misogyny in one of his books.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293849", "title": "Lara (comics)", "text": "Lara (comics)\n\nLara (née Lara Lor-Van) is a fictional character who appears in comic books published by DC Comics. She first appeared in the \"Superman\" comic strip and was created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. Lara is the biological mother of Superman, and the wife of scientist Jor-El. Lara Lor-Van is Lara's full maiden name, as \"Lor-Van\" is the name of Lara's father. Most depictions of Kryptonian culture show that Kryptonian women use their father's full name as their last names before marriage. After marriage, they usually are known simply by their first names, though various versions show they use their husband's full name or last name as their married last name.\n\nLara's role in the Superman mythos has varied over the years, with her treatment and emphasis often depending on the decade she was written in. Golden Age and early Silver Age stories treated Lara in a lesser role compared to her husband. However, stories from the 1970s onwards depict Lara in more prominent roles; one such example is the 2004 miniseries \".\"\n\nAfter constructing his Fortress of Solitude, Superman honored his deceased biological parents with a statue of Jor-El and Lara holding up a globe of their native planet Krypton.\n\nLara first appeared in the \"Superman\" newspaper comic strip in 1939, where she was first named \"Lora.\" Her first comic book appearance (after being mentioned in the 1942 text novel \"The Adventures of Superman\" by George Lowther, where she was named \"Lara\" for the first time) was in \"More Fun Comics\" #101 in January–February 1945. A 1948 retelling of Superman's origin story subsequently delved into detail about Lara, though her more familiar Silver Age aspects became more firmly established starting in the late 1950s and over the course of the next several decades.\n\nAfter the establishment of DC's multiverse in the early 1960s, the Golden Age version of Superman's mother was stated as having been named \"Lora\", and lived on the Krypton of the Earth-Two universe. The Silver Age Lara, meanwhile, lived on the Krypton of the Earth-One universe.\n\nA definitive synopsis of the Silver Age Lara's life (summarizing the various stories revealing her history) came in the 1979 miniseries \"The World of Krypton\" (not to be confused with the post-\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" late 1980s comic special of the same name).\n\nAs summarized in \"The World of Krypton\" (and in various other stories), Lara was a promising astronaut in Krypton's space program. However, Krypton's space program was soon permanently grounded after Jax-Ur blew up one of Krypton's inhabited moons. Eventually, Lara met scientist Jor-El, with the two having several adventures together before getting married, such as a time-traveling Lois Lane attempting to seduce Jor-El after failing to marry their son in the future. Some time later, Lara gave birth to the couple's only child, Kal-El.\n\nEarly in Jor-El and Lara's marriage, the couple are briefly watched by the Guardians of the Universe, who note that Lara (or her husband) would have made an excellent Green Lantern.\n\nLara and her husband Jor-El were shown to be practitioners of the Kryptonian martial art of \"klurkor\".\n\nWhen Krypton was about to explode, Lara and Jor-El placed their infant son into an escape rocket built by Jor-El. In most retellings, Jor-El wanted Lara to accompany their son to Earth, but Lara refused, saying their son would have a better chance of reaching Earth without her extra weight. Kal-El's spaceship then took off, leaving Lara and Jor-El to perish.\n\nAfter the 1985-1986 miniseries \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" and John Byrne's 1986 miniseries \"The Man of Steel\" rewrote Superman's origins, details about Lara's background and character were changed. Under Byrne's version, Lara inhabited a cold, emotionally sterile Krypton where even bodily contact was forbidden. Lara's grandmother, Lady Nara, and Seyg-El, Jor-El's father, were the ones who arranged the union between them – so that they might have a child who would fill an opening in the planet's Register of Citizens when another Kryptonian died a rare and untimely death. Jor-El, however, was considered a \"throwback\" for actually expressing emotions toward his wife Lara, and for his favoring the less sterilized days of past Kryptonian eras. In this version of the mythos, Lara was a librarian and historian of high rank and thought it horrifying that Kal-El would be sent to a \"primitive\" planet such as Earth. In one story, the adult Kal (now Superman) is transported to the past and encounters his parents moments before Krypton's destruction. Lara is disgusted by what she sees and tells Kal not to approach her, finding him \"repellent\", even as she is ashamed of her feelings. \n\nIn the 2004 Superman miniseries \"\", Lara, along with Krypton and Jor-El, more or less again became their Silver Age versions, though with updated touches. In this version, Lara is treated as a fully equal partner to Jor-El in constructing Kal-El's spacecraft and in designing various key components.\n\nIn the 2009 series \"\" by Geoff Johns, Superman is first introduced to his birth mother in his teens by the spaceship that brought him to the Earth as a baby. She is introduced to Kal-El by a hologram of Jor-El as his mother. This moment shocks Superman and brings tears to Martha Kent's eyes.\n\nAlso in 2009, Lara's own family background is described. Lara Lor-Van is born into the Labor Guild, whose members are not physically abused but have no say in the choices of their lives and who, unlike the members of other guilds, cannot change guilds. Lara became a member of her husband's Science Guild when she married him and was thereby granted all the freedoms granted to other Science Guild members. A member of Krypton's Military Guild describes this as being \"raised up.\"\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Lara is a member of Krypton's military forces. One of the most talented students on the Military Academy, Lara is both a skilled fighter and a bright scientist.\n\nLara appears in the \"Krypton Returns\" storyline. She gives her maiden name as \"Lara Van-El.\"\n\n\n\n\nLara has appeared (usually briefly) in various media adaptations of the Superman story. However, as was the case in the older comics, Lara usually has a less prominent role than Jor-El in such depictions.\n\nAgnes Moorehead portrayed Lara in the debut episode of the radio serial \"The Adventures of Superman\" on February 12, 1940. She reprised the role in a few later episodes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTranberg, Charles (2005). \"I Love the Illusion: The Life And Career of Agnes Moorehead\". Albany, Georgia, BearManor Media. .\n\n"}
{"id": "2293850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293850", "title": "Butter cake", "text": "Butter cake\n\nA butter cake is a cake in which one of the main ingredients is butter. Butter cake is baked with basic ingredients: butter, sugar, eggs, flour, and leavening agents such as baking powder or baking soda. It is considered as one of the quintessential cakes in American baking. Butter cake originated from the English pound cake, which traditionally used equal amounts of butter, flour, sugar, and eggs to bake a heavy, rich cake.\n\nThe invention of baking powder and other chemical leavening agents during the 19th century substantially increased the flexibility of this traditional pound cake by introducing the possibility of creating lighter, fluffier cakes using these traditional combinations of ingredients, and it is this transformation that brought about the modern butter cake.\n\nButter cakes are traditionally made using a creaming method, in which the butter and sugar are first beaten until fluffy to incorporate air into the butter. Eggs are then added gradually, creating an emulsion, followed by alternating portions of wet and dry ingredients. Butter cakes are typically rich and moist when stored at room temperature, but they tend to stiffen, dry out, and lose flavor when refrigerated, making them unsuitable for filling or frosting in advance with ingredients that must be refrigerated, such as cream cheese frosting and pastry cream.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293851", "title": "Daniel Braaten", "text": "Daniel Braaten\n\nDaniel Omoya Braaten (born 25 May 1982) is a Norwegian professional footballer who currentley are free agent. He has previously played for Skeid, Rosenborg, Bolton Wanderers, Toulouse, Brann and Stabæk, with 157 caps and 13 goals in the latter club. He has been capped 52 times for the Norway national football team.\n\nBorn in Oslo, Norway. Braaten started his career in the Skeid youth academy at the age of six. He later won the Norwegian Junior Cup with the team in 1999, aged 17. The following year he was promoted to the first team, where he played for four years before joining giants Rosenborg BK in 2004, after 102 caps and 22 goals for Skeid. Before signing for Rosenborg, Braaten had attracted interest from various clubs in Norway and abroad, and had a trial with French side RC Lens in late 2003 with Daniel Fredheim Holm. Braaten had however trained with Rosenborg as early as autumn 2002, but was still in contract with Skeid, before signing in 2004 for approximately £250,000.\n\nBraaten had become one of the most profiled players of the Norwegian Premier League, through his colourful, untraditional and artistic playing style. He had become known especially for his individual technical skills and physical strength, and as a player who did unexpected things on the field, surprising both opposing players as well as the audience. He was famous not only for his pace, but also for his mastery of the seal dribble, an incredibly difficult trick involving running while bouncing (and controlling) the ball on top of the head.\n\nOn 3 August 2007, Braaten signed for Bolton Wanderers for a reported fee of £450,000. He scored his first goal in English football just over three weeks later, netting the final goal in Bolton's 3–0 win over Reading. He failed to secure a permanent spot on the team, however, and after a tough season in England, Braaten signed a three-year contract with French side Toulouse on 25 June 2008. He was included as part of the deal which saw Johan Elmander move to Bolton. He scored his first league goal in Toulouse's 4–1 victory over Paris Saint-Germain. He performed a unique celebration by spinning on his back while spinning upwards at the same time after scoring his first goal for the club. He was released from his contract in July 2013.\n\nTwo months later, in September, Braaten signed a one-year-long deal with Danish side Copenhagen, where he was given shirt no. 22. During his time in the Danish capital, he managed to score 1 goal in the league, as well as an important and beautiful back-heel goal in the Champions league to secure the 1-0 victory over Galatasaray. At the end of the season Braaten left Copenhagen without a new contract and returned to Norway.\n\nOn 9 February 2015, Braaten signed a one-year deal with Kjetil Rekdal and Vålerenga in the Norwegian Tippeliga after almost eight months as a free agent. He scored his first, and only, goal for his new club away versus Sandefjord on his birthday, 25 May. On 3 December 2015, it was announced that his contract would not be renewed, something that surprised many critics as he had performed well in the previous season. After training with SK Brann during the winter, he signed a one-year contract with the club on 21 February 2016, his fourth club in just as many years. After 55 games for Brann, he left the club at the end of the 2018 season.\n\nAfter playing four matches for Norway U18 in 2000, and two matches for Norway U21 in 2003, Braaten made his debut for Norway on 22 January 2004 in a friendly match against Sweden, when playing for Skeid in Adeccoligaen, the second-tier league in Norway. His first international goal came against Estonia, in a Friendly match on 20 April 2005, a game Norway won 2–1. As of May 2018, he has been capped 52 times for Norway, scoring four goals.\n\n\"Correct as of 4 November 2019\"\n\n\"(Correct as of 27 May 2014)\"\n\nRosenborg\n\n"}
{"id": "2293852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293852", "title": "Pretoria Boys High School", "text": "Pretoria Boys High School\n\nPretoria Boys High School, also known as \"Boys High\", is a public, tuition charging, English medium high school for boys situated in the suburb of Brooklyn in Pretoria in the Gauteng province of South Africa, founded in 1901 by The Rt Hon. Lord Milner. Its academic performance places it among the best secondary schools in rankings nationally, as well as in all of Africa. Notable alumni include two Nobel Prize laureates, eighteen Rhodes scholars, several government ministers and members of parliament, eight judges of the Supreme Court of Appeal of South Africa, as well as numerous prominent intellectuals and high-ranking sportsmen.\n\nThe school enrols over 1500 pupils, including 300 boarders, from South Africa and beyond, managed by about 100 full-time staff.\n\nIts neoclassical red-brick style main school buildings date from 1909, maintaining provincial heritage site status. The school grounds also includes a second campus, 'Pollock Campus', as well as sporting and recreational facilities. Three boarding houses are located on the school grounds: \"Rissik House\" and \"Solomon House\" are part of the original school complex completed in 1909, while \"School House\" was built later.\n\nIts sister school is Pretoria High School for Girls, founded in 1902.\n\nThe antecedent of the current school is the historic Staats Model School, built 1896-1897 by the government of the Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek (later Transvaal) in central Pretoria. This school was not in operation for very long owing to the outbreak of the Second Boer War in 1899. At the time, the building served as a prison, where notably Winston Churchill was briefly imprisoned.\n\nThe school was part of the whites-only education system, until the abolition of apartheid.\n\nWith Pretoria under British control, it became apparent to Lord Milner, the Colonial Secretary at the time, that the educational facilities in the city needed attention as there was no secondary school for English-speaking pupils. The Staats Model School was duly refurbished. It was renamed \"Pretoria High School\" and became the first of the so-called \"Milner schools\" in the Transvaal, opening on 3 June 1901 with Charles Hope - who also founded Potchefstroom Boys High as headmaster. Initial enrolment was 32 pupils, both boys and girls, which increased to 132 by August of that year. Mr Hope left 15 months later, along with the girls, who were finally accommodated into the old building of the former Transvaal Republic's \"Staatsmeischjeskool\" (State Girls' School), which was renamed Pretoria High School for Girls.\n\nUnder the new headmaster, Harold Atkinson, enrolment increased to 100 boys by 1903. The name of the school was also changed to \"Pretoria College\". Mr Atkinson left at the end of 1905 and was succeeded by J F Acheson who stayed with the school until it moved from Skinner Street to its current site in 1909. Formal devolution between primary and high school pupils only occurred in 1905.\n\nMilner's intention was to create a stable educational infrastructure in the new colony's capital and duly set aside of ground to the south-east of central Pretoria for the construction of new academic institutions. The southern most , which included the \"Waterkloof Kop\" (English: Waterkloof Hill), was chosen as the new site for Pretoria Boys High School. The architect, Patrick Eagle, met the challenge by designing an edifice rivalling its larger contemporary, Sir Herbert Baker's Union Buildings. Eagle chose to site the main buildings on the ridge of the hill giving the school its well-known dramatic setting.\n\nThe new school buildings were officially opened in 1909 by General Smuts, then colonial secretary of the Transvaal. The main building of the school, sited on Waterkloof Hill, is at present close to University of Pretoria, sitting opposite to the distant Union Buildings on Meintjieskop.\n\nOne year later, the four colonies of the Transvaal, Orange Free State, Natal and the Cape formed the Union of South Africa. Keen to forge unity between English and Dutch (Afrikaner) South Africans, Smuts' influence was evident when, on 6 April 1910, the school absorbed 100 boys and staff from the Dutch-medium Eendracht High School to form a dual-medium high school. The combined school was now named \"Pretoria High School for Boys - Pretoria Hogere school voor Jongens\". Smuts would later send his own sons to the school.\n\nThe dual-medium institution would last ten years. By 1920, the divide between English and Afrikaans speakers had become apparent nationwide; this was reflected in the need for a separate Afrikaans high school in Pretoria. Consequently, the Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool was formed immediately south of its parent, becoming the first Afrikaans-medium high school in the country, several years before Afrikaans attained official recognition as a language (and not a semi-Creole of Dutch). The two schools enjoy close ties to this day, especially in an enthusiastic but friendly rivalry in sporting events. PBHS would now be left in its present form, known as Pretoria Boys High School, an English-medium public school.\n\n\nAccording to Illsley, each component of the badge has a special meaning relating to the history and spirit of the school. The shield component of the badge is divided into four quadrants, with the book representing learning, the tools the wealth of the Transvaal through gold mining, the tree growth and the ox wagon the Transvaal. The background colours of the four quadrants were the colours of the first four houses when given permanent names, i.e. Town red, Solomon gold, Sunnyside black and Rissik green.\n\nThe official school song, \"Tis Here We Learn To Live\", was written in the 1930s by two \"Old Boys\". The composer of the music, Dr George Findlay, was a prominent Pretoria dermatologist. However, the school later adopted Forty Years On, originally the school song of Harrow School in London. It is this song that is sung at all school valedictions. The official school song was relegated to obscurity until it was revived as the school's rugby anthem.\n\nCultural activities include a well-established musical tradition, with a formal symphony orchestra, choir, pipe band, jazz ensemble and folk group. Other activities include Photography, Fantasy and Historical war games, Aeronautical Society, Film, Wildlife, Drama, Debating, Chess, and many others.\n\nSporting facilities include soccer, rugby union, cricket, Olympic standard athletics grounds, tennis, squash and basketball courts, a gymnasium, hockey fields, two swimming pools including one for waterpolo, an AstroTurf and a rock-climbing wall. There is also a man-made pine forest, an old shooting range which has been converted for the purpose of archery, an amphitheatre and an artificial lake, \"Loch Armstrong\". The grounds form a protected bird sanctuary and are home to several different species of birds, fish, amphibians and reptiles.\n\nThe new school buildings were officially opened in 1909 by General Smuts, then colonial secretary of the Transvaal. The main building of the school, sited on Waterkloof Hill, is at present close to University of Pretoria, sitting opposite to the distant Union Buildings on Meintjieskop.\n\nPretoria Boys High School is made up of ten constituent houses, each with its own unique culture and identity. House assemblies are held weekly, and house prefects are appointed annually. Annual inter-house sports meetings take place in which every pupil is strongly encouraged to participate. The inter-house swim meet (gala) is the most popular and well-attended of sport meetings.\n\n\n\nPretoria Boys High School has a network of \"Old Boys\", forming one of the largest alumni organisations in South Africa. \"Pretoria Boys High School Old Boys Association\" publishes an annual journal and review, \"The Phobian\", which is distributed to \"Old Boys\" across the globe. Members of the association meet annually at the school for the annual dinner, and regular reunions of each matriculating group are organised 10, 20, 30 and 40 years on, echoing the refrain of the school song, Forty Years On.\n\nThe school has produced two Nobel Prize laureates, eighteen Rhodes scholars, eight Supreme Court judges, an archbishop, two English Premier League football players, seven national cricketers and four Springbok rugby players\n\n"}
{"id": "2293857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293857", "title": "Platform (novel)", "text": "Platform (novel)\n\nPlatform () is a 2001 novel by French writer Michel Houellebecq (translated into English by Frank Wynne). It has received both great praise and great criticism, most notably for the novel's apparent condoning of sex tourism and Islamophobia. After describing Islam as \"the most stupid religion\" in a published interview about the book, Houellebecq was charged for inciting racial and religious hatred but the charges were ultimately dismissed, as it has been ruled that the right to free speech encompasses the right to criticize religions.\n\nThe novel and its author have been deemed \"prophetic\" or \"prescient\", as the last part depicts an Islamic terrorist attack which bears strong similarities with the bombings in Bali in October 2002, about a year later (and the novel was published on 27 August 2001, a few days before the 11 September 2001 attacks). A similar eery coincidence, involving Houellebecq, Islam and terrorism, would occur 13 years later, when his novel \"Submission\", dealing with Islam again (although in a more nuanced and less confrontational way), was published on 7 January 2015, the day of the Charlie Hebdo shooting.\n\nA play in Spanish based on the book, adapted and directed by Calixto Bieito, premiered at the 2006 Edinburgh International Festival.\n\nThe story is the first-person narrative of a fictional character named Michel Renault, a Parisian civil servant who, after the death of his father and thanks to a hefty inheritance, engages in sexual tourism in Thailand, where he meets a travel agent named Valérie. Valerie and Renault begin an affair, and, after moving back to France, hatch a plan with Valerie's boss (who works in the travel industry in the \"Aurore\" group, an allusion to the real-life Accor group) to launch a new variety of package holiday called \"friendly tourism\", implicitly aimed at Europeans looking for a sexual experience whilst on vacation. Single men and women—and even couples—are to be targeted, and would vacation in specially designed \"Aphrodite Clubs\".\n\nInitially, the name \"Venus clubs\"—an allusion to the Villa Venus clubs dreamed of by Eric Veen in Vladimir Nabokov's classic \"Ada or Ardor\"—is suggested, but is rejected as being too explicit. It is decided that Thailand is the best location for the new clubs, with the advertising making it clear that Thai women would also be easily available. The tours are to be marketed predominantly to German consumers, as it is perceived that there will be less moral outrage in Germany than in France.\n\nMichel, Valerie and her boss Jean-Yves travel to Thailand on one of their company's tours incognito and enjoy an idyllic holiday. They decide that they will move to Thailand permanently, to perpetuate the bliss they experience there. However, towards the end of their holiday, Muslim extremists commit a terrorist act in which Valérie is killed. Michel is left bereft, and at the end of the novel he travels back to Thailand to die. At this point, the reader realizes that the novel is in fact his suicide note.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293862", "title": "The Saga of Baby Divine", "text": "The Saga of Baby Divine\n\nThe Saga of Baby Divine is a children's picture book written by Bette Midler and illustrated by Todd Schorr. It was originally published in 1983.\n\nIt has been shown in a poster produced by the American Library Association, one of a series of posters where American celebrities such as Paul Newman, Isiah Thomas, and Michael J. Fox implored people to patronize their libraries and read. Bette Midler was shown in one such poster with a copy of \"The Saga of Baby Divine\", reading her own book.\n"}
{"id": "2293865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293865", "title": "Aspermia", "text": "Aspermia\n\nAspermia is the complete lack of semen with ejaculation (not to be confused with azoospermia, the lack of sperm cells in the semen). It is associated with infertility.\n\nOne of the causes of aspermia is retrograde ejaculation, which can be brought on by excessive drug use, or as a result of prostate surgery. It can also be caused by alpha blockers such as tamsulosin and silodosin.\n\nAnother cause of aspermia is ejaculatory duct obstruction, which may result in a complete lack of or a very low-concentration semen (oligospermia), in which the semen contains only the secretion of accessory prostate glands downstream to the orifice of the ejaculatory ducts.\n\nAspermia can be caused by androgen deficiency. This can be the result of absence of puberty, in which the prostate gland and seminal vesicles (which are the main sources of semen) remain small due to lack of androgen exposure and do not produce seminal fluid, or of treatment for prostate cancer, such as maximal androgen blockade.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293866", "title": "Simon Tolkien", "text": "Simon Tolkien\n\nSimon Mario Reuel Tolkien (born 12 January 1959) is a British novelist and former barrister. He is the grandson of J. R. R. Tolkien, and the oldest child of Christopher Tolkien.\n\nSimon was born in Oxford on 12 January 1959, the only child of Christopher Tolkien and his first wife, Faith Faulconbridge. His parents separated when he was five years old and he grew up with his mother. He was educated at the Dragon School in Oxford and then Downside School. He studied modern history at Trinity College, Oxford, after which he embarked on a fifteen-year career as a criminal lawyer.\n\nIn 1984, he married Tracy Steinberg, who was born in 1962. They have two children, a son Nicholas and a daughter Anna. Tracy owned and operated a vintage clothing store in Chelsea, London, called \"Steinberg & Tolkien\", which shut in September 2007.\n\nHe became a barrister in 1994. Tolkien currently lives in southern California with his wife Tracy. Simon's son Nicholas is a playwright and director who debuted with his first play \"Terezin\" in June 2017.\n\nIn January 2000, he began writing fiction. His first novel, which he has described as a black comedy, was not accepted for publication. His second novel, a courtroom drama, was published in the United States as \"The Final Witness\" in 2002 and in the United Kingdom as \"The Stepmother\" in 2003. His second published work, \"The Inheritance\" (the first of a trilogy featuring Inspector Trave of the Oxfordshire Criminal Investigation Department), was published in 2010. The second book of the Inspector Trave trilogy, \"The King of Diamonds\", was published in 2011. The third and final book in the trilogy, \"Orders from Berlin\", was published in 2012. \n\nHis 2016 novel, \"No Man's Land: a Novel\", was published concurrent with the 100-year anniversary of the Battle of the Somme; the middle third of the novel is set in that months-long World War I battle. The novel follows the life of a poor English child and young adult (Adam Raine), beginning with episodes of labour unrest in London and on to the strikes in coal mining communities, class distinctions, and home front experiences of World War I. Simon Tolkien acknowledges that the experiences of Adam Raine only superficially resemble those faced by his grandfather (J. R. R. Tolkien) in the same large long battle of the war, but he wanted to write something that in part paid tribute to his grandfather's pivotal war experience as a young man, only a few years older than the age of the protagonist of \"No Man's Land\".\n\nSimon Tolkien disagreed with the policy of his grandfather's estate in regard to \"The Lord of the Rings\" films. When Christopher Tolkien issued a statement that the \"Tolkien estate would be best advised to avoid any specific association with the films\", Simon Tolkien broke ranks, offering to cooperate with the filmmakers, stating \"It was my view that we take a much more positive line on the film and that was overruled by my father.\" Following up a 2001 interview with the \"Independent\", Simon in 2003 gave interviews to the \"Daily Telegraph\" and other media in which he discussed his strained relationship with his father, describing it as a permanent breach. However, they subsequently reconciled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293867", "title": "Queen Kelly", "text": "Queen Kelly\n\nQueen Kelly is an American silent film produced in 1928-29 and released by United Artists. The film was directed by Erich von Stroheim, starred Gloria Swanson, in the title role, Walter Byron as her lover, and Seena Owen. The film was produced by Joseph P. Kennedy, who was Swanson's lover at the time.\n\nIn 1932, Swanson was able to release a part-sound version in Europe and South America only because of her contract with Stroheim. This version had an alternate ending directed by Richard Boleslawski and filmed by cinematographer Gregg Toland.\n\nPrince Wolfram (Byron) is the betrothed of mad Queen Regina V of Kronberg (Owen). As punishment for partying with other women, he is sent on manoeuvres. He sees Kitty Kelly (Swanson) walking with other convent students and flirts with her. She is embarrassed when he makes a comment after seeing that her underwear is visible, so she takes it off and throws it at him, to the horror of the nuns, who punish her for her \"indecency\".\n\nEnthralled by her beauty, he kidnaps her that night from the convent, takes her to his room and professes his love for her. When the queen finds them together the next morning, she whips Kelly and throws her out of the castle. Regina then puts Wolfram in prison for not wanting to marry her.\n\nOriginal ending: Kelly goes to German East Africa to visit her dying aunt and is forced to marry a repulsive man named Jan. The aunt dies after the wedding and Kelly refuses to live with him, instead becoming the madam of her aunt's brothel. Her extravagances and style earn her the name \"Queen Kelly\".\n\nAlternate ending: Kelly dies in despair after her humiliation at the hands of the queen. Wolfram, contrite, visits her body.\n\n\nThe production of the costly film was shut down after complaints by Swanson about the direction the film was taking. Though the European scenes were full of innuendo, and featured a philandering prince and a sex-crazed queen, the scenes set in Africa were grim and, Swanson felt, distasteful. In later interviews, Swanson had claimed that she had been misled by the script which referred to her character arriving in, and taking over, a dance hall; looking at the rushes, it was obvious the 'dance hall' was actually a brothel.\n\nStroheim was fired from the film, and the African storyline scrapped. Swanson and Kennedy still wanted to salvage the European material because it had been so costly and time-consuming, and had potential market value. An alternate ending was, however, shot on November 24, 1931. In this ending, Kelly dies after her experiences with the prince (it is implied to be suicide). Prince Wolfram is shown visiting the palace. A nun leads him to the chapel, where Kelly's body lies in state. These scenes were directed by Richard Boleslawski, photographed by Gregg Toland, and edited by Viola Lawrence. This has been called the 'Swanson Ending'.\n\nThe film was not released theatrically in the United States, but it was shown in Europe and South America with the 'Swanson ending' added. This was due to a clause in Stroheim's contract.\n\nIn 1933, von Stroheim submitted a script called \"Poto Poto\" to MGM. Though it was never produced, the script contained several elements recycled from the African story of \"Queen Kelly\". A short extract of the film appears in \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950), representing an old silent picture Swanson's character Norma Desmond - herself a silent movie star - had made. Von Stroheim is also a primary character in \"Sunset Boulevard\" as her ex-director, ex-husband, and current butler. By some accounts, von Stroheim suggested the clip be used for its heavy irony. This was the first time viewers in the U.S. got to see any footage of the infamous collaboration.\n\nIn the 1960s, it was shown on television with the Swanson ending, along with a taped introduction and conclusion in which Swanson talked about the history of the project.\n\nBy 1985, Kino International had acquired the rights to the movie and restored two versions: one that uses still photos and subtitles in an attempt to wrap up the storyline, and the other the European \"suicide ending\" version. Kino remains the rights holder and is responsible for all distribution, including television and home video.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293868", "title": "Forty Stories", "text": "Forty Stories\n\nForty Stories collects forty of Donald Barthelme's short stories, several of which originally appeared in \"The New Yorker\". The book was first published by G. P. Putnam's Sons in 1987.\n\nWhile \"Sixty Stories\" includes many longer narratives, the stories in \"Forty Stories\" are pithy. Many last for fewer than five pages, and display Barthelme's flash fictional tendencies. They also abound in historical references and surreal juxtapositions. One story involves a World War I Secret Police investigator, a trio of German warplanes, and the artist Paul Klee. Another is a parodic rewriting of the fairy-tale Bluebeard, perhaps inspired by Angela Carter's story \"The Bloody Chamber.\" Yet another consists of a single seven-page-long sentence (without a concluding period).\n\nThe following stories appear in the book:\n\n\n\"Sixty Stories\", a companion volume to \"Forty Stories\", was published six years earlier, in 1981. It contains stories from Barthelme's first five collections.\n"}
{"id": "2293869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293869", "title": "Writ of execution", "text": "Writ of execution\n\nA writ of execution (also known as an execution) is a court order granted to put in force a judgment of possession obtained by a plaintiff from a court. When issuing a writ of execution, a court typically will order a sheriff or other similar official to take possession of property owned by a judgment debtor. Such property will often then be sold in a sheriff's sale and the proceeds remunerated to the plaintiff in partial or full satisfaction of the judgment. It is generally considered preferable for the sheriff simply to take possession of money from the defendant's bank account. If the judgment debtor owns real property, the judgment creditor can record the execution to \"freeze\" the title until the execution is satisfied.\n\nGenerally, execution is unnecessary for defendants who pay verdicts against themselves voluntarily. However, some defendants ignore judgments against them, and thereby force plaintiffs to employ writs of execution to actually enforce judgments.\n\nIn the United States, not all assets are subject to execution. For example, Social Security income that resides in a bank account is exempt from a levy on a debtor's bank account. Many states also protect an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) from execution as well as unemployment income, but the amount that is exempt may be limited.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293874", "title": "Upsetters 14 Dub Blackboard Jungle", "text": "Upsetters 14 Dub Blackboard Jungle\n\nBlack Board Jungle, often called Blackboard Jungle Dub, is a studio album by The Upsetters. The album, originally released in 1973 under artist name \"Upsetters 14 Dub\", was pressed in only 300 copies and issued only in Jamaica.\n\nAccording to Pauline Morrison, this was the first ever dub album that came out, although there is a lot of speculation on the subject. Nevertheless, this was the first stereo dub album, as well as the first to include reverb. Later pressings released as \"Blackboard Jungle Dub\" have a different track listing. The album was re-issued as a 3x 10\" colored vinyl box set as part of Record Store Day in April, 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293875", "title": "ACARS", "text": "ACARS\n\nIn aviation, ACARS (; an acronym for Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System) is a digital datalink system for transmission of short messages between aircraft and ground stations via airband radio or satellite. The protocol was designed by ARINC and deployed in 1978, using the Telex format. More ACARS radio stations were added subsequently by SITA.\n\nPrior to the introduction of datalink in aviation, all communication between the aircraft and ground personnel was performed by the flight crew using voice communication, using either VHF or HF voice radios. In many cases, the voice-relayed information involved dedicated radio operators and digital messages sent to an airline teletype system or successor systems.\n\nFurther, the hourly rates for flight and cabin crew salaries depended on whether the aircraft was airborne or not, and if on the ground whether it was at the gate or not. The flight crews reported these times by voice to geographically dispersed radio operators. Airlines wanted to eliminate self-reported times to preclude inaccuracies, whether accidental or deliberate. Doing so also reduced the need for human radio operators to receive the reports.\n\nIn an effort to reduce crew workload and improve data integrity, the engineering department at ARINC introduced the ACARS system in July 1978, as essentially an automated time clock system. Teledyne Controls produced the avionics and the launch customer was Piedmont Airlines. The original expansion of the abbreviation was \"Arinc Communications Addressing and Reporting System\". Later, it was changed to \"Aircraft Communications, Addressing and Reporting System\". The original avionics standard was ARINC 597, which defined an ACARS Management Unit consisting of discrete inputs for the doors, parking brake and weight on wheels sensors to automatically determine the flight phase and generate and send as telex messages. It also contained a MSK modem, which was used to transmit the reports over existing VHF voice radios. Global standards for ACARS were prepared by the Airlines Electronic Engineering Committee (AEEC). The first day of ACARS operations saw about 4,000 transactions, but it did not experience widespread use by the major airlines until the 1980s.\n\nEarly ACARS systems were extended over the years to support aircraft with digital data bus interfaces, flight management systems, and printers.\n\nACARS as a term refers to the complete air and ground system, consisting of equipment on board, equipment on the ground, and a service provider.\n\nOn-board ACARS equipment consists of end systems with a router, which routes messages through the air-ground subnetwork.\n\nGround equipment is made up of a network of radio transceivers managed by a central site computer called AFEPS (Arinc Front End Processor System), which handles and routes messages. Generally, ground ACARS units are either government agencies such as the Federal Aviation Administration, an airline operations headquarters, or, for small airlines or general aviation, a third-party subscription service. Usually government agencies are responsible for clearances, while airline operations handle gate assignments, maintenance, and passenger needs.\n\nGround system provision is the responsibility of either a participating air navigation service provider (ANSP) or an aircraft operator. Aircraft operators often contract out the function to either datalink service provider (DSP) or to a separate service provider. Messages from aircraft, especially automatically generated ones, can be pre-configured according to message type so that they are automatically delivered to the appropriate recipient just as ground-originated messages can be configured to reach the correct aircraft.\n\nThe ACARS equipment on the aircraft is linked to that on the ground by the DSP. Because the ACARS network is modeled after the point-to-point telex network, all messages come to a central processing location to be routed. ARINC and SITA are the two primary service providers, with smaller operations from others in some areas. Some areas have multiple service providers.\n\nACARS messages may be of three broad types:\n\nControl messages are used to communicate between the aircraft and its base, with messages either standardized according to ARINC Standard 633, or user-defined in accordance with ARINC Standard 618. The contents of such messages can be OOOI events, flight plans, weather information, equipment health, status of connecting flights, etc.\n\nA major function of ACARS is to automatically detect and report the start of each major flight phase, called OOOI events in the industry (out of the gate, off the ground, on the ground, and into the gate). These OOOI events are detected using input from aircraft sensors mounted on doors, parking brakes, and struts. At the start of each flight phase, an ACARS message is transmitted to the ground describing the flight phase, the time at which it occurred, and other related information such as the amount of fuel on board or the flight origin and destination. These messages are used to track the status of aircraft and crews.\n\nACARS interfaces with flight management systems (FMS), acting as the communication system for flight plans and weather information to be sent from the ground to the FMS. This enables the airline to update the FMS while in flight, and allows the flight crew to evaluate new weather conditions or alternative flight plans.\n\nACARS is used to send information from the aircraft to ground stations about the conditions of various aircraft systems and sensors in real-time. Maintenance faults and abnormal events are also transmitted to ground stations along with detailed messages, which are used by the airline for monitoring equipment health, and to better plan repair and maintenance activities.\n\nAutomated ping messages are used to test an aircraft's connection with the communication station. In the event that the aircraft ACARS unit has been silent for longer than a preset time interval, the ground station can ping the aircraft (directly or via satellite). A ping response indicates a healthy ACARS communication.\n\nACARS interfaces with interactive display units in the cockpit, which flight crews can use to send and receive technical messages and reports to or from ground stations, such as a request for weather information or clearances or the status of connecting flights. The response from the ground station is received on the aircraft via ACARS as well. Each airline customizes ACARS to this role to suit its needs.\n\nACARS messages may be sent using a choice of communication methods, such as VHF or HF, either direct to ground or via satellite, using minimum-shift keying (MSK) modulation.\n\nACARS can send messages over VHF if a VHF ground station network exists in the current area of the aircraft. VHF communication is line-of-sight propagation and the typical range is up to 200 nautical miles at high altitudes. Where VHF is absent, an HF network or satellite communication may be used if available. Satellite coverage may be limited at high latitudes (trans-polar flights).\n\nIn the wake of the crash of Air France Flight 447 in 2009, there was discussion about making ACARS an \"online-black-box\" to reduce the effects of the loss of a flight recorder. However no changes were made to the ACARS system.\n\nIn March 2014, ACARS messages and Doppler analysis of ACARS satellite communication data played a very significant role in efforts to trace Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 to an approximate location. While the primary ACARS system on board MH370 had been switched off, a second ACARS system called Classic Aero was active as long as the plane was powered up, and kept trying to establish a connection to an Inmarsat satellite every hour.\n\nThe ACARS unit on the Airbus A320 of EgyptAir Flight 804 sent ACARS messages indicating the presence of smoke in toilets and the avionics bay prior to the aircraft's crash into the Mediterranean Sea on May 19, 2016, which killed all 66 persons on board.\n\nIn 2002, ACARS was added to the NOAA Observing System Architecture. Thus commercial aircraft can act as weather data providers for weather agencies to use in their forecast models, sending meteorological observations like winds and temperatures over the ACARS network. NOAA provides real-time weather maps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293881", "title": "How to Talk Dirty and Influence People", "text": "How to Talk Dirty and Influence People\n\nHow to Talk Dirty and Influence People is an autobiography by Lenny Bruce, an American satirist and comedian, who died in 1966 at age 40 of a drug overdose.\n\nAt the request of Hugh Hefner and with the aid of Paul Krassner, Bruce wrote the work in serialized format for \"Playboy\" in 1964 and 1965. Shortly thereafter it was released as a book by Playboy Publishing. The book details the course of his career, which began in the late 1940s. In it, he challenges the sanctity of organized religion and other societal and political conventions he perceived as having hypocritical tendencies, and widened the boundaries of free speech. The title is a parody of the 1936 bestseller \"How to Win Friends and Influence People\", by Dale Carnegie.\n"}
{"id": "2293891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293891", "title": "List of Canadian flags", "text": "List of Canadian flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Canada. The Department of Canadian Heritage lays out protocol guidelines for the display of flags, including an order of precedence; these instructions are only conventional, however, and are generally intended to show respect for what are considered important symbols of the state or institutions. The Queen's personal standard is supreme in the order of precedence, followed by those for the monarch's representatives (depending on jurisdiction), the personal flags of other members of the Royal Family, and then the national flag and provincial flags.\n\nMany museums across Canada display historic flags in their exhibits. The Canadian Museum of History, in Hull, Quebec has many culturally important flags in their collections. Settlers, Rails & Trails Inc., in Argyle, Manitoba holds the 2nd largest exhibit - known as the Canadian Flag Collection.\n\nA number of private corporations also use their own flags, but they are often used alongside the Maple Leaf.\n\nA list of corporations with corporate flags:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293892", "title": "Benedetto Varchi", "text": "Benedetto Varchi\n\nBenedetto Varchi (; 1502/15031565) was an Italian humanist, a historian and poet.\n\nBorn in Florence to a family that had originated at Montevarchi, he frequented the neoplatonic academy that Bernardo Rucellai organized in his garden, the Orti Oricellari; there, in spite of the fact that Rucellai was married to the elder sister of Lorenzo de' Medici, republican ideals circulated, in the context of revived classical culture, that culminated in a plot in 1513 to subvert Medici rule in Florence. At Pisa, Varchi studied to become a notary.\n\nWith his return to Florence, he fought in the defense of the temporarily revived Republic of Florence, during the siege by the Mediceans and imperialists in 1530, and was exiled after the surrender of the city; he spent time at Padua (1537), where he was a protégé of the émigré Piero Strozzi and at Bologna (1540). In 1536 he took part in Strozzi's unsuccessful expedition against Medicean rule, but seven years later Varchi was called back to Florence by Cosimo I, who gave him a pension and commissioned him to write a history of the city. His \"Storia fiorentina\" (16 vol.) covers the period from 1527 to 1538, though it was so frank it was not published in Florence until 1721. Varchi also wrote a number of plays, poems, dialogues and translations from the classics.\n\nWith his return to Medici patronage, he became a member of the Accademia fiorentina, occupied with studies of linguistics, literary criticism, esthetics and philosophy, but also, as became a Renaissance humanist in botany and alchemy. His tract \"L'Hercolano\", in the form of a dialogue between the writer and a \"conte Ercolano\", discussed the Tuscan dialect as it was spoken at Florence, in the vulgar rather than in Latin, an innovation in works of linguistics; it was published posthumously, in 1570. He wrote a comedy \"La Suocera\" (\"The Mother-in-Law\").\n\nTowards the end of his life he had a spiritual crisis and took holy orders.\n\nIn Ezra Pound's \"CANTOS\", Varchi is mentioned with approbation (Canto V) for his honesty as an historian who did not try to fill in gaps in an historical record just to make that record neat. Rather, he was willing to admit that he did not know or that the motives or the events surrounding a particular incident could not be absolutely determined. Pound gives as an example of Varchi's honesty his investigation—for his history of Florence—of the murder of Alessandro de' Medici. Varchi admitted that after all his attempts to uncover the facts he could not decide on the motives of Alessandro's murderer (Lorenzino de' Medici, Alessandro's cousin).\n\nIn his time Varchi was notorious for his many sonnets to young boys. Though his loves were not always reciprocated, and despite his denunciations of men who engaged in \"filthy loves,\" he was criticized by his contemporaries for his attachments to young boys. One critic mocked him in a satire: \"O father Varchi, new Socrates . . . his arms open and his trousers down, this is how your Bembo is waiting for you in the Elyssian Fields.\" Another comments on his legacy, \"But since he was always inclined to boy love . . . he greatly lessened the reputation that would have been rightfully appropriate.\" In 1545, Varchi was arrested and tried for pederasty, and was eventually pardoned by Cosimo de' Medici upon the intercession of his many friends.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293895", "title": "Galavisión", "text": "Galavisión\n\nGalavisión is a US-based, Spanish-language pay television network owned by Univision Communications, Inc. The network is unrelated to the earlier Mexican channel of the same name, though both broadcast Televisa-produced programming.\n\nAs of February 2015, approximately 68,355,000 American households (58.7% of households with television) received Galavisión.\n\nGalavisión started on April 2, 1979, as a premium cable network, broadcasting a mix of classic and recent Mexican and other Spanish-language films as well as Spanish-dubbed recent Hollywood productions.\n\nBy 1984, the network became a general entertainment basic cable channel, offering a combination of Televisa programming and SIN reruns.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, Galavisión was led by Javier Saralegui and aired a mix of Spanish- and English-language programs like \"Kiki desde Hollywood\" or \"Funny is Funny\". They also incorporated Miami-produced variety entertainment show \"A Oscuras Pero Encendidos\", hosted by Paul Bouche. It complemented this strategy with Televisa-produced programs that first aired on Univision, with entertainment and some news programs from Televisa's all-news network ECO, including an \"Entertainment Tonight\"-style program anchored by Pita Ojeda and Ilia Calderón.\n\nSince the year 2000, Galavisión aired a combination of classic comedy, telenovelas, and late night shows from the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s that aired originally on Univision, with more present-day offerings from news, sports and specials originating from Televisa's three networks, Las Estrellas, FOROtv, and Gala TV as well as two shows produced by Televisa's music network, TeleHit.\n\nOn its most recent programming strategy, Galavisión expanded original productions with shows like \"Acceso máximo\", \"En casa con Lucy\", \"Delicioso\" (hosted by Ingrid Hoffmann), \"Vida total\", \"Decorando contigo\", \"Un destino\", \"Lo mejor de boxeo en esta esquina\", the best of sister network UniMás's \"Solo boxeo\" series.\n\nThe Televisa produced programming is also crafted to fit strict broadcast standards.\n\nGalavisión's coverage of soccer, produced by Televisa, is done with a secondary or \"clean\" feed in which any references to Televisa are not shown and Galavisión supplants the feed with Univision's announcers and graphics. In the early days, Galavisión would use the whole Televisa feed while covering any Televisa promotions or sponsor tags with a green generic Galavisión border logo.\n\nAs for news programming, Galavisión, while owned by Univision Networks, has no news operations and instead airs newscasts from Televisa's networks Canal de las Estrellas, FOROtv, and Gala TV.\n\nBecause most of Mexico does not observe daylight saving time the same day as the United States, morning programs like \"Despierta con Carlos Loret de Mola\" are aired on an hour delay on Galavisión during said time, from the second Sunday in March until the first Sunday in April and again during the week between the last Sunday in October and the first Sunday in April.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe channel launched in 1080i high definition on June 1, 2010. DirecTV launched the channel in HD on August 15, 2013.\n\nGalavisión, along with its sister channels, Univision, UniMás, Univision Deportes Network and Univision Tlnovelas were dropped by AT&T U-verse on March 4, 2016, due to a carriage dispute. This did not affected DirecTV Customers (although it is a Subsidiary of U-Verse's parent company, AT&T) as this was done in a different contract before AT&T acquired DirecTV. All of Univision's networks, including Galavisión, were returned to the U-verse lineup on March 24, 2016 after finalizing a carriage deal.\n\nOn January 27, 2017, Charter Spectrum (along with Time Warner Cable and Bright House, the latter merged with Charter Communications on 2016) faced another dispute with Univision, warning Charter Communications that Galavision and its sister channels could be removed from Charter by January 31, 2017. Prior to then, Univision sued Charter over pay carriage rates at the New York Supreme Court in July 2016. On January 31, 2017, Charter customers lost access to all of Univision's channels, including UniMás, and Galavisión (including access to its Owned-and-Operated Stations via Charter). On February 2, the New York Superior Court ordered Univision to end the blackout on Charter as negotiations continue. This blackout affects all Univision affiliates, even if Univision doesn't own them, so this dispute includes all stations owned by Entravision Communications, even if Entravision was not involved in the dispute.\n\nOn October 16, 2017 at around 5 PM EDT, Verizon FiOS, without any warning, pulled Univision, along with UniMás, UDN, and Galavisión despite an extension of an agreement arranged by the two. It also caused FOROtv to be removed during the dispute as well, despite being not owned by Univision.\n"}
{"id": "2293898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293898", "title": "Mark Vella Tomlin", "text": "Mark Vella Tomlin\n\nMark Vella Tomlin (7 January 1959 – 10 July 2009), a Maltese national, worked as an airline pilot with Medavia between 1993 and July 2008 when he stopped working for health reasons. After being awarded his captaincy, Mark flew the CASA-212-200 Aviocar on operations mainly in the Libyan desert, ferrying supplies and personnel to remote desert airstrips.\n\nMark was as happy discussing world politics with the likes of Jimmy Carter (as he once did when he unexpectedly bumped into the former president in the lobby of the Sheraton Hotel in Ethiopia while ferrying company aircraft) as he was with encouraging his many close friends, all around the world. He was a true internationalist.\n\nHe flew the stunt aircraft that appeared in the James Bond film \"The World Is Not Enough\" released in 1999. Mark Vella Tomlin survived cancer in 2000 and returned to commercial flying in 2001. He traveled extensively promoting 'one people, one world' and was involved with humanitarian work in central Africa for the International Red Cross. He booked himself onto the infamous Pan Am Flight 103 on Wednesday 21 December 1988, but changed his plans at the last minute. That flight exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland.\n\nMark succumbed to a recurrence of cancer on Friday 10 July, having borne his illness with Christian fortitude and great courage. He passed into eternal life exactly four years and a day after his marriage to Rose, née Ricarte.\n"}
{"id": "2293902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293902", "title": "1885 in archaeology", "text": "1885 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1885 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293904", "title": "Fahamore", "text": "Fahamore\n\nFahamore () is a small hamlet/village on the Maharees peninsula in County Kerry. It consists of about 50 houses and one famous pub, Spillane's. Fahamore was historically much more populated than it is now as evidenced by two old schoolhouses in the village, one dating from 1849 and the other from 1911. Fahamore is located on the shore of Brandon Bay and is a centre for diving, surfing, windsurfing and sea bass fishing.\n\nFahamore is also a centre for currach (or Naomhóg) building, and currachs are still used as both fishing boats and trawler tenders at the local fishing harbour on Scraggane Bay. Fahamore hosts a currach racing regatta every July where teams from the western seaboard of Ireland (from Kerry to Galway) compete in the All-Ireland Currach racing series.\n\nThe cliff face at Fahamore has extensive evidence of prehistoric settlement in the form of shell middens - a survey of the middens can be found in the book \"Archaeological Survey of the Dingle Peninsula\".\n\nThe Night of the Big Wind - local oral histories tell of a night in 1839 when there was a particularly bad storm.\n\nA three masted sailing ship, the \"Charger\", carrying a cargo of deal, was wrecked in Carralougha in 1890 - the remains of the ship's boilers are still in evidence on the rocks near Fahamore at low tide.\n\nA sea wall was built, probably in the 19th century, to prevent coastal erosion - it had limited success, as it now lies in pieces about 20m from the cliff edge - in the 1990s rock armour was put in place by Kerry County Council to protect the coast from Fahamore southwards for a distance of about two kilometers.\n\nA comprehensive list of local placenames and their origins is contained in the book \"Triocha Cead Corca Dhuibhne\" by An Seabhac.\nThe real meaning of Fahamore is the 'Big Green' i.e. a reference to the big open green area in front of Spillane's bar.\n\nVillages near Fahamore (i.e. on the Maharees peninsula) include Cutteen, Garrywilliam, Barr na Duiche, Ceann Duiche and Kilshanig. Access to the beach at Brandon Bay is via the Point Gap and Maherabeg Cut.\n\nThe pier at Fahamore (situated on the western side of Scraggane Bay) is used extensively during the summer months by the local fishing fleet, which consists of around 20 half-decked and decked boats in the range 7–15 metres. Species fished include the European lobster (\"Homarus gammarus\"), spiny lobster or crayfish, spider crab, edible crab, and Atlantic salmon (\"Salmo salar\"). In the winter there is a managed fishery in Tralee Bay for the European oyster (\"Ostrea edulis\").\n\nFishing methods include pots and tangle nets for crabs, lobsters and crayfish and monofilament drift nets for salmon. Shellfish are typically stored in large wooden \"storeboxes\", which are moored in Scraggane Bay, until the day of selling, when they are transferred to \"vivier\" trucks for live export to Spain and France.\n\nThe \"fish pond\" at Kilshanig, which was originally intended to store lobsters, is now used as an abalone farm.\n\nThe fields around Fahamore are extensively cultivated with vegetables including carrots, parsnips, swedes and onions, which thrive in the sandy soil. There has is also some dairying activity and raising of cattle for beef.\n\nTourism is a contributor to the local economy, through holiday home rentals, pubs and restaurants, surfing, windsurfing, scuba diving, walking and sea angling.\n\nRabbits abound around Fahamore, as do rats, mice and the odd fox and badger. Local birds include seabirds (including several species of seagull, shags, cormorants, and gannets), larks, starlings, curlews, crows, ravens, garden birds such as sparrows, robins and finches, and wading birds such as the heron. The swallow is a frequent visitor in the summer months.\n\nMarine mammals including seals and dolphins are frequently seen. Fish include sea bass, mullet, pollack, wrasse, dogfish, sea trout, flounder, plaice and ray. Shellfish found in the intertidal zone at Fahamore include mussels, limpets, periwinkles and whelks, as well as several species of crab, including shore, velvet and hermit.\n\nLugworms are found extensively in the sand and their casts may be seen at low tide. They are frequently dug by local anglers and used as bait for bass fishing. Seaweeds include kelp, several varieties of wrack (including bladder and serrated), dilisc (or dulse), agar, sea grass, sea lettuce and carrageen moss.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293910", "title": "John F. Seitz", "text": "John F. Seitz\n\nJohn Francis Seitz, A.S.C. (June 23, 1892 – February 27, 1979) was an American cinematographer and inventor.\n\nHe was nominated for seven Academy Awards.\n\nHis Hollywood career began in 1909 as a lab assistant with the Essanay Film Manufacturing Company in Chicago. He went to work as a lab technician for the American Film Manufacturing Company (known as \"Flying A\"), also in Chicago.\n\nSeitz got his first chance to establish himself as lead cameraman in 1916, and he achieved great success with the director Rex Ingram, most famously on the Rudolph Valentino film, \"The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse\" (1921).\n\nHighly regarded by director Billy Wilder, Seitz worked with him on the film noirs \"Double Indemnity\" (1944), \"The Lost Weekend\" (1945), and \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950), receiving Academy Award nominations for each.\n\nDuring his career he received seven nominations for Academy Award for Best Cinematography. In 1929 he served as president of the American Society of Cinematographers (A.S.C.) for a year, and had been a member since 1923. The A.S.C. named the 2002 Heritage Award after Seitz.\n\nSeitz retired in 1960 and devoted himself to photographic inventions for which he held 18 patents. An example of a Seitz invention is the matte shot: a large painting is photographed separately and later added to a scene to expand it, add effects, and/or create a sense of depth in backgrounds. He was also noted for his innovations with low-key lighting, which enhanced the film noir style.\nA widower, he married screenwriter Marie Boyle in 1934 who raised his daughter Margaret Alice Marhoefer and later gave birth to a son, John Lawrence Seitz.\n\nBurial: Holy Cross Cemetery. \n\nSource:\n\n\nNominations\n\n"}
{"id": "2293916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293916", "title": "Tide table", "text": "Tide table\n\nTide tables, sometimes called tide charts, are used for tidal prediction and show the daily times and levels of high and low tides, usually for a particular location. Tide heights at intermediate times (between high and low water) can be approximated by using the rule of twelfths or more accurately calculated by using a published tidal curve for the location. Tide levels are typically given relative to a low-water vertical datum, e.g. the mean lower low water (MLLW) datum in the US.\n\nTide tables are published in various forms, such as paper-based tables and tables available on the Internet. Most tide tables are calculated and published only for major ports, called \"standard ports\", and only for one year — standard ports can be relatively close together or hundreds of kilometers apart. The tide times for a minor port are estimated by the tide-table user manually calculating using the published time and height differences between a standard port and the minor port.\n\nThe dates of spring tides and neap tides, approximately seven days apart, can be determined by the heights of the tides on the classic tide tables: a small range indicates neaps and large indicates springs. \n\nThe cycle of tides is dependent on the phase of the moon, with the highest tides (spring tides) occurring near full moon and new moon. As the lunar cycle is about 29.5 days, successive tides are approximately 24/29th of an hour later each day or about 50 minutes but many other observations and considerations are required to develop accurate tide tables. On the Atlantic coast of northwest Europe, the interval between each low and high tide averages about 6 hours and 10 minutes, giving two high tides and two low tides each day, with the highest tides about 2 days after full moon.\n\nTide prediction was long beset by the problem of laborious calculations. Before the use of digital computers tide tables were often generated by the use of a special-purpose calculating machine, the tide-predicting machine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293923", "title": "C. F. Varley", "text": "C. F. Varley\n\nCromwell Fleetwood \"C.F.\" Varley, FRSA (6 April 1828 – 2 September 1883) was an English engineer, particularly associated with the development of the electric telegraph and the transatlantic telegraph cable. He also took interest in the claims of parapsychology and spiritualism.\n\nBorn in Kentish Town, London, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley was the second of ten children. His father was Cornelius Varley, an active member of the Society of Arts (now the Royal Society of Arts), best known for his scientific research. His mother was the former Elizabeth Livermore Straker. C.F. Varley's brothers, Samuel Alfred Varley and Frederick Henry Varley, were also improvers and inventors in connection with telegraphy. The family believed themselves the descendants of Oliver Cromwell and General Charles Fleetwood, hence his given names. The family were Sandemanians, part of the same congregation as Michael Faraday, but Varley did not continue his association with the sect into adult life. A first cousin was the microscopist Andrew Pritchard.\n\nVarley joined the newly founded Electric Telegraph Company in 1846, becoming chief engineer for the London area by 1852 and for the entire company by 1861. He devised many techniques and instruments for fault-finding and for improving the performance of the telegraph. In 1870, he patented the \"cymaphen\", a kind of telegraph that could transmit speech. The first transatlantic telegraph cable failed in 1858 and Varley was appointed to an investigative committee, set up jointly by the first Atlantic cable in 1858, he was appointed to a joint investigative committee established by the Board of Trade and the Atlantic Telegraph Company.\n\nThe committee reported in 1861 and resulted in a second cable in 1865, Varley replacing Wildman Whitehouse as chief electrician. Despite the difficulties of the second cable, it was an ultimate success and Varley developed many improvements in technology. Varley was an astute businessman and the partnership that he formed with the 1st Baron Kelvin and Fleeming Jenkin to exploit their respective telegraphic inventions yielded large profits for the three men.\n\nHe was sympathetic to the claims of Spiritualism and carried out investigations with fellow physicist William Crookes using a galvanometer to make measurements of the supposed phenomena.\n\nIn 1871, he authored a scientific paper suggesting that cathode rays were streams of particles of electricity. Varley believed cathode radiation was caused by the collision of particles. His belief was based on the idea that because the rays were deflected in the presence of a magnet, these particles have to be considered carriers of an electric charge. This led him to believe that the electrically charged particles should be deflected by the presence of an electric field. He was never able to prove this. \n\nVarley had two sons and two daughters with his first wife, Ellen (née Rouse), whom he married on 4 October 1855. Upon returning from a trip abroad, he discovered that his wife had gone off with Ion Perdicaris, a wealthy Greek-American. After the divorce was granted in 1873, she and the children settled with Perdicaris at Tangiers, Morocco. In 1904, Varley's elder son, also named Cromwell, was kidnapped along with Perdicaris by Mulai Ahmed er Raisuni, precipitating an international incident before both men were released unharmed.\n\nOn 11 January 1877, Varley married Heleanor Jessie Smith, daughter of Capt. Charles Smith of Forres, Scotland.\n\nC.F. Varley died at Cromwell House, Bexleyheath, Kent, in 1883, aged 55, from undisclosed causes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293925", "title": "Bernhardus Varenius", "text": "Bernhardus Varenius\n\nBernhardus Varenius (Bernhard Varen) (1622, Hitzacker, Lower Saxony1650) was a German geographer.\n\nHis early years (from 1627) were spent at Uelzen, where his father was court preacher to the duke of Brunswick. Varenius studied at the gymnasium of Hamburg (1640–1642), and at Königsberg (1643–1645) and Leiden (1645–1649) universities, where he devoted himself to mathematics and medicine, taking his medical degree at Leiden in 1649. He then settled at Amsterdam, intending to practice medicine. But the recent discoveries of Abel Tasman, Willem Schouten and other Dutch navigators, and his friendship for Willem Blaeu and other geographers, attracted Varenius to geography. He died in 1650, aged only twenty-eight, a victim to the privations and miseries of a poor scholar's life.\n\nIn 1649 he published, through L. Elzevir of Amsterdam, his \"Descriptio Regni Japoniae\". In this was included a translation into Latin of part of Jodocus Schouten's account of Siam (\"Appendix de religione Siamensium, ex Descriptione Belgica Iodoci Schoutenii\"), and chapters on the religions of various peoples. Next year (1650) appeared, also through Elzevir, the work by which he is best known, his \"Geographia Generalis\", in which he endeavored to lay down the general principles of the subject on a wide scientific basis, according to the knowledge of his day. The work is divided into (1) absolute geography, (2) relative geography and (3) comparative geography. The first investigates mathematical facts relating to the earth as a whole, its figure, dimensions, motions, their measurement, etc. The second part considers the earth as affected by the sun and stars, climates, seasons, the difference of apparent time at different places, variations in the length of the day, etc. The third part treats briefly the actual divisions of the surface of the earth, their relative positions, globe and map-construction, longitude, navigation, etc.\n\nVarenius, with the materials at his command, dealt with the subject of geography in a truly philosophic spirit; and his work long held its position as the best treatise in existence on scientific and comparative geography. The work went through many editions. Sir Isaac Newton introduced several important improvements into the Cambridge edition of 1672; in 1715 James Jurin issued another Cambridge edition with a valuable appendix; in 1733 the whole work was translated into English by Dugdale; and in 1736 Dugdale's second edition was revised by Shaw. In 1716 an Italian edition appeared at Naples; in 1750 a Dutch translation followed; in 1751 Osman b. Abdulemennan translated it into Turkish; and in 1755 a French version, from Shaw's edition, came out at Paris. Among later geographers d'Anville and Alexander von Humboldt especially drew attention to Varen's genius and services to science.\n\n\n\nVarenius's (1650), \"Geographia generalis, in qua affectiones generales telluris explicantur\", from the Linda Hall Library\n"}
{"id": "2293931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293931", "title": "Eşref Apak", "text": "Eşref Apak\n\nEşref Apak (born 3 January 1982 in Kalecik, Ankara) is a Turkish hammer thrower. Apak was a member of Fenerbahçe Athletics in Istanbul then transferred to Enkaspor, where he is coached by Artun Talay. The tall athlete at is a student of physical education and sports at Gazi University in Ankara.\n\nApak took part at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens and won a surprising bronze medal with 79.51 m after the gold medalist Hungarian athlete Adrián Annus was disqualified by IOC for a doping violation. In 2005 Apak participated at the 2005 Mediterranean Games in Almería and won the gold medal with his throw of 77.88 metres.\n\nHis personal best performance, and Turkish record, is 81.45 metres set on 4 June 2005 at the Cezmi Or Memorial Games.\n\nEşref Apak is married to sprinter Sema Aydemir, and the couple has a son Ali.\n\nHe served a 2-year doping ban for the use of a prohibited substance, Stanozolol. The ban lasted from 8 June 2013 to 25 June 2015.\n"}
{"id": "2293939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293939", "title": "Comarnic", "text": "Comarnic\n\nComarnic () is a town in Prahova County, Muntenia, Romania, with a population of 13,500. Four villages are administered by the town: Ghioșești, Podu Lung, Poiana and Posada.\nIts name origin is the Romanian word \"comarnic\" for a kind of a shepherd's hut, of Slavic origin: \"komar\"=mosquito+ -nik, literally, \"retreat from mosquitoes\". It is used for milking sheep and storing milk and other dairy products.\n"}
{"id": "2293942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293942", "title": "1881 in archaeology", "text": "1881 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1881 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293952", "title": "Ancient technology", "text": "Ancient technology\n\nDuring the growth of the ancient civilizations, ancient technology was the result from advances in engineering in ancient times. These advances in the history of technology stimulated societies to adopt new ways of living and governance.\n\nThis article includes the advances in technology and the development of several engineering sciences in historic times before the Middle Ages, which began after the fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476, the death of Justinian I in the 6th century, the coming of Islam in the 7th century, or the rise of Charlemagne in the 8th century. For technologies developed in medieval societies, see Medieval technology and Inventions in medieval Islam.\n\nA significant number of inventions were developed in the Islamic world; a geopolitical region that has at times extended from al-Andalus and Africa in the west to the Indian subcontinent and Malay Archipelago in the east. Many of these inventions had direct implications for Fiqh related issues.\n\nTechnology in Africa has a history stretching to the beginning of the human species, stretching back to the first evidence of tool use by hominid ancestors in the areas of Africa where humans are believed to have evolved. Africa saw the advent of some of the earliest ironworking technology in the Aïr Mountains region of what is today Niger and the erection of some of the world's oldest monuments, pyramids and towers in Egypt, Nubia, and North Africa. In Nubia and ancient Kush, glazed quartzite and building in brick was developed to a greater extent than in Egypt. Parts of the East African Swahili Coast saw the creation of the world's oldest carbon steel creation with high-temperature blast furnaces created by the Haya people of Tanzania.\n\nThey were one of the first Bronze Age people in the world. Early on they used copper, bronze and gold, and later they used iron. Palaces were decorated with hundreds of kilograms of these very expensive metals. Also, copper, bronze, and iron were used for armor as well as for different weapons such as swords, daggers, spears, and maces.\n\nPerhaps the most important advance made by the Mesopotamians was the invention of writing by the Sumerians. With the invention of writing came the first recorded laws called the Code of Hammurabi as well as the first major piece of literature called the Epic of Gilgamesh.\n\nSeveral of the six classic simple machines were invented in Mesopotamia. Mesopotamians have been credited with the invention of the wheel. The wheel and axle mechanism first appeared with the potter's wheel, invented in Mesopotamia (modern Iraq) during the 5th millennium BC. This led to the invention of the wheeled vehicle in Mesopotamia during the early 4th millennium BC. Depictions of wheeled wagons found on clay tablet pictographs at the Eanna district of Uruk are dated between 3700–3500 BCE. The lever was used in the shadoof water-lifting device, the first crane machine, which appeared in Mesopotamia circa 3000 BC. and then in ancient Egyptian technology circa 2000 BC. The earliest evidence of pulleys date back to Mesopotamia in the early 2nd millennium BC.\n\nThe screw, the last of the simple machines to be invented, first appeared in Mesopotamia during the Neo-Assyrian period (911-609) BC. According to the assyriologist Stephanie Dalley, the earliest pump was the screw pump, first used by Sennacherib, King of Assyria, for the water systems at the Hanging Gardens of Babylon and Nineveh in the 7th century BCE. This attribution, however, is disputed by the historian John Peter Oleson.\n\nThe Mesopotamians used a sexagesimal number system with the base 60 (like we use base 10). They divided time up by 60s including a 60-second minute and a 60-minute hour, which we still use today. They also divided up the circle into 360 degrees. They had a wide knowledge of mathematics including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, quadratic and cubic equations, and fractions. This was important in keeping track of records as well as in some of their large building projects. The Mesopotamians had formulas for figuring out the circumference and area for different geometric shapes like rectangles, circles, and triangles. Some evidence suggests that they even knew the Pythagorean Theorem long before Pythagoras wrote it down. They may have even discovered the number for pi in figuring the circumference of a circle.\n\nBabylonian astronomy was able to follow the movements of the stars, planets, and the Moon. Application of advanced math predicted the movements of several planets. By studying the phases of the Moon, the Mesopotamians created the first calendar. It had 12 lunar months and was the predecessor for both the Jewish and Greek calendars.\n\nBabylonian medicine used logic and recorded medical history to be able to diagnose and treat illnesses with various creams and pills. Mesopotamians had two kinds of medical practices, magical and physical. Unlike today they would use both on the same patient. They didn't see it as one as good and one as bad.\n\nThe Mesopotamians made many technological discoveries. They were the first to use the potter's wheel to make better pottery, they used irrigation to get water to their crops, they used bronze metal (and later iron metal) to make strong tools and weapons, and used looms to weave cloth from wool.\n\nThe Jerwan Aqueduct (c. 688 BC) is made with stone arches and lined with waterproof concrete.\n\nFor later technologies developed in the Mesopotamian region, now known as Iraq, see Persia below for developments under the ancient Persian Empire, and the Inventions in medieval Islam and Arab Agricultural Revolution articles for developments under the medieval Islamic Caliphates.\n\nThe Egyptians invented and used many simple machines, such as the ramp to aid construction processes. They were among the first to extract gold by large-scale mining using fire-setting, and the first recognisable map, the Turin papyrus shows the plan of one such mine in Nubia.\n\nThe Egyptians are known for building pyramids centuries before the creation of modern tools. Historians and archaeologists have found evidence that the Egyptian pyramids were built using three of what is called the Six Simple Machines, from which all machines are based. These machines are the inclined plane, the wedge, and the lever, which allowed the ancient Egyptians to move millions of limestone blocks which weighed approximately 3.5 tons (7,000 lbs.) each into place to create structures like the Great Pyramid of Giza, which is 481 feet (146.7 meters) high.\n\nEgyptian paper, made from papyrus, and pottery were mass-produced and exported throughout the Mediterranean basin. The wheel, however, did not arrive until foreign invaders introduced the chariot. They developed Mediterranean maritime technology including ships and lighthouses. Early construction techniques utilized by the Ancient Egyptians made use of bricks composed mainly of clay, sand, silt, and other minerals. These constructs would have been vital in flood control and irrigation, especially along the Nile delta.\n\nThe screw pump is the oldest positive displacement pump. The first records of a screw pump, also known as a water screw or Archimedes' screw, dates back to Ancient Egypt before the 3rd century BC. The Egyptian screw, used to lift water from the Nile, was composed of tubes wound round a cylinder; as the entire unit rotates, water is lifted within the spiral tube to the higher elevation. A later screw pump design from Egypt had a spiral groove cut on the outside of a solid wooden cylinder and then the cylinder was covered by boards ot sheets of metal closely covering the surfaces between the grooves. The screw pump was later introduced from Egypt to Greece.\n\nFor later technologies in Ptolemaic Egypt and Roman Egypt, see Ancient Greek technology and Roman technology, respectively. For later technology in medieval Arabic Egypt, see Inventions in medieval Islam and Arab Agricultural Revolution.\n\nThe history of science and technology in the Indian subcontinent dates back to the earliest civilizations of the world. The Indus Valley civilization yields evidence of mathematics, hydrography, metrology, metallurgy, astronomy, medicine, surgery, civil engineering and sewage collection and disposal being practiced by its inhabitants.\n\nThe Indus Valley Civilization, situated in a resource-rich area (in modern Pakistan and northwestern India), is notable for its early application of city planning, sanitation technologies, and plumbing. Cities in the Indus Valley offer some of the first examples of closed gutters, public baths, and communal granaries.\n\nThe Takshashila University was an important seat of learning in the ancient world. It was the center of education for scholars from all over Asia. Many Greek, Persian and Chinese students studied here under great scholars including Kautilya, Panini, Jivaka, and Vishnu Sharma.\nThe ancient system of medicine in India, Ayurveda was a significant milestone in Indian history. It mainly uses herbs as medicines. Its origins can be traced back to origin of Atharvaveda. The Sushruta Samhita (400 BC) by Sushruta has details about performing cataract surgery, plastic surgery, etc.\n\nAncient India was also at the forefront of seafaring technology - a panel found at Mohenjo-daro, depicts a sailing craft. Ship construction is vividly described in the Yukti Kalpa Taru, an ancient Indian text on Shipbuilding. (The Yukti Kalpa Taru had been translated and published by Prof. Aufrecht in his 'Catalogue of Sanskrit Manuscripts').\n\nIndian construction and architecture, called 'Vaastu Shastra', suggests a thorough understanding or materials engineering, hydrology, and sanitation. Ancient Indian culture was also pioneering in its use of vegetable dyes, cultivating plants including indigo and cinnabar. Many of the dyes were used in art and sculpture. The use of perfumes demonstrates some knowledge of chemistry, particularly distillation and purification processes.\n\nThe history of science and technology in China shows significant advances in science, technology, mathematics, and astronomy. The first recorded observations of comets, solar eclipses, and supernovae were made in China. Traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture and herbal medicine were also practiced. The Four Great Inventions of China: the compass, gunpowder, papermaking, and printing were among the most important technological advances, only known in Europe by the end of the Middle Ages.\n\nAccording to the Scottish researcher Joseph Needham, the Chinese made many first-known discoveries and developments. Major technological contributions from China include early seismological detectors, matches, paper, the double-action piston pump, cast iron, the iron plough, the multi-tube seed drill, the suspension bridge, natural gas as fuel, the magnetic compass, the raised-relief map, the propeller, the crossbow, the south-pointing chariot, and gunpowder. Other Chinese discoveries and inventions from the Medieval period, according to Joseph Needham's research, include: block printing and movable type, phosphorescent paint, and the spinning wheel.\n\nThe solid-fuel rocket was invented in China about 1150 AD, nearly 200 years after the invention of black powder (which acted as the rocket's fuel). At the same time that the age of exploration was occurring in the West, the Chinese emperors of the Ming Dynasty also sent ships, some reaching Africa. But the enterprises were not further funded, halting further exploration and development. When Ferdinand Magellan's ships reached Brunei in 1521, they found a wealthy city that had been fortified by Chinese engineers, and protected by a breakwater. Antonio Pigafetta noted that much of the technology of Brunei was equal to Western technology of the time. Also, there were more cannons in Brunei than on Magellan's ships, and the Chinese merchants to the Brunei court had sold them spectacles and porcelain, which were rarities in Europe.\n\nThe Qanat, a water management system used for irrigation, originated in Iran before the Achaemenid period of Persia. The oldest and largest known qanat is in the Iranian city of Gonabad which, after 2,700 years, still provides drinking and agricultural water to nearly 40,000 people.\n\nThe earliest evidence of water wheels and watermills date back to the ancient Near East in the 4th century BC, specifically in the Persian Empire before 350 BCE, in the regions of Mesopotamia (Iraq) and Persia (Iran). This pioneering use of water power constituted the first human-devised motive force not to rely on muscle power (besides the sail).\n\nIn the 7th century AD, Persians in Afghanistan developed the first practical windmills. For later medieval technologies developed in Islamic Persia, see Inventions in medieval Islam and Arab Agricultural Revolution.\n\nLacking suitable beasts of burden and inhabiting domains often too mountainous or boggy for wheeled transport, the ancient civilizations of the Americas did not develop wheeled transport or the mechanics associated with animal power. Nevertheless, they produced advanced engineering including above ground and underground aqueducts, quake-proof masonry, artificial lakes, dykes, 'fountains,' pressurized water, road ways and complex terracing. Equally, gold-working commenced early in Peru (2000 BCE), and eventually copper, tin, lead and bronze were used. Although metallurgy did not spread to Mesoamerica until the Middle Ages, it was employed here and in the Andes for sophisticated alloys and gilding. The Native Americans developed a complex understanding of the chemical properties or utility of natural substances, with the result that a majority of the world's early medicinal drugs and edible crops, many important adhesives, paints, fibres, plasters, and other useful items were the products of these civilizations. Perhaps the best-known Mesoamerican invention was rubber, which was used to create rubber bands, rubber bindings, balls, syringes, 'raincoats,' boots, and waterproof insulation on containers and flasks.\n\nThe Hellenistic period of Mediterranean history began in the 4th century BC with Alexander's conquests, which led to the emergence of a Hellenistic civilization representing a synthesis of Greek and Near-Eastern cultures in the Eastern Mediterranean region, including the Balkans, Levant and Egypt. With Ptolemaic Egypt as its intellectual center and Greek as the lingua franca, the Hellenistic civilization included Greek, Egyptian, Jewish, Persian and Phoenician scholars and engineers who wrote in Greek.\n\nHellenistic technology made significant progress from the 4th century BC, continuing up to and including the Roman period. Some inventions that are credited to the ancient Greeks are the following: bronze casting techniques, water organ (hydraulis), and torsion siege engine. Many of these inventions occurred late in the Hellenistic period, often inspired by the need to improve weapons and tactics in war.\n\nHellenistic engineers of the Eastern Mediterranean were responsible for a number of inventions and improvements to existing technology. Archimedes invented several machines. Hellenistic engineers often combined scientific research with the development of new technologies. Technologies invented by Hellenistic engineers include the ballistae, the piston pump, and primitive analog computers like the Antikythera mechanism. Hellenistic architects built domes, and were the first to explore the Golden ratio and its relationship with geometry and architecture.\n\nOther Hellenistic innovations include torsion catapults, pneumatic catapults, crossbows, rutways, organs, the keyboard mechanism, differential gears, showers, dry docks, diving bells, odometer and astrolabes. In architecture, Hellenistic engineers constructed monumental lighthouses such as the Pharos and devised central heating systems. The Tunnel of Eupalinos is the earliest tunnel which has been excavated with a scientific approach from both ends.\n\nAutomata like automatic doors and other ingenious devices were built by Hellenistic engineers as Ctesibius and Philo of Byzantium. Greek technological treatises were scrupulously studied and advanced by later Byzantine, Arabic and Latin scholars, and provided some of the foundations for further technological advances in these civilizations.\n\nThe Roman Empire expanded from Italia across the entire Mediterranean region between the 1st century BC and 1st century AD. Its most advanced and economically productive provinces outside of Italia were the Eastern Roman provinces in the Balkans, Asia Minor, Egypt, and the Levant, with Roman Egypt in particular being the wealthiest Roman province outside of Italia.\n\nRoman technology supported Roman civilization and made the expansion of Roman commerce and Roman military possible over nearly a thousand years. The Roman Empire had an advanced set of technology for their time. Some of the Roman technology in Europe may have been lost during the turbulent eras of Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages. Roman technological feats in many different areas such as civil engineering, construction materials, transport technology, and some inventions such as the mechanical reaper went unmatched until the 19th century.\nRomans developed an intensive and sophisticated agriculture, expanded upon existing iron working technology, created laws providing for individual ownership, advanced stonemasonry technology, advanced road-building (exceeded only in the 19th century), military engineering, civil engineering, spinning and weaving and several different machines like the Gallic reaper that helped to increase productivity in many sectors of the Roman economy. They also developed water power through building aqueducts on a grand scale, using water not just for drinking supplies but also for irrigation, powering water mills and in mining. They used drainage wheels extensively in deep underground mines, one device being the reverse overshot water-wheel. They were the first to apply hydraulic mining methods for prospecting for metal ores, and for extracting those ores from the ground when found using a method known as hushing.\n\nRoman engineers have built triumphal arches, amphitheatres, aqueducts, public baths, true arch bridges, harbours, dams, vaults and domes on a very large scale across their Empire. Notable Roman inventions include the book (Codex), glass blowing and concrete. Because Rome was located on a volcanic peninsula, with sand which contained suitable crystalline grains, the concrete which the Romans formulated was especially durable. Some of their buildings have lasted 2000 years, to the present day. Roman society had also carried over the design of a door lock with tumblers and springs from Greece. Like many other aspects of innovation and culture that were carried on from Greece to Rome, the lines between where each one originated from have become skewed over time. These mechanisms were highly sophisticated and intricate for the era.\n\nRoman civilization was highly urbanized by pre-modern standards. Many cities of the Roman Empire had over 100,000 inhabitants with the capital Rome being the largest metropolis of antiquity. Features of Roman urban life included multistory apartment buildings called insulae, street paving, public flush toilets, glass windows and floor and wall heating. The Romans understood hydraulics and constructed fountains and waterworks, particularly aqueducts, which were the hallmark of their civilization. They exploited water power by building water mills, sometimes in series, such as the sequence found at Barbegal in southern France and suspected on the Janiculum in Rome. Some Roman baths have lasted to this day. The Romans developed many technologies which were apparently lost in the Middle Ages, and were only fully reinvented in the 19th and 20th centuries. They also left texts describing their achievements, especially Pliny the Elder, Frontinus and Vitruvius.\n\nOther less known Roman innovations include cement, boat mills, arch dams and possibly tide mills.\n\nIn Roman Egypt, Heron of Alexandria invented the aeolipile, a basic steam-powered device, and demonstrated knowledge of mechanic and pneumatic systems. He was also the first to experiment with a wind-powered mechanical device, a windwheel. He also described a vending machine. However, his inventions were primarily toys, rather than practical machines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293958", "title": "Hans Dreier", "text": "Hans Dreier\n\nHans Dreier (August 21, 1885 – October 24, 1966) was a German motion picture art director. He was Paramount Pictures' supervising art director from 1927 until his retirement in 1950, when he was succeeded by Hal Pereira.\n\nHans Dreier was born in Bremen, Germany in 1885. After studying architecture in Munich, Germany, Dreier worked as imperial supervising architect of the German Cameroon. During World War I, he served in the German Lancers. \n\nHe began his career in German film in 1919 as an assistant designer at UFA Studios. At the urging of German director Ernst Lubitsch, Dreier relocated to Hollywood in 1923 to work at Paramount Pictures. His first Hollywood film was \"Forbidden Paradise\", directed by Lubitsch and starring Pola Negri. Dreier worked as Paramount's supervising art director from 1927 until his retirement in 1950.\n\nHe made contributions to nearly 500 films during his lengthy career, including many films directed by Joseph Von Sternberg and Ernst Lubitsch, as well as the film \"It's a Gift\" (1934) starring W. C. Fields. He was nominated for Academy Awards for his art direction on 23 occasions. He won Academy Awards for Best Art Direction (Color) for \"Frenchman's Creek\" (1944) and \"Samson and Delilah\" (1950). He also won the award for Art Direction (Black and White) for \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293959", "title": "List of law schools in Poland", "text": "List of law schools in Poland\n\nThis is a list of law schools in Poland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293960", "title": "Tanya Franks", "text": "Tanya Franks\n\nTanya Franks (born 16 August 1967) is an English actress, writer and producer. She had starring roles on the television shows \"Family Affairs\", \"The Bill\", \"Pulling\", \"EastEnders\", and \"Broadchurch\". Franks is also the founder of Stock-pot Productions, a film and theatre production company.\n\nFranks worked for 14 years in theatre both in the UK and abroad. Her roles included the title role in \"Tess\" at The Kings Head Theatre in London in 1989 which was Time Out's Critics Choice, and Sylv in Steven Berkoff's 25th Anniversary production of \"East\" at the Vaudeville Theatre in London's West End and on tour. Tanya then rose to prominence when her TV career began in 2000, after being cast in the Channel 5 soap opera \"Family Affairs\" as Karen Ellis. Franks continued in the soap opera for three years, with storylines including a cancer scare, infertility, surrogacy, and a child custody battle, before leaving the series in 2003. In 2004, Franks was cast as DI Rowanne Morell in the long-running ITV1 police serial-drama \"The Bill\". Franks stayed with the serial for over a year, with her character investigating various murders of police officers and police corruption.\n\nIn 2005, Franks appeared as a guest lead in an episode of the BBC1 medical serial-drama \"Holby City\" and in 2006, Franks appeared in an episode of the BBC1 drama series \"Doctors\".\n\nIn 2006, Franks starred opposite Sharon Horgan and Rebekah Staton in the BBC Three comedy series \"Pulling\". Franks was cast as Karen, a promiscuous, raunchy, aggressive primary school teacher, who drinks heavily and is not suited to her job, for which she was nominated at The British Comedy Awards in 2009. The sitcom ran for two series and a special feature episode, and gained a BAFTA nomination for best comedy series and won The South Bank Show award for Best Comedy.\n\nIn July 2007, it was announced that Franks would play the role of Tanya Branning's (Jo Joyner) sister, Rainie Cross in the BBC One soap opera \"EastEnders\" for a week-long stint from 2 August 2007. Franks returned to \"EastEnders\" as Rainie in January 2008, and again in August 2010. She returned again in April 2011, before departing once more later that year. She made a surprise return to the show on 16 June 2014 and departed on 15 February 2015. EastEnders announced on 18 January 2018 that Franks would make a guest appearance the following day and return permanently later in the year. Franks made her full time return on 24 April 2018.\n\nIn 2008, Franks starred as Sandra Farrell in the BBC Two mocumentary \"The Cup\". In 2009, Franks appeared in an episode of the E4 teen drama \"Skins\". In 2010, she appeared in an episode of the BBC1 time-travelling drama \"Ashes to Ashes\". From September 2010 to August 2011, Franks starred as a series regular in the CBBC comedy serial \"Hotel Trubble\". Franks also appears in Episode 7, Series 9 of \"New Tricks\" as literary agent Roxanne Guthrie. In 2013 she was a guest lead in an episode of \"Pramface\" as Fiona. Tanya plays Richard Burton's wife, Sybil, in the 2012 made-for-television film \"Liz & Dick\". In 2013 Tanya played Lucy Stevens, sister to DC Ellie Miller played by Olivia Colman, in the award-winning series \"Broadchurch\". She also played Mandy in the E4 sitcom \"Chewing Gum\" in 2015 and earlier in 2016 she played Carol in the hit BBC comedy series \"Mum\". In 2018, Franks appeared in an episode of \"Inside No 9\".\n\nIn addition to her television work, Franks has also appeared in further theatre roles, including leading roles at the Royal National Theatre in \"Sing Yer Heart Out For The Lads\" by Roy Williams in 2004, \"The Black Album\" by Hanif Kureishi in 2009, and in the premier run of \"Really Old, Like Forty Five\" in 2010. In 2013 she toured as Irene Adler in the new mystery \"Sherlock Holmes: The Best Kept Secret\", and played the title role in Bertolt Brecht's \"The Good Person of Sichuan\" at the Mercury Theatre in Colchester. In 2016 Tanya co-starred at The Menier Chocolate Factory in \"The Truth\" written by Florian Zeller and adapted by Oscar winning playwright Christopher Hampton. Following its sell-out run the production transferred to the Wyndham's Theatre in London's West End and was nominated for a Laurence Olivier Award for Best New Comedy.\n\nTanya's film career includes \"The Magnificent Eleven\", \"We Still Steal The Old Way\", and \"Aux\". The last two are soon to be released.\n\nFranks founded Stock-pot Productions in 1993. Theatre credits included \"Scenes of Shaw\" at London's Theatre Museum starring Les Dennis and the late Paul Eddington; \"Deckchairs\" at London's Kings Head Theatre in which Tanya also co-starred. Co-productions included the national tour of \"You Don't Kiss\" and \"All Fall Away\" which the \"Guardian\" named Pick of the Week with Tanya playing the lead role at the Latchmere Theatre (now Theatre 503). The company has made three short films, the last of which Franks wrote, produced, and starred in, entitled \"One Day\". It was officially selected at several national and international film festivals and was Kodak best short film finalist. In addition to Franks, the film starred Tim McInnerny as well as Toby Stephens in a small part.\n\nIn January 2019 it was announced that she would be running the London Marathon with some of her \"EastEnders\" co-stars for a Dementia campaign in honour of Barbara Windsor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293965", "title": "Constantin Meunier", "text": "Constantin Meunier\n\nConstantin Meunier (12 April 1831, Brussels – 4 April 1905, Ixelles) was a Belgian painter and sculptor. He made an important contribution to the development of modern art by elevating the image of the industrial worker, docker and miner to an icon of modernity. His work is a reflection of the industrial, social and political developments of his day and represents a compassionate and committed view of man and the world.\n\nConstantin Meunier was born in the traditionally working-class area of Etterbeek in Brussels. His family was poor and suffered from the negative economic impact caused by the Belgian Revolution which had taken place the year before Meunier's birth. Meunier's father committed suicide when he was just four years old.\nHe began studying sculpture at the age of 14 at the Academy of Fine Arts in Brussels in September 1845. He studied under the sculptor Louis Jehotte (1804–84) from 1848. He also attended from 1852 the private studio of the sculptor Charles-Auguste Fraikin. While he encountered modestly success as a sculptor, his encounter with Gustave Courbet’s social realist painting \"The Stone Breakers\" in 1851 caused him to doubt the ability of sculpture to adequate represent the contemporary social and artistic issues that were of concern to him. He therefore gave up sculpture in favour of painting which he practised almost exclusively for the next thirty years.\n\nHis first exhibit was a plaster sketch, \"The Garland\", shown at the Brussels Salon in 1851. His first important painting, \"The Salle St Roch\" (1857), was followed by a series of paintings including \"A Trappist Funeral\" (1860), \"Trappists Ploughing\" (1863), in collaboration with Alfred Verwee, \"Divine Service at the Monastery of La Trappe\" (1871) and episodes of the German Peasants' War (1878), as well as of Belgium's own historical Peasants' War. \n\nAbout 1880 he was commissioned to illustrate those parts of Camille Lemonnier's description of Belgium in \"Le Tour du monde\" which referred to miners and factory-workers, and produced \"In the Factory\", \"Smithery at Cockerill's\", \"Melting Steel at the Factory at Seraing\" (1882), \"Returning from the Pit\", and \"The Broken Crucible\" (1884).\n\nIn 1882 he was employed by the government to copy Pedro de Campaña's \"Descent from the Cross\" at Seville, and in Spain he painted such characteristic pictures as \"The Café Concert\", \"Procession on Good Friday\", and \"The Tobacco Factory at Seville\" (Brussels Gallery). On his return to Belgium he was appointed professor at the Louvain Academy of Fine Arts.\n\nIn 1885 he returned to sculpture and produced \"The Puddler\", \"The Hammerer\" (1886), \"Firedamp\" (1889, Brussels Gallery), \"Le Débardeur\" (modeled 1885; many castings made 1889–1905), \"Ecce Homo\" (1891), \"The Old Mine-Horse\" (1891), \"The Mower\" (1892), \"The Glebe\" (1892), the monument to Father Damien at Louvain (1893), \"Puddler at the Furnace\" (1893), the scheme of decoration for the Botanical Garden of Brussels in collaboration with the sculptor Charles van der Stappen (1893), \"The Horse at the Pond\", in the square in the north-east quarter of Brussels, and two unfinished works, the \"Monument to Labour\" and the Émile Zola monument, in collaboration with the French sculptor Alexandre Charpentier.\n\nThe \"Monument to Labour\", which was acquired by the State for the Brussels Gallery, comprises four stone bas-reliefs: \"Industry\", \"The Mine\", \"Harvest\", and the \"Harbour\"; four bronze statues: \"The Sower\", \"The Smith\", \"The Miner\", and the \"Ancestor\"; and a bronze group, \"Maternity\".\n\nHe was one of the co-founders of the Société Libre des Beaux-Arts of Brussels and was a member of the International Society of Sculptors, Painters and Gravers.\n\nMeunier was a freemason, and a member of the lodge \"Les Amis Philanthropes\" of the Grand Orient of Belgium in Brussels.\n\nMeunier died in Brussels on 4 April 1905.\n\nIn 1939, the Musée Constantin-Meunier dedicated to his work was opened in the last house in which Meunier lived and worked, in Ixelles, Brussels. Today about 150 of his works are displayed there. M - Museum Leuven also holds a number of important works by Meunier, as does Brussels' Fin-de-Siècle Museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293970", "title": "ASCII (disambiguation)", "text": "ASCII (disambiguation)\n\nASCII, the American Standard Code for Information Interchange.\n\nASCII may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293971", "title": "Beth Hunter", "text": "Beth Hunter\n\nElizabeth Ann \"Beth\" Hunter (also Walters and Sutherland) is a fictional character from the Australian Channel Seven soap opera \"Home and Away\", played by Clarissa House. She made her first on-screen appearance on 17 April 2003 and departed on 30 January 2007. The character died from injuries sustained in a car crash on 23 April 2007.\n\nThe serial's official website described Beth as an \"open-minded\" female who holds a \"strong sense of personal morality and integrity\". When characters get to know Beth she shows a \"delicious sense of humour\". Beth is portrayed as a country girl who did not see herself as \"anything but a farmer's wife\" whilst married to Jack Hunter (Ian Lind). Marriage and family mean everything to Beth and she also ignored her husband's affair to keep her family together. They also said that Beth's \"world fell apart\" when Jack died.\n\nOne of Beth's main romances is with Tony Holden (Jon Sivewright). Sivewright said that both Beth and Tony have got \"very good attitudes towards their kids\" and are supportive to them and the community. Beth and Tony support each other when making parental decisions, even if they did not personally agree with the other's actions. Sivewright said that \"even though Tony would question what Beth was doing, he was still supporting her. That’s what Beth does with Tony as well.\"\n\nBeth features in many emotional storylines. House has said that after she had filmed an emotional scene, she exercised to forget about her character's feelings.\n\nBeth is the mother of Scott (Kip Gamblin), Kit (Amy Mizzi), Robbie (Jason Smith), Henry (Tobi Atkins) and Matilda (Indiana Evans). Beth was married to Jack, the father of her five children until his death in 2002. Beth had known about Jack's ongoing affair with Valerie Squires (Denise Roberts) and did not tell the children, thinking it would hurt their family. It later emerges Scott knew secretly and kept it to himself for the same reason as Beth.\n\nBeth arrives in Summer Bay and meets Rhys Sutherland (Michael Beckley) when their respective eldest children, Scott and Dani (Tammin Sursok) become a couple. When Kit arrives and begins drinking excessively, Rhys is on hand to support Beth.\nAfter Kit leaves for rehab, Beth and Rhys become a couple and Rhys later proposes. Following money troubles, Beth is forced to pull the rest of her children from their boarding schools and they all move in with the Sutherlands. In early 2004, Beth and Rhys marry in an intimate ceremony on the beach with most of the family attending and Alf Stewart (Ray Meagher) and Colleen Smart (Lyn Collingwood) as witnesses. The day is marred when Rhy's daughter Kirsty (Christie Hayes) elopes with her fiance Kane Phillips (Sam Atwell) and argument ensues and Beth is forced to keep the peace.\n\nBeth and Rhy's marriage is tested numerous times by the many dramas of their combined brood, but nothing can prepare them for the return of Rhy's ex-wife, Shelley (Paula Forrest) when Kirsty suffers kidney problems and needs a transplant. Rhys gradually falls in love with Shelley again and leaves Summer Bay, breaking Beth's heart. Wanting to move on with her life, Beth reverts to her previous married name and swaps houses with Sally Fletcher (Kate Ritchie) and Flynn Saunders (Joel McIlroy). When her new neighbour, widower Tony Holden arrives, Beth is taken with him and they become a couple.\n\nGraham Walters (Doug Scroope), Beth's father arrives in Summer Bay announcing he has sold his farm and when it is revealed he has married the much younger Amanda Vale (Holly Brisley), Beth is disgusted and constantly finds herself at odds with Amanda, as she had previously tried to manipulate Scott into believing she was pregnant. When Graham suffers a massive heart attack and recovers in hospital, he makes peace with Beth, telling her that he does not want to continue living should he suffer a relapse. Graham suffers another heart attack and is pronounced brain dead. Beth and Amanda battle over turning the machine off. Amanda wins the fight and is pleased as she is Graham's wife and needs to keep him alive in order to render the pre-nuptial agreement invalid and gain his assets. Robbie later turns the machine off and Beth is shocked but understanding. Beth tells Amanda she does not care about the money but wants Graham's war medals, which Amanda later gives her.\n\nFeeling trapped and longing to pursue her dreams of travelling the world, Beth is ready to go but Tony is firmly settled in Summer Bay. Tony supports her and she leaves to visit Scott and his partner Hayley Smith (Bec Cartwright) and their son, Noah in France then she visits Robbie, his wife Tasha (Isabel Lucas) and their daughter Ella in America. On the day Beth is due to return home, Kit goes into labour and Tony decides to wait for her to return. After Beth fails to appear, he assumes she has gone directly to the hospital and leaves to find her. On the way, Tony discovers a serious road traffic accident and is stopped by his son Jack (Paul O'Brien), who is one of the police officers on the scene who tries to break it to him that the body recovered from the wreckage is Beth. Tony, Kit and Matilda are left devastated and a memorial service for Beth is held in Summer Bay before her body is buried in her home town of Adelaide.\n\nSacha Molitorisz of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" said that the episode featuring Beth and Rhys' wedding was better suited to \"die hard fans\". They criticised the plot for being \"unengaging\" and opined that the music, performances and dialogue were \"painful\" and \"patchy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2293972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293972", "title": "Georges Pichard", "text": "Georges Pichard\n\nGeorges Pichard (17 January 1920 – 7 June 2003) was a French comics artist, known for numerous magazine covers, serial publications and albums, stereotypically featuring partially exposed voluptuous women.\n\nA native of Paris, he was educated at the École des Arts Appliques, and after World War II worked as illustrator in advertising before publishing his first cartoon strip in \"La Semaine de Suzette\" in 1956, featuring a \"girl next-door\" character named Miss Mimi.\n\nIn the early 1960s he met Jacques Lob, with whom he collaborated on the superhero parodies \"Ténébrax\" and \"Submerman\". \"Ténébrax\" was first published in the short-lived Franco-Belgian comics magazine \"Chouchou\", and continued its serial run in Italian magazine \"Linus\". In 1967, \"Submerman\" was serialised in \"Pilote\" magazine, but after a few years Pichard left the family friendly comics genre entirely.\n\nHaving collaborated with Danie Dubos on the more daring \"Lolly-strip\" which was serialised in \"Le Rire\" in 1966, Pichard and Lob began work within the erotic genre of comics as \"Blanche Épiphanie\" started serial publication in \"V Magazine\" in 1968. There was significant public reaction as this character acted outside the moral boundaries of the times, and at one point emulated Jane Fonda by going to Vietnam. This period saw Pichard develop his style of shaping his female heroines into tall, well-endowed women with excessive eyeliner make-up to create a gothic appearance.\nPichard continued to push the moral boundaries when he collaborated with Georges Wolinski to create a yet more controversial series featuring an eponymous character, \"Paulette\", which began serial publication in \"Charlie Mensuel\" in 1970. This development became a target of right-wing politicians of that period, Jean Royer and Michel Debre. Continuing in this genre, Pichard reunited with Danie Dubos to produce \"Caroline Choléra\" which was serialised in \"L'Écho des savanes\" in 1975. Upon publication of \"Marie-Gabrielle de Saint-Eutrope\" in 1977, the explicit nature of Pichard's work led to a ban from bookshops and kiosks.\n\nLess scrutinized for its erotic emphasis are the collaborations Pichard did with science-fiction author Jean-Pierre Andrevon, \"La Reserve\" and \"Édouard\" from 1974 and \"Ceux–là\" from 1977, published in \"Charlie Mensuel\".\n\nToward the end of his life, Pichard adapted classic erotic stories such as \"Les Exploits d'un jeune Don Juan\" by Guillaume Apollinaire, \"The Kama-Sutra\" by Vatsyayana, \"Trois filles de leur mère\" by Pierre Louÿs, \"La Religieuse\" by Denis Diderot and \"Germinal\" by Émile Zola.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293974", "title": "Jaime Rosenthal", "text": "Jaime Rosenthal\n\nJaime Rolando Rosenthal Oliva (May 5, 1936 – January 12, 2019) was a Honduran politician, and leader of one of Liberal Party of Honduras's (PLH) wings, and was a perennial candidate for President. On March 20, 1974 he founded the Banco Continental. On October 7, 2015, Rosenthal was labeled a \"specially designated narcotics trafficker\" under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.\n\nHis Romanian Jewish father, Yankel Rosenthal, emigrated from Romania to Honduras in 1929. His father married Esther Oliva from El Salvador. Rosenthal held a BS degree in Civil Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an MS degree from the MIT Sloan School of Management. He was one of the Vice Presidents (known as Designados Presidenciales) during the Presidency of Jose Azcona Hoyo (Jan. 1986-Jan.1990) and resigned because of political differences. He was also a Congressman in Honduras, (Jan. 2002 to Jan. 2006). A 2006 study by the Friedrich Ebert Foundation named Rosenthal one of \"the most powerful men in Honduras\" (along with Fredy Nasser and Schucry Kafie).\n\nRosenthal died following a heart attack on January 12, 2019. He was 82 years old.\n\nBanco Continental was founded in 1974 and until its closure in late 2015 was the eighth largest bank in Honduras, forming part of Grupo Continental, itself founded in 1929 and owned by the Rosenthal family.\n"}
{"id": "2293977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293977", "title": "Anna Acton", "text": "Anna Acton\n\nAnna Acton (born 29 January 1977) is an English actress who is best known for her roles as Rochelle Barratt, the wife of a borough commander, in the ITV television series \"The Bill\", and DC Emma Summerhayes in the BBC One soap opera \"EastEnders\". Prior to appearing in \"The Bill\", Acton played the long-suffering yet bubbly Geri Evans in the soap opera \"Family Affairs\" for three and a half years.\n\nActon also appeared in two episodes of \"Doctors\" as Rachel Cook (April 2006) and later as Keira Chesterton (February 2008) and \"Hollyoaks\" (October 2006) as DC Mullins. In May 2007, she starred as Louise Martin in two episodes of \"HolbyBlue\" for the BBC. In August 2008 she appeared with Paul Nicholls in \"Harley Street\" (ITV) and was also seen as Dorothy in the CGI Sketch Show for BBC \"The Wrong Door\".\n\nFrom 2013 to 2015, Acton played the role of Joy in the CBeebies programme \"Topsy and Tim\". From 21 April 2014 to 2 January 2015, she portrayed DC Emma Summerhayes, the police officer investigating Lucy Beale's (Hetti Bywater) murder, in the BBC One soap opera \"EastEnders\".\n\nIn 2015–2016, Acton appeared in the BBC One medical soap \"Casualty\" as Nikki Chisom.\n\nIn 2018, she appeared in \"Birches\", a UK-based feature based on the novel \"Silver Birches\" published in 2009 by Adrian Plass. \"Birches\" was turned into a film directed by Randall Stevens, with screenplay by Mark Freiburger. It starred Natasha Little and Todd Carty.\n"}
{"id": "2293981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293981", "title": "Collins Hill High School", "text": "Collins Hill High School\n\nCollins Hill High School is a high school in Gwinnett County, near Suwanee, Georgia, United States. The school is operated by Gwinnett County Public Schools. The only school which feeds into it is Creekland Middle School.\n\nCollins Hill was the biggest high school in Georgia when it first opened in 1994, and has since added . Its student population has grown from its original 1377 to a high of about 4,200, the current count being 3,155.\n\nCollins Hill's principal academic and athletic rival is nearby Peachtree Ridge High School. Its mascot is the \"Screamin' Eagle,\" and the school colors are green, silver, white, and unofficially black.\n\nThe Georgia Athletic Directors Association and Regions Bank awarded Collins Hill High School the 2009-2010 Class 5A Regions Bank Directors Cups combined overall award.\n\nEach year, the students volunteer over 27,000 hours toward community service activities, including the Thanksgiving Can-a-Thon, Holiday Hope, and Relay for Life.\n\nMany students participate in community service clubs such as Beta Club, and are active in helping others. Students are offered many volunteer opportunities throughout the year via the school's Volunteer Center. Four scholarships are available to students for volunteering and getting involved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293988", "title": "Digital evidence", "text": "Digital evidence\n\nDigital evidence or electronic evidence is any probative information stored or transmitted in digital form that a party to a court case may use at trial. Before accepting digital evidence a court will determine if the evidence is relevant, whether it is authentic, if it is hearsay and whether a copy is acceptable or the original is required.\n\nThe use of digital evidence has increased in the past few decades as courts have allowed the use of e-mails, digital photographs, ATM transaction logs, word processing documents, instant message histories, files saved from accounting programs, spreadsheets, internet browser histories, databases, the contents of computer memory, computer backups, computer printouts, Global Positioning System tracks, logs from a hotel’s electronic door locks, and digital video or audio files.\n\nMany courts in the United States have applied the Federal Rules of Evidence to digital evidence in a similar way to traditional documents, although important differences such as the lack of established standards and procedures have been noted. In addition, digital evidence tends to be more voluminous, more difficult to destroy, easily modified, easily duplicated, potentially more expressive, and more readily available. As such, some courts have sometimes treated digital evidence differently for purposes of authentication, hearsay, the best evidence rule, and privilege. In December 2006, strict new rules were enacted within the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure requiring the preservation and disclosure of electronically stored evidence. Digital evidence is often attacked for its authenticity due to the ease with which it can be modified, although courts are beginning to reject this argument without proof of tampering.\n\nDigital evidence is often ruled inadmissible by courts because it was obtained without authorization. In most jurisdictions a warrant is required to seize and investigate digital devices. In a digital investigation this can present problems where, for example, evidence of other crimes are identified while investigating another. During a 1999 investigation into online harassment by Keith Schroeder investigators found pornographic images of children on his computer. A second warrant had to be obtained before the evidence could be used to charge Schroeder.\n\nAs with any evidence, the proponent of digital evidence must lay the proper foundation. Courts largely concerned themselves with the reliability of such digital evidence. As such, early court decisions required that authentication called \"for a more comprehensive foundation.\" US v. Scholle, 553 F.2d 1109 (8th Cir. 1976). As courts became more familiar with digital documents, they backed away from the higher standard and have since held that \"computer data compilations… should be treated as any other record.\" US v. Vela, 673 F.2d 86, 90 (5th Cir. 1982).\n\nA common attack on digital evidence is that digital media can be easily altered. However, in 2002 a US court ruled that \"the fact that it is possible to alter data contained in a computer is plainly insufficient to establish untrustworthiness\" (US v. Bonallo, 858 F. 2d 1427 - 1988 - Court of Appeals, 9th).\n\nNevertheless, the \"more comprehensive\" foundation required by \"Scholle\" remains good practice. The American Law Reports lists a number of ways to establish the comprehensive foundation. It suggests that the proponent demonstrate \"the reliability of the computer equipment\", \"the manner in which the basic data was initially entered\", \"the measures taken to ensure the accuracy of the data as entered\", \"the method of storing the data and the precautions taken to prevent its loss\", \"the reliability of the computer programs used to process the data\", and \"the measures taken to verify the accuracy of the program\".\n\nIn its turn it gave rise to a breed of commercial software technology solutions designed to preserve digital evidence in its original form and to authenticate it for admissibility in disputes and in court.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, examiners usually follow guidelines issued by the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) for the authentication and integrity of evidence. They were updated to Version 5 in October 2011 when computer based evidence was replaced with digital evidence reflecting the development of investigating information security incidents in a wider context. The guidelines consist of four principles:\n\nPrinciple 1: No action taken by law enforcement agencies, persons employed within those agencies or their agents should change data which may subsequently be relied upon in court. \nPrinciple 2: In circumstances where a person finds it necessary to access original data, that person must be competent to do so and be able to give evidence explaining the relevance and the implications of their actions. \nPrinciple 3: An audit trail or other record of all processes applied to digital evidence should be created and preserved. An independent third party should be able to examine those processes and achieve the same result. \nPrinciple 4: The person in charge of the investigation has overall responsibility for ensuring that the law and these principles are adhered to.\n\nThese guidelines are widely accepted in courts of England and Scotland, but they do not constitute a legal requirement and their use is voluntary. It is arguable that whilst voluntary, non adherence is almost certain to lead to the exclusion of evidence that does not comply subject to the provisions of s 78 Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (Power to exclude evidence obtained unfairly)\n\nBuilding on the ACPO Guidelines with a more generic application outside of law enforcement, a doctoral thesis proposed the following overriding principles to be followed by digital forensic practitioners:\n\nDigital evidence is almost never in a format readable by humans, requiring additional steps to include digital documents as evidence (i.e. printing out the material). It has been argued that this change of format may mean digital evidence does not qualify under the \"best evidence rule\". However, the \"Federal Rules of Evidence\" rule 1001(3) states \"if data are stored in a computer…, any printout or other output readable by sight, shown to reflect the data accurately, is an ‘original.’\"\n\nCommonly courts do not bar printouts under the best evidence rule. In \"Aguimatang v. California State Lottery\", the court gave near \"per se\" treatment to the admissibility of digital evidence stating \"the computer printout does not violate the best evidence rule, because a computer printout is considered an ‘original.’\" 234 Cal. App. 3d 769, 798.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\nAustralia:\n\nCanada:\n\nEngland and Wales:\n\nEurope:\nUnited States of America on discovery and evidence:\n\nUnited States of America on discovery:\n\nUnited States of America on visual evidence:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293993", "title": "Battle of the Pyrenees", "text": "Battle of the Pyrenees\n\nThe Battle of the Pyrenees was a large-scale offensive launched on 25 July 1813 by Marshal Nicolas Jean de Dieu Soult from the Pyrénées region on Emperor Napoleon’s order, in the hope of relieving French garrisons under siege at Pamplona and San Sebastián. After initial success the offensive ground to a halt in face of increased allied resistance under the command of Arthur Wellesley, Marquess of Wellington. Soult abandoned the offensive on 30 July and headed toward France, having failed to relieve either garrison.\n\nThe Battle of the Pyrenees involved several distinct actions. On 25 July, Soult and two French corps fought the reinforced British 4th Division and a Spanish division at the Battle of Roncesvalles. The Allied force successfully held off all attacks during the day, but retreated from the Roncesvalles Pass that night in the face of overwhelming French numerical superiority. Also on the 25th, a third French corps severely tried the British 2nd Division at the Battle of Maya. The British withdrew from the Maya Pass that evening. Wellington rallied his troops a short distance north of Pamplona and repelled the attacks of Soult's two corps at the Battle of Sorauren on 28 July.\n\nInstead of falling back to the northeast toward Roncesvalles Pass, Soult made contact with his third corps on 29 July and began to move north. On 30 July, Wellington attacked Soult's rearguards at Sourauren, driving some French troops to the northeast, while most continued to the north. Rather than use the Maya Pass, Soult elected to head north up the Bidassoa River valley. He managed to evade Allied attempts to surround his troops at Yanci on 1 August and escaped across a nearby pass after a final rearguard action at Etxalar on 2 August. The French suffered nearly twice as many casualties as the Allied army.\n\nAfter the decisive French defeat at the Battle of Vitoria, Marshal Soult consolidated the remnants of four armies into a single force of 80,000 troops. Marshal Soult’s plan was to relieve the siege at Pamplona first, then swing the army westward to relieve the siege at San Sebastián.\n\nClausel's Lieutenancy (army corps) of the Left consisted of the infantry divisions of Generals of Division Nicolas François Conroux, Edmé-Martin Vandermaesen, and Eloi Charlemagne Taupin. Conroux's 4th Division had 7,056 men in nine battalions; Vandermaesen's 5th Division counted 4,181 troops in seven battalions; Taupin's 8th Division numbered 5,981 infantry in nine battalions. D'Erlon's Lieutenancy of the Center included the infantry divisions of Generals of Division Jean Barthélemy Darmagnac, Louis Jean Nicolas Abbé, and Jean-Pierre Maransin. Darmagnac's 2nd Division counted 6,961 troops in eight battalions; Abbé's 3rd Division was made up of 8,030 soldiers in nine battalions; Maransin's 6th Division had 5,966 men in seven battalions. Reille's Lieutenancy of the Right had the divisions of Generals of Division Maximilien Sebastien Foy, Antoine Louis Popon de Maucune, and Thomas Mignot de Lamartinière. Foy's 1st Division numbered 5,922 soldiers in nine battalions; Maucune's 7th Division had 4,186 infantry in seven battalions; Lamartinière's 9th Division comprised 7,127 troops in 10 battalions.\n\nEach Corps had a single cavalry regiment attached for scouting purposes, for a total of 808 horsemen. The French Reserve under General of Division Eugene-Casimir Villatte held the defences on the lower Bidassoa River near the Bay of Biscay. The reserves numbered 9,102 French troops in 14 battalions, 2,066 Germans in four battalions, 1,349 Italians in three battalions, 1,168 Spanish in three battalions, 1,550 French National Guards, and 2,019 King's Guards in three battalions, the last being the remnant of Joseph Bonaparte's bodyguard. In addition, General of Division Pierre Benoît Soult commanded 3,981 light cavalrymen in 10 regiments and General of Division Anne-François-Charles Trelliard led 2,358 dragoons in six regiments. The two cavalry divisions remained in the rear. There were about 7,900 gunners, sappers, wagon drivers, and other troops. General of Brigade Louis Emmanuel Rey and 3,000 troops garrisoned San Sebastián while General of Brigade Louis Pierre Jean Cassan held Pamplona with a 3,500-man garrison. At Bayonne were 5,595 French conscripts. Altogether, Soult had 99,906 troops under his orders. Of this total he used 63,572 men in his offensive.\n\nWellington defended the line of the western Pyrenees with a covering force of 62,000 men. These faced to the northeast, with the left anchored on the Bay of Biscay at the mouth of the Bidassoa River. From left to right, he deployed the following infantry divisions: Major General Kenneth Howard's 1st on the coast, Major General Charles Alten's Light at Lesaka, Lieutenant General George Ramsay, 9th Earl of Dalhousie's 7th at Etxalar, Lieutenant General William Stewart's 2nd at the Maya Pass and Elizondo, Major General Francisco Silveira, Count of Amarante's Portuguese near Izpegi Pass, Lieutenant General Lowry Cole's 4th at Roncevaux Pass and Major General Pablo Morillo's Spanish also at Roncevaux. In reserve were Major General Denis Pack's 6th Division at Doneztebe, and Lieutenant General Thomas Picton's 3rd Division at Olague, plus other Portuguese and Spanish units. Cavalry being of little value in the mountains, Wellington stationed most of his far to the rear, except for two light dragoon brigades.\n\nThe Siege of San Sebastián was conducted by Major General James Leith's 5th Division and other units under the direction of Lieutenant General Thomas Graham. Pamplona was besieged by General Henry O'Donnell, 1st Count of la Bisbal's Spanish division and other units.\n\nThe surprise offensive opened on 25 July 1813. The passes of Maya (north of Pamplona) and Roncesvaux (northeast of Pamplona) were both weakly held by the allies spread over a 50-mile front from Pamplona to the sea. After breaking through the Maya Pass, d'Erlon was to move southwest through the Baztan valley to seize the Pass of Velate at , north of Pamplona. After storming Roncesvaux Pass, Clausel and Reille were instructed to march southwest toward Pamplona. Soult had trouble securing rations for his soldiers, so he launched his offensive with only four days' rations.\nThe responsibility for Maya Pass lay with Stewart's 2nd Division. That morning, Stewart decided that the French would not attack, left the brigades of Major General William Pringle and Lieutenant Colonel John Cameron in the valley and rode to Elizondo, ten miles to the south. Some French soldiers were seen and light companies were sent up in support of the picket. When the French attacked in force, the British forces in the valley had to climb to the pass in full kit. By the time they got up, the picket force was wiped out and 10,000 of d'Erlon's men occupied the pass. In the Battle of Maya, Pringle opposed Darmagnac's division, while Cameron faced the rest of the French corps. The 4,000 British tried manfully to retake the pass, but they were unable to do so. On the other hand, the narrowness of the defile helped the British to hold off d'Erlon's immensely superior force. When Stewart returned at 2:00 pm, he pulled the redcoats back to a second position. By 3:00 pm, the British were on the verge of disaster. At this point, Major General Edward Barnes's brigade of Dalhousie's 7th Division arrived from the west to strike d'Erlon in the flank and the battle died down. The British lost 1,610 men and four cannons out of 6,000, while French losses numbered 2,100 out of 20,900. That evening, Lieutenant General Rowland Hill authorized a retreat to Elizondo. D'Erlon worried about Barnes's incursion and pursued very cautiously the next day. He only advanced six miles on the 26th.\n\nCole held Roncesvalles Pass with his 4th Division, Morillo's Spanish Division and Major General John Byng's brigade of the 2nd Division, a total of 11,000 men. From 6:00 to 9:00 am, Byng's brigade took the brunt of Clausel's assault in the Battle of Roncesvalles, while Cole rushed up reinforcements. Cole fended off the French until 5:00 pm when thick fog rolled in. The Allies lost 350 men while French casualties were about 530. Troubled by a small French probe of his right flank and fearful that 36,000 Frenchmen would swamp him out of the mist, Cole quit the area and retreated toward Pamplona, though he had been ordered to hold the pass \"to the utmost\". A worse mistake in Wellington's eyes was Cole's failure to report his actions in a timely manner. When Picton appeared with his 6,000-man 3rd Division, Cole convinced him to retreat also.\nBecause of the fog, the French did not realise that the British had decamped until the next morning. Clausel pursued, but did not come into contact with Cole's rear guard until late in the afternoon. Meanwhile, Reille's corps attempted to use an alternate path across the mountains and wound up marching in a circle. A push on 27 July from Roncesvalles Pass by troops personally commanded by Marshal Soult, got within 10 miles of Pamplona. However, Picton's British and Portuguese forces made a stand on an excellent defensive position near the village of Sorauren, just north of Pamplona.\n\nBelieving d'Erlon's corps to be the main French attack and receiving no information from Cole, Wellington spent 26 July setting up his defences in the direction of Maya Pass. Leaving Hill in charge at Elizondo, he then rode toward Pamplona on 27 July to find out what was happening. He ordered Pack's 6th Division to join Cole and Picton.\n\nOn 27 July, Wellington joined the 17,000 British and Portuguese troops at Sorauren. To Clausel's intense frustration, Soult decided to wait for Reille's tardy corps to arrive and even took a nap. The next day, in the Battle of Sorauren, Soult's 36,000 men unsuccessfully attacked the 24,000 Allied troops in front of Pamplona. The Allies lost 2,652 casualties while French losses were probably heavier. Hill's corps, blocking d'Erlon, was pulled back by Wellington toward Sorauren. But d'Erlon was never able to reach Sorauren to help Soult. Instead, when d'Erlon's cavalry made contact with Soult on the morning of 29 July, Soult decided to move to the north rather than retreat northeast toward Roncesvalles. As 30 July dawned, Soult's men could be seen retreating east to west across the British front. Now reinforced by his 7th Division, Wellington ordered an attack.\n\nThe French clung to Sorauren village in a bitter fight before being driven away. The British reported 538 casualties while French losses were much heavier. Cut off by the sudden British offensive, Foy's division at the east end of the French line retreated by way of Roncesvalles Pass to the northeast. Foy was joined by elements of Reille's and Clausel's commands so that he took as many as 12,000 men with him. Meanwhile, d'Erlon led the rest of the French army in a retreat to the north, pushing back Hill's forces back just enough to get through. On 30 July at Beunza, Abbé's division of d'Erlon suffered 750 casualties, while the Allies suffered 1,056: 156 British and 900 Portuguese.\n\nInstead of retreating over Maya Pass as Wellington expected, Soult marched north up the Bidassoa River valley. At Yanci, part of Major General Francisco de Longa's Spanish division blocked a key bridge. For two hours, without support from the rest of their division, a battalion of the 2nd \"Asturias\" Regiment held off d'Erlon's entire corps. Finally, five French battalions stormed the bridge and Soult's defeated army crossed over it. Too late to block the retreat, Alten's Light Division arrived from Leitza and fired into the gorge from above, causing chaos in the French column. His starving army fast disintegrating into a mob, Soult swung northeast through Etxalar (Echelar) and reached the French frontier via the Col de Lizarrieta at on 2 August. On that day, elements of Conroux's and Lamartinière's divisions fought a rearguard action at Etxalar against Major General Robert Ross' brigade of Cole's division, Barnes' brigade, and the 95th Rifles. The French suffered about 300 casualties, while inflicting a loss of 368 killed, wounded, and missing on their pursuers. Meanwhile, over 1,000 French wounded were abandoned and captured by the Allies.\n\nSoult failed to relieve the sieges at San Sebastian and Pamplona, suffered about 13,000 casualties, and had to withdraw to French soil weakened and demoralised. Soult's army lost 1,313 killed, 8,582 wounded, and 2,702 captured. Out of 1,318 French officers, 423 became casualties. Wellington's total losses for the campaign were 7,000. The next action was the Battle of San Marcial at the end of August.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293994", "title": "Maxx Payne", "text": "Maxx Payne\n\nDarryl Peterson (born October 3, 1961) is an American musician, actor and retired professional wrestler who wrestled in World Championship Wrestling as Maxx Payne and in the World Wrestling Federation as Man Mountain Rock.\n\nPeterson became involved in wrestling in grade school when he transferred from football to amateur wrestling as result of a personality clash with the football coach. His amateur career was halted by a motorcycle accident in his junior year of high school. After playing a high school wrestler in the film \"Take Down\" with Lorenzo Lamas, Peterson married and had a child. He began working in the construction industry, but decided after two years to return to amateur wrestling.\n\nPeterson earned wrestling scholarships to junior college and then to Iowa State University, competing in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). In 1985 he was an All-American, placed fifth in the NCAA competition and also won the Gorriarian award for having the most falls in the least amount of time at the tournament. Every match he won that year at the NCAA's, he won by fall. In 1986 Peterson became a National Champion placing First in a year Iowa State won the National Championship as a Team. Then he relocated to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career. While working as a security guard, he was introduced to professional wrestler Red Bastien by his boss, and decided to train with him.\n\nPeterson worked for the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in March 1986, and put together the steel cage used in the main event of WrestleMania 2. With his training complete, he debuted in June 1987 and soon after traveled to Japan to work for New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW), where he trained in the New Japan Dojo alongside fellow gaijin Chris Benoit for five months.\n\nIn 1988, Peterson developed the character Max Pain (short for \"Maximum Pain\"), a sinister, grungy, Jimi Hendrix-loving heavy metal guitarist. His original idea was Lucifer Payne, but he felt that this was too foreboding. He used the name Max Payne, hailing from Hell's Kitchen, New York nationally in the United States as well as in Europe and Japan. The character had a neo-noir look and feel, as far as the live theater of professional wrestling would allow. The name Max came from the 1980s Pepsi Cola spokesman Max Headroom, and Peterson later added an extra \"X\" at the suggestion of a friend.\n\nFollowing a short stint with the Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF), Pain debuted in the Tennessee-based Continental Wrestling Association (CWA). He quickly began pursuing the CWA Heavyweight Championship, and on February 8, 1988 in Memphis he defeated Jerry Lawler to win the championship. He then went after Lawler's AWA World Heavyweight Championship, but was unable to win the title. He forfeited the CWA Championship to Brickhouse Brown on May 23, but won the title once more on June 27. His second reign ended on July 10 when he was defeated by Phil Hickerson.\n\nPain left the CWA after a year before returning to Utah, where he opened his own promotion, featuring wrestlers such as Louie Spicolli. He also made an appearance under his real name as a jobber on a February 1989 episode of \"WWF Prime Time Wrestling\", losing to Bret Hart. After his employees began to leave the territory, Peterson applied for a job with WordPerfect. Soon after, he received a phone call from Benoit, who invited him to join an upcoming tour of Germany. Peterson received his plane ticket to Germany half an hour before he received a job offer from WordPerfect, so decided to join the tour. He spent six months in the German Catch Wrestling Association as Heavy Metal Buffalo, and won the vacant CWA Intercontinental Heavyweight Championship on October 25, 1992, defeating Giant Haystacks. He then successfully defended the title against The Warlord at Euro Catch Festival on December 19. He vacated the title the following year when he returned to the United States.\n\nWorld Championship Wrestling (WCW) booker Bill Watts was impressed by Peterson's amateur credentials, and hired him in 1993, with Peterson relocating to Marietta, Georgia. Peterson made his televised debut in WCW as the villain Maxx Payne on the January 30, 1993 episode of \"Worldwide\" by defeating local competitor Scott Allen. Peterson's first pay-per-view match was at SuperBrawl III, where he played Taps on his guitar before challenging Dustin Rhodes for the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship, substituting for the injured Ron Simmons. After Rhodes locked him in an abdominal stretch from which he was unable to escape, Payne pushed the referee over rather than submit and was subsequently disqualified. He'd also played the national anthem at the beginning of the show.\n\nAt the June 17 Clash of the Champions XXIII, Payne shot Johnny B. Badd in the face with a confetti gun, (kayfabe) scarring him so badly that he had to wear a mask and forcing him to forfeit their scheduled match. This led to a match at Beach Blast on July 18, which Payne lost. They faced one another again at the August 18 Clash of the Champions XXIV in a mask versus guitar match, with Payne putting his guitar on the line in order to unmask and therefore humiliate the mutilated Badd. Badd won once more and took Payne's guitar.\n\nPayne took part in WCW's Jesse \"The Body\" Ventura Strong-Arm Tournament in late 1993, but was eliminated in the first round by Sid Vicious. On November 20, Payne entered the Battlebowl, a tournament which saw randomly assigned tag team partners work together in order to progress to a battle royal. He was partnered with 2 Cold Scorpio, with whom he lost in the first round to Stunning Steve Austin and Ric Flair.\n\nTurning face, Payne formed a tag team with Cactus Jack towards the end of the year. At Starrcade 1993 they defeated Tex Slazenger and Shanghai Pierce, and at the January 27, 1994 Clash of the Champions XXVI, they defeated The Nasty Boys. They faced the Nasty Boys once more, this time for the WCW World Tag Team Championships, in a Chicago Street Fight at Spring Stampede 1994, but were defeated.\nDuring his and Jack's feud with The Nasty Boys, Payne had become increasingly unhappy with their stiffness and insistence on controlling the match. During their brawl at SuperBrawl IV, Brian Knobbs and Payne did not cooperate on a fall, and Knobbs broke his shoulder as a result. After the match, WCW President Eric Bischoff shouted at Payne for hurting Knobbs, and Payne responded in kind. As a result, he was subsequently buried. He was fired from WCW soon after, although he did help Jack and his new partner, Kevin Sullivan, defeat The Nasty Boys with a guitar shot.\n\nThe morning after he was released by WCW, Peterson was contacted by wrestler Rick Rude, who convinced WWF owner Vince McMahon to hire him. Renamed Man Mountain Rock in honor of early-20th century wrestler Man Mountain Dean, his WWF character was considerably more upbeat and less gritty than the popular Maxx Payne character, and did not achieve the same success. Debuting in February 1995 on an episode of \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\", Man Mountain Rock played a large electric guitar shaped like the WWF logo. He would come to the ring during a commercial, with the arena going pitch black and ring announcer Manny Garcia saying \"Ladies and Gentleman, Man Mountain Rock!\" He would then play his \"axe\" (electric guitar) while pyro went off. He would frequently state, \"If it's too loud, then you're too old!\" Vince McMahon, then a commentator, would often comment that Rock \"rocked the house\". In the latter part of his WWF tenure, his music incurred the wrath of veteran Bob Backlund, then playing the part of a cantankerous heel crusading against the younger generation, who objected to the music Man Mountain Rock was playing. Man Mountain Rock had suffered several injuries during his amateur career, and had hoped to secure a backstage position with WCW. When he moved to the WWF, he asked to be made an announcer, but his request was denied. His career in the WWF met with several disruptions, including a serious hernia, an addiction to pain pills and downers and a marijuana habit, which ultimately led to his release in October 1995.\n\nWhile working for the WWF, Peterson filmed several hours of behind-the-scenes footage with a video camera which he often carried. He often claimed that he would release a documentary called \"The Thing that Should Not Be\" or \"The Real Maxx Payne\" based on the footage, but never did. The footage reportedly contained scenes showing substance abuse and solicitation.\n\nIn July 2003 Peterson filed a $10 million lawsuit in the United States district court for Utah against Rockstar Games, 3D Realms, Gathering of Developers, and Remedy Entertainment. Peterson accused them of stealing his ring name \"Maxx Payne\" and his neo-noir theme for the protagonist of the video game \"Max Payne\". The case was settled out of court.\n\nOn April 17, 2004, Peterson addressed an audience in the Schubert Theater at the Western States College for the Performing Arts in Gooding, Idaho, talking about professional wrestling.\n\nPeterson continues to be involved in film projects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293999", "title": "Sequence transformation", "text": "Sequence transformation\n\nIn mathematics, a sequence transformation is an operator acting on a given space of sequences (a sequence space). Sequence transformations include linear mappings such as convolution with another sequence, and resummation of a sequence and, more generally, are commonly used for series acceleration, that is, for improving the rate of convergence of a slowly convergent sequence or series. Sequence transformations are also commonly used to compute the antilimit of a divergent series numerically, and are used in conjunction with extrapolation methods.\n\nClassical examples for sequence transformations include the binomial transform, Möbius transform, Stirling transform and others.\n\nFor a given sequence \n\nthe transformed sequence is \n\nwhere the members of the transformed sequence are usually computed from some finite number of members of the original sequence, i.e.\n\nfor some formula_4 which often depends on formula_5 (cf. e.g. Binomial transform). In the simplest case, the formula_6 and the formula_7 are real or complex numbers. More generally, they may be elements of some vector space or algebra. \n\nIn the context of acceleration of convergence, the transformed sequence is said to converge faster than the original sequence if \n\nwhere formula_9 is the limit of formula_10, assumed to be convergent. In this case, convergence acceleration is obtained. If the original sequence is divergent, the sequence transformation acts as extrapolation method to the antilimit formula_9.\n\nIf the mapping formula_12 is linear in each of its arguments, i.e., for\n\nfor some constants formula_14 (which may depend on \"n\"), the sequence transformation formula_15 is called a linear sequence transformation. Sequence transformations that are not linear are called nonlinear sequence transformations.\n\nSimplest examples of (linear) sequence transformations include shifting all elements, formula_16 (resp. = 0 if \"n\" + \"k\" < 0) for a fixed \"k\", and scalar multiplication of the sequence.\n\nA little less trivial generalization would be the discrete convolution with a fixed sequence. A particularly basic form is the difference operator, which is convolution with the sequence formula_17 and is a discrete analog of the derivative. The binomial transform is another linear transformation of a still more general type.\n\nAn example of a nonlinear sequence transformation is Aitken's delta-squared process, used to improve the rate of convergence of a slowly convergent sequence. An extended form of this is the Shanks transformation. The Möbius transform is also a nonlinear transformation, only possible for integer sequences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294002", "title": "Charles van der Stappen", "text": "Charles van der Stappen\n\nCharles van der Stappen (also Karl Van der Stappen; 19 September 1843 – 21 October 1910), was a Belgian sculptor, born in Saint-Josse-ten-Noode.\n\nEducated at the Académie Royale des Beaux-Arts in Brussels (1859–1868), van der Stappen's contribution to the Brussels Salon was \"The Faun's Toilet\" of 1869, and thereafter he began to produce work of a high and novel order in every class of sculpture, and soon, along with Paul de Vigne, became recognized as the leader of the section of the new Belgian school of sculpture which infused models derived from Greek and Roman models and the art of the Italian Renaissance with naturalistic detail and fleeting action.\n\nHis best-known funeral monuments are those to Alexandre Gendebien (1874) and Baron Coppens, at Sheel (1875). His statues include \"William the Silent,\" set up at the Petit Sablon Square, and two in the Brussels Museum, \"The Man with the Sword,\" and \"The Sphinx\". The bronze group \"Ompdrailles\" was acquired by the Belgian government (1892).\n\nIn 1893 the sculptor began his collaboration with Constantin Meunier for the elaborate decoration of the Botanical Garden of Brussels, coordinating many other sculptors for the production of some 52 sculptures for its grounds. The result of the connection may be seen in the group \"The Builders of Cities\" which is strongly imbued with the feeling and types of Meunier's sympathetic figures of workers.\n\nAmong his students were Ilse Twardowski-Conrat, Helene Zelezny-Scholz, Rik Wouters, Paul Du Bois, and Victor Rousseau, who would succeed him as director of the Académie Royale des Beaux-Arts.\n\nHis student Ilse Twardowski-Conrat received the commission for his funerary monument after he died in 1910.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294007", "title": "School of Mayo", "text": "School of Mayo\n\nThe School of Mayo was an early Catholic monastery in Mayo, Ireland, founded by Saint Colmán of Lindisfarne, c.668. It became famous for sanctity and learning, but suffered from raids of natives and foreigners, especially during the 14th century.\n\nThe School of Mayo was situated in Mayo, County Mayo, almost equidistant from the towns of Claremorris and Castlebar. The founder, St. Colman, who flourished about the middle of the seventh century, was in all probability a native of the West of Ireland, and made his ecclesiastical studies at Iona during the abbacy of the renowned Segenius. After the death of Finan, the second Bishop of Lindisfarne, Colman was appointed to succeed him. His episcopate was much disturbed by a fierce renewal of the Easter Controversy. Colman vigorously advocated the old Irish custom, and cited the example of his predecessors, but all to no effect. At a synod specially summoned to meet at Whitby in 664, the Roman method of calculation triumphed, and Colman, unwilling to abandon the practice of the \"holy elders of the Irish Church\", resolved to quit Lindisfarne forever. \n\nIn 668 he crossed the seas to his native land again, and in a remote island on the western coast called Inishbofin, he built a monastery and school. These things are clearly set out in the \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" of Bede, who then proceeds to describe how they led to the founding of the great school of Mayo. \"Colman, the Irish Bishop\", says Bede, \"departed from Britain and took with him all the Irish that he had assembled in the Island of Lindisfarne, and also about thirty of the English nation who had been instructed in the monastic life. . . .Afterwards he retired to a small island which is to the west of Ireland, and at some distance from the coast, called in the language of the Irish, Inishbofinde [island of the white cow]. Arriving there he built a monastery, and placed in it the monks he brought with him of both nations\". \n\nIt appears, however, the Irish and English monks could not agree. Then Colman sought to put an end to their dissensions, and travelling about at length found a place in Ireland fit to build a monastery, which in the language of the Irish is called Magh Eo (Mayo). Later on we are told by the same historian that this monastery became an important and flourishing institution, and even an episcopal see. \n\nThough Colman, we may assume, lived mainly with his own countrymen at Inishbofin, he took a deep and practical interest in his new foundation at Mayo—\"Mayo of the Saxons\", as it came to be called. In the year 670, with his consent, its first canonical abbot was appointed. This was Gerald, the son of a northern English king, who, annoyed at the way Colman's most cherished convictions had been slighted at Whitby, resolved to follow him to Ireland. The school gained greatly in fame for sanctity and learning under this youthful abbot. About 679 Adamnan, the illustrious biographer of Columba, visited Mayo and according to some writers, ruled there for seven years after Gerald's death. This latter statement is not, on the face of it, improbable if Gerald, as Colgan thinks, did not live after 697; but the Four Masters give the date of his death as 13 March, 726, and the \"Annals of Ulster\" put the event as late as 731. After Gerald's death there are only the record of isolated facts concerning the school he ruled so wisely and loved so well, but they are often facts of considerable interest and importance. The monastery was burned due to a lightning strike in 783, It burned again in 808; also—but only in the old \"Life of St. Gerald\" —that it was plundered by Turgesius the Dane in 818. That the monastic grounds were regarded as exceptionally holy we can gather from the entry that Domhnall, son of Torlough O'Conor, Lord of North Connacht, \"the glory and the moderator and the good adviser of the Irish people\" (d. 1176), was interred therein. That it had the status of an episcopal see long after the Synod of Kells (1152), is clear from the entry under the date of 1209, recording the death of \"Cele O'Duffy, Bishop of Magh Eo of the Saxons.\"\n\nMayo, like the other ancient Irish monastic schools, suffered from the raids of native and foreigner, especially during the fourteenth century. But it survived them all, for the death under date 1478 is recorded of a bishop—\"Bishop Higgens of Mayo of the Saxons\". The time at which the See of Mayo, on the ground that it contained not a cathedral but a parochial church, was annexed to Tuam, cannot with certainty be ascertained, but as far back as 1217, during the reign of Honorius III, the question was before the Roman authorities for discussion. It was probably not settled definitively for centuries after. James O'Healy, \"Bishop of Mayo of the Saxons\", was put to death for the Catholic Faith at Kilmallock in 1579. \n"}
{"id": "2294010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294010", "title": "Ràdio i Televisió d'Andorra", "text": "Ràdio i Televisió d'Andorra\n\nRàdio i Televisió d'Andorra, S.A. (RTVA) (; \"Radio and Television of Andorra PLC\") is the state-owned public television and radio broadcaster in the Principality of Andorra. It operates a television channel, ATV, and a radio station, RNA, both of which broadcast in Catalan.\n\nPublic service broadcasting in the principality began on 26 October 1989 after the General Council of Andorra decided that a national broadcasting organisation should be set up. As a result, the Organisme de Ràdio i Televisió d’Andorra (ORTA) was formed and radio station Ràdio Nacional d'Andorra (RNA) began broadcasting in December 1990. Andorra Televisió (ATV), Andorra's first television channel began in 1995. ORTA was funded by the Andorran government. All programming on both RNA and ATV was produced by independent companies until 1997 when ORTA began producing all of its own programming. ORTA was replaced by the current organisation, Ràdio i Televisió d'Andorra S.A. (RTVA), on 13 April 2000. RTVA took full control of both RNA and ATV. RTVA is also funded by the government. Advertising provides additional revenue. Its current director-general is Francesc Robert. RTVA has been an active member of the European Broadcasting Union since 2002 and took part in the Eurovision Song Contest from 2004 to 2009 inclusive.; however, in 2012 it was believed to be due to withdraw from the EBU because of financial problems.\n\nThe broadcaster has to compete with TV and radio stations from both France and Spain whose transmissions can easily be picked up in the principality.\n\n\nATV broadcasts a range of programming including sports, music, films and magazine shows as well as the daily children's strand \" Club Piolet\". The flagship news programme \"ATV Noticies\" is produced and broadcast three times a day, with bulletins at 1345, 2100 and prior to closedown. Regular live parliamentary coverage is also broadcast. ATV usually broadcasts between the hours of 0730 and 2345 each day with information pages displayed after closedown.\n\nRNA broadcasts mostly music although news bulletins air on the hour, every hour. The station broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week.\n\nATV and RNA are streamed online for free on RTVA's website, although the ATV stream is sometimes replaced with a test card due to copyright restrictions on some programming.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294015", "title": "Just Joe", "text": "Just Joe\n\nJust Joe is a 1960 British comedy film directed by Maclean Rogers, and starring Leslie Randall, Joan Reynolds, Michael Shepley, and Anna May Wong. The unassuming Joe (Leslie Randall) discovers his heroic side when he becomes involved with spies chasing the secret formula of a new detergent.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294018", "title": "Lina", "text": "Lina\n\nLina or Līna is a feminine given name. It is Croatian, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, German, Italian, Norwegian, Russian, Swedish feminine given name and surname given name that is a short form of a variety of names ending in -lina including Adelina, Angelina, Apollina, Avelina, Carmelina, Carolina, Emelina, Evangelina, Evelina, Guendalina, Karolina, Kjellina, Kolina, Marcelina, Marcellina, Melina, Messalina, Nikolina, Pålina, Paolina, Paulina, Rosalina, and Žaklina. Lina is a Finnish, Italian, and Slovene feminine given name that is a feminine form of Lino, Lin, and Linus. Līna is a Latvian feminine given name. \n\nLina is a common female given name in Arab countries, Iran, Afghanistan, Central Asia, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, especially among those born after 1980. It has roots in old Persian, Greek, German, and Arabic.\n\nIn 2011 it was one of the most popular female given names in Germany. It was initially used as a shortened form of names such as Karolina, Nikolina, Adelina, Evelina and Paulina. Since \"-lina\" is a diminutive suffix, it has no meaning of its own in Swedish. The Danish and Norwegian form is \"Line\". \n\nIn Arabic it is a direct Quranic name, meaning \"young palm tree\". Figuratively, this means \"tender\" and \"delicate\".\n\nThe Greek writing is Λίνα. In Greek, it means \"sunlight\", and also refers to the olive crown used for a hero.\n\nIn Persian it means \"light\", \"a ray of sunlight\" or \"pretty girl\".\nLina is also a short form of any female name ending in \"-lina\", such as Angelina, Evangelina, Carolina, Melina.\n\nLina is the female form of Linas, a common given name among people of Lithuanian descent. It can also be construed as a rarefeminine form of Linus.\n\nIn the Russian language, Lina () is a diminutive form of the female name Avelina.\n\nIn Arabic \"Lina\" (لينة) refers to a small, young palm tree. It means \"tender\" or \"tenderness\". \n\nThe name Lina also has roots in France and China. In Chinese, \"Li\" (丽) means \"pretty\" and \"Na\" (娜) means \"elegant\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294022", "title": "Bugis, Singapore", "text": "Bugis, Singapore\n\nBugis (Kampong Bugis in Malay) is an area in Singapore that covers Bugis Street now located within the Bugis Junction shopping mall. Bugis Street was renowned internationally from the 1950s to the 1980s for its nightly gathering of transvestites and transsexuals, a phenomenon that made it one of Singapore's most notable destinations for foreign visitors during that period.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Bugis Street underwent major urban redevelopment into a retail complex of modern shopping malls, restaurants and nightspots mixed with regulated back-alley roadside vendors. Underground digging to construct the Bugis MRT station prior to that also caused the upheaval and termination of the nightly transgender sex bazaar culture, marking the end of a colourful and unique era in Singapore's history.\n\nToday, the original Bugis Street is now a cobblestoned, relatively wide avenue sandwiched between the buildings of the Bugis Junction shopping complex. On the other hand, the lane presently touted as \"Bugis Street\" by the Singapore Tourist Promotion Board is actually developed from New Bugis Street, formerly Albert Street, and is billed as \"the largest street-shopping location in Singapore\". An attempt by the Singapore Tourist Promotion Board to bring back the former exotic atmosphere was unsuccessful. Although the street is now not a well-known tourist destination, it is frequented by many Singaporeans and Malaysian nowadays due to the popularity of Kwan Im Thong Hood Cho Temple at Waterloo Street nearby.\n\nBugis Street lies in an extensive area which was commonly referred to in the past, by the Chinese-educated community, as \"Xiao Po\" (小坡; 'little slope'). The latter stretched all the way from Tanjong Pagar, through Singapore's Chinatown, to Jalan Sultan. Its length was thriving and crammed with merchants and traders, making it one of the most vibrant economic zones of old Singapore.\n\nAccording to knowledgeable long-term residents of the area, before the arrival of the British, there used to be a large canal which ran through the area where the Bugis, a seafaring people from South Sulawesi province in Indonesia, could sail up, moor their boats and trade with Singaporean merchants.\n\nIt was these people after whom the thoroughfare was named. The Bugis, or Buginese, also put their sailing skills to less benign uses and gained a reputation in the region as pirates.\n\nDuring the early colonial era, there also used to be low mounds of whitish sand in the area, earning the street the familiar Hokkien (Min Nan) moniker of \"Peh Soa Pu\" or \"Bai Sha Fu\" in Mandarin (白沙浮; 'white sand mounds'). The Cantonese, however, referred to the street as \"Hak Gaai\" or \"Hei Jie\" in Mandarin (黑街; 'black street') as there were many clubs catering to the Japanese invaders in the 1940s. During the first half of the 20th century, commuters could travel from Bugis Street to anywhere else in \"Xiao Po\" via a tram service which ran along North Bridge Road, which was referred to by the Chinese-educated as \"Xiao Po Da Ma Lu\" (小坡大马路; 'little slope main road').\nPrior to the second world war, Bugis had a high proportion of Japanese prostitutes; Karayuki-san. At its peak, there were 633 Karauki-san to 109 brothels, with a high concentration within the area of Bugis Street, Malabar Street, and Hylam Street. Due to the lack of space in the early-style, two storey, shophouse, overcrowding and hygiene issues became problematic. With many people using the same latrines and drinking water sources, disease spread with a cholera outbreak occurring in Bugis, Malabar, and Hylam Streets. This led to them being zoned off. The bad hygiene and poor ventilation due to overcrowding of the sites led to the Singapore Improvement Trust trying to demolish those buildings and rebuild. This led to the infamous \"Bugis Street Case\" which over the course of multiple courts decisions, decided that it was not legal to commandeer a building and only pay the price of the land, which had been going on previously and the decision was made by 1937, that new houses should be built to alleviate overcrowding and problems that are associated instead of tearing it down and rebuilding, expecting change to occur. This established a new form of slum clearance in Singapore that was more closely tied to the rights of the citizen and the owner.\n\nAfter World War II, hawkers gathered there to sell food and goods. There was initially also a small number of outdoor bars set up beside rat-infested drains.\n\nWhen transvestites began to rendezvous in the area in the 1950s, they attracted increasing numbers of Western tourists who came for the booze, the food, the pasar malam shopping and the \"girls\". Business boomed and Bugis Street became a lively and bustling area, forming the heart of \"Xiao Po\". It was one of Singapore's most famous tourist meccas from the 1950s to the 1980s, renowned internationally for its nightly parade of flamboyantly-dressed transvestites and it attracted hordes of Caucasian gawkers who had never before witnessed Asian queens in full regalia.\n\nThe latter would tease, cajole, and sit on visitors' laps or pose for photographs for a fee.\n\nOthers would sashay up and down the street looking to hook half-drunk sailors, American GIs, and other foreigners for an hour of profitable intimacy. Not only would these clients get the thrill of sex with an exotic oriental, there would be the added spice of transgressing gender boundaries in a seamy hovel.\n\nThere was an adage amongst Westerners that one could easily tell who was a real female and who was not: the transvestites were drop-dead gorgeous, while the rest were real women. The amount of revenue that the transvestites of Bugis Street raked in was considerable, providing a booster shot in the arm for the tourism industry. The street was popularly called \"Boogie Street\" by British servicemen.\n\nVeterans recall that the notorious drinking section began from Victoria Street west to Queen Street. Halfway between Victoria and Queen Streets, there was an intersecting lane parallel to the main roads, also lined with \"al fresco\" bars. There was a well-patronised public toilet with a flat roof of which there are archival photos, complete with jubilant rooftop transvestites.\n\nOne of the \"hallowed traditions\" bestowed upon the area by sojourning sailors (usually from Britain, Australia, and New Zealand), was the ritualistic \"dance of the flaming arseholes\" on top of the toilet's roof. Compatriots on the ground would chant the signature \"Haul 'em down you Zulu warrior\" song whilst the sailors performed their act.\n\nOver the years this became almost a mandatory exercise and although it may seem to many to be a gross act of indecency, it was generally well received by the sometimes up to hundreds of tourists and locals. The Kai Tais or Beanie Boys, as the transvestites were referred to by Anglophone white visitors, certainly did not mind either. By the mid-1970s Singapore started a crackdown on this type of lewd behaviour and sailors were arrested at gunpoint by the local authorities for upholding the tradition. By this time those sailors brave enough to try it were dealt with severely and even shipped home in disgrace. Though many locals accepted this part of Singaporean culture, many conservative Singaporeans felt that it was a disgrace and it defaced Singapore's image.\n\nWhile many were concerned about the public image and embarrassment that went along with it, the global concern of HIV/AIDS became more prevalent, a growing suspicion of the activities that took place. The HIV scare in Singapore can draw parallels with the English syphilis scare. Bugis Street was demolished as a way of not only controlling the population to become more orderly and normative, but also to prevent an HIV epidemic. With fears also being present that through homosexuality, the society and culture would denigrate and would limit the island's growth, especially post independence. By allowing a site like Bugis Street would go against the idea of Singapore's nuclear family and is, therefore, \"othered\" this othering scares the Singaporean authorities as it can be seen as dissenting. By using an HIV scare and the economic benefits of inserting an MRT station and eventually a mall, the amount of resistance from most Singaporeans would be minimal.\n\nThe earliest published description of Bugis Street found by Yawning Bread as a place of great gender diversity was in the book \"Eastern Windows\" by F.D. Ommaney, 1960. Ommaney did not date specifically his description of the street but his book made clear that he was in Singapore from 1955 to 1960. A first-person account of Bugis Street in the 1950s is by \"Bob\", a visiting Australian sailor is given here.\nIn the mid-1980s, Bugis Street underwent major urban redevelopment into a retail complex of modern shopping malls, restaurants and nightspots mixed with regulated back-alley roadside vendors. Underground digging to construct the Bugis MRT station prior to that also caused the upheaval and termination of the nightly transgender sex bazaar culture, marking the end of a colourful and unique era in Singapore's history.\n\nTourist and local lamentation of the loss sparked attempts by the Singapore Tourist Promotion Board (STPB) to attempt to recreate some of the old sleazy splendour by staging contrived \"Ah Qua shows\" on wooden platforms, but these artificial performances fell flat on their faces and failed to pull in the crowds. They were abandoned after a short time.\n\nThe trans women of Bugis Street were immortalised in an English-language film made by a Hong Kong film company which did employ some local talent in its production.(For more details, see and Singapore gay films: Bugis Street).\n\nThe fame of the original Bugis Street has spawned many namesakes eager to capitalise on the brand, even though many tourists, as well as some young Singaporeans, have no inkling as to the reasons for its erstwhile \"glamour\". This has been inherited to the Bugis Junction, Bugis+ and Bugis MRT station.\n\nThe original Bugis Street became part of the Bugis Village, where shops such as Alice, RUSH, Covet and NAVI are also there, it also inherits the same style as Far East Plaza.\n\nThis cacophony of Bugis'es clamouring for a spot in the limelight, reminiscent of the trans women who gave the original its glory, leads to great confusion when trying to locate Bugis Street itself.\n\nQueen Street Bus Terminal also known as Ban San Bus Terminal, is a bus terminal in Singapore. Queen Street Bus Terminal serves as the terminal for cross-border bus and taxi services to Johor Bahru, Malaysia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294026", "title": "Thinsulate", "text": "Thinsulate\n\nThinsulate is a brand of synthetic fiber thermal insulation used in clothing. The word is a portmanteau of the words \"thin\" and \"insulate\", trademarked by 3M. The material is made by the 3M Corporation and was first sold in 1979. It was originally marketed as an inexpensive alternative to down; at the time, 3M claimed it was twice as warm as an equivalent amount of any natural material.\n\nOriginally designed for clothing, it later became popular as an acoustic damping material. In 1997, 3M generated $150 million in annual revenue from the product. Its development originated from other microfibre products made by 3M. It has been used in US army clothing since the mid 1980s.\n\nThinsulate fibers are about in diameter, which is thinner than the polyester fibers normally used in insulation for clothing such as gloves or winter jackets. Advertising material suggests that Thinsulate is more effective due to the increased density of fibers with decreased size of fibers compared with more traditional insulation. Like most insulation materials, the gaps between fibers not only reduce heat flow, but also allow moisture to escape. The insulation properties are beneficial for retaining some of the heat produced by the body for comfortable warmth while the moisture produced, most likely sweat, is supposed to evaporate. It retains its insulating properties when wet.\n\nThe thermal resistance R-value provided by Thinsulate products varies by the specific thickness and construction of the fabric. Values (US units) range from 1.6 for 80-gram fabric to 2.9 for 200-gram fabric. Thinsulate is considered \"the warmest thin apparel insulation\" available. In fact, when equal thicknesses are compared, it provides about 1½ times the warmth of down and about twice the warmth of other high-loft insulation materials.\n\nMaterial safety data sheets from the manufacturer show that different varieties of Thinsulate are made from different mixtures of polymers, but most are primarily polyethylene terephthalate or a mixture of polyethylene terephthalate and polypropylene. Other materials in some include polyethylene terephthalate-polyethylene isophthalate copolymer and acrylic.\n\nThinsulate is now used in the fabric roof of the convertible automobile, the Porsche Boxster. The extra layer not only reduces heat loss but has also reduced noise levels inside the car by 3 decibels. It is also used in the roof of the Jaguar F-Type sports car. It features in the upholstery of Saturn sedans, Ford F-150 pickups, Buick Park Avenues, and F-16 fighters.\n\nIt is used in a wide variety of clothing products, such as footwear, gloves, hats, and coats. It became popular in outerwear jackets as early as 1985. The fibers are thinner in diameter than polyester fibres, so the material is used as a waterproof synthetic alternative to down.\n\nIn 2015 Thinsulate was named a recipient of an ISPO Award as a Top 10 Insulation.\n"}
{"id": "2294033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294033", "title": "1980 in archaeology", "text": "1980 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294035", "title": "Fernandes Guitars", "text": "Fernandes Guitars\n\nFernandes Guitars is a Japanese guitar and accessory manufacturer, that originated in 1969, building flamenco guitars. As the company grew it expanded production to include electric guitars, bass guitars, amplifiers, and accessories to become one of the biggest guitar manufacturers in Japan. Fernandes also owns Burny, a brand for Gibson replicas.\n\nDespite its high production figures, Fernandes is better known in the United States for its Sustainer system, which uses electromagnetism to vibrate a string for an extended period, so long as the user continues to fret a note. Unlike the similar manual E-Bow sustainer, the Fernandes Sustainer can be used with a standard plectrum, because the sustainer is imbedded in the body of guitar. Fernandes' custom shop has installed numerous Sustainers into guitars built by other manufacturers.\n\nFernandes continued to manufacture guitars, that cover the range from inexpensive starter models to custom instruments. In 2000, Fernandes made a guitar to promote the video game UmJammer Lammy, similar to Lammy's guitars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294037", "title": "Lux Video Theatre", "text": "Lux Video Theatre\n\nLux Video Theatre is an American television anthology series that was produced from 1950 until 1957. The series presented both comedy and drama in original teleplays, as well as abridged adaptations of films and plays.\n\nThe \"Lux Video Theatre\" was a spin-off from the successful \"Lux Radio Theater\" series broadcast on the NBC Blue Network (1934-1935) and CBS (1935–55).\n\n\"Lux Video Theatre\" began as a live 30-minute Monday evening CBS series on October 2, 1950, switching to Thursday nights during August, 1951. In September 1953, the show relocated from New York to Hollywood. In August 1954, it moved to NBC as an hour-long show on Thursday nights, telecast until September 12, 1957. With the introduction of the one-hour format and the move to Hollywood, abridged versions of popular films were often used as the basis for shows.\n\nTo introduce each act and interview the stars at the conclusion, NBC added a series of regular hosts: James Mason (1954–55), Otto Kruger (1955–56), Gordon MacRae (1956–57) and Ken Carpenter (1955-57). Kruger recalled:\n\nNew episodes were broadcast during the summer as the Summer Video Theatre. In 1957-58, Lux shifted sponsorship to a half-hour musical variety show, The Lux Show Starring Rosemary Clooney.\n\nFor the 1958-59 season, the dramatic series was brought back with a new name, Lux Playhouse. The new series alternated weeks with \"Schlitz Playhouse\".\n\nThe series finished in the Nielsen ratings at #30 in the 1950-1951 season and #25 in 1955-1956.\n\nAmong those cast in the productions were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294047", "title": "Things Are Tough All Over", "text": "Things Are Tough All Over\n\nThings are Tough All Over is a 1982 American action comedy film directed by Thomas K. Avildsen and starring Tommy Chong and Cheech Marin as two hippies, and additionally as Arab businessmen Mr. Slyman and Prince Habib.\n\nCheech and Chong (Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong) are driving a limo through the desert. Chong, who has decided to stop doing drugs for a while, is talking about rock and roll, and Cheech is falling asleep, but Cheech is narrating over what's happening. He says that \"things are tough all over\" and that he's going to tell their story.\n\nIt's an awful winter in Chicago, and Cheech and Chong are poor, struggling musicians working at a car wash owned by a pair of oil-rich Arabs, Mr. Slyman and Prince Habib (also played by Cheech and Chong). After messing up on the job, the 2 are forced by the Arabs to work and play music at their club. Cheech and Chong also try to get with the Arabs' French girlfriends, who are more in love with the stoners.\n\nThe Arabs find themselves with a large sum of illegal money, which they try to get to their other business in Las Vegas. They decide to stash all the money in the seats of a limousine. The Arabs hire the stoners to drive the limousine to Las Vegas, telling them that they're sending them on a \"rock tour.\"\n\nCheech and Chong at first get gas in Chicago, but when they reveal they're strapped for cash, the man at the gas station takes a piece of the car as payment. With that idea, Cheech and Chong find themselves driving across the country, selling parts and pieces of the car for gas, food, and supplies. Soon, their car becomes a wreck and looks messed up, but Cheech and Chong continue to sell parts to get by. While out in the middle of the deserts, they decide to pick up a hitchhiker, who turns out to be none other than Donna (Evelyn Guerrero), Cheech's girlfriend (from \"Cheech & Chong's Next Movie\" and \"Nice Dreams\"). The two decide to take Donna in their messed-up limo to the nearest gas station. However, Donna is traveling with dozens of Mexicans, so the stoners end up driving all the Mexicans and Donna to the nearest gas station. To pay for gas, Cheech and Chong give the old man that runs the place a chair from the limo—which unknown to them is stuffed with the Arab's money.\n\nCheech and Chong deliver the messed-up limousine to the Arabs' other oil plant in the desert, to find no one there. With no other transportation or money, Cheech and Chong set out on foot into the desert. They wander into the burning deserts, suffering the Nevada heat, and trying to get cars to stop- they remain unsuccessful. Eating peyote to survive and singing to pass the time, Cheech and Chong do their best to get through the desert, though they believe they'll die from the heat.\n\nBack in Chicago, the Arabs find out that Cheech and Chong have delivered what remains of the car without any money in it. After deciding to kill them, the Arabs fly out to Nevada in their private plane and set out by car into the desert. The Arabs meet the old man at the gas station and learn that Cheech and Chong have been around, and set out into the deserts; their car breaks down, leaving the Arabs to wander through the Nevada deserts and get lost. Meanwhile, while walking through the desert, Cheech and Chong are picked up by the Arab's French girlfriends, who take them to an abandoned motel in the middle of the desert. The French girlfriends have sex with the stoners, and are (unknown to them) on a hidden camera film. Afterwards, the French ladies leave in their car, leaving the stoners stranded in the middle of nowhere yet again. Meanwhile, the Arabs are having the same problem, looking for Cheech and Chong in the middle of the desert, having no idea where to go.\n\nCheech and Chong wander through the desert again until they're picked up again, this time by comedian Rip Taylor, whose puns and props make Chong cry. The comedian drives the two into Las Vegas and drops them off at a restaurant, and has them dressed up as women to cover up their rags. Cheech and Chong start to dine at the restaurant, before the Arabs show up for dinner as well, having escaped the desert. Before they can eat, all the peyote Chong consumed begins to mess with his mind. Chong becomes emotional and confused, and when the Arabs begin to notice, the stoners try to escape. However, their wigs fall off, and the Arabs realize it's Cheech and Chong. The Arabs chase the stoners out of the restaurant and through the streets of Vegas. Cheech and Chong run into a women's-only porno theater with the murder-happy Arabs on their tail. In the theater, the Arabs see the showing of the hidden camera film of the stoners having sex with the Arabs' girlfriends. While the Arabs watch, inspired, Cheech and Chong escape. The stoners ditch the women's clothes and set out on foot to leave Las Vegas. The next day, as Cheech and Chong walk out of the city, a car pulls up, and Cheech and Chong get in, to find the Arabs and their French girlfriends. At first, Cheech and Chong are terrified and try to escape, but Mr. Slyman reveals that, instead of killing them, the Arabs have decided to cast the duo in porn films and launder the money through the enterprise.\n\nA happy ending, with a narrating Cheech reminding us that \"hey, things are tough all over.\"\n\n\nJanet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"Cheech and Chong have a good time in 'Things Are Tough All Over,' and you will, too.\" \"Variety\" called the film \"a painful and pallid affair which reminds of the tired, late-career efforts of Abbott & Costello.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film one-and-a-half stars out of four and called it \"the fourth and possibly worst Cheech and Chong comedy film.\" Gary Arnold of \"The Washington Post\" wrote, \"'Things Are Tough All Over' proves a prophetic bad-luck title for Cheech & Chong, who slump into the sporadically amusing doldrums for the first time in their brief but hilarious career as outrageous movie clowns.\" David Ansen of \"Newsweek\" called it \"a shaggy-dog road movie, with all the team's usual ingredients but one — it's not funny.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2294052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294052", "title": "Kusasi language", "text": "Kusasi language\n\nKusaal, or Kusasi (Qusasi), is a Gur language spoken primarily in northern Ghana. It is spoken by roughly 400,000 people and takes its name from the Kusasi people, who form the majority of the population of the area in the far northeast of Ghana, between the Gambaga escarpment, the Red Volta, and the national borders with Togo and Burkina Faso. There are some villages of Kusaasi in Burkina and also a few speakers in Togo. Kusaal is closely related to Mampruli, the language of the Mamprussi, who live to the south, and to Dagbani. There is a major dialect division between Agole, to the east of the White Volta river, and Toende, to the West. Agole has more speakers, and the only large town of the district, Bawku, is in Agole. The New Testament translation is in the Agole dialect.\n\nThe language is a fairly typical representative of the Western Oti–Volta low-level grouping within Gur, which includes several of the more widely spoken languages of Northern Ghana, and also Moore, the largest African language of Burkina Faso (and the largest of all Gur languages, with millions of speakers).\n\nLike most other Western Oti–Volta languages, it has lost the complicated noun class agreement system still found in e.g. the more distantly related Gurmanche, and has only a natural gender system, human/non-human. The noun classes are still distinguishable in the way nouns distinguish singular from plural by paired suffixes:\n\nnid(a) \"person\" plural nidib(a) \nbuug(a) \"goat\" plural buus(e)\n\nnobir(e) \"leg, foot\" plural noba(a)\n\nfuug(o) \"item of clothing\" plural fuud(e)\n\nmolif(o) \"gazelle\" plural moli(i)\n\nA unpaired suffix -m(m) is found with many uncountable and abstract nouns, \"e.g.\" ku'om(m) \"water\"\n\nThe bracketed final vowels in the examples occur because of the feature which most strikingly separates Kusaal from its close relatives: the underlying forms of words, such as buuga \"goat\" are found only when the word in question is the last word in a question or a negated statement. In all other contexts an underlying final short vowel is dropped and a final long vowel is shortened:\n\nFu daa nye buug la. \"You saw the goat.\"\n\nFu daa nye buug. \"You saw a goat.\"\n\nFu daa pu nye buuga. \"You didn't see a goat.\"\n\nAno'one daa nye buuga? \"Who saw a goat?\"\n\nKusaal shows the typical Gur feature whereby the noun and adjective stems are compounded in that order, followed by the singular/plural endings:\n\nbupielig(a) \"white goat\" [ bu-(g(a)) + piel- + -g(a) ]\n\nbupielis(e) \"white goats\"\n\nThere are a few traces of the old system (as in Gurmanche) whereby the adjective took the singular/plural endings appropriate to the class of the preceding noun, but the system is completely unproductive in Kusaal now.\n\nVerbal flexion is agreeably simple, as in other Western Oti–Volta languages and unlike less closely related Gur languages. Most verbs have five flexional forms\n\n(a) no ending, used for perfective aspect: M gos buug la. \"I've looked at the goat.\"\n\n(b) -d(a) ending, for imperfective: M gosid buug la. \"I look at the goat.\"\n\n(c) -m(a) for positive imperative: Gosim buug la! \"Look at the goat!\"\n\n(d) -in subjunctive for irrealis : Fu ya'a gosin ... \"If you were to look (but you won't) ...\"\n\n(e) -b(o), -g(o), -r(e) gerund, verbal noun : o gosig la mor dabiem \"his (the angel's) appearance was scary\" [Judges 13:6 draft] - literally 'his seeing they had fear'\n\nSome 10% of verbs, with stative meanings, have only a single form.\n\nThe verb is preceded by a chain of invariable particles expressing tense, polarity and mood. Serial verb constructions are common and important, as in many West African languages.\n\nObject pronouns can be severely reduced in form by the Kusaal final-vowel-loss rules, surfacing as single consonants, or even zero; they are preceded by a reduced vowel ending the previous word, which is a reduced form of that word's own underlying final vowel, preserved before the enclitic pronoun:\n\nM boodi f. \"I love you.\" traditionally written M bood if.\n\nM boodu. \"I love him/her.\" traditionally written M bood o.\n\nWord order is strictly SVO, but clefting is common.\n\nWithin the noun phrase, except for the typical noun-adjective Gur compounding, the rule is that associative modifier (possessive, genitive) precedes the head:\n\nm buug \"my goat\"\n\nbuug la nobir \"the goat's foot\" (la \"the\", follows its noun)\n\nNumeral and deictics (demonstrative, article) follow, with the quantitative in final place:\n\nm buus atan' la wusa \"all my three goats\"\n\nThe sound system of Kusaal is similar to that of its relatives; consonant clusters (except between adjacent words) occur only word-internally at morpheme-junctures, and are determined by the limited range of consonants which can appear in syllable-final position. Clusters arising from the addition of suffixes in derivation and flexion are either simplified or broken up by inserted (\"svarabhakti\") vowels.\n\nThe roster of consonants includes the widespread West African labiovelar double-closure stops kp, gb, but the palatal series of the related languages (written ch/j in Dagbani and Hanga and ky/gy in Mampruli) fall in with the simple velars, as in neighbouring Farefare (Frafra, Gurene) and Moore. The reflexes of the palatal and labiovelar double-closure nasals of the related languages, [\"n\"] written ny and [\"ŋm\"] ŋm - are probably best analysed as a nasalised y and w respectively, but the scope of the nasalisation and the order of its onset with respect to the semivowel is variable.\n\nThe vowel system is not yet fully understood, complicated by differences between the Agole and Toende dialects and the system of diphthongs in Agole, which according to the most-favoured analysis, enables Agole with seven contrastive vowel segments to cover the contrasts represented in Toende with nine pure vowels. There are also lengthened or strengthened vowels 'broken' with a glottal stop bu'ud \"beating\" distinct from the glottal as a consonant, usually in ku'om \"water\". Glottal also marks some monosyllabic verbs bu' \"beat\". In addition some vowels are contrastively nasalised and others nasalised through the influence of nasal consonants. In the orthography a letter n followed by a vowel or glottal indicates that the preceding vowel is contrastively nasalised, unless in word-final position when nasalisation is indicated by a double nn and a single n is a final consonant.\n\nThe language is tonal, with tonal differences distinguishing lexical items (with few minimal pairs) and syntactic constructions. The intrinsic tones of individual words are often overridden with a different pattern in particular syntactic constructions, e.g. main verbs in positive main clauses become all-low-tone.\nMany words also cause tone changes in closely connected following or preceding words by \"tone spreading\". \nThe tonal system is a terracing system with two tones and emic downsteps, but with the H! sequence being realized as extra-high in some contexts. The domain of tone is the vowel mora, but there are many constraints on the possible tone patterns with a word; uncompounded nouns show only 4 different overall possibilities at most for any given segmental shape, and inflecting verbs have only two possible intrinsic tone patterns.\n\nThe orthography used above is basically that of the New Testament translation, which remained the only substantial written work available in Kusaal for a long time. The New Testament orthography, however, spells \"goat\" boog, and the vowel is intermediate between u and o, phonetic .\nIt is adequate for mother-tongue speakers but does not suffice to distinguish the seven distinct vowel qualities of Agole Kusaal, does not mark tone, and has partly inconsistent word-division conventions due to the complications produced by the Kusaal final vowel loss/reduction phenomena.\nSInce 2013, however, a unified orthography of the language has been in use and is used across various sectors including education at the University of Education, Winneba (Ajumako campus) and by translators who recently (2015) succeeded in revising the New Testament as well as translating the complete Old Testament into the language using the set of guidelines provided in the current orthography.\n\nMaterials on Kusaal have gradually increased over the last few years. Some aids for learners were produced by the husband and wife Spratt team who pioneered the linguistic study of the language and may be obtainable from GILLBT (Ghana Institute of Linguistics, Literacy and Bible Translation) in Tamale, Ghana. Literacy materials, collections of folk stories and so forth have also been produced by GILLBT. There is also a simple dictionary compiled by David and Nancy Spratt from the same source. Also available are two master theses from native speaker linguists on the phonology (Musah 2010) and the syntax (Abubakar 2011). A draft grammar of the Burkina Faso dialect (Toende) has also been prepared by Niggli. Several other documents including the Orthography of the language are also available from GILLBT. An account of Agolle Kusaal (extensively revised, December 2017) has also been placed online. \n"}
{"id": "2294060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294060", "title": "Graduation (album)", "text": "Graduation (album)\n\nGraduation is the third studio album by American rapper and producer Kanye West, released on September 11, 2007, through Def Jam Recordings and Roc-A-Fella Records. Recording sessions took place between 2005 and 2007 at several studios in New York and Los Angeles. It was primarily produced by West himself, with contributions from various other producers. The album also features guest appearances from recording artists such as Dwele, T-Pain, Lil Wayne, DJ Premier, and Chris Martin of Coldplay. The cover art and its interior artwork were designed by Japanese contemporary artist Takashi Murakami, who would also design the cover art for West's collaborative album with Kid Cudi, eponymously titled \"Kids See Ghosts\" (2018).\n\nInspired by stadium tours, house-music and indie rock, \"Graduation\" marked a departure from the ornate, soul-based sound of West's previous releases as he musically progressed to more anthemic compositions. West incorporated layered synthesizers and dabbled with electronics while sampling from various music genres and altering his approach to rapping. He conveys an ambivalent outlook on his newfound fame and media scrutiny alongside providing inspirational messages of triumph directed at listeners. \"Graduation\" concludes the education theme of West's first two albums \"The College Dropout\" (2004) and \"Late Registration\" (2005). \n\n\"Graduation\" debuted at number one on the US \"Billboard\" 200, selling over 957,000 copies in the first week of sales. It has since sold over 2.7 million copies in the United States and been certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Five accompanying singles were released, including the international hits \"Stronger\", \"Good Life\" and \"Homecoming\", the former of which topped the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The album received widely positive reviews from music critics, with several of them praising the production, and earned West his third Grammy Award for Best Rap Album, as well as his third nomination for Album of the Year. It was named as one the best albums of 2007 by multiple publications, including \"Rolling Stone\" and \"USA Today\", while also listed among numerous decade-end lists.\n\nThe coinciding release dates between \"Graduation\" and rapper 50 Cent's \"Curtis\" generated much publicity over the idea of a sales competition, resulting in record-breaking sales performances by both albums. The success of the former and the outcome of its competition with the latter marked the end of the dominance of gangsta rap in mainstream hip-hop. This is credited with paving the way for other hip-hop artists who did not conform to gangster conventions to find commercial acceptance.\n\n\"Graduation\" is the third installment of West's planned tetralogy of education-themed studio albums, which West subsequently later deviated from due to the events surrounding the conception of his fourth studio album, \"808s & Heartbreak\" (2008). The album demonstrates yet another distinctive progression in West's musical style and approach to production. After spending the previous year touring the world with Irish rock band U2 on their Vertigo Tour, West became inspired by watching Bono open the stadium tours every night to incredible ovations and sought out to compose anthemic rap songs that could operate more efficiently in large stadiums and arenas. In West's attempt to accomplish this \"stadium-status\" endeavor, West incorporated layered electronic synthesizers into his hip-hop production, which also finds him utilizing slower tempos, being influenced by the music of the 1980s, and experimenting with electronic music. West was particularly influenced by house music, a subgenre of electronic dance music that first originated in his hometown of Chicago, Illinois in the early 1980s. West has stated that growing up, he would listen to hip-hop music at home or in his car, but when he felt like dancing, he would attend a house club. While he rarely listened to house at home, he still felt it was an important part of his culture and background.\n\nWest further broadened his musical palette on \"Graduation\" by not limiting himself to his customary use of samples and interpolation from classic soul records and instead drew influences from a far more eclectic range of music genres. Along with house music, \"Graduation\" contains samples and music elements of euro-disco, hard rock, electronica, lounge, progressive rock, synth-pop, electro, krautrock, dub, reggae, and dancehall. Also, for much of the third studio album, West modified his style of rapping and adopted a dilatory, exuberant flow in emulation of Bono's operatic singing. West altered his vocabulary, he utilised less percussive consonants for his vocal delivery in favor of smoother vowel harmonies. In addition to U2, West drew inspiration from other arena rock bands such as The Rolling Stones and Led Zeppelin for the melodies and chord progressions of his songs. In terms of lyricism, he simplifies some of his rhymes after touring with The Rolling Stones on their A Bigger Bang concert tour and discovering he could not captivate the audiences as well with his most complex lyrical themes.\n\nWest made a conscious decision to abstain from the widespread recording practice of excessive rap albums saturated with skits and filler and instead comprised \"Graduation\" with significantly fewer tracks. He also chose to scale back on the guest appearances, limiting himself to just one single guest rap verse on the entire studio album. West cites the rock bands The Killers, Keane, Modest Mouse, and indie-pop singer-songwriter Feist for being among his favorite musicians and having considerably profound influence on the sound of \"Graduation\". Due largely to these factors and the inclusion of layered electronic synthesizers, West believed that his record took hip-hop in a different direction. He also acknowledged that the differences did not in and of themselves make \"Graduation\" a good album; however, he felt it was an accurate representation of the music he was listening to and inspired by at that time.\n\nWest began working on \"Graduation\" immediately after releasing his second studio album \"Late Registration\". By late September 2005, West had already completed three songs for the album, which he intended to contain a total of twelve tracks. Around the time of the recording of the third studio album, West would often listen to songs written by folk and country singer-songwriters Bob Dylan and Johnny Cash in hopes of developing methods to augment his word play and storytelling abilities. The former musician had been recommended to West by multiple of his friends, including English disc jockey Samantha Ronson, all of whom claimed his music and the way he dealt with the press reminded them of Dylan. West also listened to his most favorite alternative rock bands, including The Killers, Radiohead, Modest Mouse, and Keane, in order to gain new ideas on how to make his hip-hop production style more stadium-friendly. Additionally, West would often test his new songs on his iPod, in his office, in dance clubs and just about anywhere people might listen to his music. He would then make adjustments to the tracks based on feedback he received, repeating the process as many times as necessary.\n\nIn comparison to previous albums, \"Graduation\" features fewer guest appearances from other recording artists. West elaborated that it was a fully conscious decision to keep his guest vocalists at a minimum, saying that, \"When I hear the records of my favorite bands – The Killers or Coldplay – you only hear one voice from start to finish\". R&B singers T-Pain and Dwele, New York rappers Mos Def and ALBe. Back, and famed hip-hop record producer DJ Premier are featured in individual tracks primarily to deliver melodic hooks and refrains. However, though he originally intended for \"Graduation\" to be completely devoid of guest rap verses, West decided to invite New Orleans rapper Lil Wayne on the track \"Barry Bonds\". At the time, the two MCs had been working together, with West contributing to the production of Lil Wayne's sixth studio album \"Tha Carter III\". As for the absence of skits, West explained, \"There's just serious songs, hooks, chords, and ideas. No special effects or antics ... and no fake Bernie Mac!\" West instead decided to record two earthy musical interludes in place of the hip-hop skits. He incorporated African sounds and polyrhythmic percussion into both. However, for unknown reasons, the two musical interludes were omitted from the studio album.\n\nMany songs on \"Graduation\" contain background vocals provided by Connie Mitchell of the Australian dance music group Sneaky Sound System. The collaboration came about when West met her bandmates Angus McDonald and Daimon Downey at a diner in Sydney while touring the country with U2 around November 2006. Seeking musical inspiration, West asked McDonald for ideas, who in turn suggested that he be introduced to Mitchell. Upon meeting Mitchell after she arrived at Studios 301 where he was recording music during the tour, West had her sing over a vocal track and quickly took a liking to her voice. U2 singer Bono and guitarist The Edge also complimented Mitchell's singing while visiting the studio. Some time later, Mitchell received a call from West who asked if she could travel to The Record Plant in Los Angeles to begin recording tracks for his third studio album. Mitchell later admitted that while she previously didn't know who West was and never really cared for hip-hop music, the collaboration has changed her views.\n\nDuring an interview with \"Billboard\", West revealed that he had worked with Chris Martin, the lead singer of the British alternative rock band Coldplay, on a song entitled \"Homecoming\", and that it could possibly be released as the lead single for \"Graduation\". The collaboration occurred the year before when West and Martin met one another during an impromptu jam session at the Abbey Road Studios in London, England. West had just finished performing at a show that had been held at Abbey Road and the band just so happened to be recording their music in the recording studio at exactly the same time. The song in itself is actually a re-vamping for \"Home (Windy)\", a track that originated from a demo tape dating back to the year 2001. It was made available two years later under the new title \"Home\" on West's 2003 mixtape \"Get Well Soon...\" and also on the advance copy of West's debut studio album \"The College Dropout\", which due to a leak was never released. This original version possesses West's once trademark classic soul vocal sample production style, with singer John Legend on the chorus, which contains lyrics that are different than Martin's. This is due to the fact that Martin asked West to change the song's lyrical content.\n\nWidely considered by music critics and listeners alike to be the most radio-friendly track on \"Graduation\", West defines the studio album's third single \"Good Life\" as the song with the most \"blatant hit-recordness\". The track features vocals from R&B singer T-Pain, who utilizes the voice audio processor technology of Auto-Tune. The Song is sampled from Michael Jackson's song P.Y.T. (Pretty Young Thing). West had previously experimented with the technology on his debut album \"The College Dropout\" for the background vocals on the songs \"Jesus Walks\" and \"Never Let Me Down\". During his brief stay in Sweden, West sent through sixteen different mixes of \"Good Life\" over to their recording studio for the audio mastering process. West admitted that he actually did not really care for the single, but he was pressured into releasing it by his record label Def Jam Recordings. However, West has since clarified that he doesn't retain any lingering animosity whatsoever towards his record label in regards to this.\n\n\"Graduation\" started taking definite form around the time of the filming of the music video for its second single \"Stronger\", whereas prior West had been \"aimlessly making songs\". The music video was directed by famed music video director, film director, and screenwriter Hype Williams. The sci-fi imagery of music video inspired West to take his album in a more futuristic direction. After the filming of the music video, which began before West had even written the song's second verse, he returned to the studio to redo parts of \"Stronger\" and various other tracks he recorded for the album, watching films such as \"Total Recall\" for more ideas. West mixed the track seventy-five times, as he could not seem to get the kick drum to sound precisely the way that he wanted it to, amongst other issues. He worked on \"Stronger\" with eight different audio engineers and eleven different mix engineers around the globe and recorded over fifty versions of the track. Still feeling dissatisfied after hearing the number-one hit single inside a club compared alongside Timbaland's 2007 single \"The Way I Are\", which was his favorite hip-hop beat at the time, West enlisted the record producer to assist him in redoing the drum programming.\n\nThe third studio album also sees the return of composer and multi-instrumentalist Jon Brion – who had played an integral role as the co-executive producer on West's previous studio album \"Late Registration\" – for the track \"Drunk and Hot Girls\". West claimed that one day, while listening to \"Sing Swan Song\" by the German experimental-rock band Can, he heard the words \"drunk and hot girls\" rather than the actual \"drunky hot bowls\" lyrics. Rather than rap, West instead slowly sings along to the sinister song's dreary original melody with warbled vocals. West features vocal harmony during the chorus with guest artist Mos Def, who just after his voice experiences a four-second audio delay, also delivers the song's reverb-filled bridge.\n\nMore than any other song on the entire studio album, the epic stadium-rap power ballad \"I Wonder\" was the most influenced by U2. West cites it as one of this top three most favorite songs from \"Graduation\". West imparted that he had sought out to make the hip-hop variation of the rock band's \"City of Blinding Lights\". West reportedly heard the snare drum which was used for the track while shopping for furniture at Moss and spent many weeks working on it. West has also said that he wrote the song while thinking of performing it onstage in front of an audience of over 50,000 people. With this in mind, he placed a significant amount of concentration on speaking at high volumes with fewer wording and initially delivers his defiant lyrics in an intense staccato vocal style. West raps the song's three verses using single and double-time rhyme schemes. He stresses each syllable in each word in the minimalist first verse. West then transitions to a faster, more fluid flow for the more intricate second and third verses. West considered the release of \"I Wonder\" as the album's fourth single. But he instead chose \"Flashing Lights\", which he refers to as the \"coolest\" track from the studio album.\nThe hip-hop beat for \"The Glory\" was originally made for West's GOOD Music associate, close friend, and fellow Chicago hip-hop artist Common, whose seventh album \"Finding Forever\" was being produced and recorded by West simultaneously with \"Graduation\". As was the case with both their previous albums, certain tracks that West originally crafted for \"Finding Forever\" that Common declined eventually ended up on his own studio album. \"Everything I Am\" was yet another song intended for Common but was passed on, a fact which West addresses within the opening lines. The record features turntable scratches contributed by famed hip-hop record producer DJ Premier. After West had played the demo for \"Everything I Am\" over the phone for DJ Premier and asked him what he thought of it, DJ Premier then replied that he enjoyed the lyrics and the innovative beat and offered to scratch over it. When working on the track, and while following the numerous instructions that were supplied by West, DJ Premier took seven different styles of scratches, including drum breaks, then cut all of them up into different rhythms, and scattered them all throughout the track, providing West with many different ideas to choose from.\n\nWhile written by West, who envisioned its concept and chorus while riding an elevator, the soul-baring Jay-Z dedication \"Big Brother\" stands as the only song on \"Graduation\" that he didn't produce. The production of the track was instead handled solely by Atlanta record producer DJ Toomp. According to West's cousin, soul singer Tony Williams, Jay-Z became quite emotional after West played a part of \"Big Brother\" for him in the studio for the very first time. During an interview with \"Rolling Stone\", West himself recalled that it was \"a very serious moment\". When asked for his opinion, Jay-Z replied that he considered \"Big Brother\" a fair portrayal from a little brother's perspective. Jay-Z went on to say that he also thought that the song was \"brilliantly written\" and voice the belief of it being West's best song since \"Jesus Walks\" as far as structure and emotion.\n\nAlthough \"Bittersweet Poetry\" appears as a Japanese bonus track on \"Graduation\", it was actually one of the very first songs crafted for \"Late Registration\". After seeing the 2004 biographical film \"Ray\" together, West and blues-rock musician John Mayer decided to collaborate on a record and immediately went back to a recording studio to compose the song \"Bittersweet\". This wasn't the first time West and Mayer collaborated with one another. The two previously worked together to make \"Go!\", the third single from Common's sixth studio album \"Be\", which came about when Mayer went to visit West at The Record Plant in Los Angeles. In the end, because West felt that their song did not coincide well into the overall soundscape of his second studio album, it was subsequently unincluded.\n\nWith \"Graduation\", West made a departure from the warm soul samples of \"The College Dropout\" and the lush baroque-pop orchestration of \"Late Registration\". Motivated by stadium impulses, West ventured towards a more atmospheric soundscape imbued with arena rock elements that explores electronic music. The musical progression arose from West touring the world in 2006 with the rock bands U2 and The Rolling Stones. The change also came about from listening to music that encompass genres such as alternative rock, indie-rock, and especially house music. House music is a subgenre of electronic dance music whose origins can be traced back to West's hometown of Chicago, Illinois. The productions of the tracks on \"Graduation\" are also unique in that they brandish European musical influences. According to Jayson Green of \"Stylus Magazine\", West had developed a fascination with Euro-disco, a European form of electronic dance music that branched off from American disco in the 1970s. Going further, a columnist for \"Slant Magazine\" claims that the album's hip-hop beats would be \"European-club-worthy\" were they stripped of the vocals. Most importantly, Green perceives that West had developed an affinity with electronic synthesizers. \"Chicago Tribune\" music critic Greg Kot comments on the incorporation of synthesizer sounds. From a musical standpoint, he views \"Graduation\" as \"an album steeped in keyboard tones, in all their richness and variety\". Mark Pytlik of \"Pitchfork\" surmises that the album exhibits a new electronic production style, especially modulated electronic noises. By contrast, AllMusic's Andy Kellman argues, \"Though the synthesizer use marks a clear, conscious diversion from Kanye's past productions, highlights ... are deeply rooted in the Kanye of old, using nostalgia-inducing samples, elegant pianos and strings, and gospel choirs\". \"Graduation\" has been regarded as a work of pop-rap by music journalists Brad Callas, Joshua Botte of NPR, \"AbsolutePunk\", \"Vice\" magazine's Eric Sundermann, Jay Willis of \"GQ\", and \"The Atlantic\"s Spencer Korhaber.\n\nWest retracted much of the rich live instrumentation that had characterized his previous studio album \"Late Registration\". He had them replaced with heavy, layered electronic synthesizers with Gothic tendencies at loud volumes throughout \"Graduation\". West injected distorted synth-chords, house beats, electro-disco rhythms, and a wide array of audio-effects into his articulate hip-hop production. All the while, West buried his signature kicks and snares deep beneath the decomposing layers of synths into the bottom of the mix. \"Graduation\" contains an eclectic variety of vaguely familiar samples that were artfully manipulated by West. Though he continues to use vocal samples, West now gleans them before also pushing them underneath the synths, causing them to \"sound like voices trapped in a huge machine, not like organic, subliminal connections to a mythical black-music past\". As always is the case with his productions, West neither relies nor settles simply on samples alone. Instead, there lies a discernible sense of multi-layered grandeur evident within each track. Even in new, unfamiliar musical surroundings, West retains both his self-assurance as well as his close attention to sonic detail. Hence, the album contains a plethora of random, semi-audible sounds that are challenging to notice during the first few listens. The sounds range from keyboard arpeggios to crowd cheers to hard rock guitars and act as a supplement for the atypical samples and the layered electronic synths. West filled the corners of \"Graduation\" with enough subtle instrumental flourishes and studio embellishments to warrant a repeated, close, and careful listening experience. According to Ann Powers from the \"Los Angeles Times\", the album's subtly dark tone was a byproduct of the inevitable toll placed on West as an artist, \"an innovator in a genre that he must at least partially destroy to renew\", torn between his devotion to hip-hop tradition and his \"restless artistic drive\":\n\nDespite the predominant synthetic attributes and the overall electronic aesthetic, the emphasis placed on organic string arrangements that had accentuated \"Late Registration\" remained a significant factor on \"Graduation\". Similar to its predecessor, \"Graduation\" wasn't restricted to the confines of conventional looping techniques typical of traditional hip-hop production. Instead, West continues to implement sudden musical shifts within the multi-layered song structures and express meticulously composed introductions, bridges, and codas. For his third album, West produced songs that combine hip-hop beats with anthemic refrains and continues to employ his skill in layering keys, strings, and vocals to coax the melodies out of samples. Through acting as his own producer, West manages to maintain quality control over the album's music to ensure that \"his productions build momentum even when they revolve around a handful of repeated samples [and] nearly every song on \"Graduation\" is memorable for both its hooks and its overall sound\". And as the album progresses, its textures and the glossy sheen of its polished, synthesizer-driven productions become harder and denser with every track. Under the belief that his sophomore effort had been far too indulgent, poorly arranged, and oversaturated with unnecessary sonic accoutrements, West took measures to streamline his third release. West fashioned \"Graduation\" to contain less ornate production, made the studio album completely devoid of hip-hop skits, and sequenced the record in such a way that it produced a tighter, more cohesive package.\n\n\"Graduation\" opens on a sparse note with \"Good Morning\", beginning with an echoed, metronomic cowbell beat and a thumping bassline melded with a simple, arpeggiating synthesizer drone. The drone is drowned by the music that arrives at the chorus, which is a conflation of ambient synths and an astral backing choir crafted from a non-verbal vocal sample of \"Someone Saved My Life Tonight\" by Elton John. \"Good Morning\" eventually concludes with the voice of Jay-Z reiterating lyrics from \"The Ruler's Back\", the rapper's own opening track of his sixth studio album \"The Blueprint\". The production for \"Champion\" features intermittent drops and 808-handclaps and expresses a slight jazz-rock influence, eschewing guitars and trumpets in favor of breezy synths. During the verses, West raps over a constant loop of the words \"their eyes\" while the chopped-up hook is formed from the question, \"Did you realize, that you were a champion?\" Both phrases are recontextualized from \"Kid Charlemagne\" by Steely Dan. The song also sports a reggae-inspired bridge delivered by Connie Mitchell in a distinct toasting vocal style. The soul-fired track \"I Wonder\" starts off with its piano-based refrain, which contains samples of \"My Song\" by Labi Siffre. It then proceeds to morph into a myriad of interlaced synths that are impacted by distorted snare drum strokes (taken from \"Ambitionz Az a Ridah\" by 2Pac, which samples the drums from \"Pee-Wee's Dance by Joeski Love) and ethereal electric keyboards. During the bridge, the chord progression changes and the song adopts a heavy string section that emulates the melody of its synths. The composition then enters an instrumental passage and finishes off with a sweeping string arrangement.\n\n\"Good Life\" utilizes multi-tracked, interlocking vocals that harmonize with guest singer T-Pain's Auto-Tuned voice. The song's melody is based on sampled keyboards from \"P.Y.T. (Pretty Young Thing)\" by pop star Michael Jackson , with the tempo slightly decreased and the pitch raised to the point its sound resembles squealing shrieks. \"Barry Bonds\" (named after the baseball player) is built on a moaning bass line and Gothic organ, while punctuated by wailing sampled from \"Long Red\" by Mountain. \"Drunk and Hot Girls\" exhibits a sluggish waltz pitched with the rhythm of an Eastern European drinking song. It contains a mix of dark orchestration and detuned electronics with elements of \"Sing Swan Song\" by German progressive rock band Can. West claimed that while listening to their song, he heard the words \"drunk and hot girls\" rather than the actual \"drunky hot bowls\" lyrics. Rather than rap, West and guest artist Mos Def sing along to the song's melody. Opening with a gradual, rising crescendo of symphonic strings, \"Flashing Lights\" emits synth twinklings before transforming into a moderately-paced, synth-driven beat. After the introduction, in which Mitchell's processed vocals repeat the titular hook four times, West raps the two verses, each one followed by the chorus sung by Dwele coupled with the hook. Following a break, the song enters a passage where its heavily manipulated hook echoes in and out before the coda draws the composition to a close. \"Stronger\" is built around a sample of \"Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger\" by Daft Punk, while its echoing deep, hallow drums affect the electronic sound.\n\nBy being composed using nothing more than a Rhodes piano, a vocal sample, and turntable scratches, \"Everything I Am\" stands as the third studio album's most minimalistic production. West marries a down-tempo beat to gentle piano chords which are accentuated by soulful cooing sampled from \"If We Can't Be Lovers\" by Prince Phillip Mitchell. The low-key track has a scratched hook by DJ Premier formed with the vocal sample which says \"Here we go again\" taken from \"Bring the Noise\" by Public Enemy from their 1988 album \"It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back\". With its thick, heavy bass-line pattern, \"The Glory\" is an up-tempo number which revisits the \"chipmunk-soul\" that once defined the early production style of West. It displays a sped-up and high-pitched vocal sample of \"Save the Country\" by Laura Nyro accompanied by uplifting strings, keys, and an all-male gospel choir with drums from \"Long Red\" by Mountain. Chris Martin sings the chorus and supplies a gospel-style piano motif while West raps over heavy yet buoyant drums on \"Homecoming\". The chatter of a noisy, cheering crowd can inexplicably be heard lurking in the background throughout the track. The Jay-Z ode \"Big Brother\" begins with West uttering the words, \"Stadium status...\", backed by a string orchestra, pounding drums, a distorted guitar riff and plinking piano keys. Around mid-verse, the track adopts synths that mimic the melodies of the string section. Before the second verse, additional instrumentation enters; including a heavy bass-line, metallic percussion, and 808-handclaps. The studio album's final track \"Good Night\" exhibits the production characteristics of West's next musical evolution. West juxtaposes the glitchy, mechanical sound of an 8-bit beat with the more elegant, traditional sound of a classical piano.\n\nIn comparison to previous albums, which were largely driven by observational commentary on matters pertaining to social welfare, \"Graduation\" is more introspective in nature and addresses personal themes. West stated that he wanted to make inspirational music and placed more focus on individual perspective and experience that listeners could connect with in an attempt to create \"people's theme songs\". Dismayed that the messages behind his complex lyricism were frequently lost on listeners and didn't carry well during live performances, West made an attempt to simplify his lyrics and use more skeletal rhyme schemes for more straightforward verses while concentrating on speaking volumes with sparser wording on \"Graduation\". Having committed a significant amount of time towards elevating his storytelling abilities by listening to folk musicians, West manages to form a lyrical narrative within nearly every song on the album. West dedicated a majority of the album towards conducting an analysis himself and conveying his ambivalent outlook on his newfound wealth and fame. As such, West's subversive songwriting fluctuates between playful self-aggrandizement and critical self-doubt. While confident, extroverted and celebratory at face value, many songs contained on \"Graduation\" were thematically distanced and retained melancholic subtext. Some music critics remarked that compounded with West's urgent, emotive rapping style, the record sounded as if he were experiencing an existential crisis.\n\nThe free-associative \"Champion\" is primarily composed of motivational lyrics, but West also briefly touches on the strained relationship he had with his father–who divorced from his mother when he was just three-years-old–eventually reaching the conclusion that even with their ups and downs, in the end, his father was a champion in his eyes. West described \"Stronger\" as an \"emancipation\", as he uses the song to vent his frustration over mistakes he has made in the past. He describes his tribulation's with music critics and media causing his return as a \"Stronger\" rapper, as the song title implies. \"I Wonder\" carries an introspective tone, retaining a chorus about finding one's dreams, while West uses the verses to describe the struggle a person experiences in determining the meaning behind their life and achieving those dreams. Inspired by watching Bono open stadium tours, West concentrated on speaking volumes without using too many words on the song and delivers his raps in an exuberant, staccato manner. Using the same vocal styling, \"Flashing Lights\" tells the operatic narrative of man contemplating the complexities of a tragic relationship. \"Can't Tell Me Nothing\" serves as West's reflection on his fame and is characterized by bitter remorse and defiant self-awareness. West begins the song by expounding his conflicted feelings regarding wealth and desire, describing a compulsion to spend that overwhelms any and all other objectives in life. He ties this into his perceived overall inability to keep himself together even as he grows into an increasingly prominent figure in the public eye.\n\nWest regains his lyrical dexterity on \"Barry Bonds\", a competitive, though friendly battle with Lil Wayne in which the two MC exchange braggadocios rhymes. The song uses Major League Baseball player Barry Bonds as a metaphor for West's ability to create music hits. \"Drunk and Hot Girls\" is a first-person narrative that illustrates a man courting an attractive intoxicated woman in a club but gets more than what he bargained for. \"Everything I Am\" is a song of self-examination, in which West attempts to confront his fallacies by surveying the consequences of his outspokenness ruminating over various ways people expect him to conduct himself. In the track, West addresses his indifference towards constructing a gangster persona, his refusal to dress and act like every other rapper, his inclination towards social commentary, and his lack of self-restraint. West comes to the conclusion that while he will never be able to live up to people's expectations and will always be disadvantageously flawed; it's all these imperfections and more that serve to make up who he is. When writing the song, West thought of a young girl in high school dealing with people coming down on her.\n\n\"Homecoming\" serves as a heartfelt tribute to West's hometown of Chicago, Illinois. Using an extended metaphor that personifies the city as a childhood sweetheart named 'Windy' (a reference to Chicago's nickname of the 'Windy City'), West rhymes about his love for Chicago and his guilt over leaving \"her\" to pursue his musical dream. The song's opening lines lyrically paraphrase \"I Used to Love H.E.R.\", a similarly metaphoric hip-hop song made by West's close friend and label mate Common, who later appeared in the single's music video. West dedicated \"Big Brother\" to Jay Z, whom he feels so close to that he sees him as a brother. Within the song, West dually details his love and admiration as well as his envy and antagonism towards Jay Z, metaphorically equating their relationship to that of a sibling rivalry. West also uses the song's chorus as a subsidiary dedication to his mentor No I.D., who first taught him how to produce music. Similar to its musicality, the songwriting characteristics of the album-closing track, \"Good Night\" alludes to West's next musical progression. The majority of song is composed of repetitive recitations of its choruses and bridges by Mos Def and Al Be Back. West melodically raps only one single verse in which he nostalgically reminisces over taking trips to the museum with his grandparents. As his verse draws to a close, West chastises that a person can't dwell on the past, and charges himself with living his life like he has no tomorrow. In retrospect, with the death of his mother Donda West less than two months after the album was released in addition to the dissolution of his engagement with fiancée Alexis Phifer, the trace amounts of melancholy found scattered throughout \"Graduation\" would all but envelop West's next studio album, \"808s & Heartbreak\".\n\nWest collaborated with Japanese contemporary artist Takashi Murakami to oversee the art direction of \"Graduation\" as well as design the cover art for the album's accompanying singles. Often called \"the Warhol of Japan\", Murakami's surrealistic visual art is characterized by cartoonish creatures that appear friendly and cheerful at first glance, but possess dark, twisted undertones. The collaboration between the two came about when West visited Murakami's Kaikai Kiki studio in Roppongi Hills during a brief trip to Tokyo, Japan in the midst of touring the year before. The album's artwork expresses colorful, pastel imagery influenced by Murakami's affiliation with superflat, a post-modern art movement influenced by manga and anime. Its production process took place over the course of several weeks, with West constantly visualizing new images and emailing the ideas to Murakami and his team. Bringing the educational theme expressed by West's previous albums to a close, the visual plotline of the images contained within the liner notes lead up to a graduation ceremony that takes places within a fictional college institution situated within a futuristic metropolis called Universe City. Murakami explained the metaphor behind the artwork saying:\n\nThe artwork's storyline centers around \"Dropout Bear\", West's anthropomorphic teddy bear mascot. The story begins on a rainy day with Dropout being awoken by his alarm clock and running out of his apartment to his car, modeled after a DeLorean. When the car's engine dies, he is forced to find an alternative means of transportation. Dropout attempts to hail a cab but it speeds right past him, soaking him with puddle water. He then tries to get onto a metro rail but just misses it as it pulls away. Left with no other options, Dropout is reduced to pursuing his goal on foot. As he races down sidewalks, populated by multi-eyed, living mushrooms, Dropout is pursued by a monstrous rain cloud that attempts to swallow him whole. Eventually, Dropout Bear arrives at the university and makes it to his ceremony just in time to stand before his colleagues, a wide variety of anthropomorphic creatures like himself. The visual story concludes with Dropout Bear being shot out of a cannon from the university into the sky into another stratosphere on the back cover.\n\nThe cover art for \"Graduation\" was cited as the fifth best album cover of the year by \"Rolling Stone\". Murakami later reproduced the artwork designs through the use of cel-shaded animation within a three-minute animated music video for the opening track \"Good Morning\". After collaborating with West on the artwork and video, Murakami later worked with him on the cover art for West and Kid Cudi's eponymous debut studio album, \"Kids See Ghosts\" (2018).\n\nWhile hosting a listening session for his second studio album \"Late Registration\" on August 3, 2005 at Sony Music Studios, West revealed that he wanted to schedule the release of \"Graduation\" sometime around October 2006. Several months later, on March 28, 2007, West appeared on the Los Angeles radio station Power 106. He said that he was working on his third album and Common's seventh album \"Finding Forever\" and rapped a few lyrics from one of his songs in a cappella. On May 11, it was announced that the release date for \"Graduation\" was September 18. West debuted the album's lead single \"Can't Tell Me Nothing\" on the New York radio station Hot 97 on May 15. He then released a free mixtape under the same name onto the Internet on May 27. The mixtape features preview clips of songs that would appear on \"Graduation\" and showcases various artists signed onto West's record label GOOD Music as well as collaborations with other unaffiliated musicians. It also contains \"Us Placers\", the debut song of Child Rebel Soldier, a supergroup West formed with Lupe Fiasco and Pharrell.\n\nAt the end of May, Island Def Jam pushed forward the release date for \"Graduation\" up from September to an unspecified late August date, a decision that West first announced on the introductory track of his \"Can't Tell Me Nothing\" mixtape. On July 19, the album's release date was changed once more and moved to September 11, 2007, the same US release date as rapper 50 Cent's third studio album \"Curtis\". When first presented with the proposal of his label moving the release date of his album yet again as well as the idea of a sales competition between him and 50 Cent, West initially expressed his indifference towards the thought, saying, \"When I heard that thing about the debate, I thought that was the stupidest thing. When my album drops and 50's album drops, everybody wins because you're gonna get a lot of good music at the same time\". However, then Def Jam president and CEO Jay Z welcomed competition, feeling that it would be prosperous for hip-hop and the date became permanent.\n\nThe album's release generated much publicity over a sales competition with 50 Cent's \"Curtis\". Three months that were prior to the September 11 release date, West extended his gratitude towards 50 Cent for the enthusiasm and excitement the friendly competition had produced. Though confident that he would emerge victorious, West said that he would be perfectly fine with losing to 50 Cent, saying that he'd rather, \"be #2 on that day rather than come out and be #1 on a day nobody cares about\". In an interview for \"USA Today\", 50 Cent expressed his view on the idea of a sales competition, stating \"It's great marketing – for Kanye West. But I sell way more records than Kanye West, and I generate way more interest than Kanye West. They think they can match us up, but they'll find out when that week goes by and the sales come back. This is no rivalry\". \"Mine will sell and his will still be on the shelf,\" 50 Cent tells ROLLING STONE\". On August 10, 50 Cent confirmed during an interview with SOHH that he would end his career as a solo recording artist if \"Graduation\" were to sell more copies than \"Curtis\" in the United States. However, 50 Cent later retracted his statement within an MTV interview due to his contract agreements with Aftermath Entertainment and Interscope Records. But most retailers and radio programmers interviewed picked West, whose single, \"Stronger\", was Number Six on Billboard's Hot 100 -while none of 50's four singles climbed higher than the thirty-second spot.\n\nWest spent a significant amount of time promoting \"Graduation\" during his trip to the United Kingdom. On August 17, West guest starred on the British comedy-variety show \"The Friday Night Project\". He played preview versions of the songs \"Big Brother\" and \"Champion\" from his forthcoming third album while making an appearance on DJ Tim Westwood's radio show on August 18. Later that day, West performed at V Festival in Chelmsford, England before an audience of over 50,000 people and again played new material from \"Graduation\" as well as a tribute cover of Amy Winehouse's hit single \"Rehab\". He then held a secret concert with Barbadian singer Rihanna for an audience of over five hundred fans and invited guests at Westminster Central Hall in London, England on August 20. The guests were greeted by staff members wearing graduation robes and mortarboard caps in reference to the title of West's third studio album \"Graduation\". At the end of the concert, a shower of silver confetti and ticker tape reading \"Touch the Sky\" fell from the ceiling onto the audience while the actual \"Touch the Sky\", which was the fourth single from \"Late Registration\", was played on the speakers.\n\nAfter he returned to the United States, West joined 50 Cent onstage for a surprise performance before an audience of over 20,000 people at a show held on August 22 in Madison Square Garden during Ciara and T.I.'s Screamfest '07 tour. West performed for a benefit concert raising funds for and promoting higher education sponsored by his charity foundation on August 24 at Chicago's House of Blues. At the concert, he provided live renditions of songs from \"Graduation\" and gave the audience a sneak peek of the early production stages of his fall Glow in the Dark Tour. On August 28, West hosted a studio album listening session for \"Graduation\" at New World Stages in New York City. There, West explained his influences and aspirations for the album and played songs over video clips taken from a variety of futuristic sci-fi films, including \"Tron\", \"Akira\", \"2046\", and \"\". Two days later, on the morning of August 30, the clean version of the album leaked onto the Internet. In a survey conducted by \"Billboard\", results displayed that an estimated 44% of readers predicted that \"Graduation\" would sell more units over 50 Cent and Kenny Chesney. Projections for first week scans based on early store sales reports indicated towards the 575,000–700,000 range for \"Graduation\", while \"Curtis\" was projected in the 500,000–600,000 range. West and 50 Cent appeared on a \"106 & Park\" special titled: \"Kanye West vs. 50 Cent: The Clash of the Titans\", which aired on September, 11. They both performed, had solo interviews, and a joint interview. The episode was the second-highest viewed music series telecast in BET history behind 106 & Park's tribute to Aaliyah in 2001.\n\nOn the first day of its release, \"Graduation\" sold over 437,000 copies. The album debuted at number one on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart, grossing a total of over 957,000 copies in its first week in the United States alone. \"Graduation\" became West's second consecutive studio album to top the \"Billboard\" 200 and also debuted at number-one on the album charts in the United Kingdom and Canada. It was within the very same week that \"Stronger\" topped the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, selling over 205,000 digital downloads and giving West his third number-one single. The album registered the best first-week sales totals of any record released within the last two years, with the last being West's own \"Late Registration\".\n\nAdditionally, \"Graduation\" became ranked as the 15th highest sales week for an album since Nielsen SoundScan began tracking data in 1991, as well as the highest sales week at the time of its release for an album since 50 Cent's \"The massacre\" (2005). It also set the record for the largest week of an album digitally downloaded, registering over 133,000 paid downloads, beating Maroon 5's previous set record of 102,000 for \"It Won't Be Soon Before Long\". \"Graduation\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s first week sales of 957,000 and \"Curtis\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s first week sales of 691,000 marked only the second time ever since the inception of Nielsen SoundScan that two albums debuted within the same week with totals surpassing 623,000 copies in the United States. The first occurrence of such an event was in September 1991, when Guns N' Roses conjunctively released \"Use Your Illusion I\", which sold 685,000 copies, and \"Use Your Illusion II\", which sold 770,000 copies. The first week sales totals of \"Graduation\" and \"Curtis\" have outsold the first week sales totals of Guns N' Roses' two albums. 50 Cent showed graciousness in regards to his defeat. In a statement released to the Associated Press, he said, \"I am very excited to have participated in one of the biggest album release weeks in the last two years. Collectively, we have sold hundreds of thousands of units in our debut week. This marks a great moment for hip-hop music, one that will go down in history\". After years of slumping sales, the album competition between the two releases and the resulting record breaking performances both albums demonstrated was considered to be a \"fantastic day for hip-hop\".\n\nIn its second week on the \"Billboard\" 200, \"Graduation\" outsold \"Curtis\", 226,000 copies to 143,000. By the next week, on October 3, 2007, the former had sold a total of 1.3 million copies in the US. By year's end, \"Graduation\" was the third most-downloaded and best-selling album of 2007 on iTunes Store. \"Graduation\" became West's third consecutive studio album to sell over two million copies in the United States, and it was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipping two million copies on October 18, 2007. As of June 14, 2013, Nielsen Soundscan reported that the album has since grossed over 2.7 million copies in the US. The 957,000 copies sold in the first week of \"Graduation\"s release stood as the sixth largest first week sales in hip hop history up to January 7, 2019. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Graduation\" debuted at number-one on the UK Albums Chart dated September 22, 2007. As of February 8, 2008, the album has been certified Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), with sales of 600,000 copies in the UK. In 2018, Official Charts Company revealed that \"Graduation\" was the 25th highest-selling rap album in the UK in the 21st century. For the issue date of September 20, 2007, \"Graduation\" debuted atop the Canadian Albums Chart. On January 10, 2008, the album was certified double platinum by Music Canada for sales of 200,000 copies. In the week of \"Jesus Is King\" being released in 2019, \"Graduation\" re-entered the Canadian Albums Chart at number 144, experiencing a 26% increase in consumption units. \"Graduation\" is the most streamed album on Spotify to have been released in 2007.\n\n\"Graduation\" was met with widely positive reviews. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from professional critics, the album received an average score of 79, based on 32 reviews.\n\nReviewing for \"Spin\" in November 2007, Charles Aaron hailed \"Graduation\" as \"mesmerizing and alienating, like all the purest forms of pop culture\", with music in the tradition of Puff Daddy's late 1990s pop-rap, but more skilled: \"Its music is a rush of designer adrenaline, its personality insatiable self-justification. It's the paradigm ya love to hate\". \"Pitchfork\" critic Mark Pytlik complimented the accessibility of West's sonic experimentations, finding it impressive and innovative how he assembled seemingly disparate elements on the songs. Greg Tate, writing in \"The Village Voice\", dubbed him \"the most genuinely confessional MC in hip-hop today\" and said, \"bouts of narcissism aside, \"Graduation\" contains killer pieces of production\". \"Stylus Magazine\"s Jayson Greene said it \"serves as a document of West's maturation\" and, \"musically, at least, it's the most accomplished thing he's ever done\". In \"Rolling Stone\", Nathan Brackett wrote of West's evolving and increasingly experimental, genre-bending production and said although he lacks Jay-Z's \"formal mastery\", West has \"grown as a writer ... given the lousy year hip-hop has had, the music needs his spazzed-out, neurotic creativity more than ever\". Josh Tyrangiel from \"Time\" wrote, \"West plunders the best [samples] and meticulously layers every track with enough surprises that there are thrills and discoveries a dozen listens in\".\n\nSome reviewers were more qualified in their praise. For \"MSN Music\", Robert Christgau deemed \"Graduation\" a \"minor success\" in which \"every single track offers up its momentary pleasures—choruses that make you say yeah on songs you've already found wanting, confessional details and emotional aperçus on an album that still reduces to quality product when they're over\". However, he felt West spent too much of the album rationalizing his obsession with his fame in sketchy fashion and occasionally awkward rhymes, \"little stuff like his failure to convert 'this'-'crib'-'shit'-'live'-'serious' into a rhyme\" on \"Champion\" or \"'at bay at a distance' into an idiom\" on \"Big Brother\".\nDorian Lynskey from \"The Guardian\" said West often \"undercuts rap cliches with wit and ambivalence\", but observed some disappointing lyrics such as on \"Can't Tell Me Nothing\", which he said revealed his limited perspective. \"Slant Magazine\" critic Eric Henderson found West's lyrics \"only transparently expressive\", saying that the songs' hooks \"grab your ear on the first listen (notably bypassing your brain), your balls on the second, and your soul from there on out\", and described West's production as having \"adopted a beefy, synth-glam sheen\". Dave Heaton from \"PopMatters\" felt that though the album is good, it lacks the epochal feel of \"Late Registration\", with songs that \"aren't as richly dressed\" and he claimed that West \"doesn't seem to be trying as hard\". \n\n\"Graduation\" appeared on best albums of the 2000s decade lists; \"Pitchfork\" listed \"Graduation\" at number 87, and \"Complex\" listed it at number 2. \"Rolling Stone\" listed it at number 45, and it finished second its readers list. The album also appeared at 470 on \"NME\"'s The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 2013 list. Complex ranked it number one on their list of the 100 Best Albums of the Complex Decade (2002-2012).\n\"Graduation\" won the award of Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Album at the American Music Awards of 2008, while also counting towards West earning the award for Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Artist. With his two wins at the ceremony, West was the second biggest winner, behind Chris Brown with three awards to his name. West told the crowd during his acceptance speech that despite winning the Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Album award, he wanted to give the award to Lil Wayne instead. Though this stands as one of the multiple times that West has given an award of his to someone else, West also has a frequent history of complaining when he does not win an award.\n\nAt the 50th Annual Grammy Awards, \"Graduation\" won the award for Best Rap Album, becoming West's third consecutive album to do so. The album was also nominated for Album of the Year at the ceremony, making West the only artist in Grammy history to receive a nomination for the award from all of their first three studio albums. West claimed in an interview that he felt confident towards \"Graduation\" winning the award. The album was considered the favorite to win Album of the Year, and it's failure to win was considered by many publications to be a snub. At the same ceremony, \"Stronger\" and \"Good Life\" were awarded Best Rap Solo Performance and Best Rap Song, respectively. The latter also received a nomination for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration, while \"Can't Tell Me Nothing\" was nominated for Best Rap Song. The six awards that the album led to West contending for at the 50th Annual Grammy Awards were among his total of eight nominations for the ceremony, making West the most nominated music artist of that show. \"Graduation\" was a contender for numerous other industry awards.\n\nThe critical reception and commercial success of \"Graduation\" left a profound influence on both hip-hop culture and popular music. West has earned praise for his ability to appeal to diverse music audiences such as indie-rock listeners and rave enthusiasts without alienating his core hip-hop audiences. Collaborative tracks such as \"Homecoming\" signaled the diversification of mainstream hip-hop and its intertwining with the genres of alternative and indie-rock in subsequent years. In addition, songs such as \"Everything I Am\" have been cited as \"the best example of the soulful and introspective atmosphere that came to dominate the rap world, from Drake to The Weeknd\". Irish rock band U2 has imparted that touring with West on their Vertigo Tour in turn had a significant effect on their own music as well in regards to the band's twelfth studio album \"No Line on the Horizon\" (2009). Lead singer Bono elaborated that West's rapping inspired him to utilize more percussive consonants for his songwriting and vocal performance.\n\nWest's third studio album, particularly with its two hit singles \"Stronger\" and \"Flashing Lights\", has been attributed to not only encouraging other hip-hop artists to incorporate house and electronica elements into their music, but also for playing a role in the revival of disco and electro-infused club music in the late-2000s. The number-one hit \"Stronger\" was leading part of a wave of synthesizer-driven music which combined danceable electro beats with an accessible pop format. It was succeeded by the high chart placings and multi-platinum sales of singles by artists and bands ranging from \"Just Dance\" (2008) by singer Lady Gaga to \"Right Round\" (2009) by rapper Flo Rida.\n\n\"Graduation\" marked a musical progression towards synth-based production in regards to the art of crafting hip-hop beats. The studio album demonstrated West's shift from sample-orientated hip-hop production and more towards digital synths and drum machines generated by Digital Audio Workstations (DAW). While samples are present throughout the album, they were fewer in number and not nearly as prominent. As hip hop producer Anthony Kilhoffer recalled to \"Billboard\" in 2017 for \"Graduation\"s 10th anniversary, \"I think it was the first time having a heavy hand in the use of electronic music in hip-hop. Previous to that it was very R&B influenced, tracks like 'Stronger' and 'Flashing Lights' contained very electronic type of elements. This was way before EDM became mainstream, and marked the end of the jersey-wearing era in hip-hop\". Since \"Graduation\"s release, countless other record producers have followed suit in blurring the lines of conventional hip-hop with the incorporation of electronic production. This synth-driven production approach has since been adopted by artists including Future, Young Chop, and Metro Boomin.\nThe outcome of the highly publicized sales competition between 50 Cent's \"Curtis\" and West's \"Graduation\" has been accredited to the commercial decline of the gangsta rap that once dominated mainstream hip-hop. Ben Detrick of \"XXL\" cites West defeat over 50 Cent in sales as being responsible for altering the direction of hip-hop and paving the way for new rappers who didn't follow the hardcore-gangster mold, writing, \"If there was ever a watershed moment to indicate hip-hop's changing direction, it may have come when 50 Cent competed with Kanye in 2007 to see whose album would claim superior sales. Kanye led a wave of new artists—Kid Cudi, Wale, Lupe Fiasco, Kidz in the Hall, Drake—who lacked the interest or ability to create narratives about any past gunplay or drug-dealing\". \"The Michigan Daily\" columnist Adam Theisen asserts that West's win once and for all \"prove[d] that rap music didn't have to conform to gangsta-rap conventions to be commercially successful\". \"Rolling Stone\" remarked that \"While Kanye West's decisive triumph over 50 seems inevitable in retrospect, it's easy to forget how much of an underdog he was at the time. \"The College Dropout\" and \"Late Registration\" sold a combined 7 million copies in the U.S., but 50 Cent's own first two albums, \"Get Rich or Die Trying\" and \"The Massacre\", sold nearly 14 million, almost exactly twice as much. West had the last laugh: \"Graduation\" sold nearly a million copies in one week, and rap became the playground of emotional heroes like Kid Cudi, Lupe Fiasco, Drake and J. Cole\".\n\nGoing further, Noah Callahan-Bever, chief content officer and editor-in-chief for \"Complex Media\", marked September 11, 2007: \"The Day Kanye West Killed Gangsta Rap\". In a retrospective, Lawrence Burney of \"Noisey\" expands on this notion by asserting that the event caused the more aggressive forms of rap music to undergo an evolution. He continued writing, \"Gangsta rap, street music, and the like have yet to recover from that showdown, as only two albums of the sort have gone platinum in the 2010s—Kevin Gates' \"Islah\" and Meek Mill's \"Dreams Worth More Than Money\"—If anything, street music has also made a shift since Kanye began to peal back more layers of himself on \"Graduation\"; 50's whole get up was about being an indestructible, emotionless robot. Now, what connects fans to artists like Gates and Meek is that they aren't afraid to rhythmically cry about lost loves ones and the price of fame\". Likewise, \"Billboard\" wrote, \"In 2007, Kanye West trumped 50 Cent in an epic sales battle, in which his opus \"Graduation\" trounced \"Curtis\" by several hundred thousand copies. Ye's emotive raps on \"Graduation\", intertwined with his evolution on the production side, inspired a new wave of MCs to take notes. .. While gangsta rap still has a seat in the ever-expanding classroom of hip-hop, vulnerability and experimentation now serve as the leading candidates in creating your prototypical MC. Because of songs like 'I Wonder', 'Flashing Lights' and 'Stronger'\", the hip-hop artists of today \"cling on to Kanye's indomitable body of work like a go-to study guide\". The competition between 50 Cent and West, when the two released their studio albums on the same day, was penultimate in a series of articles that lists fifty key events in the history of R&B and hip-hop music, written by Rosie Swash of \"The Guardian\". Swash wrote that it \"highlighted the diverging facets of hip-hop in the last decade; the former was gangsta rap for the noughties, while West was the thinking man's alternative.\"\n\nCredits adapted from liner notes.\n\nNotes:\nSample credits:\n\nCredits are adapted from liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294064", "title": "Agaricus subrufescens", "text": "Agaricus subrufescens\n\nAgaricus subrufescens (syn. \"Agaricus blazei\", \"Agaricus brasiliensis\" or \"Agaricus rufotegulis\") is a species of mushroom, commonly known as almond mushroom, mushroom of the sun, God's mushroom, mushroom of life, royal sun agaricus, jisongrong, or himematsutake (Chinese: , Japanese: , \"princess matsutake\") and by a number of other names. \"Agaricus subrufescens\" is edible, with a somewhat sweet taste and fragrance of almonds.\n\n\"Agaricus subrufescens\" was first described by the American botanist Charles Horton Peck in 1893. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, it was cultivated for the table in the eastern United States. It was discovered again in Brazil during the 1970s, and misidentified as \"Agaricus blazei\" Murrill, a species originally described from Florida. It was soon marketed for its purported medicinal properties under various names, including ABM (for \"Agaricus blazei\" Murrill), \"cogumelo do sol\" (mushroom of the sun), \"cogumelo de Deus\" (mushroom of God), \"cogumelo de vida\" (mushroom of life), \"himematsutake\", royal sun agaricus, \"Mandelpilz\", and almond mushroom.\n\nIn 2002, Didukh and Wasser correctly rejected the name \"A. blazei\" for this species, but unfortunately called the Brazilian fungus \"A. brasiliensis\", a name that had already been used for a different species, \"Agaricus brasiliensis\" Fr. (1830). Richard Kerrigan undertook genetic and interfertility testing on several fungal strains, and showed that samples of the Brazilian strains called \"A. blazei\" and \"A. brasiliensis\" were genetically similar to, and interfertile with, North American populations of \"Agaricus subrufescens\". These tests also found European samples called \"A. rufotegulis\" to be of the same species. Because \"A. subrufescens\" is the oldest name, it has taxonomical priority.\n\nThe cap is initially hemispherical, later becoming convex, with a diameter of . The cap surface is covered with silk-like fibers, although in maturity it develops small scales (squamulose). The color of the cap may range from white to grayish or dull reddish brown; the cap margin typically splits with age. The flesh of \"A. subrufescens\" is white, and has the taste of \"green nuts\", with the odor of almonds. The gills are not attached to the stalk (free), narrow, and crowded closely together. They start out whitish in color, then later pinkish and finally black-brown as the spores mature. Spores are ellipsoid, smooth, dark purplish-brown when viewed microscopically, with dimensions of 6–7.5 by 4–5 μm. The stipe is by thick, and bulbous at the base. Initially solid, the stipe becomes hollow with age; it is cottony (floccose) to scaly towards the base. The annulus is abundant and double-layered; it is bent downwards towards the stem, smooth and whitish on the upper side, and covered with cottony scales on the lower side.\n\n\"Agaricus subrufescens\" is edible, with a somewhat sweet taste and almond aroma resulting from benzaldehyde, benzyl alcohol, benzonitrile, and methyl benzoate.\n\n\"Agaricus subrufescens\" forms fruit bodies singly or in clusters in leaf litter in rich soil, often in domestic habitats. Originally described from the northeastern United States and Canada, it has been found growing in California, Hawaii, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Taiwan, Philippines, Australia and Brazil.\n\nUsed in traditional and alternative medicine for its supposed anti-cancer effects, \"Agaricus\" mushrooms have not been assessed by sufficient high-quality clinical research to define safety and biological properties upon consumption as a food, dietary supplement, or drug. Preliminary research indicates \"Agaricus\" products may have toxic effects on liver function by inhibition of P450 enzymes, especially in people with ovarian cancer, and may cause allergic reactions. The US Food and Drug Administration has issued warning letters to companies marketing \"Agaricus\" supplement products with unproven health claims of providing benefits to the immune system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294065", "title": "Bruce Ratner", "text": "Bruce Ratner\n\nBruce Ratner (born January 23, 1945 in Cleveland, Ohio) is an American philanthropist, real estate developer, and former minority owner of the NBA's Brooklyn Nets.\n\nRatner was born into a Jewish family in the Cleveland metropolitan area, the son of Harry Ratowczer (later Americanized to Ratner), one of eight children to immigrate to the US from Poland. Four of his paternal uncles, Leonard Ratner, Charles Ratner, Max Ratner, and Nate Shafran along with his aunt, Fannye Ratner Shafran founded Forest City Enterprises in 1920; originally a construction materials company it eventually evolved into construction and then into real estate development. Ratner's older brother is New York attorney Michael Ratner and his sister is Ellen Ratner, a news analyst for Fox News. Ratner graduated from Harvard College in 1967, and earned a Juris Doctor from Columbia University in 1970.\n\nAfter law school, he worked for the City of New York. Under Mayor Ed Koch he became consumer affairs commissioner where he went after corrupt merchants, repairmen and alarm companies. As Consumer Affairs Commissioner, he gained notoriety for \"diapering\" the horses pulling carriages in Central Park. Commissioner Ratner was successful in initiating a law that required horse-drawn carriages to install receptacles to catch horse excrement rather than allow it to fall onto the street. He then turned to developing real estate.\n\nIn 1985, he co-founded Forest City Ratner, a joint venture with his family's company of which he is now executive chairman. He developed the $1 billion complex of nine buildings in downtown Brooklyn called MetroTech. He supervised the building of a 393,000 square-foot shopping mall at the intersection of Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues in the 1990s. Forest City Ratner's unsuccessful bid to develop Columbus Circle, included installing a Sears there.\n\nRatner first became owner of the Nets when he headed an ownership group that purchased the franchise from YankeeNets for $300 million. Ratner's group beat out an ownership group led by Charles Kushner and former New Jersey governor Jon Corzine. Ratner relocated the Nets to New York City, specifically to build an arena in the Prospect Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn even though there was desire to keep them in New Jersey and strong neighborhood protests to keep them out of Brooklyn.\n\nBarclays Center is the centerpiece and the only completed piece of a $3.5 billion sports arena, business and residential complex in development called Pacific Park Brooklyn. This project is being built by Ratner's company, Forest City Ratner. The site of the arena is adjacent to the site that Walter O'Malley wanted to use for a new stadium for the Brooklyn Dodgers in the early 1950s. (O'Malley's plan was rejected by the city, resulting in the Dodgers relocating to Los Angeles in 1958.) On September 23, 2009, Russian tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov reached a deal with Ratner to purchase an 80% stake of the Nets for $200 million, subject to Ratner acquiring financing for the arena project and control of the land by the end of the year in addition to the approval of three-fourths of the NBA board of governors. According to Ratner, accepting Prokhorov as majority owner \"gives us a partner who adds to the financial strength of the venture. Mikhail will have primary responsibility for the basketball part and we will have primary responsibility for the arena and the real estate.\" On May 11, 2010, the sale of the Nets was approved by the NBA.\n\nRatner originally planned to move the Nets across the Hudson River for the beginning of the 2009–10 NBA season. However, he had to revise his goal and moved the franchise to Brooklyn for the start of the 2012–13 season. Although the arena was scheduled to open in 2011, along with the rest of the complex, controversies involving the project's use of eminent domain and local residents, coupled with the lack of continued funding in a struggling economy, caused the project to be altered and delayed. On May 16, 2009, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division struck down an opponents' lawsuit that sought to prevent the state of New York from using eminent domain to seize the property where the Pacific Park Brooklyn project is being built. The opponents appealed the New York Supreme Court's ruling, but lost when the Court of Appeals, New York's highest court, upheld the right of the state to use eminent domain for this project. A groundbreaking ceremony was held on the site on March 11, 2010, but ringed with protests. The Nets began playing in Brooklyn in time for the 2012–13 NBA season.\n\nRatner serves on a number of boards including the Weill Cornell Medical College, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and the Museum of Jewish Heritage as chairman-elect of its trustees board. He was chairman of the board and now chairman emeritus of the Brooklyn Academy of Music's board of trustees.\n\nRatner has two daughters from his first marriage to Julie Ratner: Lizzy Ratner, a writer and Rebecca Ratner, a filmmaker. Following his first marriage, he began dating plastic surgeon Pamela Lipkin in 1997. They wed in January 2008. Ratner has a home estate in Ulster County, as well as a home in Quogue, closer to Manhattan. He and Lipkin lived in a brownstone in the Upper East Side in Manhattan, until their divorce in April 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294079", "title": "Windfall (TV series)", "text": "Windfall (TV series)\n\nWindfall is an American serial drama television series about a group of people in an unnamed small city who win almost $400 million in a lottery. The series created by Laurie McCarthy and Gwendolyn M. Parker and premiered on June 8, 2006 on NBC, taking the time slot occupied by \"ER\" during the rest of the year.\n\nOn August 31, 2006, NBC announced the show's cancellation by stating on its website that the episode that night would be the series finale. Controversially, NBC also gave local affiliates the option of showing pre-season football instead and showing the final episode at each affiliates discretion. Many affiliates took them up on this, planning to show it either much later that night or at other odd days/times during the Labor Day weekend (for example, WNBC-TV in New York planned to show the episode at 12:30pm on September 3, 2006). \n\nIn the United Kingdom and Middle East the show has been picked up by Five Life and Showtime Arabia respectively. It is also shown in Ireland on the channel 3e weekdays at 3pm.\n\n\nThe show was developed in early 2005 by Regency Television for Fox. At the time the show was known as Ticket To Ride. After ordering the pilot Fox decided to pass on the series. In June 2005 it was announced that NBC had picked up the series and would be shooting a new pilot. It was also confirmed that co-creator Gwendolyn Parker would no longer be involved with the show as she had moved on to work on \"Without a Trace\".\n\n\"Windfall\" ranked 164 for the 2005-06 television season with an average of 5.510 million viewers. Due to the finale episode being preëmpted in many markets it is not even counted among the shows aired in primetime that week and thus there is no ratings for it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294084", "title": "Mandeville, Jamaica", "text": "Mandeville, Jamaica\n\nMandeville is the capital and largest town in the parish of Manchester in the county of Middlesex, Jamaica. In 2005, the town had an estimated population of 50,000, and including the immediate suburbs within a radius of the total population is about 72,000. It is located on an inland plateau at an altitude of 628 m (2061 feet), and is west of Kingston. It is the only parish capital of Jamaica not located on the coast or on a major river.\n\nMandeville has a town square, parish church and clock tower, and many large, elegant early nineteenth-century houses line the winding streets in the town centre.\n\nIn the suburbs of the town many large houses have been built by returning residents from North America and the United Kingdom on an \"ad hoc\" basis. Developers have complemented these with large housing developments, some of which are constructed as gated communities. Prominent suburbs and surrounding areas include Ingleside, Battersea, Knockpatrick, Clover, Waltham, Bloomfield, Caledonia Meadows, Brumalia, Newport, Spur Tree, Kingsland, French Park, Swabys Hope, Lincoln, Greenvale and Marshalls Pen.\n\nMandeville is a major commercial centre, and is the location of Northern Caribbean University (formerly West Indies College), a Seventh-day Adventist institution of higher learning.\n\nMandeville is the chief town of Manchester parish, Jamaica's mountain resort the island's largest hill town and the fifth largest urban center. The mayor of Mandeville is Brenda Ramsay.\n\nThe town was laid out in 1816, and named after Viscount Mandeville, the eldest son of the Duke of Manchester, who was then governor of Jamaica.\n\nMany of the original buildings can still be seen such as the courthouse, an impressive building of cut limestone with a horseshoe staircase and a raised portico supported by Doric columns and built in 1820. The staircase was added in about 1900.\n\nMany of Jamaica's oldest businesses were started in Mandeville; the Mandeville Hotel, one of the oldest in the Caribbean, began operations in 1875. Its golf club, founded as the Manchester Golf Club in 1868, was the first golf course in the Caribbean. The first \"free library\" in Jamaica was established in 1938, and is the oldest Parish Library.\n\nThe growth of the town was given a substantial stimulus when the Alcan Bauxite Company in a joint venture with the Jamaican Government opened its Kirkvine works nearby at Williamsfield in 1957. It built houses at Mandeville for its then mostly expatriate staff. The relatively high wages lured many educated Jamaicans there. Subsequently, the town has seen an influx of Jamaican residents returning from abroad.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294087", "title": "Zegama", "text": "Zegama\n\nZegama, popularly known as \"The shadow of Aizkorri\", is a town and municipality in the Goierri region of the province of Gipuzkoa, in the autonomous community of the Basque Country, northern Spain.\n\nZegama's main characteristic is its natural location as the last Gipuzkoan town up the valley of river Oria, very close to the Aizkorri-Aratz Natural Park, in which the highest mountain in the Basque Autonomous Community can be found, the popular Aizkorri summit (1,528 m), located at the same name mountain range towering over the whole area. The Oria river, the longest one in the province of Gipuzkoa, rises in several springs and their corresponding streams flowing down the dramatic slopes of the valley that merge in a main stream before the nucleus of the town. The southern Otzaurte hamlet (IPA: /o'tsaurte/) stands on the dividing line of the waters running onto the Mediterranean watershed and those flowing north to the Atlantic through the Oria river.\n\nThe historic Way of St James, namely the stretch called the Tunnel Route, passes through the town, the municipality and the Park since the Middle Ages. Pilgrims exit the town heading south up the slopes, so reaching the San Adrian tunnel after 5 km, where backpackers and hikers may gain access to the plains of Alava, the Urbia fields or the summits of the rugged Aizkorri mountain range.\n\nThe climate in Zegama is typical of the eastern Cantabrian area, temperate and humid, with an average temperature of around 12 °C. There are around 180 rainy days a year. Autumn can be quite windy.\n\nThe main economic activities are those related to industry, but agriculture does still exist. Cattle, especially sheep, graze on the sides of the mountainous terrain, following a tradition of millennia, as attested by old traces and megalithic vestiges that bear witness to the activity. The grazing provides the basis for the production of the much appreciated and highly regarded Idiazabal cheese elaborated and labelled as such on the whole Aizkorri-Aratz area and the Basque mountains.\n\nThe most important event that takes place in Zegama every year is the Zegama-Aizkorri Alpine Marathon , part of the Skyrunner World Series , which is the alpine marathon world championship.\n\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "2294089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294089", "title": "John D. Hawke Jr.", "text": "John D. Hawke Jr.\n\nJohn D. Hawke Jr. (born June 29, 1933) served as the United States Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance from 1995 to 1998, and was United States Comptroller of the Currency from 1998 to 2004.\n\nJohn D. Hawke Jr. was born in New York City on June 26, 1933. He was graduated from Yale University in 1954 with a B.A. in English. From 1955 to 1957 he served on active duty with the U.S. Air Force. After graduating in 1960 from Columbia University School of Law, Hawke was a law clerk for Judge E. Barrett Prettyman on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. From 1961 to 1962 he served as counsel to the Select Subcommittee on Education in the U.S. House of Representatives. Hawke joined the Washington, D.C., law firm of Arnold & Porter as an associate in 1962 and later became a senior partner. In 1975 he left the firm to serve as general counsel to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, returning in 1978. From 1987 to 1995 he served as chairman of the firm.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1987 Hawke taught courses on federal regulation of banking at the Georgetown University Law Center. He has also taught courses on bank acquisitions and financial regulation and serves as the chairman of the Board of Advisors of the Morin Center for Banking Law Studies. In 1987 Hawke served as a member of a committee of inquiry appointed by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange to study the role of futures markets in connection with the stock market crash in October of that year.\n\nHe was a founding member of the Shadow Financial Regulatory Committee and served on the committee until joining the Treasury Department in April 1995. Hawke served for 3½ years as Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance. In that capacity he oversaw the development of policy and legislation in the areas of financial institutions, debt management, and capital markets. After serving as Comptroller of the Currency, 1998–2004, Hawke returned to private practice with the well-connected Washington, D.C. law firm of Arnold & Porter.\n\nHawke resides in Washington, D.C. He was married in 1962 to the late Marie R. Hawke and has four adult children.\n\nHawke was sworn in as the 28th Comptroller of the Currency on December 8, 1998. After serving for 10 months under a recess appointment, he was sworn in for a full five-year term as Comptroller on October 13, 1999.\n\nDuring his term as Comptroller, Hawke has stressed the importance of the safety and soundness of national banks through such supervisory initiatives as Project Canary (an \"early warning\" system) and the \"Supervision in the Future\", which makes extensive use of technology.\n\nHe has introduced management and budget reforms in the internal operations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as well as programs designed to increase workplace diversity.\n\nThe disparity between the supervisory fees that state and national banks pay has been a priority during Hawke's tenure, and he has emphasized relief from regulatory burden for national banks. His community bank initiative stresses streamlined supervision and increased outreach.\n\nHawke has written extensively on matters relating to the regulation of financial institutions and is the author of Commentaries on Banking Regulation, published in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294092", "title": "Quentin Bell", "text": "Quentin Bell\n\nQuentin Claudian Stephen Bell (19 August 1910 in London – 16 December 1996 in Sussex) was an English art historian and author.\n\nBell was the son of Clive Bell and Vanessa Bell (née Stephen), and the nephew of Virginia Woolf (née Stephen). He was educated at the Quaker Leighton Park School and at Cambridge.\nAfter being educated at Leighton Park School and in Paris, Bell became a Lecturer in Art History at the Department of Fine Art, King's College, University of Durham from 1952 to 1959, then became the first Professor of Fine Art at the University of Leeds from 1959 to 1967. In 1964 he was appointed Slade Professor of Fine Art at Oxford University and, in 1965, Ferens Professor of Fine Art at the University of Hull. Bell was a Professor of Art History and Theory at the University of Sussex from 1967 to 1975.\n\nHe sometimes worked as an artist - principally in ceramics - but for his career he was drawn to academia and to book-writing. Bell's biography of his famous aunt, \"Virginia Woolf: A Biography\", 2 vols (London: Hogarth Press, 1972), won not only the James Tait Black Memorial Prize, but also the Duff Cooper Prize and the \"Yorkshire Post\" Book of the Year Award. He also wrote several books on the Bloomsbury Group and Charleston Farmhouse.\n\nHe was married to Anne Olivier Bell (née Popham). They had three children: Julian Bell, an artist and muralist; Cressida Bell, a notable textile designer; and Virginia Nicholson, the writer of \"Charleston: A Bloomsbury House and Garden,\" \"Among the Bohemians\" and \"Singled Out\".\n\nHis older brother was the poet Julian Heward Bell who died in the Spanish Civil War in 1937, aged 29. The writer and artist Angelica Garnett was his half-sister. He is a nephew of Virginia Woolf.\n\nQuentin Bell is buried in the churchyard of St. Peter's Church, West Firle, East Sussex.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294100", "title": "Gabriël Metsu", "text": "Gabriël Metsu\n\nGabriël Metsu (1629–1667) was a Dutch painter of history paintings, still lifes, portraits, and genre works. He was \"a highly eclectic artist, who did not adhere to a consistent style, technique, or one type of subject for long periods\". Only 14 of his 133 works are dated.\n\nGabriel Metsu was the son of Jacques Metsu (c. 1588 – March 1629) a tapestry worker and painter originally from Hainault, who lived most of his days at Leiden, and Jacquemijntje Garniers (c. 1590 – 8 September 1651), the widow of a painter with three children of her own. It is not known when and where Gabriel was baptized; most likely in a Catholic hidden church but the baptismal records did not survive. Gabriel grew up on Lange Mare and his stepfather, a skipper, must have supported his education, because his mother was a poor midwife.\n\nIn 1648 Metsu was registered among the first members of the painters' guild at Leiden. In 1650 he ceased to subscribe. Metsu was possibly trained in Utrecht by the Catholic painters Nicolaus Knüpfer and Jan Weenix.\n\nAround 1655 Metsu moved to Amsterdam; he lived in an alley on Prinsengracht, next to a brewery and near his relatives, the children of the sugar refiner Philips Metsu. In 1657 he got into an argument with a neighbor. (It was alleged that Metsu left a brothel at six in the morning.) Gabriel moved to a house on the canal side, where a daily vegetable market was held. In 1658 he married Isabella de Wolff, whose father was a potter and mother the painter Maria de Grebber.\n\nAt the onset of the 1660s Metsu turned for inspiration to the art of the \"fijnschilders\" from his native Leiden. Metsu was responding to the market of Dou's paintings, who sold his paintings all over for exorbitant prices. Metsu may have also influenced Pieter de Hooch.\n\nFor a while Metsu trained Michiel van Musscher and Joost van Geel. Metsu died at the age of 38 and was buried in the Nieuwe Kerk. Three bells were tolled; a habit in use with Dutch Catholics at that time. His widow left for Enkhuizen, to live with her mother. Isabella was buried in the Zuiderkerk in 1718.\n\nAccording to Arnold Houbraken, Metsu was taught by Gerard Dou, though prior to about 1653 his influence is not apparent. Around 1653-4, Metsu began placing his figures in domestic interiors and specialized in genre scenes on small panels. Old people were among Metsu's favorite thematic borrowings from Dou during his first years in Amsterdam.\nMetsu often painted young (single) women who either fed pets, sold goods at market (fruit, vegetables, fish, poultry, or meat), or were grocery-shopping themselves for these provisions. Houbraken ends his biography with the comment that he was \"of impeccable reputation\", but he may have meant this ironically. Often, the subject of a Metsu painting was based on a popular emblem from an emblem book. This can give the painting a double meaning, such as in , showing an old man offering a rooster to a young girl in a symbolic pose that is based on a lewd engraving by Gillis van Breen (1595–1622), with the same scene. The accompanying verse is:\n\"The Sick Child\" in Rijksmuseum from c. 1664 \"prompts the thought that Metsu strongly admired Vermeer's work. [The latter's Woman with a Water Jug was sold as a Metsu in 1877.] It also provides us with a hint about what he thought was lacking in it: emotional involvement of the viewer\".\n\nOne of the finest collection of Metsu paintings was owned by Gerrit Braamcamp in the 18th century; he owned eight of them, including \"man writing\" and \"woman reading a letter\".\n\nAt least thirteen of his paintings show carpets and he probably used the same model. He included several fine examples of minutely depicted floral and cloud band carpets in his works and even a silk oriental rug, as well as so-called \"lotto\" rugs which he for some reason, in contrast to his meticulous rendering of the floral carpets, depicted only in a very sketchy fashion.\n\nAround the year 1661, Metsu won the patronage of the Amsterdam cloth merchant Jan J. Hinlopen and painted his family more than once in a fashionable surrounding.\nThere is still some confusion about two paintings by Metsu — the Portrait of the family Hinlopen, now in the Gemäldegalerie, which for a few decades was referred to as \"The Family of burgomaster Gillis Valckenier\", and \"Visit to the Nursery\" — in the Metropolitan Museum. There is some general resemblance. The latter belonged to Jan J. Hinlopen. \n\nIn 1662 Jan Vos published a poem about this painting. It might depict the Hinlopen family, but as the sitters have not been identified this painting it is more a genre work than a portrait. In 1721 Arnold Houbraken recalled the latter painting as the largest and finest work by Metsu he had ever seen. Franits calls it one of his most intriguing images. What makes this painting especially interesting is its provenance. The provenance is well-known, except for between the years 1666 and 1706. In 1680, after the burial of his brother and guardian Jacob J. Hinlopen the paintings were divided in lots and given to his daughters but none of the paintings or painters is mentioned.\n\nThe scene is set in an imaginary room of unrealistically large proportions. The father gestures deferentially while a maid dutifully fetches a chair for this esteemed visitor. The chimney resembles the one in the \"schepenzaal\" of former Amsterdam townhall, also painted by Pieter de Hooch. There is a seascape on the wall and Persian carpets on the table and the floor. The carpet on the table is divided into compartments, which are partly vermilion red and partly purple red, and shield-shaped. The dark blue color of the borders on the carpet are relatively unusual. The dog in the painting could be a Bolognese. Hung in the reception room of Hinlopen's home, the \"Visit to the Nursery\" thus alluded to his powerful role in local politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294103", "title": "Charles Ruff", "text": "Charles Ruff\n\nCharles Frederick Carson Ruff (August 1, 1939 – November 19, 2000) was a prominent American lawyer based in Washington, D.C., and was best known as the White House Counsel who defended President Bill Clinton during his impeachment trial in 1999.\n\nCharles Frederick Carson Ruff was born on August 1, 1939, in Cleveland Ohio; he grew up mostly in New York City. Ruff's mother was the public relations director of the Metropolitan Opera, and in an oral history recorded shortly before his death Ruff remembered frequently attending the opera as a child, giving him a lifelong love of music.\n\nRuff received his B.A. degree from Swarthmore College in 1960 and his J.D. degree from Columbia Law School in 1963. Although Ruff ranked twelfth in a class of 235 at Columbia, he later stated that he \"absolutely detested law school.\"\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Ruff accepted a Ford Foundation fellowship to teach law in Africa. In 1964, while in Liberia, Ruff was sickened with flulike symptoms (a specific diagnosis was never made) and almost died; he became paralyzed in the legs and used a wheelchair for the rest of his life. Ruff preferred not to discuss his disability, saying only that \"law is a sedentary profession.\"\n\nRuff was a research associate at Columbia University's African Law Center and taught at the University of Pennsylvania. He joined the U.S. Department of Justice as a trial lawyer in 1967.\n\nRuff briefly returned to teaching, spending the 1972-73 academic year at the newly established Antioch School of Law. Ruff then accepted a job at the Georgetown University Law Center and simultaneously at the Justice Department's Watergate Special Prosecution Force, which investigated the Watergate scandal. Ruff served in the office from 1973 to 1977. Initially an assistant special prosecutor, Ruff became the fourth and last Watergate special prosecutor, serving from 1976 to 1978; he oversaw the winding-down of the office. As special prosecutor, Ruff also oversaw a three-month campaign-finance investigation of President Gerald R. Ford, who was cleared. During the Watergate years, he also taught at Georgetown University Law Center.\n\nRuff was chief of the Organized Crime and Labor Management Section of the Criminal Division from 1970 to 1972; in that position, Ruff oversaw the successful prosecution of W.A. \"Tony\" Boyle, the former head of the United Mine Workers, for illegal campaign contributions.\n\nIn 1978, Ruff became deputy inspector general of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, investigating Medicare and Medicaid fraud. His nomination was stalled in the Senate for several months by Robert Dole of Kansas. In 1979, Ruff re-joined the Justice Department as acting deputy attorney general; in this role, Ruff was involved in the prosecution of members of Congress implicated in the Abscam scandal.\n\nIn 1979, President Jimmy Carter appointed Ruff as United States Attorney for the District of Columbia; he held that job until 1981. Ruff was considered exceptionally qualified for the post, although some African American leaders expressed disappointment that a black lawyer had not been chosen. As U.S. Attorney, Ruff played a \"minor legal role\" in the case of John W. Hinckley, Jr.'s attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan and the assassination of Orlando Letelier.\n\nIn 1982, Ruff joined the Washington law firm of Covington & Burling, becoming a partner there. Ruff represented Senator John Glenn in the Keating Five scandal (Glenn was admonished by the Senate Ethics Committee) and defended Senator Charles S. Robb against charges of surreptitiously and unlawfully recording, and disseminating, some private conversations of a political rival, Governor L. Douglas Wilder. In the Robb case, Ruff devised \"a masterful and successful strategy\": he persuaded his client to appear for a second time before the grand jury \"and then introduced a Justice Department official to instruct the jury that it was not legally bound to follow prosecutors' recommendations for an indictment.\"\n\nFrom 1989 and 1990, Ruff served a term as president of the District of Columbia Bar.\n\nIn 1991, Ruff was part of the legal team representing Anita Hill during the Clarence Thomas Supreme Court nomination; Ruff arranged for Hill to take a polygraph test.\n\nRuff was considered by the Clinton administration in 1993 for the post of deputy attorney general, but he was passed over for the position.\n\nRuff left Covington & Burling in August 1995 to accept an appointment by Mayor Marion Barry to the post of Corporation Counsel for the District of Columbia, overseeing 200 city lawyers. Ruff was credited with restoring the reputation of the office, which had faced criticism after having been beset with a series of problems. Ruff's decision to leave private practice to lead the Corporation Counsel's Office meant an 80% pay cut; Ruff's colleague Lanny A. Breuer stated that Ruff had taken the position because it was the right thing to do.\n\nIn February 1997, Ruff left the Corporation Counsel's Office to become White House Counsel to President Clinton, the president's fifth. In this role, became best known for skillfully defending Clinton during his 1999 impeachment trial in the Senate, which ended in the president's acquittal. Ruff was one of five defense attorneys who represented Clinton; the others were Gregory B. Craig, Cheryl D. Mills, David E. Kendall. and Dale Bumpers. According to his \"Washington Post\" obituary, \"within the White House, Mr. Ruff was not seen as an obvious team player. He refrained from freely dispensing information to those who did not absolutely need to know the president's legal strategy.\" Ruff particularly clashed with Craig, who had been brought on by the White House specifically as the \"quarterback\" for the impeachment defense strategy; \"each man behaved as if he were the one in charge\" and the two had different professional styles.\n\nIn the summer of 1999, Ruff rejoined Covington & Burling, where he remained for the rest of his life; at the time of his death, Ruff was a senior partner.\n\nRuff died on November 19, 2000, at the District of Columbia General Hospital, at the age of 61, following a heart attack suffered at his home. At the time of his death, Ruff was part of Vice President Al Gore's legal team in the Florida recount case. Ruff was survived by his wife of 38 years, Susan (Sue) Willis Ruff, as well as his mother, two daughters, two granddaughters, and a half-sister, Carla Ruff.\n\nOn his death, his \"New York Times\" obituary described him as \"one of Washington's most influential if least self-important lawyers.\"\n\nOn January 8, 2001, Ruff was posthumously awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by President Clinton.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294109", "title": "John A. Schneider", "text": "John A. Schneider\n\nJohn A. (\"Jack\") Schneider (born December 4, 1926 - died December 10, 2019 in Stamford, CT) was a former president of the CBS Television Network from 1965-1976. \n\nHe was born in Chicago, Illinois. After serving in the United States Naval Reserve in World War II, he graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1948. Schneider told \"The New York Times\" upon taking the job \"I'm 38 now, but I'll be 55 next week\" on the suddenness of the promotion, Schneider having no experience at the network level.\n\nSchneider joined CBS in Chicago in 1950 and was working in national advertising sales when the network in 1958 bought WCAU-TV in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Schneider was named General Manager of the station, serving until October 1964, when he was named General Manager of WCBS-TV in New York City. \n\nOn February 28, 1965, Mr. Schneider was appointed President of the CBS Television Network and a Vice President and Board member of CBS, Inc. Schneider next became the first president of the newly formed CBS Broadcast Group in 1966. He became an Executive VP of CBS Inc. in 1969 and held that position until 1978. He was responsible for the CBS Television Network, CBS News, CBS stations, and CBS radio. CBS was the preeminent broadcast network under his tenure. \n\nHe was the original President of Warner-Amex Satellite Entertainment Company in 1979, a joint venture of Warner Communications' Warner Cable and American Express. By 1981, he oversaw the launch of MTV.\n\nHe was also awarded the IRTS (International Radio and Television Society) Gold Medal.\n\nHe was the son of Arnold and Anna Schneider. Following high school, he enrolled at the University of Notre Dame to study Naval Science and Tactics where he earned his B.S. degree in Naval Science in 1946. He served as an ensign in the Navy aboard the destroyer USS Hobson during World War II. After the war, he returned to Notre Dame and earned a degree in Marketing in 1948. \n"}
{"id": "2294110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294110", "title": "Shalom Sharabi", "text": "Shalom Sharabi\n\nSar Shalom Sharabi (), also known as the Rashash, the Shemesh or Ribbi Shalom Mizraḥi deyedi`a Sharabi (1720–1777), was a Yemenite Rabbi, Halachist, Chazzan and Kabbalist. In later life, he became the Rosh Yeshiva of Bet El Yeshiva in the Old City of Jerusalem. His daughter married Rabbi Hayyim Abraham Gagin of Jerusalem, making him the great-great-grandfather of Shem Tob Gaguine, the \"Keter Shem Tob.\" His son was Yitzhak Mizrahi Sharabi and his grandson was Chief Rabbi Chaim Abraham Gagin.\n\nSar Shalom Sharabi was born in Jewish Sharab, Yemen. He moved to the Land of Israel, then under Ottoman rule, in fulfilment of a vow. On his way he stayed in India, Baghdad and Damascus. In Damascus, he was involved in a dispute of Halacha over the minimum olive size kezayit of matzah that one should eat at the Pesach Seder.\n\nIn Israel he made a strong impression on the local rabbinic sages, and is frequently mentioned in their books. At Bet El Yeshiva, he belonged to a group of 12 \"mekubalim\" along with Hida, Torat Hakham, Rabbi Yom-Tov Algazi and other sages of Sephardic and Yemenite congregations. He remained at Bet El Yeshiva until his death, eventually becoming Rosh Yeshiva. He himself was a devotee of the teachings of Rabbi Isaac Luria, and a principal innovator within Lurianic Kabbalah.\n\nPopular tradition links his departure from Yemen with a miracle that occurred after a rich Muslim woman tried to seduce him. In Bet El he worked as a servant and hid his learning from others; when his knowledge of Kabbalah was accidentally discovered, he became a member of the kabbalistic circle. According to legend, the prophet Elijah appeared to him, and he is understood by the major Kabbalists as being himself the Gilgul of the Arizal. His grandson, Solomon Moses Hai Gagin Sharabi, wrote a poem of praise on his mastery of the \"Etz Hayyim\" and \"Shemonah She'arim\" of Hayyim Vital. Members of Bet El continue to prostrate themselves on his grave on the Mount of Olives on the anniversary of his death.\n\nSharabi is credited with the miracle that opened the Kotel to Jews.\n\nHe was one of the earlier commentators on the works of the Ari, a major source of Kabbalah. His Siddur was known as the \"Siddur Ha-Kavvanot,\" and is the main \"siddur\" used today by Kabbalists for prayer, meditation and Yeshiva study. It is a \"siddur\" with extensive Kabbalistic meditations by way of commentary.\n\nHis writings include \"Emet va-Shalom\", \"Rehovot Hanahar\", \"Derech Shalom\" and \"Nahar Shalom\", in which he answers 70 questions of the Hahamim of Tunis, who were among the leading Sephardic authorities in the 18th century. He also commented on the \"minhagim\" (customs) of the Yemenite Jews and compiled them in volumes known as \"Minhagei Rashash\", an exclusive edition of the \"Shulchan Aruch\", where he gives his interpretations of the \"halachot\", as well as noting the particular customs of the Shami Yemenite community. These volumes are still actively used by this community to reach Halachic decisions regarding holidays, marriage and Shabbat services.\n"}
{"id": "2294118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294118", "title": "Gwinnett County Public Schools", "text": "Gwinnett County Public Schools\n\nGwinnett County Public Schools is a school district operating in Gwinnett County, Georgia, United States. GCPS is the largest school system in Georgia, with 143 schools and an estimated enrollment of 180,000 students for the 2017-2018 year. GCPS is estimated to be the 14th largest school district in the U.S. The district has its headquarters in an unincorporated area near Suwanee.\n\nGCPS was the winner of the 2010 Broad Prize for Urban Education. In 2014, GCPS was nominated for the Broad Prize for Urban Education once again, the first school district to have won the Broad Prize before and be nominated again in its first year eligible to win the prize.\n\nThe district's schools are grouped into 19 geographical attendance zones referred to as \"clusters.\" Each cluster includes at least one high school, for which it is named.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral schools and programs operate outside of the clusters to serve specific student needs. These include the following:\n\nThe district operates a school police department with full police powers under Georgia law. The department consists of 74 Police Officer Standards and Training certified (P.O.S.T.) armed officers, five full-time office staff members, eight dispatchers, and 24 non-police crossing guards.\n\nThe department is divided into three zones: North (including Dacula, Collins Hill, GIVE East, GIVE West, Lanier, Mill Creek, Mountain View, and North Gwinnett), South (including Archer, Brookwood, Central Gwinnett, Discovery, Grayson, Shiloh, and South Gwinnett) and West (including Berkmar, Duluth, Meadowcreek, Norcross, Parkview, and Peachtree Ridge).\n\nThe officers are responsible for mentoring, counseling, education, and event security in addition to their normal duties as school security officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294121", "title": "Shanghai Pierce", "text": "Shanghai Pierce\n\nShanghai Pierce may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2294123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294123", "title": "Camillo Mazzella", "text": "Camillo Mazzella\n\nCamillo Mazzella (10 February 1833 – 26 March 1900) was an Italian Jesuit theologian and cardinal.\n\nMazzella was born at Vitulano, near Benevento, and died in Rome.\n\nExpelled with his order from Italy, he taught theology at Fourvières (Lyon, France), and at Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. He was the founder and one of the first professors at Woodstock theological college, Maryland; then he was called to Rome to teach at the Gregorian University, and later became president of the Academy of Saint Thomas.\n\nMazzella was prefect of the Congregation of the Index, Congregation of Studies, and Congregation of Rites and Cardinal-Bishop of Palestrina.\n"}
{"id": "2294126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294126", "title": "Henry Godwin", "text": "Henry Godwin\n\nHenry Godwin may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2294138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294138", "title": "Belleville, Paris", "text": "Belleville, Paris\n\nBelleville () is a neighbourhood of Paris, France, parts of which lie in four different arrondissements. The major portion of Belleville straddles the borderline between the 20th arrondissement and the 19th along its main street, the \"Rue de Belleville\". The remainder lies in the 10th and 11th arrondissements.\n\nIt was once the independent commune (municipality) of Belleville which was annexed by the City of Paris in 1860 and divided between two arrondissements. Geographically, the neighborhood is situated on and around a hill which vies with Montmartre as the highest in Paris. The name Belleville literally means \"beautiful town\".\n\nHistorically, Belleville was a working-class neighborhood. People living in the independent village of Belleville played a large part in establishing the Second French Republic through their actions during the Revolution of 1848. In 1871, residents of the incorporated neighborhood of Belleville were some of the strongest supporters of the Paris Commune. When the Versailles Army came to reconquer Paris in May of that year, it faced some of the toughest resistance in Belleville and in neighboring Ménilmontant. The bloody street fighting persisted in the two eastern districts, and the last of the barricades is said to have been in the \"Rue Ramponeau\" in Belleville.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, many immigrants settled there: German Jews fleeing the Third Reich in 1933, and Spaniards in 1939. Many Algerians and Tunisian Jews arrived in the early 1960s.\n\nBelleville is home to one of the largest congregations of the Reformed Church of France. The Église Réformée de Belleville has been in the area since shortly before World War I.\n\nToday, Belleville is a colourful, multi-ethnic neighbourhood and also home to one of the city's two Chinatowns, the other located in the 13th arrondissement near the \"Place d'Italie\". Since the 1980s, an important Chinese community has been established there. There are many restaurants and associations as well as stores offering Chinese products. A fairly large and popular outdoor market is held there every Tuesday and Friday along the \"Boulevard de Belleville\", where many local Île-de-France farmers sell their produce.\n\nDuring the 1980s Parisian artists and musicians, attracted by the cheaper rents, the numerous vacant large spaces, as well as the old Paris charm of its smaller streets (Belleville was ignored, perhaps spared, during much of the architectural modernisation efforts and reparations of the 1960s and 1970s, the greatest exception being the area around the Place des Fêtes), started moving there. Many artists now live and work in Belleville and studios are scattered throughout the \"quartier\". Some abandoned factories have been transformed into art squats, where several alternative artists and musicians, such as the band Les Rita Mitsouko began their careers.\n\nBelleville is one of the most important neighbourhoods in Paris when it comes to Street Art. For example, Rue Denoyez or Place Frehel are a changing display of wall covering street art.\n\nThe demographics of the neighbourhood have undergone many changes throughout the decades. While Armenians, Greeks, and Ashkenazi Jews were once the predominant ethnic groups, North Africans, and more recently, sub-Saharan Africans have been displacing these others.\n\nWithin the neighbourhood there is a cemetery and park, the Parc de Belleville, which ascends the western slope of the hill and offers, in addition to a panoramic view of the Paris skyline, a strikingly modern contrast to the classical gardens of the city centre and the eccentric nineteenth century romanticism of the nearby Parc des Buttes Chaumont. A School of Architecture is also located in Belleville.\n\nThe iconic French singer Édith Piaf grew up there and, according to legend, was born under a lamppost on the steps of the \"Rue de Belleville\". A commemorative plaque can be found at number 72. A true \"Bellevilloise\", Piaf sang and spoke the French language in a way that epitomised the \"accent de Belleville\", which has been compared to the Cockney accent of London, England, although the Parisian dialect is nowadays rarely heard. Belleville is prominently featured in the 2007 biographical film of her life, \"La Vie En Rose\".\n\nOther famous \"Bellevillois\" include film director Maurice Tourneur, legendary French can-can dancer Jane Avril and popular singer and actor Eddy Mitchell. The filmmaker Maïwenn grew up in Belleville and lives there now.\n\nBelleville has featured in several films including director Jacques Becker's 1951 \"Casque d'or\", starring Simone Signoret and Serge Reggiani. Albert Lamorisse set and filmed the 1956 Oscar-winning short film \"Le Ballon Rouge\" (also known as \"The Red Balloon\") in Belleville and featured many parts of the region that the Parisian government demolished in the 1960s as a slum clearance effort and partially replaced with housing projects.\n\nThe \"Malaussène Saga\", a series of crime novels written by contemporary author Daniel Pennac, is set in Belleville. Belleville is the subject of several French songs, including Eddy Mitchell's \"Belleville ou Nashville?\" and Serge Reggiani's \"Le Barbier de Belleville.\" Belleville was also the location of the book La Vie Devant Soi by Romain Gary.\n\nBelleville has undergone much gentrification over the years, similar to that of certain neighborhoods in Brooklyn, New York; and Belleville Bistro in Park Slope, Brooklyn, was 'named after the raffish hilltop Paris neighborhood.' As a result of such gentrification, Belleville was named one of the most unique neighborhoods in the world in 2016.\n\nIn \"The Sopranos\" episode 76 (\"Cold Stones\"), Rosalie Aprile briefly dates a much younger, motorcycle-riding Frenchman named Michel, who comes from Belleville, Paris. She feels a particular sense of kinship with him as Belleville, New Jersey is where members of her inner circle live and work.\n\nBelleville is also commemorated as the title of one of the most famous of the works of Django Reinhardt.\n\nIn Puccini's opera \"Il Tabarro\" (first part of the triple bill \"Il Trittico\") the lovers sing of their shared longing for the place where they both grew up, \"Belleville è il nostro suolo e il nostro mondo! Noi non possiamo vivere sull'acqua!\" (Belleville is our own soil and all our world! We cannot live forever on the water!) in comparison to the dreary nomadic life of working on a river barge.\n\nIn the Amazon Prime originals Jack Ryan (TV series), Belleville is shown as the childhood town of the Future-Terrorist Ali Bin Suleiman and his brother Moussa bin Suleiman\n\nTraditionally, Belleville is leftist and votes accordingly for either the Parti Socialiste (the French Socialist Party), the Parti Communiste Français (the French Communist Party) or the Lutte Ouvrière (Workers' Struggle). Communist Party headquarters is just outside Colonel Fabien station, between Belleville and its northern neighbor La Villette.\n\nBelleville is served by the Metro stations Belleville, Pyrénées and Jourdain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294147", "title": "Roland W. Betts", "text": "Roland W. Betts\n\nRoland Whitney Betts (born May 25, 1946) is an American investor, film producer, developer, and owner of Chelsea Piers in New York City. A classmate and Delta Kappa Epsilon (DKE) fraternity brother of George W. Bush, Betts was the lead owner in Bush's Texas Rangers partnership. He is a graduate of St. Paul's School ('64), Yale ('68) and Columbia Law School ('78).\n\nRoland and Lois Betts celebrated their 40th wedding anniversary in 2012. They have two daughters, Margaret and Jessica.\n\nBetts was born in Laurel Hollow, Long Island, the son of an investment banker for the Vincent Astor Foundation. He grew up in Syosset, Long Island.\n\nIn 1968, after graduating from Yale, Betts worked as a teacher and assistant principal until 1975. In 1978 Betts wrote \"Acting Out: Coping with Big City Schools\", a book which explores his experiences in the public school system. After graduating from Columbia Law School in 1978, he practiced law in the entertainment department at \"Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison\" until leaving to finance movies. In 1980 he was named the President of International Film Investors, Inc., which produced and financed movies like \"Gandhi\" and \"The Killing Fields\". In 1983 he founded Silver Screen Management, Inc. (see Silver Screen Partners) with Tom Bernstein, which financed and produced over 75 films with the Walt Disney Company, including \"Pretty Woman\", \"The Rocketeer\", and \"Three Men and a Baby\".\n\nThe Texas Rangers were purchased in 1989 by a group of investors assembled by Roland W. Betts and George W. Bush. For nine years, Betts was lead owner of the Texas Rangers Baseball Club. Since 1992 Roland W. Betts is Founder and Chairman of Chelsea Piers Inc. which developed and operates the Chelsea Piers Sports and Entertainment complex.\n\nBetts was the Senior Fellow of the Yale Corporation, an advisory board member of Yale School of Management, and is a Trustee of numerous organizations including: the American Museum of Natural History, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Columbia University Law School, and the National Park Foundation. Mr. Betts has recently been appointed as a Trustee and Treasurer of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2006 Betts was one of George Pataki's appointments to the Board of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. In that capacity, Mr. Betts chaired the Site Committee charged with the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site.\n\nRoland W. Betts was also a heavy contributor to the Bush election campaign in 2000, helping raise more than $100,000 to that campaign, also putting down about $50,000 for the Bush Inauguration celebration. Bush has been seen visiting the Betts' at their vacation homes in Jackson Hole and Santa Fe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294148", "title": "Nácor Burgos", "text": "Nácor Burgos\n\nNácor Burgos Rojo (born April 9, 1977 in Ávila) is a professional road racing cyclist. In 2006, he rode for the Relax-Gam professional cycling team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294153", "title": "Gian Rinaldo Carli", "text": "Gian Rinaldo Carli\n\nGian Rinaldo Carli (1720–1795), also known by other names, was an Italian economist, historian, and antiquarian.\n\n\"Gian Rinaldo Carli\" is the modern Italian form of his name, which may also appear as \"Gianrinaldo Carli\" or \"Gian-Rinaldo Carli\". His ' was credited to \"Conte Don Gianrinaldo Carli-Rubbi\". In this name, ' is the Italian form of \"count\", ' is an honorific derived from the Latin ' (\"lord, master\"), \"Gian\" is the most common Italian diminutive for Giovanni, and his surname has been hyphenated with his wife's. His ' was credited to \"Commendatore Conte Don Gianrinaldo Carli\", where ' is the Italian form of \"commander\", from his knightly honors. He signed his name in Latin as \"\". In early English sources, his name also appears as \"Giovanni Rinaldo, Count of Carli\", and \"Giovanni Rinaldo, Count of Carli-Rubbi\".\n\nGiovanni Rinaldo Carli was born at Capo d'Istria in the Republic of Venice (now Koper in Slovenia) on April 11, 1720, the eldest child of Count Rinaldo Carli and Cecilia Imberti.\n\nHe distinguished himself as a student and young scholar. In 1744, at the age of 24, he was appointed by the Venetian Senate to the University of Padua's newly established professorship of astronomy and navigation. At the same time, he was entrusted with superintendence over the Venetian marine. During these years he was part of a major dispute in Italian academia over the existence of sorcerers, with the vast majority of the academics siding with the Girolamo Tartarotti against the Marquis of Maffei and Count Carli's sharp scepticism. He filled his offices ably for seven years before resigning them to study economics and history. He works on economics attracted the attention of Leopold of Tuscany, afterwards emperor, who placed him at the head of his economics council and board of public instruction in 1765. In 1769, he became privy councillor and, in 1771, president of a new council of finances. In his old age, he was relieved of the duties of these offices while continuing to receive their income. During his leisure, he produced works on Italian history and other topics.\n\nCount Carli died of illness at Cusano in Milan on February 22, 1795.\n\nHis principal economic works are his \"On Money\"; his 1759 \"Ragionamento...\", in which he argued that the balance of trade between two nations cannot be looked at in isolation as both may gain from their reciprocal transactions; and his 1771 \"On Free Trade in Grain\", which argues that free trade in grain—as adopted by Great Britain following its later repeal of its Corn Laws—is not always advisable. His principal historical work was his \"Italian Antiquities\", in which the literature and arts of his country are ably discussed. Other works of note were his \"The Free Man\", a rebuttal of Rousseau's \"Social Contract\"; an attack upon Abbe Tartarotti's assertion of the existence of magicians; his \"Observations on Ancient and Modern Music\"; and several poems. A collected edition of his works was published in 18 volumes at Milan from 1784 to '94; it does not include his \"American Letters\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294162", "title": "First Peel ministry", "text": "First Peel ministry\n\nSir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of the Duke of Wellington. Peel was also Chancellor of the Exchequer while the Duke of Wellington served as Foreign Secretary. A young William Ewart Gladstone held office as a Junior Lord of the Treasury, his first governmental post in a ministerial career that would span for the next sixty years.\n\nThe Peel ministry was a minority government, and relied on Whig support. However, this the Whigs felt disinclined to give, joining with the Irish radicals to defeat the Conservatives at every turn. After a reign of only four months, the government felt obliged to resign, whereupon the Whig leader Lord Melbourne formed his second government.\n\nMembers of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294169", "title": "1869 in archaeology", "text": "1869 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1869 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294175", "title": "Andrew Millar", "text": "Andrew Millar\n\nAndrew Millar (17058 June 1768) was a Scottish publisher in the eighteenth century.\n\nIn 1725, as a twenty-year-old bookseller apprentice, he evaded Edinburgh city printing restrictions by going to Leith to print, which was considered beyond Edinburgh's jurisdiction. Millar was soon to take over his apprentice master’s London print shop. He was actively involved in railing against the authorities in Edinburgh.\n\nAbout 1729, Millar started business as a bookseller and publisher in the Strand, London. His own judgment in literary matters was small, but he collected an excellent staff of literary advisers, and did not hesitate to pay what at the time were considered large prices for good material. \"I respect Millar, sir,\" said Dr Johnson in 1755, \"he has raised the price of literature.\" He paid Thomson £105 for \"The Seasons\", and Fielding a total sum of £700 for \"Tom Jones\" and £1000 for \"Amelia\".\n\nMillar was one of the syndicate of booksellers who financed Johnson's Dictionary in 1755, and on him the work of seeing that book through the press mainly fell. During the same year Millar published the first edition of the Mitchell Map. He also published the histories of Robertson and Hume.\n\nMillar was the plaintiff in the 1769 case \"Millar v Taylor\" which held that authors and publishers are entitled to a perpetual common law copyright. That decision was ultimately overturned in the landmark 1774 case \"Donaldson v Beckett\", whose unsuccessful plaintiff was Millar's apprentice, Thomas Becket (or Beckett).\n\nMillar died at his villa at Kew Green, near London, on 8 June 1768.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294180", "title": "Pitsunda", "text": "Pitsunda\n\nPitsunda or Bichvinta ( ; ; ) is a resort town in the Gagra district of Abkhazia, Georgia.\n\nThe town was founded in the 5th century BC as Pityus (Ancient Greek: \"Pityus\", Πιτυοῦς, genitive \"Pityuntos\", Πιτυοῦντος) or Pitiunt, a Greek colony and trade port on the coast of the Kingdom of Lazica. The city was surrounded by a defensive wall, the castellum had a second line of defence built in mid-3rd century AD. Excavations guided by Andria Apakidze unearthed, in 1952, remains of three 4th-century churches and a bath with high-quality mosaic floors. The former \"Great Pityus\" harbour is now a mere lake within the town.\n\nThe Goths attacked the city in 255 CE after taking the Bosporan fleet. The Roman garrison under the command of Successianus repelled the attack, however they returned in the next year, took the city and proceeded further to sack Trebizond.\n\nSaint John Chrysostom was being led towards Pityus by the imperial soldiers, in execution of the decree of exile, when he died on the way in 407. Like Dioskurias, it remained under Roman control within the Georgian kingdom of Colchis until the 7th century. The city passed under Abasgian control and became one of the major political and religious centres of the kingdom of Egrisi (Lazica). An archbishopric of Pitiunt was instituted in 541. In medieval Georgia, the town's name was spelled as \"Bichvinta\". At the end of the 10th century, King Bagrat III of Georgia built there the Pitsunda Cathedral which survives to this day and contains vestiges of wall-painting from the 13th and the 16th centuries. Bichvinta also served as the seat of the Georgian Orthodox Catholicate of Abkhazia until the late 16th century when Abkhazia came under the Ottoman hegemony within Georgia. In his 1911 article for the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", Sophrone Pétridès described Pityus as a titular see, but it is not now found in the Catholic Church's list of such sees. In the late 13th century, the area housed a short-lived Genoese trade colony called \"Pezonda\".\n\nPitsunda was the favourite resort of First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union Nikita Khrushchev. In October 1964 he happened to be vacationing in Pitsunda when he was deposed from power. Khrushchev once proposed a major dam and hydroelectric power scheme on the Bzyb River near Pitsunda, but his experts informed him that a dam built on the Bzyb River would have had catastrophic effects in causing beach erosion at Pitsunda. In the end, the dam was built on the Inguri River instead, where the impact upon the coastline was assessed to be considerably less pronounced.\n\nOn 7 February 2007, after many appeals by inhabitants, the People's Assembly of Abkhazia resolved to give Pitsunda town-status. Parliamentarians expressed the hope that the decision would help Pitsunda develop as a resort. Since becoming a town, the Mayor of Pitsunda is no longer appointed by the Governor of Gagra District but instead directly by the President of Abkhazia. On 29 January 2016, Pitsunda's town-status was formally enshrined in Abkhazia's constitution.\n\nIn the 2011 assembly elections, Mayor Beslan Ardzinba and six other incumbent deputies of the Assembly stood for re-election. The winning candidates were Beslan Ardzinba, Badra Avidzba, Olga Grigorenko, Chengiz Bigvava, Georgi Zardania, Gennadi Cherkezia, Gennadi Mikanba, Damia Kokoskeria and Inessa Dzkuia. On 14 February, during the first session of the new convocation, Damir Kokoskeria was elected Chairman of the Assembly over Gennadi Cherkezia, by a one vote difference.\n\nFollowing the May 2014 Revolution and the election of Raul Khajimba as President, on 28 October 2014 he replaced Ardzinba as Mayor with Chingis Bigvava. Bigvava was not reappointed following the 2016 local elections. He was temporarily replaced by Beslan Dbar, until former head of the Association of Resorts Vitali Khutaba was temporarily appointed by Khajimba on 16 February 2017, approved by Pitsunda's town council on 20 February and permanently appointed on 27 February.\n"}
{"id": "2294181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294181", "title": "Karl Llewellyn", "text": "Karl Llewellyn\n\nKarl Nickerson Llewellyn (May 22, 1893 – February 13, 1962) was a prominent American jurisprudential scholar associated with the school of legal realism. \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" has identified Llewellyn as one of the twenty most cited American legal scholars of the 20th century.\n\nKarl Llewellyn was born on May 22, 1893, in Seattle, but grew up in Brooklyn. He attended Yale College and Yale Law School, where he served as editor-in-chief of the \"Yale Law Journal\". He studied under Arthur Linton Corbin, whose influence on him was profound.\n\nLlewellyn was studying abroad at the Sorbonne in Paris when World War I broke out in 1914. He was sympathetic to the German cause and traveled to Germany to enlist in the German army, but his refusal to renounce his American citizenship made him ineligible. He was allowed to fight with the 78th Prussian Infantry Regiment, and was injured at the First Battle of Ypres. For his actions, he was promoted to sergeant and decorated with the Iron Cross, 2nd class. After spending ten weeks in a German hospital at Nürtingen, and having his petition to enlist without swearing allegiance to Germany turned down, Llewellyn returned to the United States and to his studies at Yale in March 1915. After the United States entered the war, Llewellyn attempted to enlist in the United States Army, but was rejected because he had fought on the German side.\n\nLlewellyn joined the Columbia Law School faculty in 1925, where he remained until 1951, when he was appointed professor of the University of Chicago Law School. While at Columbia, Llewellyn became one of the major legal scholars of his day. He was a major proponent of legal realism. He also served as principal drafter of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC).\n\nLlewellyn married another professor and UCC drafter, Soia Mentschikoff. She went on to become dean of University of Miami School of Law.\n\nLlewellyn died in Chicago of a heart attack on February 13, 1962.\n\nCompared with traditional jurisprudence, known as legal formalism, Llewellyn and the legal realists proposed that the facts and outcomes of specific cases composed the law, rather than logical reasoning from legal rules. They argued that law is not a deductive science. Llewellyn epitomized the realist view when he wrote that what judges, lawyers, and law enforcement officers \"do about disputes is, to my mind, the law itself\" (\"Bramble Bush\", p. 3).\n\nAs one of the founders of the U.S. legal realism movement, he believed that the law is little more than putty in the hands of a judge who is able to shape the outcome of a case based on personal biases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294192", "title": "OpenSym", "text": "OpenSym\n\nOpenSym is a shorthand for International Symposium on Open Collaboration, formerly International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration, also formerly WikiSym or the \"Wiki Symposium\", a conference dedicated to wiki research and practice. In 2014, the name of the conference was changed from WikiSym to OpenSym to reflect a broadening of scope from wiki and Wikipedia research and practice to open collaboration research, including wikis and Wikipedia research, but also free/libre/open source, open data, etc. research. Its proceedings are published in the ACM Digital Library.\n\nWikiSym 2005 was co-located with ACM OOPSLA 2005, held in San Diego, California, US, 14–16 October 2005. Speakers included Ward Cunningham, Jimmy Wales, Ross Mayfield and Sunir Shah. Sponsors of the event included Google. Conference chair was Dirk Riehle.\nWikiSym 2006 was co-located with ACM Hypertext 2006 from 21–23 August 2006 in Odense, Denmark. Invited speakers included Angela Beesley (\"How and Why Wikipedia Works\"), Doug Engelbart and Eugene Eric Kim (\"The Augmented Wiki\"), Mark Bernstein (\"Intimate Information: organic hypertext structure and incremental formalization for everyone's everyday tasks\"), and Ward Cunningham (\"Design Principles of Wiki: How can so little do so much?\"). Conference chair was Dirk Riehle and program chair was James Noble.\nWikiSym 2007 was co-located with OOPSLA 2007, an ACM conference, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on 21–23 October 2007. Invited speakers were Jonathan Grudin and Ward Cunningham. Conference chair was Alain Désilets and program chair was Robert Biddle.\nWikiSym 2008 was held in Porto, Portugal, in 8–10 September 2008, at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto and supported (\"in-cooperation agreement\") by the ACM. Keynotes were given by George Landow, Professor of Art and English at Brown University and Stewart Nickolas, IBM Emerging Technologies while Dan Ingalls, Sun Microsystems Laboratories gave an invited talk. The symposium chair was Ademar Aguiar and the program chair was Mark Bernstein.\nWikiSym 2009 was held in Orlando, FL, on 25–27 October 2009 at the Disney Convention Center. Keynotes were given by Fernanda Viegas and Martin Wattenberg as well as by Brion Vibber. The symposium chair was Dirk Riehle of University of Erlangen and the program chair was Amy Bruckman of Georgia Tech.\nWikiSym 2010 was held in Gdańsk, Poland on 7–9 July 2010, co-located with Wikimania. Keynote speakers were Cliff Lampe and Andrew Lih. The symposium chair was Phoebe Ayers and the program chair was J. Felipe Ortega. An open access version of the proceedings is available, in addition to the ACM proceedings.\nWikiSym 2011 was held in Mountain View on 3–5 October 2011. Keynote speakers were Cathy Casserly, CEO of Creative Commons, Jeff Heer, assistant professor from Stanford University, and Ed Chi of Google. The symposium chair was J. Felipe Ortega and the program chair was Andrea Forte.\nWikiSym 2012 was held in Linz, Austria on 27–29 August 2012.\nSetting a definition of \"open collaboration\", WikiSym + OpenSym 2013 was held in Hong Kong on 5–7 Aug 2013. The symposium general co-chair includes Ademar Aguiar and Dirk Riehle.\nThe conference in Berlin from 27–29 August featured \"multiple traditional research tracks and a community program geared towards industry and practitioner interests\".\nOpenSym 2015, the 11th International Symposium on Open Collaboration, was held in San Francisco on August 19–21, 2015. Research submissions revolved around IT-driven open innovation, open data, free/libre/open source software etc. Academic keynotes were taken by Robert J. Glushko of UC Berkeley and Anthony I. Wasserman of CMU (Silicon Valley). Industry (research) keynotes were taken by Richard P. Gabriel of IBM and Peter Norvig of Google. \n\nOpenSym 2016, the 12th International Symposium on Open Collaboration, took place in Berlin, Germany on August 17–19, 2016. Anthony I. (Tony) Wasserman served as general chair. Keynote speakers were Adam Blum, Luis Falcón Martín, Leslie Hawthorn, Bradley M. Kuhn, and Ina Schieferdecker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294201", "title": "Bring On the Snakes", "text": "Bring On the Snakes\n\nBring on the Snakes is the second album by the indie rock band Crooked Fingers. It was released in February 2001. It was recorded and produced in Fall 2000, in Pittsboro, NC, by Brian Paulson. \n\n"}
{"id": "2294205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294205", "title": "Ignace Lepp", "text": "Ignace Lepp\n\nIgnace Lepp (born John Robert Lepp; 26 October 1909 in Orajõe, Pärnu County, Livonia, Russian Empire – 29 May 1966 near Paris, France), was a French writer of Estonian origin.\n\nAccording to his book \"Atheism in Our Time,\" Lepp was an atheist and Marxist for many years and claimed to have occupied important positions in the communist party with whom he later became very disillusioned. He then converted to Roman Catholicism and was ordained a priest in 1941. He wrote many non-fiction books including some about atheism, religion, and later psychiatry, as he was a psychologist and psychoanalyst.\n\nHe wrote among other books: \"The Ways of Friendship\", \"The Psychology of Loving\", \"The Authentic Existence\", \"The Communication of Existences\". He also wrote \"The faith of men; meditations inspired by Teilhard de Chardin\" (\"Teilhard et la foi des homme\"), about the French thinker Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294207", "title": "Carlo Pellegrini (caricaturist)", "text": "Carlo Pellegrini (caricaturist)\n\nCarlo Pellegrini (25 March 1839 – 22 January 1889), who did much of his work under the pseudonym of Ape, was an artist who served from 1869 to 1889 as a caricaturist for \"Vanity Fair\" magazine, a leading journal of London society. He was born in Capua, then in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. His father came from an ancient land-owning family, while his mother was allegedly descended from the Medici. His work for the magazine made his reputation and he became its most influential artist.\n\nPellegrini was educated at the Collegio dei Barnabiti, and then at Sant'Antonio in Maddaloni, near Naples. As a young man he caricatured Neapolitan society, modelling his portraits on those of Melchiorre Delfico and Daumier and other French and British artists of the period. Pellegrini claimed to have fought with Garibaldi; however, those who knew him well dismissed this as fantasy.\n\nDeciding to leave Italy in 1864 after a series of personal crises, including the death of his sister, he travelled to England via Switzerland and France. He arrived in London in November 1864; he later claimed to have arrived destitute, and to have slept on the streets and in doorways. However, this claim may have been another fantasy designed to make him seem to be a Bohemian artist. In London he became a friend of the Prince of Wales.\n\nIt is not recorded how Pellegrini met Thomas Bowles, the owner of \"Vanity Fair\" magazine, but he quickly found himself employed by that publication and became its first caricaturist, originally signing his work as 'Singe' (French for \"Monkey\") and later, and more famously, as 'Ape' (a translation of \"Singe\" into English). Pellegrini's work for the magazine made his reputation and he became its most influential artist, in which his caricatures were to be printed for over twenty years, from January 1869 to April 1889. His 1869 caricature of Benjamin Disraeli was the first colour lithograph to appear in the magazine, and proved immensely popular. It was the first of a highly successful series of more than two thousand caricatures published by \"Vanity Fair\". Although the later caricatures by Sir Leslie Ward are perhaps now more well known, those by 'Ape' are regarded by many collectors as being artistically and technically superior.\n\nApart from drawing his caricatures for the magazine, Pellegrini also attempted to set himself up as a portrait painter, but this venture met with limited success. Pellegrini met Degas in London in the 1870s, and in about 1876–77 painted his portrait, inscribed 'à vous/Pellegrini' (to you/Pellegrini). In return, Degas painted Pellegrini's portrait, similarly inscribed.\n\nPellegrini was a member of the Beefsteak Club in London and there met Whistler, who became a great influence on his work; indeed, he even attempted to paint portraits in the style of Whistler. Pellegrini was also a member of The Arts Club from 1874 until 1888.\n\nPellegrini was extremely careful about his appearance, and would wear immaculate white spats with highly polished boots. He grew long Mandarin-like fingernails, would never walk when he could ride, and had a limitless fund of amusing stories and eccentricities. He spoke broken-English, flaunted his homosexuality (at a time when it was dangerous to do so), and would often bring macaroni dishes to elegant dinner parties. He would refuse invitations to country houses out of fear of strange beds, and had a habit of keeping a cigar in his mouth as he slept.\n\nHe died of lung disease aged 49 at his home, 53 Mortimer Street, near Cavendish Square in London. He is buried in St. Mary's Roman Catholic Cemetery, Kensal Green, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294218", "title": "Japanese hardcore", "text": "Japanese hardcore\n\nJapanese hardcore is the hardcore punk scene in Japan, which originated to protest the social and economic changes sweeping the country in the 1980s. The band SS is regarded as the first, forming in 1977. Bands such as The Stalin and GISM soon followed, forming in 1980 and 1981 respectively. Occasionally, Japanese hardcore musicians include elements of crossover thrash, thrash metal, anarcho-punk, horror punk, D-beat and grindcore in their songs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294219", "title": "Urmuz", "text": "Urmuz\n\nUrmuz (, pen name of Demetru Dem. Demetrescu-Buzău, also known as Hurmuz or Ciriviș, born Dimitrie Dim. Ionescu-Buzeu; March 17, 1883 – November 23, 1923) was a Romanian writer, lawyer and civil servant, who became a cult hero in Romania's avant-garde scene. His scattered work, consisting of absurdist short prose and poetry, opened a new genre in Romanian letters and humor, and captured the imagination of modernists for several generations. Urmuz's \"Bizarre\" (or \"Weird\") \"Pages\" were largely independent of European modernism, even though some may have been triggered by Futurism; their valorization of nonsense verse, black comedy, nihilistic tendencies and exploration into the unconscious mind have repeatedly been cited as influential for the development of Dadaism and the Theatre of the Absurd. Individual pieces such as \"The Funnel and Stamate\", \"Ismaïl and Turnavitu\", \"Algazy & Grummer\" or \"The Fuchsiad\" are parody fragments, dealing with monstrous and shapeshifting creatures in mundane settings, and announcing techniques later taken up by Surrealism.\n\nUrmuz's biography between his high school eccentricity and his public suicide remains largely mysterious, and some of the sympathetic accounts have been described as purposefully deceptive. The abstruse imagery of his work has produced a large corpus of diverging interpretations. He has notably been read as a satirist of public life in the 1910s, an unlikely conservative and nostalgic, or an emotionally distant esotericist.\n\nIn Urmuz's lifetime, his stories were only acted out by his thespian friend George Ciprian and published as samples by \"Cuget Românesc\" newspaper, with support from modernist writer Tudor Arghezi. Ciprian and Arghezi were together responsible for creating the link between Urmuz and the emerging avant-garde, their activity as Urmuz promoters being later enhanced by such figures as Ion Vinea, Geo Bogza, Lucian Boz, Sașa Pană and Eugène Ionesco. Beginning in the late 1930s, Urmuz also became the focus interest for the elite critics, who either welcomed him into 20th-century literature or dismissed him as a buffoonish impostor. By then, his activity also inspired an eponymous avant-garde magazine edited by Bogza, as well as Ciprian's drama \"The Drake's Head\".\n\nUrmuz's birth name was, in full, \"Dimitrie Dim. Ionescu-Buzeu\" (or \"Buzău\"), changed to \"Dimitrie Dim. Dumitrescu-Buzeu\" when he was still a child, and later settled as \"Demetru Dem. Demetrescu-Buzău\". The \"Demetrescu\" surname was in effect a Romanian patronymic, using the \"-escu\" suffix: his father was known as Dimitrie (Demetru, Dumitru) Ionescu-Buzău. The attached particle \"Buzău\", originally \"Buzeu\", confirms that the family traced its roots to the eponymous town. According to George Ciprian, the names \"Ciriviș\" (variation of \"cerviș\", Romanian for \"melted grease\") and \"Mitică\" (pet form of \"Dumitru\") were coined while the writer was still in school, whereas \"Urmuz\" came \"later\".\n\nThe name under which the writer is universally known did not actually originate from his own wishes, but was selected and imposed on the public by Arghezi, only one year before Urmuz committed suicide. The spelling \"Hurmuz\", when used in reference to the writer, was popular in the 1920s, but has since been described as erroneous. The variant \"Ormuz\", sometimes rendered as \"Urmuz\", was also used as a pen name by the activist and novelist A. L. Zissu.\n\nThe word \"[h]urmuz\", explained by linguists as a curious addition to the Romanian lexis, generally means \"glass bead\", \"precious stone\" or \"snowberry\". It has entered the language through oriental channels, and these meanings ultimately refer to the international trade in beads centered on Hormuz Island, Iran. Anthropologist and essayist Vasile Andru highlights a secondary, scatological, meaning: in the Romani language, a source of Romanian slang, \"urmuz\", \"bead\", has mutated to mean \"feces\". An alternative etymology, exclusive to the author's pseudonym, was advanced by writer and scholar Ioana Pârvulescu. It suggests the combination of two contradictory terms: \"ursuz\" (\"surly\") and \"amuz\" (\"I amuse\").\n\nMitică was the eldest son of a middle class nuclear family: his father, described by Ciprian as \"short and mean\" (\"om scund și ciufut\"), worked as a physician. In his spare time, Ionescu-Buzeu Sr. was a classical scholar, folklorist and active Freemason. His wife, the writer's mother, was Eliza née Pașcani, sister of the doctor, chemist and University of Paris professor Cristien Pascani. Urmuz had numerous other siblings (\"a multitude\", according to Ciprian), of whom most were daughters. One of Urmuz's sisters, Eliza (married Vorvoreanu) was later a main source of information on the author's childhood and adolescence.\n\nThe future Urmuz was born in the northern Muntenian town of Curtea de Argeș, and, at age five, spent one year in Paris with his parents. The family eventually settled in Romania's capital, Bucharest, where his father was hygiene teacher at Matei Basarab National College, later city health inspector, and rented houses in Antim Monastery quarter. Young Mitică was described by his sister as mainly unpretentious and introverted, fascinated by scientific discovery and, in his childhood years, a passionate reader of Jules Verne's science fiction books. At a later stage, he was also possibly familiarized with and influenced by German idealism and by the philosophical views of 19th-century poet Mihai Eminescu. A more evident influence on the future writer was Ion Luca Caragiale, the main figure in early 20th-century Romanian comediography.\n\nIonescu-Buzău's family had artistic interests, and Urmuz grew up with a fascination for classical music and fine art, learning to play the piano and taking up amateur oil painting. He got along best with his mother, who was also a pianist. The devout daughter of an Orthodox priest, she was unable to instill in her young son the same respect for the Church.\n\nUrmuz's arrival to literary history took place in the atmosphere of Bucharest gymnasia. It was at this junction that he became a mate of Ciprian, who later described their encounter as momentous: \"I don't much believe in destiny. [...] Yet I find it such an odd incident that my bench mate, from my failing grade year through to my high school graduation, was [...] this tiny man of a rare originality, who had a massive say on how my life would turn up.\" Ciprian describes what follows as his own \"initiation in artistic matters\": he recalls conversations with \"Ciriviș\" where they debated the \"perfection\" of Ancient Greek sculpture, and mentions that young Urmuz, unlike himself, regarded theater as a \"minor art\". Instead, Urmuz preferred to attend concerts at the Romanian Atheneum, and, Ciprian writes, had an advanced understanding of absolute music even at age thirteen. Reportedly, the young man was also in the attendance at lectures given by Titu Maiorescu, a philosopher and aesthete who had influenced both Eminescu and Caragiale.\n\nSome years later, while enrolled at the Gheorghe Lazăr National College, Urmuz turned his interest toward mocking the severity of his teachers and challenging the dominance of artistic traditionalism. One such early episode is attested by Ciprian: amused by the creation of a \"Vivat Dacia\" (\"Long Live Dacia\") association of nationalist students, Urmuz subverted its meetings, and, with deadpan snark, suggested that membership fees should be paid in duck heads. Also according to Ciprian, these events soon lost their shock value, leading him and Urmuz to \"take to the streets\", where they began their activity as pranksters. Their initial experiment was to pressure law-abiding and credulous passers-by into presenting their identity papers for inspection, and the apparent success earned Urmuz an unexpected following in school (his fans even heckled \"Vivat Dacia\" into accepting poultry heads as means of payment, before the society dissolved itself with ceremony). Another colleague, future traditionalist poet Vasile Voiculescu, recalled young Urmuz as \"genially knavish\", his humor being \"cerebral, harder to detect and appreciate\".\n\nThe core group of Urmuzian disciples, organized as a secret society, comprised Ciprian (nicknamed \"Macferlan\" by Urmuz), Alexandru \"Bălălău\" Bujoreanu and Costică \"Pentagon\" Grigorescu, together known as the \"pahuci\". Allegedly, the obscure word originated from the Hebrew for \"yawns\". Their activity centered on daring pranks: Urmuz and the other three young men once made an impromptu visit to the isolated Căldărușani Monastery, in Ilfov County, where the deposed and disgraced Metropolitan Ghenadie was living in banishment. Passing themselves off as newspaper editors, they demanded (and received) honored guest treatment, tested the monks' patience, and were later introduced to a well-disposed Ghenadie. Ciprian also recalls that Urmuz's philosophical musings or deadpan surreal humor were a direct inspiration for other pranks and experiments. He describes how Ciriviș acted out sadness for the plight of a screechy sledge (declaring \"my heart is at one with all things in existence\"), but then duped onlookers into believing that the squeaks came from a woman somehow trapped under the vehicle. Reportedly, Urmuz also approached his seniors training at seminaries or other traditionalist institutions, earned their attention by claiming to share the nationalist agenda, and then began reciting them nonsense lyrics such as an evolving draft of his mock-fable \"The Chroniclers\".\n\nOutside school, the young man was still introverted, and, Sandqvist notes, \"extremely shy, especially with girls.\" Ciprian recalls Ciriviș's engrossing pick-up lines: he acted familiar to any young woman who caught his eye, assuring her that they had met once before, and, having stirred her curiosity, falsely recounting how they both used to kill flesh-flies for sport.\n\nThe \"pahuci\" welcomed their graduation with one final act of defiance against the school principal, whom they visited in his office, where they began hopping about in circles. Even though their group did not survive once its members took different career paths, they had regular reunions at the Spiru Godelea tavern, where they earned notoriety for their rude and unconventional behavior. Urmuz enrolled at the Bucharest Medical School, allegedly after pressures from his stern father. According to Ciprian, this training did not agree with his friend, who would complain of being \"unable to make himself understood by the cadavers.\" This was probably a sign that the young man could not bear to witness dissection. He eventually entered the University of Bucharest Faculty of Law, which was to be his \"alma mater\", while also taking lectures in composition and counterpoint at the Music and Declamation Conservatory. Additionally, he completed his first service term in the Romanian Infantry.\n\nUrmuz became head of his family in 1907. That year, his father and two younger brothers died, and his sister Eliza was married. He also continued to take the initiative in daring acts of \"épater le bourgeois\". Ciprian recalls the two of them renting a carriage which Urmuz would order around, making a right at every junction, and effectively going around in circles around the Palace of Justice. Urmuz then proceeded to pester the street vendors, stopping over to buy a random assortment of useless items: pretzels, a pile of charcoal, and an old hen which he impaled on his walking cane.\n\nHaving passed his law examination in 1904, Urmuz was first appointed judge in the rural locality of Cocu (Răchițele), in Argeș County. It is probable that at around this stage (ca. 1908), he was committing to paper the first fragments in his collection \"Bizarre Pages\", some of which were reportedly written during a family reunion in Cocu. According to Eliza Vorvoreanu, he was doing this mainly to entertain his mother and sisters, but Urmuz also amused local potentates, one of whom even offered his daughter's hand in marriage (Urmuz refused). At the time, Mitică also discovered his passion for modern art: he was an admirer of primitivist sculptor Constantin Brâncuși, fascinated by his 1907 work \"The Wisdom of the Earth\".\n\nEventually, Urmuz was made a justice of the peace in the remote Dobruja region: for a while, he was in Casimcea village. Later, he was dispatched closer to Bucharest, at Ghergani, Dâmbovița County. These assignments were interrupted in 1913, when Urmuz was called under arms, in the Second Balkan War against Bulgaria.\n\nCiprian mentions having lost touch with his friend \"for a long time\", before receiving a letter in which the latter complained about the provincial apathy and the lack of musical entertainment; attached was a draft of the \"Algazy & Grummer\" story, which Ciprian was supposed to read to the \"seminary brethren\", informing them \"about the progresses registered in young literature\". Ciprian tells of having discovered the writer in Urmuz, and popularizing this and other stories in his own circle of intellectuals. He also mentions that, in his budding acting career, he was basing some of his performances at Blanduzia Garden on Urmuz's letters.\n\nThese developments coincided with the outbreak of World War I. Between 1914 and summer 1916, when Romania was still neutral territory, Ciprian's efforts of circulating the \"Bizarre Pages\" may have reached a peak. Urmuz's texts were probably spread around in handwritten copies, becoming somewhat familiar to Bucharest's bohemian society, but Urmuz himself was still an anonymous figure. Both Ciprian and fellow actor Grigore Mărculescu are said to have given public readings from the \"Bizarre Pages\" at Casa Capșa restaurant. According to literary historian Paul Cernat, if rumors about Ciprian's early performances of Urmuz's texts are true, it would constitute one of the first samples of avant-garde shows in Romanian theatrical tradition.\n\nAround 1916, Urmuz had obtained a relocation, as judge in the Muntenian town of Alexandria. It was there that he met with poet and schoolteacher Mihail Cruceanu, also on assignment. As Cruceanu later recalled, Urmuz was captivated by the artistic revolt carried out in Italy by the Futurist group, and in particular by the poetry of Futurist leader Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. According to literary historian Tom Sandqvist, Urmuz may have first read about the Italian initiatives in the local newspaper \"Democrația\", which had covered them in early 1909. As a result of this or another encounter, he decided to include, as a subtitle to one of his manuscripts, the words: \"Schițe și nuvele... aproape futuriste\" (\"Sketches and Novellas... almost Futuristic\").\n\nHaving reached the rank of Lieutenant, Demetrescu-Buzău was again called under arms when Romania joined the Entente Powers. In one account, he saw action against the Central Powers in Moldavia, following the Army's northward retreat. However, this is partly contradicted by his correspondence from Moldavia, which shows that his new office was as a quartermaster, and which records his frustration at not having been allowed to fight in the trenches. According to another account, he was mostly bedridden with malaria, and therefore unable to perform any military duty.\n\nUrmuz was again in Bucharest, working as \"grefier\" (registrar or court reporter) at the High Court of Cassation and Justice; sources disagree on whether this appointment dated from 1918 or earlier. Reportedly, this was a well paid employment with special perks, which may have made Urmuz uncomfortable about his other life as a bohemian hero. A photograph portrait taken in that period, one of the few to survive, was read as an additional clue that Urmuz had become melancholy and anxious. Sandqvist also sees him as a \"catastrophically lonely\" and insomniac customer of the brothels, adding: \"To all appearances as a result of disgusting experiences during the wars, returning home to Bucharest Demetru Demetrescu-Buzău chose to live an extremely ascetic and isolated life with long night walks.\" Urmuz's feats and pranks were nonetheless attracting more public attention, and he himself allegedly read his work to a bohemian public, in places such as Gabroveni Inn; at least some of these were free exercises in oral literature, and as such entirely lost.\n\nThe year 1922 brought Urmuz's debut in print. Fascinated by the (then unnamed) \"Bizarre Pages\", poet and journalist Tudor Arghezi included two of them in \"Cuget Românesc\" newspaper. Arghezi reportedly made efforts to persuade his more serious fellow editors of \"Cuget\", and possibly intended to undermine their attempt of putting out a newspaper of record. The gazette had also published a manifesto by Arghezi, in which he had outlined the goal of combating \"sterile literature\", and his intention of cultivating the \"will to power\" in post-war literary culture. Urmuz was thus the first avant-garde writer popularized by Arghezi, in a list which, by 1940, also came to include a large section of the younger Romanian modernists.\n\nArghezi later wrote that his relationship with Urmuz was difficult, especially since the \"grefier\" panicked that the establishment would discover his other career: \"he feared that the Cassation Court would better detect him as \"Urmuz\" than under his own name\". The memoirist refers to Demetrescu-Buzău's perfectionism and unease, enhanced in the week before publication: \"He would wake up in the middle of the night and would send a very urgent letter, asking me if the comma after a 'that' should be moved before. I found him wandering around my house at night, shy, restless, fainthearted or in a hopeful trance, that something of substance may or may not be found in his prose, that perhaps there's an error, asking me to publish it, and then again to destroy it; to publish it together with a eulogistic note, and then again to curse him. He bribed [the printers] to change phrases and words that I had to put back into place, as previous editorial interventions were for sure better than his.\" The letters they exchanged show that the \"grefier\" was not enthusiastic about even seeing his texts and his pseudonym in print, to which Arghezi was replying: \"from among the few we'll be cooperating with, you were my first choice\".\n\nBy May 1922, Urmuz had grown more confident in his strength as a writer. He sent Arghezi a copy of the \"Algazy & Grummer\" story, which, he joked, needed to be published for \"the nation's benefit\". He also proposed headlining it with the additional title \"Bizarre Pages\". The work was never published by \"Cuget\", probably because of a change in priorities: around that date, the paper hosted traditionalist editorials by culture critic Nicolae Iorga, which were incompatible with Arghezi's fronde.\n\nOn November 23, 1923, Urmuz shot himself, an event which remains shrouded in mystery. His death occurred in a public location, described as being close to Kiseleff Road in northern Bucharest. Some early sources suggest that he may have been suffering from an incurable disease, but he is also argued to have been fascinated with guns and their destructive potential. In 1914 for instance, he wrote down in his papers a homage to revolvers, crediting them with a magical power over the suicidal brain. Reports also show that he was theorizing the purposelessness and hollowness of life, addressing his fears on the subject to family members during the funeral of his brother Constantin (also in 1914). Researcher Geo Șerban wrote about Demetrescu-Buzău's well-hidden disappointment, assessing that, during his final year, the writer continued to act cheerful and relaxed, but that a \"devastating\" tension was building up inside him. At around that time, Urmuz took his one real trip as an adult civilian, visiting the Budaki Lagoon in Bessarabia.\n\nWriting in 1927, Arghezi publicized his regret at not having cultivated the friendship: \"I never saw him again and I am weighed down by the irreparable grief of never seeking him out. I believe my optimism could have rekindled in his cerebral chaos those candid and pure things that were beginning to die.\" Several Urmuz exegetes have traditionally seen the suicide intrinsically linked to Urmuz's artistic attitude. For scholar Carmen Blaga, it was the \"dissolution of [his] faith\" in Romania's intellectual class, along with economic decline and \"an existential void\", that prompted the writer to opt himself out. This resonates with claims by the first-generation followers of Urmuz: Geo Bogza suggests that his mentor killed himself once the deconstructive process, performed by his \"sharp intellect\", reached a natural conclusion; Sașa Pană claims that Urmuz was tired of merely amusing the \"cretins\" and \"profiteers\" who held sway over Bucharest's literary scene, and, determined to turn his literary persona into \"stardust\", took the risk of destroying his physical self. Additionally, academic George Călinescu argued that there was a philosophical rationale \"very in tune with his century\": \"he wanted to die in some original way, 'without any cause'.\"\n\nKept at the city morgue, the body was assigned to Urmuz's brother-in-law and fellow clerk C. Stoicescu, who stated that the writer had been suffering from neurosis. Urmuz was buried on November 26, in his family plot at Bellu cemetery. On the day, the event was publicized by a small obituary in \"Dimineața\" daily, signed with the initial \"C\" (presumably, for Ciprian). Both this and other press notices failed to mention that the \"grefier\" and the published author were one and the same, and the general public was for long unaware of any such connection. Story goes that an anonymous woman visited the family shortly after the burial, inquiring as to whether the deceased had left any letters.\n\nIn its manuscript form, Urmuz's definitive corpus of works covers only 40 pages, 50 at most. Various other manuscripts survive, including diaries and hundreds of aphorisms, but have for long been unknown to researchers.\n\nShortly after his death, Urmuz's work was linked to the emergence of avant-garde rebellion throughout Europe, and in particular to the rise of Romania's own modernist scene: writing in 2007, Paul Cernat describes this version of events as a \"founding myth\" of Romanian avant-garde literature. A literary critic and modernist enthusiast, Lucian Boz, assessed that Urmuz, like Arthur Rimbaud before him, embodied the \"lyrical nihilism\" of avant-garde currents. In the 1960s, literary historian Ovid Crohmălniceanu wrote of his being \"the world's first pre-Dada exercises\". In 2002 however, scholar Adrian Lăcătuș revised this thesis, arguing that it had created a \"blockage\" in critical reception, and that the actual Urmuz had more complex views on the avant-garde. Others have emphasized that Urmuz's unusual revolt ran contemporary with the revival of intense traditionalism of Romanian literature (the \"Sămănătorul\" moment), which would make his pre-Dada inspiration a moment of special significance.\n\nThe contact with Futurism, although acknowledged by Urmuz, is judged by many of his commentators as superficial and delayed. Literary historian Nicolae Balotă first proposed that the Romanian had merely wanted to show his sympathy for (and not a like-mindedness with) Futurism; that the works in question date back before the \"Futurist Manifesto\", to the Cocu period; and that the \"Bizarre Pages\" have more in common with Expressionism than with Marinetti. According to Cernat: \"By the looks of it, [the \"Bizarre Pages\"] were completed largely independent of influence from the European avant-garde movements [...]. We do not know, however, how many of these were already completed in 1909, the year when European Futurism was 'invented'.\" Emilia Drogoreanu, a researcher of Romanian Futurism, stresses: \"The values and representations of [the] world celebrated through Futurism exist within the Urmuzian text, but are entirely uprooted from the significance offered them by [the Futurists]\". Although she finds various similarities between Urmuz and Marinetti, Carmen Blaga notes that the former's jadedness was no match for the latter's militancy.\n\nVarious authors have also suggested that Urmuz was actually a radical conservative, whose vehemence against platitude in art only camouflaged a basic conventionalism. This perspective found its voice with Lăcătuș, who sees Urmuz as a conservative heretic, equally annoyed by bourgeois and anti-bourgeois discourses. Writing in 1958, Ciprian also reflected on the possibility that Ciriviș was actually \"teasing\" the avant-garde tendencies emerging in his day, but concluded: \"I would rather assume that under these various experiments was smoldering the lust for shaking the individual out of his skin, of tearing him away from himself, of disassembling him, of making him doubt the authenticity of accumulated knowledge.\" He writes that Urmuz's work lashed out at \"human nature in its most intimate creases.\" Accordingly, some authors have even considered Urmuz the inheritor of late-19th-century Decadence or of a matured alexandrine purity. In other such readings, Urmuz appears to lend his backing to the sexist or antisemitic viewpoints of his contemporaries. Crohmălniceanu also writes: \"the musings comprised in his manuscript notebooks [...] are restrained, flat, commonplace, as if the work of a different man.\"\n\nMuch debate surrounds the issue of Urmuz's connection to an absurdist streak in earlier Romanian literature and folklore. In the 1940s, George Călinescu discussed in detail an Urmuzian tradition, of as being characteristic for the literary culture of Romania's southern, Wallachian, cities. He noted that Urmuz was one of \"the great grimacing sensitive\" Wallachians, a \"Balkan\" succession which also includes Hristache the Baker, Anton Pann, Ion Minulescu, Mateiu Caragiale, Ion Barbu and Arghezi. In his definition, the source of Arghezi and Urmuz is in the folkloric tradition of self-parody, where the \"doina\" songs degenerate into spells or \"grotesque whines\". The image of a folkloric Urmuz was soon after taken up by other critics, including Eugenio Coșeriu and Crohmălniceanu.\n\nA section among Urmuz's commentators tends to classify him as a genial but superficial prankster, a buffoon rather than a serious author. Although sympathetic to Urmuz's work, George Călinescu called the \"Bizarre Pages\" \"an intelligent literary game\" of \"witty teenagers\". The goal, Călinescu suggested, was \"purely epic\", \"seeming to tell a story without in fact recounting anything\". Another verdict of this kind belongs to aesthetician Tudor Vianu, who also believed that Urmuz was a satirist of automatic behavior, and fundamentally a sarcastic realist. More severe in tone, Pompiliu Constantinescu assessed that Urmuz was superficial, chaotic and amateurish, interesting to researchers only because of defying \"the bourgeois platitude\". Contrarily, another interwar exegete, Perpessicius, made ample efforts to rehabilitate Urmuz as a thoughtful literary figure with \"great creative verve\", on the same level as Arghezi and poet Adrian Maniu.\n\nCiprian noted that Urmuz was unlike the \"cheeky, daring, disorganized\" pranksters whom he superficially resembled, that nothing in Urmuz's exterior gave the impression that he was in any way \"spoiled\". Time, he suggests, did not alter Urumuz's \"attitude on life\": \"Only now the about-turns were more daring and the tightrope acts was much more savvy.\" In 1925, commenting on Urmuz's flair for depicting the \"overall pointlessness of [human] existence\", Ciprian also argued: \"For the mediocre mindset, [Urmuz] may seem incoherent and unbalanced—which is why his work is not addressed to the masses.\" Critic Adrian G. Romilă writes that the new \"paradigm\" in Urmuz's literary universe appears significant and laborious, but adds: \"That which we do not know is if the writer [...] wasn't purely and simply playing around.\" However, Ioana Pârvulescu assessed that Urmuz, an author of \"extreme originality\", \"put his own life into play and games [...] and that is why his work is more tragic than comedic or is nested in that no man's land where tragedy and comedy overlap.\"\n\nCrohmălniceanu sees in the \"Bizarre Pages\" indication of a \"singular\" and tragic experience, while Geo Șerban argues that Urmuz's \"verve\" comes from destructive pressures on his own psychology. Reviewer Simona Vasilache also suggests that the \"Bizarre Pages\" hide a \"long digested\" rage, with serious and even dramatic undertones. Other essayists have spoken about Urmuz's \"cruelty\" in depicting anguishing situations, in criticizing social life and in using language stripped of its metaphors; they call him \"one of the cruelest authors I ever did read\" (Eugène Ionesco) and \"cruel in a primitive sense\" (Irina Ungureanu). As Ciprian reports, Urmuz was also self-deprecatory, amused by the others' attention, and claiming that his own \"elucubrații\" (\"phantasmagorias\") could only still be used to \"trip the seminary brethren\". One of his aphorisms hints to his internal drama and its role in creation: \"There are cases when God can only help you by giving you more and more suffering.\"\n\nAmong those who describe Urmuz as more of an individual rebel than an avant-garde hero, several have come to regard him as the Romanian parallel of solitary intellectuals who likewise made an impact on 20th-century literature. In the decades after his death, Romanian reviewers started comparing him to Czechoslovakia's Franz Kafka, a parallel which was still being supported in the 21st century. According to Romilă, Urmuzian and Kafkaesque literature are both about dehumanization, in Urmuz's case with a predilection for mechanical oddities which colonize and modify human existence. Other frequent analogies rank Urmuz together with Alfred Jarry, the French proto-Dadaist and inventor of 'Pataphysics. He was also described as an equivalent of Anglophone nonsense writers (Edward Lear, Lewis Carroll). Elsewhere, he is paralleled with Russia's Daniil Kharms, or modernist Poles from Bruno Schulz to Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz. Those who speak about his fundamental conservatism or his humorist's talent have also likened Urmuz and the \"Bizarre Pages\" to Gustave Flaubert and his sarcastic \"Dictionary of Received Ideas\". At the other end, those who focus on Urmuz's bizarre and sad metamorphoses have paralleled his work to Tim Burton's \"Oyster Boy\" stories.\n\nA major disagreement among critics relates to Urmuz's ambiguous positioning, between literature, antiliterature and metafiction. In reference to the \"Bizarre Pages\", Crohmălniceanu introduced the term \"antiprose\". In Crohmălniceanu's view, the antiliterary \"device\" Urmuz invented is impersonal and regulated, in the manner of Dada \"readymades\", but as such ingenious and therefore inimitable. Authors such as Adrian Marino, Eugen Negrici, Lucian Raicu and Mircea Scarlat have spoken about Urmuz as a revolutionist of language, who liberated texts from coherence and even semantics; whereas others—Livius Ciocârlie, Radu Petrescu, Ion Pop, Nicolae Manolescu, Marin Mincu, Mihai Zamfir—have regarded him as mainly a textualist, interested in reusing and redefining the limits of poetry or narration, but creating a coherent, if personal, universe. According to Vasile Andru, Urmuzian literature is by definition open to all these associations, its antiliterary aspects illustrating the modern gap between \"nature and nurture\". Critic C. Trandafir, who sees Urmuz's apparent textualism as canceled out by deeper meanings in his prose, writes: \"The man who wrote the 'bizarre pages' had a clear critical awareness of the transformations needed within literary discourse.\"\n\nAs Vasile Voiculescu recalls, Urmuz had was genuinely \"tormented by metaphysical matters\". Some of Urmuz's commentators therefore discussed him as a reader of the unconscious mind or propagator of esoteric knowledge, suggesting that a hidden layer of mystical symbolism can be discerned in all his activities. According to Perpessicius, the \"Bizarre Pages\" as a whole carry a subtext of mythopoeia, or \"fragments of a new mythology\". Boz also drew a comparison between Urmuz and the morose poems of George Bacovia, arguing that they both send the reader on \"tragic explorations\" and \"journeys to the underworld\". In Boz's interpretation, Urmuz was not at all a humorist, but rather one who issued a solitary \"call to order\" and, creating a \"magical phenomenon\", elevated his reader above the realities of the flesh. He first discussed the connection between the \"Bizarre Pages\" and 1930s Surrealism, which likewise turned its attention to the abnormal psychology, to \"psychosis\" and \"dementia\". The theoretical proto-Surrealism of such works, which places less importance on their topical humor, has generated a long debate between scholars later in the 20th century: some have denied Urmuzian Surrealism, whereas others have continued to identify him as the earliest Romanian Surrealist.\n\nSimona Popescu, the poet-essayist, presumes that Urmuz's inner motivation was his \"psycho-mania\", which holds no respect for either convention or posterity, but only for committing one's own \"abyssal obsessions\" to paper: \"death, the Eros, creation, and destruction.\" Adrian Lăcătuș also makes note of Urmuz's ambiguous allusions to autoeroticism, incest, bisexuality or paraphilia. Additionally, various commentators suggest that Urmuz's creative spark hides an unresolved conflict with his father. According to Cernat, Urmuz was in conflict with \"paternal authority\" and more attached to his mother, an \"Oedipus complex\" also found in some other literary figures of the pre-modernist generation. Others too see in Ciriviș's pranks a planned revenge against parental and social pressures. His sister Eliza credited such accounts, by noting: \"You can tell he failed in life because he obeyed his parents blindly, and perhaps also in part due to his lack of will, his shyness, his fear of the public.\"\n\nUrmuz the aphorist genuinely trusted that the \"Soul\" of the world was a unity of opposites, and, inspired by the philosophy of Henri Bergson, also spoke of a \"universal vital flux\". Lăcătuș and others suggest that Urmuz's worldview is the modern correspondent of Gnosticism and Manichaeism: in one of the manuscripts he left behind, Urmuz speculates about there being two Gods, one good and one evil. A distinct, and disputed, interpretation was put forth by researcher Radu Cernătescu, who believes that Urmuz's life and work reflected the doctrine of Freemasonry. Cernătescu reads indications of Masonic \"awakening\" throughout Urmuz's stories, and notes that the \"pahuci\" brotherhood was probably the junior or parody version of a Romanian Masonic Lodge.\n\nDefinitions vary in respect to the exact nature and species of Urmuz's experimental works, which are prose-like in content. Ciprian simply assessed that Urmuz's pieces \"do not belong to any literary genre.\" In line with his comments about the mythological layer of Urmuz's work, Perpessicius suggested that Urmuz created \"new fairy tales\" and \"fantasy sketches\". This intuition was given endorsement by other scholars, who included the \"Bizarre Pages\" in anthologies of Romanian fantasy literature. Contrarily, Boz found that Urmuz was \"the poet of transcendental absurdity\", \"the reformer of Romanian poetry\", and the counterpart of Romania's national poet, Mihai Eminescu. The Eminescu-Urmuz comparison, which put aside all their differences in style and vision, was a favorite of avant-garde authors, and, late in the century, served to inspire sympathetic academics such as Marin Mincu.\n\nAccording to Ciprian, one of Urmuz's earliest prose fragments was composed, with \"The Chroniclers\", during \"pahuci\" escapades. Its opening words, Ciprian recalls, were: \"The deputy arrived in a brick and tile cart. He was bringing no news, but offered his friends, upon arrival, a few Leclanché batteries\". The same author suggests that these drafts were much inferior to Urmuz's published works, beginning with \"Algazy & Grummer\".\n\nIn its definitive version, the Algazy piece offers a glimpse into the strange life and cannibalistic death of its storekeeper characters: Algazy, \"a nice old man\" with his beard \"neatly laid out on a grill [...] surrounded by barbed wire\", \"does not speak any European languages\" and feeds on municipal waste; Grummer, who has \"a bilious temper\" and \"a beak of aromatic wood\", spends most time lying under the counter, but sometimes assaults customers in the middle of conversations about sports or literature. When Algazy discovers that his associate has digested, without giving a thought to sharing, \"all that was good in literature\", he takes his revenge by consuming Grummer's rubbery bladder. A race begins as to who can eat the other first. Their few remains are later discovered by the authorities, and one of Algazy's many wives sweeps them up into oblivion. A different, early variant is quoted \"from memory\" and commented in Ciprian. In this account, Algazy the storekeeper is persuaded by his domineering wife to make their only son a magistrate. Grummer prepares the boy for his unexpected novitiate, strapping him down to the floor of a cave that must have the scent of colts.\n\nFrom its very title, \"Algazy & Grummer\" references a defunct firm of suitcase manufacturers. Urmuz's own note to the text apologizes for this, explaining that the names' \"musicality\" is more suited to the two fictional characters than to their real-life models, and suggesting that the company should change name (or that its patrons must adapt their physical shape accordingly). The narrative may hint to the everyday tensions between these entrepreneurs, and perhaps to the boredom of a career in sales; according to philologist Simona Constantinovici, it is also the confrontation of an entrepreneurial Turk (Algazy) and an intellectual Jew (Grummer), represented as a fight between the ostrich and the platypus. Beyond the mundane pretext, the story was often described as Urmuz's manifesto against any literary technique, and even a witty meditation on the signified and signifier. Carmen Blaga further proposes that Urmuz philosophic intent is to show the gap between universe, in which all things are possible and random, and man, who demands familiarity and structure.\n\nIn \"Ismaïl and Turnavitu\", Urmuz further explores the bizarre in its everyday settings. This was noted by Ciprian: \"[Urmuz] waged war on nature, he created besides nature and against its laws. He was a solitary summit defying heaven and asking: That's all? [...] Always the same slopes? the same compasses? the same people? the same beards?\" The result, Sandqvist writes, is \"breakneck, absurd, and inordinately grotesque.\" Călinescu singled out the work: \"The best of his absurd pieces is 'Ismaïl and Turnavitu', the solemnly academic portraiture and parody of bourgeois mannerisms, where there's always a confusion being made between the three kingdoms, the animal, the vegetal and the mineral\".\n\nIsmaïl \"is made up of eyes, sideburns, and a dress\", tied with rope to a badger and stumbling down Arionoaia Street. Protected from \"legal responsibility\" in the country (\"a seed-bed at the bottom of a hole in Dobruja\"), the creature raises an entire badger colony: some he eats raw, with lemon; the others, once they have turned sixteen, he rapes \"without the smallest qualm of conscience.\" The seed-bed is where Ismaïl also interviews job applicants, received on the condition that they hatch him \"four eggs each\". The process is supported by his \"chamberlain\" Turnavitu, who exchanges love letters with the applicants. Ismaïl's actual residence is kept a secret, but it is presumed that he lives, sequestered from \"the corruption of electoral mores\", in an attic above the home of his grotesquely disfigured father, only to emerge in a ball gown for the yearly celebration of plaster. He then offers his body to the workers, in hopes of thus resolving \"the labor issue\". Whereas Ismaïl has once worked as an air fan for \"dirty Greek coffee houses\" in the Lipscani quarter, Turnavitu has a past in \"politics\": he was for long the government-appointed air fan at the fire precinct kitchen. Ismaïl has spared Turnavitu a life of near constant rotation, remunerating his services: the seed-bed interviews, the ritualized apologizes to the leashed badgers, the praise of Ismaïl's fashion sense, and the swabbing of canola over Ismaïl's gowns. Their relationship breaks down as Turnavitu, returning from the Balearic Islands in the form of a jerrycan, passes the common cold to Ismaïl's badgers. Sacked from his job, he contemplates suicide (\"not before seeing to the extraction of four canines in his mouth\"), and hurls himself into a pyre made up of Ismaïl's dresses; the patron falls into depression and \"decrepitude\", retreating to his seed-bed for the rest of his own life.\n\nLike \"Algazy & Grummer\", \"Ismaïl and Turnavitu\" probably has a skeletal structure borrowed from real life: Turnavitu was a distinguished clan within Bucharest's Greek nobility, tracing its origin back to the Phanariote era. The semi-fictional world is populated by other symbols of Romania's connection to the Orient, that are meant to evoke \"the banality of a distinctively Balkan scenery\" (Carmen Blaga). Other interpretations have seen in the two protagonists caricatures of political corruption and \"parvenu\" morals.\n\n\"The Funnel and Stamate\" insists on the geographical setting of Urmuzian misadventures. Stamate's townhouse is a haven for objects or beings, their presence inventoried over several rooms. Only accessible through a tube, the windowless first room holds together a sample of the thing-in-itself, the statue of a Transylvanian priest and grammarian, and two humans always \"in the process of descending from the ape\". The second room, decorated in \"Turkish style\" and \"eastern luxury\", is painted once a day and carefully measured, by compass, to prevent shrinkage. A third section, under the \"Turkish\" room, houses a limitless canal, a tiny room and a stake \"to which the entire Stamate family is tethered.\" The \"dignified\" and \"elliptical\" head of the clan spits chewed-up celluloid on his fat boy Bufty, who \"pretends not to notice\". For relaxation, the Stamates contemplate Nirvana, located over the canal and \"in the same precinct\" as them. Old Stamate's musings are interrupted by the provocative intrusion of a siren, who lures him into the deep by presenting him with \"an innocent and too decent looking funnel.\" Stamate returns \"a better and more tolerant man\", deciding to use the funnel for both the pleasures of sex and those of science. Neglecting his family duties, he goes on nightly expeditions into the funnel, until he discovers in horror that Bufty uses the funnel for a similar purpose. Stamate then decides to part with his wife (sewing her in a bag, to \"preserve the cultural traditions of his family\") and with Bufty: trapped in the funnel, the boy is sent over to Nirvana, where Stamate makes sure he becomes a \"bureau sub-chief\". Stamate is left alone to contemplate his plight, wandering to and fro at great speed, and submerging \"into micro-infinity.\"\n\nAs an early supporter of Urmuz, Ciprian spoke of \"The Funnel and Stamate\" as \"without parallel\" in its satire of family life, suggesting that the scene were all the Stamates are tied to a single stake is \"more evocative than hundreds of pages from a novel\" (part of the story has also been read as a sexist joke on fashionable androgyny, since Stamate has a \"tonsured and legitimate wife\"). Urmuz's original version in fact carries the subtitle \"A Four-Part Novel\", in which Paul Cernat reads the intention of parodying the staple genres of traditional literature; according to Ioana Pârvulescu, the definition needs to be taken seriously, and makes the text (\"perhaps the shortest [novel] in European literature\") a \"microscopic\" Romanian equivalent of modernist works by James Joyce. Linguist Anca Davidoiu-Roman notes: \"Urmuz's antinovel [...] apparently preserves the structures of the novelistic genre, but undermines them from the inside, cultivating the absurd, the black humor, [...] the nonsensical and the zeugma.\" The core theme is believed to be sexual: a paraphrase of \"Romeo and Juliet\", with Stamate as the ridiculously abstract thinker falling for the debased stand-in of femininity; or even the detailed creation of \"an aberrant mechanism for erotic gratification.\" Stamate himself is also described as standing in for \"the unimaginative bourgeois\".\n\nAnother one of Urmuz's prose creations is \"The Fuchsiad\", subtitled \"An Heroic-Erotic Musical Poem in Prose\". Among the scholars, Perpessicius was first to argue that the subtext here is a direct reference to Greek mythology and Norse paganism, re-contextualized \"with the sadistic pleasure of children who take apart their dolls\". The protagonist Fuchs is an eminently musical creature, who came into the world not out of his mother's womb, but through his grandmother's ear. At the conservatory, he turns into \"the perfect chord\", but out of modesty spends most of his education hiding at the bottom of a piano. Puberty comes and he grows \"some kind of genitalia\"—in fact a \"fig leaf\" which keeps rejuvenating. The actual story begins on the one night Fuchs spends in the open air: under the spell of its mysteries, the composer finds his way into Traian Street (Bucharest's red-light district).\n\nThere, a group of \"vestals\" whisks him away, praying to be shown the beauty of \"immaterial love\" and begging him to play a sonata. His music is overheard by the goddess Venus. Instantly \"defeated by passion\", she asks Fuchs to join her on Mount Olympus. The act of lovemaking between clueless, overanxious Fuchs and the giant goddess is compromised when Fuchs decides to enter his whole body into Venus' ear. The embarrassed and angered audience humiliates the guest and banishes him to the planet Venus; merciful Athena allows him to return home, but on condition he does not reproduce. However, Fuchs still decides to spend some of his time practicing his lovemaking on Traian Street, hoping that Venus will grant him a second chance, and believing that he and the goddess could breed a race of Supermen. In the end, the prostitutes also reject his advances, deeming him a \"dirty satyr\", no longer capable of immaterial love. The story ends with Fuchs' flight into \"boundless nature\", whence his music \"has been beaming away with equal force in all directions\", fulfilling his destiny as an enemy of inferior art.\n\nUrmuz's story has been variously described as his praise of artistic freedom, and more precisely as an ironic take on his own biography as a failed musician. On a more transparent level, it references classical composer Theodor Fuchs, depicted by posterity as a \"puberal\" and \"clumsy\" man, and known as a disgraced favorite of Romanian Queen-Consort Elisabeth of Wied. \"The Fuchsiad\" may also contain intertextual nods to \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\".\n\nThe \"Emil Gayk\" sketch was the only one which is precisely dated to the early stages of World War I, focusing its satire on the debates of neutralists and interventionists. Gayk, the ever-vigilant, gun-toting, bird-like civilian, who sleeps in his tailcoat but otherwise wears only a festooned drape, swims about in just one direction (\"for fear of coming out of his neutrality\") and gets inspired by the military muses. His career is in foreign relations, which he revolutionizes with such novel ideas as the negotiated annexation of a unidimensional, arrow-like, territory at Năsăud—pointed toward Luxembourg, in memory of the 1914 invasion. Gayk has an adoptive daughter, educated on his behalf by waiters, who makes her home in the fields and eventually demands access to the sea. Angered by this claim, Gayk begins a large-scale war against her; the conflict ends in a stalemate, as Gayk can no longer accessorize his marshal's uniform, and the girl has lost her supplies of gasoline and beans. The father is placated with regular gifts of feed grain, whereas the daughter is allowed a two-centimeter-wide littoral.\n\nIn its subtext, \"Emil Gayk\" teases the irredentist ambitions of the interventionist camp, in respect to Transylvania province. Urmuz quotes a humorous slogan, circulated as a lampoon of nationalist attitudes: \"Transylvania without the Transylvanians\". This probably references the fact that, although Romanian by culture or ethnicity, many Transylvanian intellectuals were primarily the loyal subjects of the Habsburg Monarchy. According to Crohmălniceanu, the actual purpose is to overturn \"ossified\" constructs, as in the case of territorial demands which cover no real surface. Similarly, Șerban speaks about \"Emil Gayk\" as a piece in which magnified \"paltry aspects\" and \"anomalies\" are supposed to send the reader into a \"state of vigil\".\n\nThe plot of \"Going Abroad\" depicts someone's convoluted attempt to leave the country for good. The unnamed seven-year-old \"he\" in the story settles his scores with the assistance of \"two old ducks\" and embarks for the voyage, only to be pulled back in by \"paternal feelings\"; he consequently isolates himself in a tiny room, where he converts to Judaism, punishes his servants, celebrates his Silver Jubilee, and rethinks his escape. His wife, jealous of his contacts with a seal, decides against it, but offers him various parting gifts: flatbread, a kite, and a sketchbook by art teacher Borgovanu. This results in a quarrel, and the protagonist finds himself tied by the cheekbones, \"delivered unceremoniously on dry land.\" For a third attempt at leaving, the husband relinquishes wealth and titles, strips down and, bound with a bark rope, gallops to another town, joining the bar association. The story ends with a rhyming \"moral\":\n\"Going Abroad\" is possibly about Urmuz's own difficulties in deciding his own fate, transposed into a faux sample of travel literature, an example of what Balotă calls the failed \"homo viator\" (\"human pilgrim\") in Urmuz.\n\nTwo samples of Urmuz's prose have been traditionally seen as his secondary, less relevant, contributions. These are \"After the Storm\" and the posthumous \"A Little Metaphysics and Astronomy\". In the former, an unnamed cavalier makes his way into a grim monastery, his heart moved at the sight of a pious hen; the repentant man then finds \"ecstasy\" in nature, leaping through the trees or releasing captive flies. Agents of the revenue service make efforts to confiscate his tree, but the protagonist is still able to squat on one of the branches after he gives proof of naturalization, and then—swimming his way through an \"infected pond\"—shames his adversaries into giving up their claim. Born-again as a cynic, strengthened by his affair with the hen, he heads back to his \"native village\" to train folks in the \"art of midwifery.\" According to critics, \"After the Storm\" should be seen as a caricature of minor Romanticism, of conventional fantasy, or of travel literature. Simona Vasilache likens it to \"an \"Odyssey\" covering some twenty lines\", \"a misalliance of heroism and pilferage\" with echoes from Urmuz's hero Ion Luca Caragiale.\n\n\"A Little Metaphysics and Astronomy\", which is structured like a treatise, opens with a pun on the creation narrative, postulating that God created fingerspelling before \"the Word\", and venturing to suggest that \"the heavenly bodies\", like abandoned children, are in fact nobody's creation, that their spin is really a form of attention seeking. Here, Urmuz questions the possibility of a single cause in the universe, since God's interest is in unnecessary duplications or multitudes in stars, men and fish species. Beyond the jokes on scientific pretense, Vasilache reads \"A Little Metaphysics...\" as a clue to Urmuz's own disillusioned worldview, which she traces back to the suicidal warnings in Urmuz's notebooks. She argues that such a melancholy and lonely diarist is in contrast with Urmuz's literary persona, as known from the \"Bizarre Pages\". Likewise, Carmen Blaga describes the text as a sober meditation on \"the tragic sense of history\" and \"the fall into temporality\".\n\nAmong the last Urmuzian works to be discovered is \"Cotadi and Dragomir\". The first in the duo is a muscular but short and insect-like merchant, who wears dandruff, tortoiseshell combs, a lath armor which greatly hiders his movements, and a piano lid screwed to his buttocks. The descendant of Macedonian nobility, Cotadi feeds on ant eggs and excretes soda water, except when he corks himself to solve the \"agrarian question\". For fun, he lures his clients into angry conversations—these end with him banging the piano lid, which is also a urinating wall, on the shop's floor. Dragomir is long, crooked, brownish and kind-hearted; he intervenes in the disputes between Cotadi and the more stubborn customers, imposing respect with his main prop: a cardboard contraption that extends upwards from his neck. Cotadi rewards such attentions with servings of octopus, sorb-pears and paint, granting Dragomir the right to nest inside his gate wall. They plan to be buried together, \"in the same hole\", with French oil as a daily supply. From such an oily grave, Cotadi hopes, an olive tree plantation may spring up, to benefit of his descendants. Like \"Algazy & Grummer\", \"Cotadi and Dragomir\" can be read as alluding to the triteness of business life.\n\nWritten in the manner of fables, but lacking any directly interpretable message, Urmuz's \"The Chroniclers\" referenced Aristotle, Galileo Galilei and the turn-of-the-century Balkan insurgent Boris Sarafov (\"Sarafoff\"). Its opening lines suggest that the eponymous chroniclers, for lack of baggy pants, approach someone with the surname \"Rapaport\" and demand to be issued passports. The lyrical convention breaks down toward the end, which states:\nCiprian simply discussed the piece as \"Urmuz's idiotic lyrics\", while Călinescu found it a \"pure fable, on the classical canon, but nonsensical\". Cernat also described its \"moral\" as \"empty\" and \"tautological\", but other critics see a hidden layer of meaning in the seemingly random cultural imagery. Ion Pop, commenting on Urmuz's hypertextuality, assumes that the \"pelican and pouchbill\" motif comes from a book once used as teaching aid. He also suggests that the passion and hunger which ties together the various characters is in fact the thirst for freedom, for movement and for exotic settings: \"Rapaport\" is the Wandering Jew, Aristotle is the mentor of a great conqueror, and Galilei is invoked for his remark \"And yet it moves\". The mention of \"Sarafoff\" has been read as an indirect homage to Caragiale—whose humorous sketches helped give Sarafov a Romanian fame.\n\nPaul Cernat notes that the Ciriviș's \"posthumous destiny\", leading to an unexpected glorification, was itself an \"Urmuzian\" affair. Cernat also cautions that the image of Urmuz as an absolute predecessor of Romanian modernism is \"erroneous\", since the experiments of Jarry, Charles Cros, Jules Laforgue, Edward Lear and others were just as important in its formative process. He concludes that the avant-garde \"apologetes\" were projecting their own expectations into the \"Bizarre Pages\", in which they read the antithesis of \"High Romanticism\", and into the writer, who became Romanian version of a \"poète maudit\". Ion Pop also suggests: \"In [Urmuz's] human destiny, and in his writing too, [the avant-garde writers] find issues which trouble them as well in prefiguring their own destinies. He satisfies the pride of those who carry on with an uncertain and anxious existence, endlessly in conflict with the world...\" According to Andru: \"Enthusiastic, ingenious, skeptical, rhetorical, or indecent words have been uttered about [the \"Bizarre Pages\"]. People used terms having to do with the literary revolutions of the 20th century [...]. In his pages people found themes present in all the innovating actions that gained momentum especially since 1922–1924\".\n\nCernat describes the growth of Urmuz's myth as similar to Early Christianity: Ciprian as a \"prophet\", Arghezi as a \"baptist\", the modernist aficionados as \"apostles\" and \"converts\". Over time, various exegetes have noted that the modernist aspects of Arghezi's prose, written after 1923, show his debt to Urmuz's absurdism and nonsense humor. Arghezi's \"Bilete de Papagal\" review was also a promotional instrument for the \"Bizarre Pages\": in 1928, continuing the \"Cuget Românesc\" project, it circulated \"Algazy & Grummer\".\n\nWhile his role as a pre-Dadaist is up for debate, Urmuz is thought by many to have been a considerable influence on a Romanian founder of Dada, Tristan Tzara. During its first years, the Romanian avant-garde would generally not mention Urmuz outside Arghezi's circle, but a surge in popularity came in stages after the European-wide impact of Dadaism, and especially after Tzara alienated some of his Romanian partners. This was the case of poet Ion Vinea and painter Marcel Janco, who together founded a modernist art magazine called \"Contimporanul\". Late in 1924, \"Contimporanul\" teamed up with Ciprian, who gave a public reading from Urmuz during the \"Contimporanul\" International Art Exhibit.\n\nThe following year, Ciprian's eponymous text \"Hurmuz\", published in \"Contimporanul\", listed the main claims about Urmuz's pioneering role. Also then, the Futurist journal \"Punct\", a close ally of Vinea and Janco, gave exposure to various unknown Urmuzian pages. In December 1926, a \"Contimporanul\" editorial signed by Vinea announced to the world that Urmuz was \"the discreet revolutionist\" responsible for the reshaping of Europe's literary landscape: \"Urmuz-Dada-Surrealism, these three words create a bridge, decipher a parentage, clarify the origins of the world's literary revolution in the year 1918.\" In its coverage of the international scene, the journal continued to suggest that the suicidal author had anticipated the literary fronde, for instance calling Michel Seuphor a writer \"à la Urmuz\". In addition to republishing some of the \"Bizarre Pages\" in its own issues, it took the initiative in making Urmuz known to an international audience: the Berlin-based magazine \"Der Sturm\" included samples from Urmuz in its special issue Romania (August–September 1930), reflecting a \"Contimporanul\" who's who list. At around the same time, poet Jenő Dsida completed the integral translation of the \"Bizarre Pages\" into Hungarian.\n\nIn his \"Contimporanul\" stage, Janco drew a notorious ink portrait of Urmuz. In old age, the same artist completed several cycle of engravings and paintings that alluded to the \"Bizarre Pages\". Vinea's own prose of the 1920s was borrowing from Urmuz's style, which it merged with newer techniques from the avant-garde groups of Europe. He followed Urmuz's deceptive \"novel\" genre of \"The Funnel and Stamate\", which also became a characteristic of works by other \"Contimporanul\" writers: Felix Aderca, F. Brunea-Fox, Filip Corsa, Sergiu Dan and Romulus Dianu. In addition, Jacques G. Costin, who moved between \"Contimporanul\" and the international Dada scene, was for long thought an imitator of Urmuz's style. Several critics have nevertheless revised this verdict, noting that Costin's work builds on distinct sources, Urmuz being just one.\n\nAnother stream of Urmuzianism bled into the Surrealist magazine \"unu\". Its main contributors, including Pană, Geo Bogza, Ilarie Voronca, Ion Călugăru, Moldov and Stephan Roll, were all Urmuz enthusiasts from the far left. In 1930, Pană collected and published as a volume the complete works of Urmuz: titled \"Algazy & Grummer\", it notably included \"The Fuchsiad\". Pană and Bogza visited the unpublished archive, which gave them a chance to acknowledge, but also to silence, the more conventional and antisemitic Urmuz revealed through the aphorisms. These manuscripts were kept in possession by the Pană family, and exhibited in 2009.\n\nBogza was previously editor of a short-lived magazine named \"Urmuz\", published in Câmpina with support from poet Alexandru Tudor-Miu, and keeping contact with other Urmuzian circles: it was saluted by Arghezi and published a drawing portrait of Urmuz (probably Marcel Janco's). Bogza's first editorial piece proclaimed: \"Urmuz lives. His presence among us whips to lash our consciousness.\" Later, in \"unu\"s inaugural art manifesto, Bogza described his suicidal mentor as \"The Forerunner\". Others in this group incorporated \"Urmuzian\" metamorphoses into their technique and, at that stage, the \"Bizarre Pages\" were also imitated in style by Pană's sister, Magdalena \"Madda Holda\" Binder, influencing stories by Pană's young follower Sesto Pals and novels by the isolated Surrealist H. Bonciu. In the mid-1930s, \"unu\" illustrator Jules Perahim drew his own version of Urmuz's portrait.\n\nAfter the \"Contimporanul\" group split and a young generation reassimilated modernism into a spiritualistic framework (\"Trăirism\"), critic Lucian Boz was the first professional to find no fault with the \"Bizarre Pages\", and made Urmuz interesting for mainstream and elitist criticism. Between the \"unu\" Surrealists and Boz's version of modernism were figures such as Ion Biberi (who popularized Urmuz in France) and Marcel Avramescu. Avramescu (better known then as \"Ionathan X. Uranus\") was notably inspired by Urmuz's pre-Dadaist prose, which he sometimes imitated. Other authors in this succession were Grigore \"Apunake\" Cugler, widely credited as a 1930s Urmuz, and Constantin Fântâneru. The early 1930s also brought the publication of several new works of memoirs mentioning Demetrescu-Buzău, including texts by Cruceanu and Vasile Voiculescu—the latter was also the first to mention Urmuz on Romanian Radio (January 1932); another such Radio homage was later authored by Pană.\n\nThe channels of communication once opened, Urmuz came to be discussed with unexpected sympathy by Perpessicius, Călinescu and other noted cultural critics, consolidating his reputation as a writer. Călinescu's attitude was particularly relevant: the condescending but popularizing portrayal of Urmuz, which became part of Călinescu's 1941 companion to Romanian literature (Urmuz's earliest mention in such a synthesis), was first sketched in his literary magazine \"Capricorn\" (December 1930) and his 1938 university lectures. Although he confessed an inability to view Demetrescu-Buzău as a real writer, Călinescu preferred him over traditionalism, and, critics note, even allowed the \"Bizarre Pages\" to influence his own work as novelist. Meanwhile, a blunt negation of Urmuz's contribution was restated by the academic figure Pompiliu Constantinescu, who nevertheless commented favorably on the writer's \"ingeniousness\". Eugen Lovinescu, another mainstream literary theorist, angered the avant-garde by generally ignoring Urmuz, but made note of Ciprian's readings \"from Hurmuz's repertoire\" at the \"Sburătorul\" literary sessions.\n\nUrmuz may have acted as a direct or indirect influence of mainstream authors of fiction, one case being that of satirist Tudor Mușatescu. Similar observations were made regarding the work of modern novelists Anișoara Odeanu or Anton Holban.\n\nBy the late 1930s, Ciprian had also established himself as a leading modernist dramatist and director, with plays such as \"The Man and His Mule\". Although his work in the field is described as the product of 1920s Expressionist theater, he was sometimes branded a plagiarist of his dead friend's writings. This claim was traced back to Arghezi, and was probably a publicity stunt meant to increase Urmuz's exposure, but taken with seriousness by another opinion maker, journalist Constantin Beldie. The ensuing scandal was amplified by the young Dadaists and Surrealists, who took the rumor to be true: Avramescu-Uranus, himself accused of plagiarizing Urmuz, made an ironic reference to this fact in a 1929 contribution to \"Bilete de Papagal\". Unwittingly, Arghezi's allegations cast a shadow of doubt on Ciprian's overall work for the stage.\n\n\"The Drake's Head\" was Ciprian's personal homage to the \"pahuci\": it shows a grown-up Ciriviș, the main protagonist, returning from a trip abroad and reuniting with his cronies during an overnight party. The \"Drake's Head\" brotherhood spends the small hours of the morning bullying passers-by, chasing them \"like birds of prey\" and pestering them with absurd proposals. Quite jaded and interested in wrecking the very \"pillars of logic\", Ciriviș convinces his friends to follow him on a more daring stunt: trespassing private property, they take over an apple tree and treat it as a new home. Claiming that land ownership only covers the actual horizontal plane, they even strike out an agreement with the stupefied owner. Nevertheless, a pompous and indignant \"Bearded Gentleman\" takes up the cause of propriety and incites the Romanian Police to intervene. The play premiered in early 1940. The original cast included Nicolae Băltățeanu as Ciriviș and Ion Finteșteanu as Macferlan, with additional appearances by Ion Manu, Eugenia Popovici, Chiril Economu.\n\nCernat sees \"The Drake's Head\" as a sample of Urmuzian mythology: \"Ciriviș [...] is shown as a quasi-mythological figure, the boss of a parodic-subversive fellowship which seeks to rehabilitate a poetic, innocent, apparently absurd freedom\". According to Cernat, it remains Ciprian's only truly \"nonconformist\" play, particularly since it is indebted to \"the absurd Urmuzian comedy\". Some have identified the \"Bearded Gentleman\" as Nicolae Iorga, the traditionalist culture critic—the claim was later dismissed as mere \"innuendo\" by Ciprian, who explained that his creation stood for all \"demagogue\" politicians of the day.\n\nUpon the end of World War II, Romania came under communist rule, and a purge of interwar modernist values followed: Urmuz's works were among the many denied imprimatur by the 1950s. Before communist censorship became complete, Urmuz still found disciples in the last wave of the avant-garde. Cited examples include Geo Dumitrescu, Dimitrie Stelaru and Constant Tonegaru. Also at the time, writer Dinu Pillat donated a batch of Urmuz's manuscripts to the Romanian Academy Library.\n\nThe anti-Urmuzian current, part of a larger anti-modernist campaign, found an unexpected backer in George Călinescu, who became a fellow traveler of communism. In his new interpretation, the \"Bizarre Pages\" were depicted as farcical and entirely worthless. For a while, the \"Bizarre Pages\" were only cultivated by the Romanian diaspora. Having discovered the book in interwar Romania, the dramatist and culture critic Eugène Ionesco made it his mission to highlight the connections between Urmuz and European modernism. Ionesco's work for the stage, a major contribution to the international Theater of the Absurd movement, consciously drew upon various sources, including the Romanians Ion Luca Caragiale and Urmuz. The contextual importance of such influences, which remain relatively unknown to Ionesco's international audience, has been assessed differently by the various exegetes, as Ionesco himself once stated: \"Nothing in Romanian literature has ever truly influenced me.\" Thanks to Ionesco's intervention, Urmuz's works saw print in \"Les Lettres Nouvelles\" journal. Allegedly, his attempt to publish Urmuz's work with Éditions Gallimard was sabotaged by Tristan Tzara, who may have feared that previous claims about his absolute originality would come under revision. Upon translating Urmuz's writings, Ionesco also drafted the essay \"Urmuz ou l'Anarchiste\" (\"Urmuz or the Anarchist\", ca. 1950), with a new drawing of Urmuz by Dimitrie Vârbănescu (Guy Lévis Mano collection).\n\nThe entirety of Urmuz's work was republished in English by writer Miron Grindea and his wife Carola, in \"ADAM Review\" (1967, the same year when new German translations were published in Munich's \"Akzente\" journal). From his new home in Hawaii, Romanian writer Ștefan Baciu, whose own poetry borrows from Urmuz, further popularized the \"Bizarre Pages\" with Boz's assistance. Another figure of the anti-communist diaspora, Monica Lovinescu, adopted Urmuzian aesthetics in some of her satirical essays. The diaspora community was later joined by Andrei Codrescu, who became a neo-Dadaist and wrote stories he calls \"à la Urmuz\".\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, a literary underground, reacting against the communist worldview, began to emerge at various locations in Romania. It tried to reconnect with modernism, and in the process rediscovered Urmuz. Inside the meta- and autofictional group known as the \"Târgoviște School\", Urmuz's style was mainly perpetuated by Mircea Horia Simionescu. The \"Bizarre Pages\" also inspired some other writers in the same group: Radu Petrescu, Costache Olăreanu and the Bessarabian-born Tudor Țopa. Elsewhere, Urmuz's work rekindled Romania's new poetry and prose, influencing some of the Onirist and post-Surrealist writers—from Leonid Dimov, Vintilă Ivănceanu and Dumitru Țepeneag to Iordan Chimet and Emil Brumaru. An icon of neo-modernist poetry was Nichita Stănescu, whose contributions include tributes to Urmuz and pastiches of his writings, hosted by \"Manuscriptum\" in 1983. Between 1960 and 1980, the \"Bizarre Pages\" also stimulated the work of isolated modernist authors, such as Marin Sorescu, Marius Tupan, Mihai Ursachi and, especially, Șerban Foarță.\n\nAlthough the ban on Urmuz was still in place, George Ciprian made a daring (and possibly subversive) gesture by publishing his affectionate memoirs in 1958. A few years later, the episodic relaxation of communist censorship allowed for the republication of the \"Bizarre Pages\", mistakenly included in a complete edition of Ciprian's literary works (1965). Such events heralded a revival of scholarly interest in proto-Dadaism, beginning with a 1970 monograph on Urmuz, by the Sibiu Literary Circle member Nicolae Balotă. Also then, Pană was free to circulate a new revised edition of his interwar anthology, reissued in collaboration with Editura Minerva. It was later completed by an Urmuz corpus, which notably hosted the scattered diaries, as recovered by critic Gheorghe Glodeanu. In 1972, Iordan Chimet also included \"The Chroniclers\" in a nonconformist anthology of youth literature. In those years, the \"Bizarre Pages\" also inspired critically acclaimed illustrations by Nestor Ignat and Ion Mincu, and the multimedia event \"Cumpănă\" (\"Watershed\") by composer Anatol Vieru.\n\nWith the 1960s, a national-communist ideology was officially established in Romania, and this encouraged the rise of \"Protochronism\" as a cultural phenomenon. The Protochronists exaggerated past Romanian achievements, and magnified previous claims about the folkloric roots of Urmuz's literature. Some Protochronists also described a positive, jocular, \"village idiot\" Urmuz, more presentable than Europe's misanthropic avant-garde. A leading representative of this trend was literary theorist Edgar Papu, who exaggerated Vinea and Ionesco's homage to Urmuz and Caragiale to argue that Romania was the actual origin of Europe's avant-garde movements. The idea proved popular beyond Protochronism, and was arguably found in essays by Nichita Stănescu and Marin Mincu. Many Europeanist intellectuals rejected Protochronism, but, in their bid of making Urmuz palatable to cultural officials, often interpreted him strictly through the grid of Marxist humanism (as used by Balotă, Matei Călinescu or Nicolae Manolescu). A third camp, comprising more or less vehement opponents of Urmuz, joined the literary debates after 1970; it includes Alexandru George, Gelu Ionescu, Alexandru Piru and Marin Nițescu.\n\nSome years later, Romania witnessed the birth of the \"Optzeciști\" generation, whose interest was in recovering Caragiale, Urmuz and the 1930s avant-garde as its models to follow, and who reactivated corrosive humor as a way of fighting oppression. Among the individual \"Optzeciști\" who took special inspiration from the \"Bizarre Pages\" are Mircea Cărtărescu, Nichita Danilov, Florin Iaru, Ion Stratan and \"the sentimental Urmuz\" Florin Toma. Dissident poet Mircea Dinescu also paid homage to Urmuz, imitating his style in one of his addresses to the communist censors.\n\nWith that, the influence of Urmuz again radiated outside the Romanian-speaking circles: while poet Oskar Pastior translated the \"Bizarre Pages\" into German, Herta Müller, a German Romanian novelist and dissident, is thought to have been influenced by some of Urmuz's writing techniques. Marin Mincu and Marco Cugno also introduced Urmuz's literature to the Italophone public, with a 1980 collection. In Romania, as part of centennial celebrations, scattered translations old and new were issued by Minerva as a hexalingual album, with noted contributions from Ionesco, Voronca, Mincu, Cugno, Leopold Kosch, Andrei Bantaș etc. Other translations from Urmuz were pioneered in English by Stavros Deligiorgis (standard bilingual edition, 1985) and later by Julian Semilian. The same effort was undertaken in Dutch by Jan Willem Bos and in Swedish by Dan Shafran.\n\nA noted rise in interest for Urmuzian literature followed in the wake of the 1989 Revolution. In 2011, a poll among Romanian literati, organized by \"Observator Cultural\" review, listed \"The Funnel and Stamate\" as the 22nd-best Romanian novel; this rekindled polemics about whether the work should even be considered a novel. With the appearance of new \"alternative\" schoolbooks during the 1990s, Urmuz earned more exposure as an optional addition to the standard curriculum. New editions of his various works were published at a fast rate, in both Romania and neighboring Moldova: in just two years (2008–2009), there were three separate print versions of his collected texts, academic as well as paperback, and two audiobooks. These texts provided visual inspiration for Dan Perjovschi, whose tribute \"pictograms\" were included in the 2009 Editura Cartier reprint of the \"Bizarre Pages\". In March 2006, Curtea de Argeș city honored the writer with a series of special events and displays.\n\nThe literary currents of postmodernism often appropriated Urmuz as their guide. This tendency was illustrated by the writings of new figures in Romanian literature: the minimalists and neo-naturalists (Sorin Gherguț, Andrei Mocuța, Călin Torsan), the neo-Surrealists (Cristian Popescu, Iulia Militaru, Cosmin Perța, Iulian Tănase, Stelian Tănase), the feminists (Catrinel Popa, Iaromira Popovici), the political satirists (Dumitru Augustin Doman, Pavel Șușară) and the electronic literature writers (Cătălin Lazurcă).\n\nThere were also loose stage or multimedia adaptations of the \"Bizarre Pages\", including ones by Mona Chirilă (2000), Gábor Tompa (2002), Radu Macrinici (2005), Pro Contemporania ensemble (2006), Christian Fex and Ramona Dumitrean (both 2007); Urmuz's work has also been cited as an influence by the Romanian-born dramaturge David Esrig, who has used it in workshops. A theatrical company with Urmuz's name existed for a while in Casimcea, home of the \"Zilele Urmuz\" Festival. In 2011, two separate operatic renditions of Urmuz's work were showcased by Bucharest's SIMN Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294221", "title": "The Concert for New York City", "text": "The Concert for New York City\n\nThe Concert for New York City was a benefit concert, featuring many famous musicians, that took place on October 20, 2001 at Madison Square Garden in New York City in response to the September 11 attacks. Aside from performing for charity, the concert was an attempt to honor the first responders from the New York City Fire Department and New York City Police Department, their families, and those lost in the attacks and those who had worked in the ongoing rescue and recovery efforts in the weeks since that time.\n\nThe concert was organized by Paul McCartney and included many legendary British contemporaries, including The Who, David Bowie, Elton John, Eric Clapton and Rolling Stones bandmates Mick Jagger and Keith Richards. American artists included Bon Jovi, Jay-Z, Destiny's Child, the Backstreet Boys, James Taylor, Billy Joel, Melissa Etheridge, Five for Fighting, Goo Goo Dolls, John Mellencamp with Kid Rock, and a humorous performance by Adam Sandler as \"Operaman.\" Paul Shaffer acted as Musical Director for the show and various celebrities and political figures including Howard Stern and Rudy Giuliani appeared between the acts.\n\nMany athletes also appeared between the acts including Joe Torre, whose Yankees were on their way to competing in their fourth consecutive World Series. The concert also included several short films made by New York City's most notable filmmakers such as Woody Allen, Martin Scorsese, Spike Lee, and Kevin Smith.\n\nOver 60 stars that participated in the concert signed unique memorabilia backstage at Madison Square Garden that were later auctioned off to support the Robin Hood Foundation. The autographed items included three large posters of the concert and three customized 24\" drumheads. Other items included a complete drumset and guitar.\n\nMuch of the crowd itself was extremely emotional, with victims' family members and colleagues holding up portraits of the dead. Two speakers were booed: actress Susan Sarandon (for plugging New York mayoralty candidate Mark Green), and actor Richard Gere (for speaking about non-violent tolerance). Gere did acknowledge the crowd's jeering at his pacifist stance, stating, \"That's apparently unpopular right now, but that's all right.\" Repeat broadcasts and the DVD version of the concert were digitally edited to remove the booing and replace it with dubbed cheering for Hillary Clinton.\n\nAdam Sandler's appearance as Operaman was a comic highlight of the evening. He sang a humorous song about the greatness of New York City, the end of Rudy Giuliani's term as mayor, the New York Yankees who were in the middle of playing in the 2001 ALCS, the musical acts that preceded him on stage (in which he mentioned that Destiny's Child gave him a \"bone-ah\"), and Osama Bin Laden's cowardice, including the line \"\"Osama says he's tough, Osama says he's brave/Then tell me why Osama is shitting in a cave!\"\"\n\nMusically, the audience responded most fervently to The Who, roaring as they came on stage with a roiling \"Who Are You\", drowning out the band on the famous \"It's only teenage wasteland\" refrain of \"Baba O'Riley,\" and reaching a peak of excitement with \"Won't Get Fooled Again.\" The backdrop for the band consisted of an American flag alongside a British flag, showing solidarity. Vocalist Roger Daltrey's final words to the crowd of first responders and their families were: \"We could never follow what you did.\" This performance would turn out to be bassist John Entwistle's final performance in America with The Who; he died of a heart attack only eight months later. Multi-instrumentalist Jon Carin, who had worked with the band during the group's 1996–1997 tours, played keyboards in place of longtime keyboardist John \"Rabbit\" Bundrick.\n\nOther highlights included David Bowie's opening tandem of Paul Simon's \"America\" and his own \"Heroes\", dedicated to his local ladder company, and New York's own Billy Joel's \"Miami 2017 (Seen the Lights Go Out on Broadway)\" where Joel says after singing it, \"I wrote that song 25 years ago, I thought it was gonna be a science fiction song. I never thought it would really happen. But unlike the end of that song...we ain't going anywhere!\" Elton John's sentimental \"Mona Lisas and Mad Hatters\" was also well received, among other performances. After The Who's performance, FDNY firefighter Mike Moran spoke to the audience, explaining that his brother was killed on 9/11, and that the victims would not be forgotten. He ended by saying \"In the spirit of the Irish people, Osama Bin Laden, you can kiss my royal, Irish ass!\" which was met with wild cheering and applause. Moran removed his cap and concluded with, \"This is my face, bitch!\" which was, again, met with cheers from the crowd.\n\nWhen Pete Townshend and Roger Daltrey, the two surviving members of The Who, were given the Kennedy Center Honors in December 2008 for their contributions to American culture, a tribute performance of \"Baba O'Riley\" was delivered by Rob Thomas. In the end refrain of \"teenage wasteland\", a full choir of FDNY firemen was revealed behind a curtain - bellowing the refrain - in gratitude for The Who's performance at The Concert for New York City, seven years prior.\n\nIn order of appearance:\n\nThe following short films were shown during the concert, here sorted by director:\n\n\"Sounds from a Town I Love\" (sometimes incorrectly referred to as \"Sounds from the Town I Love\") is a 2001 comedy short film of approximately three minutes, written and directed by Woody Allen. The film was first shown during \"The Concert for New York City\". The film consists purely of cell-phone conversation snippets of twenty-two random people walking through the streets of New York City. Ranging from complainers to neurotic worriers conversing about bizarre or amusing situations, they and their comments are unrelated to one another. The film ends with a message from Woody Allen: \"I love this town.\"\n\nJohn Cusack introduced the film with a message from Woody Allen: \"I apologize in advance for my short movie. The cause was so worthwhile that I could not say no when approached to contribute something to this wonderful show. I did the best I could. If you hate it, I will try to make it up to you somehow in the future.\" In addition to longtime Allen collaborators Marshall Brickman and Tony Roberts, among the people seen in the film are Austin Pendleton, Griffin Dunne, Michael Emerson, Bebe Neuwirth, and Celia Weston.\n\nIn 2004 \"Rolling Stone\" magazine selected this concert, along with the earlier \"\" telethon, as one of the 50 moments that changed rock and roll. It was also voted the #4 greatest moment in the history of Madison Square Garden. On December 7, 2008, Pete Townshend and Roger Daltrey of The Who received Kennedy Center Honors from the President of the United States, and after several musicians performed their music, the finale was a surprise chorus of New York City police officers and rescue personnel who had been touched by their performance.\n\nThe concert was broadcast live on VH1 October 20, 2001, and over $35 million was raised. An additional $275,000 was also raised with a connecting auction. The five-hour broadcast was executive produced by Greg Sills & Fred Graver. The producer was Paul Flattery and the director was Louis J Horvitz (who has directed many of the Oscar broadcasts). It was written by Stephen Pouliot and Paul Flattery.\nThe concert was recorded by David Hewitt and Mark Repp on Remote Recording's Silver Truck.\nThe entire uncut version of the 5 hour concert was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic January 1, 2008.\nIt was nominated for an EMMY for best music/comedy special (Greg Sills, Fred Graver and Paul Flattery) and for best production design (by SNL vet Keith Raywood).\n\nA one-hour highlight show was broadcast on CBS the following month. An album and DVD of the event was released in January 2002.\n\nAn encore of the entire concert ran on September 11, 2011 to commemorate the 10th anniversary, commercial free and unedited, from 4 to 10pm.\n\nA double CD of the event was released by Sony on November 27, 2001, containing 32 tracks.\n\nThe concert was released by Sony both on DVD and VHS on January 29, 2002, both only in NTSC format for the US/Canadian market. The two-tape VHS set has a total running time of 296 minutes, while the double DVD runs a shorter time of 245 minutes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294222", "title": "1860 in archaeology", "text": "1860 in archaeology\n\n1860 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294224", "title": "My Little Pony Tales", "text": "My Little Pony Tales\n\nMy Little Pony Tales is an American animated television series produced by Sunbow Productions and Graz Entertainment, animation produced by AKOM, and based on the My Little Pony toys by Hasbro. It ran weekly on The Disney Channel from August 2, 1992 to December 25, 1992 for 26 episodes. The series also aired in syndication starting in 1993. It has been released on DVD in Australia, Europe and the United States.\n\nThe series follows seven young female ponies who live in Ponyland, a society of anthropomorphic ponies. The girl ponies are Starlight, Sweetheart, Melody, Bright Eyes, Patch, Clover and Bon Bon. They live like humans as they attend school, frequent the local ice cream shop, enter talent contests, and even roller skate. This is in contrast to the previous series which involved ponies and humans. Some of the girl ponies begin to show a romantic interest in the male ponies, Teddy, Ace and Lancer; they even go on dates with them. At least one song is performed by the ponies in every episode.\n\nEach of the ponies has a distinct flank symbol.\n\nThe seven preteen female ponies are sometimes referred to as the 7 Pony Friends.\n\n\"My Little Pony Tales\" began airing on The Disney Channel on Sunday mornings starting on August 2, 1992, and on weekday mornings starting on September 1, 1992. Reruns of the show continued on The Disney Channel until 1996. The show was also aired in syndication from 1993 to 1995. In the half-hour block, the first part featured an episode from the old 1980s series \"My Little Pony 'n Friends\" and the second part was an episode made for the new \"My Little Pony Tales\" series. When \"My Little Pony Tales\" and its songs were submitted to the US Copyright Office in 1993, the production codes were numbered from 200-01 to 200-13.\n\n\n\nIn 1992, Hasbro released toys of the 7 Pony Friends to the European market to complement its first generation My Little Pony toy line. They did not produce models for the three male ponies or the teacher from the series, Miss Hackney. Although \"My Little Pony\" originated in the United States, the toys were not marketed there. The family ponies, the Barringtons (known as the Berrytowns in toy form), the Sunbrights, and the Meadowsweets were also made into toys, but were only marketed in select European countries.\nSeveral pieces of merchandise were marketed in Europe with the Seven Characters on them, such as comic books, an alarm clock, a backpack, an umbrella and a money box.\n\nMRA Entertainment licensed the series for the Australia (Region 4) area. It released four DVDs in 2005 to cover the entire series.\nIn the United Kingdom (Region 2), Metrodome Distribution Ltd. released a single volume that contained ten episodes from the series:\n\nShout Factory licensed the series for the United States (Region 1) area. It was released as \"My Little Pony Tales – The Complete TV Series\" on DVD on April 28, 2015. The two-disc set contains all 26 episodes of the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294228", "title": "Jungle de Ikou!", "text": "Jungle de Ikou!\n\nThe story is centered on Natsumi, a young student from Japan who gains the powers of Mii, the well-endowed fertility goddess of a tribal culture. Natsumi and her friends must save the Earth from ultimate destruction by a \"god of ruin\".\n\nJungle de Ikou! is primarily a three-part OAV series, but the franchise extended to three drama CDs, a soundtrack CD and a novel, with only the OAV being released as an English-language version on DVD.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294236", "title": "Carisbrooke", "text": "Carisbrooke\n\n\"For other uses see of the name see Carisbrook\"\n\nCarisbrooke is a village on the south western outskirts of Newport, Isle of Wight and is best known as the site of Carisbrooke Castle. It also has a medieval parish church. St Mary's Church (overlooking Carisbrooke High Street with views to the castle), began life as part of a Benedictine priory, established by French monks about 1150. The priory was dissolved by King Henry V of England in 1415 during the French Wars. Neglect over the centuries took its toll, but in 1907 the church was restored to its full glory. Its most striking feature is the 14th century tower, rising in five stages with a turret at one corner and a battlemented and pinnacled crown.\n\nThere is a Roman Villa discovered in the Victorian era on the site of the old vicarage.\n\nIt is served by Southern Vectis buses operating to Freshwater, Newport, Yarmouth and Ventnor, as well as some smaller villages. It was served by nearby Carisbrooke railway station until it closed in 1953. It is the starting point of the Tennyson Trail, leading to Alum Bay.\n\nIt has two pubs - the Waverley and the Eight Bells, a café, an Italian restaurant and a motorcycle dealership. There are several shops on the High Street. The village has four schools, three of which are along Wellington Road. These are Carisbrooke CE Primary School, Christ the King College (formerly Archbishop King Roman Catholic Middle and Trinity CE Middle Schools) and Carisbrooke College. The fourth school is St Thomas of Canterbury Roman Catholic Primary School, which is on Carisbrooke High Street next to the doctors surgery. There are allotments, next to the ford in Castle Street.\n\nCarisbrooke was for centuries the island 's capital and was once called Buccombe or Beaucombe, and means the ' fair valley'.\n\nThe Governor of Newport once lived at Landscape House, at the upper part of Carisbrooke High Street in the Victorian era.\nAlexander Ross, prolific Scottish writer and controversialist, was vicar of Carisbrooke from 1634 until his death in 1654.\n\nThe site of the old Carisbrooke railway station lies on the grounds of Christ the King College in the lower part of the field, which is at the end of Purdy Road. The bank is all that remains of the old line.\n\nWhen in 1917 the British royal family changed its name from the \"House of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha\" to the \"House of Windsor\" and renounced all German titles, the title of Marquess of Carisbrooke was created for the erstwhile German Prince Alexander of Battenberg.\n\nCarisbrooke Castle was originally a Roman fort. The castle is at the top of Castle Hill. It was built soon after William the Conqueror came to England. The William FitzOsbern, 1st Earl of Hereford may have been responsible for its construction, but he was killed in battle during 1071 and so would have had little opportunity to oversee the construction. Osbern's son, Roger, is more likely to have built or refortified the castle. It was at Carisbrooke Castle that William arrested his own half brother, Odo for acts of treason.\n\nKing Henry I of England granted the castle in the first year of his reign to Richard de Redvers. The Redvers family owned the castle for much of the Medieval period, only ending in November 1293 when the last Redvers, Isabel died. In 1136, Baldwin de Redvers took refuge in the castle on the run from King Stephen of England. The wells on the island ran dry and Baldwin gave up the land in exchange for his head. Baldwin's land was restored to him in 1153 when Henry II became king. Baldwin, the last male in the line, died in 1216 poisoned, it is said by Peter II of Savoy. Isabella de Fortibus, Baldwin's sister took control of the castle and successfully ran it until her death in 1293. After the death of Isabella de Fortibus in 1293 the castle became the property of Edward I and the crown.\n\nIn 1355 Edward III granted the ownership of the castle to his daughter Isabel. In 1377 The French landed on the Isle of Wight and attacked Carisbrooke castle. The castle did not fall to the French. Later in 1647 Charles I took refuge at Carisbrooke but the castle later turned out to be his prison from where he attempted several times to escape but failed. His daughter princess Elizabeth later died there aged 14.\n\nIt later became the royal residence of Princess Beatrice the 9th daughter of Queen Victoria who put in the gardens which have been recently restored. She established the museum in the centre of the bailey.\n\nCarisbrooke appears as \"Chalkburne\" in the 1886 novel \"The Silence of Dean Maitland\" by Maxwell Gray.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294250", "title": "Chaos Island: The Lost World", "text": "Chaos Island: The Lost World\n\nChaos Island: The Lost World (also known as Chaos Island and Chaos Island: The Lost World: Jurassic Park) is a real-time strategy video game for the PC, developed and published by DreamWorks Interactive, and based on the 1997 film \"\". \"Chaos Island\" was released in North America on October 30, 1997. In \"Chaos Island\", the player controls characters displayed on a map, directing where they move with the mouse and giving them commands either with the mouse or from a menu.\n\nThe game features six characters from the film, each voiced by the actors who played them in the film: Dr. Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum), Dr. Sarah Harding (Julianne Moore), Nick Van Owen (Vince Vaughn), Eddie Carr (Richard Schiff), Kelly Curtis (Vanessa Lee Chester), and John Hammond (Richard Attenborough). Early in the game, Malcolm, Van Owen and Carr are on Isla Nublar (the island where \"Jurassic Park\" occurred), where they rendezvous with Harding and obtain a DNA serum used to control dinosaurs that they hatch. A freighter then takes them to Isla Sorna (where \"The Lost World: Jurassic Park\" occurs) and crashes there in a storm.\n\nFuture missions are largely spent combating hunters, who are on the island to capture the dinosaurs and take them to a theme park. The hunters are hostile to the playable characters and will attack them on foot, using Jeeps, and tanks in later levels. In one mission, the characters must free a baby \"T. Rex\" and other captured dinosaurs from the hunters' camp, then in the next, return it to its nest and free the mother, who has been captured by the hunters.\n\nLater in the game, the hunters blow up the playable characters' communications transmitter. The characters make their way to the InGen Communications Center (as in the film) to contact help. In the game's final level, the characters must all make their way to a helipad where they can be picked up. If these missions are completed, a bonus mission is opened where the player can play as the mother \"T. Rex\" in San Diego making her way to the freighter where her baby is, and combating hunters on the way.\n\nOnly Malcolm, Van Owen, Carr and a \"Research Assistant\" are available from the start; Harding and Curtis become playable shortly into the game. The player can have more than one Research Assistant. Each of the characters has a different level of speed, eyesight (used for uncovering the fog of war) and number of supplies they can carry at one time. Each character can carry a gun that can be used against dinosaurs and hunters. Each character costs a certain number of points when selected for use in a level. There is a limited number of points that can be spent before the level begins, but when collecting supplies, the points can be spent on bringing in characters during the level. Hammond appears in cutscenes between levels.\n\nThe game includes three difficulty levels and 12 missions, except on the Easy level of difficulty, where the last two missions are left out. In each mission, the player is required to build a base camp, which can be used for gathering supplies and dinosaur eggs. Any character can build structures. They can then collect supplies which can be found on the map. Among the structures which can be built are shelters for healing characters (Shelters, and Hardened Shelters which heal faster), nests for hatching friendly dinosaurs (Artificial Nest, and Incubator where the egg hatches quicker), High Hides for protecting characters, and buildings where points can be used to upgrade character speed, eyesight, and defense.\n\nThe game's plot also requires the characters to breed and train a team of fighting dinosaurs that can be used against enemies. Eight dinosaurs from the films are featured, including \"Parasaurolophus\", \"Compsognathus\", \"Pachycephalosaurus\", \"Dilophosaurus\", \"Stegosaurus\", \"Velociraptor\", \"Triceratops\" and \"Tyrannosaurus\". The game begins with just the first two, with stronger dinosaurs appearing in later missions. All wild dinosaurs (which wear white collars) are generally hostile to both the characters and hunters. However, the game features dinosaur nests with eggs, which can be collected by the characters and hatched, producing dinosaurs wearing blue collars which can be controlled by the player. \n\nHerbivorous dinosaurs can replenish their health by eating plants, while carnivores do so by eating hunters or other dinosaurs. In the last three missions, the hunters become able to hatch dinosaurs of their own, which wear red collars and are hostile to the player. There are situations where wild dinosaurs can be lured or baited in to fighting hunters as they tend to attack nearby characters on either side; sometimes hunters also provoke them.\n\nNoah Falstein was the lead designer for \"Chaos Island\". Falstein considered \"Chaos Island\" to be a challenging concept, being a real-time strategy game aimed at young children between the ages of 8 and 12. \"Chaos Island\" was unveiled at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in June 1997.\n\nWith production running smoothly, the development team chose to begin adding a special final level to the game just a few months prior to its release. Falstein has noted that the game is somewhat-unknown, particularly because of an advance order of 200,000 copies of the game intended for distribution in Europe that was rejected by DreamWorks. The game engine used for \"Chaos Island\" was later updated and re-used for \"Small Soldiers Squad Commander\", a real-time strategy game released in 1998.\n\nCindy Yans of \"Computer Games Magazine\" rated the game three stars out of five and wrote that the game \"has the look and feel of the original Command & Conquer,\" although she noted that the artificial intelligence was not perfect. Yans wrote that players with limited real-time strategy experience would enjoy the game's mini-missions. Yans noted that the film's actors provided their voices \"in a limited number of annoyingly repetitive sound bytes during mission play… with some good humor [...]. In the inter-mission briefings, however, the actors' presence is much easier to swallow. It is a nice touch to hear Jeff Goldblum instruct us about the upcoming mission.\"\n\nDavid Laprad of The Adrenaline Vault gave the game two stars out of five and was surprised that some of the film's actors were \"associated with such a low-grade product,\" writing that the actors generally have \"very few lines, even fewer of which are used effectively, so the voice acting adds nothing to the product except a blurb on the outside of the box intended to increase sales.\" Laprad said the game had an outdated look in comparison to other games released at that time, and criticized some characters for being animated so small that \"it is impossible to determine exactly what it is they are doing at any point during gameplay.\" Laprad criticized the game's early levels for being \"really nothing more than training missions that introduce players to the basic elements of gameplay\" and wrote that \"there simply isn't enough here to make the game worth playing.\" Laprad also criticized the seemingly \"pointless\" missions and the lack of a multiplayer mode, and wrote, \"My main complaint is that the game is boring.\"\n\nLaprad wrote that the game \"makes a critical error [...] by not providing a hot key for assigning units or groups of units and calling them up on the fly; no respectable real-time strategy game makes this mistake.\" Laprad also criticized the game for \"one very frustrating bug that can absolutely wreck a player's progress on a mission,\" in which team members that are not present at a save point will often be excluded from the level when it is reloaded. Laprad also criticized the game's \"dated\" sound effects for being \"oddly out of sync,\" and said that they \"rarely accurately convey the event they are intended to represent.\" Laprad also criticized the game's orchestral music. Although Laprad praised the game's control and responsive characters, he concluded that, \"Chaos Island is remedial real-time strategy. There is very little depth to the undemanding and simplistic gameplay.\"\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" rated it an \"A-\" and stated that it was not as confusing as other strategy games. Tahsin Shamma of \"Computer Gaming World\" praised the graphics and real-time gameplay, and stated that while it was \"not as sophisticated\" as other mission-based real-time games, \"it's great fun for those who loved the movie.\" Richard Moore, writing for Australian newspaper \"The Age\", called \"Chaos Island\" \"a good game\" for children, and stated, \"The graphics are not great but it is fun and it requires that you use your head.\" On a five-star scale, Moore gave the game's graphics and sound two stars, while awarding the playability three stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294252", "title": "Lu Ji (Shiheng)", "text": "Lu Ji (Shiheng)\n\nLu Ji (261–303), courtesy name Shiheng, was a writer and literary critic who lived during the late Three Kingdoms period and Jin dynasty of China. He was the fourth son of Lu Kang, a general of the state of Eastern Wu in the Three Kingdoms period, and a grandson of Lu Xun, a prominent general and statesman who served as the third Imperial Chancellor of Eastern Wu.\n\nLu Ji was related to the imperial family of the state of Eastern Wu. He was the fourth son of the general Lu Kang, who was a maternal grandson of Sun Ce, the elder brother and predecessor of Eastern Wu's founding emperor, Sun Quan. His paternal grandfather, Lu Xun, was a prominent general and statesman who served as the third Imperial Chancellor of Eastern Wu. After the Jin dynasty conquered Eastern Wu in 280, Lu Ji, along with his brother Lu Yun, moved to the Jin imperial capital, Luoyang. He served as a writer under the Jin government and was appointed president of the imperial academy. \"He was too scintillating for the comfort of his jealous contemporaries; in 303 he, along with his two brothers and two sons, was put to death on a false charge of high treason.\"\n\nLu Ji wrote much lyric poetry but is better known for writing \"fu\", a mixture of prose and poetry. He is best remembered for the \"Wen fu\" (文賦; \"On Literature\"), a piece of literary criticism that discourses on the principles of composition. Achilles Fang commented: \n\nThe first translation into English is by Chen Shixiang, who translated it into verse because, although the piece was rightly called the beginning of Chinese literary criticism, Lu Zhi wrote it as poetry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294256", "title": "Maciej Aleksy Dawidowski", "text": "Maciej Aleksy Dawidowski\n\nMaciej Aleksy Dawidowski codename: Alek, Glizda, Kopernicki, Koziorożec (born 3 November 1920, Drohobycz — died 30 March 1943, Warsaw, Poland) was a Polish scoutmaster (podharcmistrz), Polish Scouting resistance activist and Second Lieutenant of the Armia Krajowa during the Second World War. Dawidowski is a main character in the books \"Kamienie na Szaniec\" by Aleksander Kamiński, and \"Rudy, Alek, Zośka\" by Barbara Wachowicz.\n\nThe son of Aleksy Dawidowski, an engineering technologist and Janina Dawidowska (née Sagatowska), who worked in chemical engineering, Maciej Aleksy Dawidowski graduated from the Stefan Batory Warsaw Gymnasium. He was active in the Polish Boy Scout movement. In the fall of 1939 Dawidowski's father was the administrative director of a rifle factory in Warsaw. Following the German occupation of Warsaw in late September 1939, the senior Dawidowski was arrested in November 1939, and on December 1939 the father was shot in the Sejm Gardens.\n\nIn 1939 the younger Davidowski was a member of PLAN, in 1940 he became a member of Szare Szeregi (the underground organization of Polish Boy Scouts) and Wawer. He took part in several sabotage actions against the Nazi forces, among others. In the Copernicus action he removed the German language plaques beneath the Warsaw statue of Copernicus on 11 February 1942.\n\nJan Bytnar, another resistance leader, was arrested by the Germans on 23 March 1943. The Polish underground army designed a plan to rescue him called \"Operation Arsenal\". Dawidowski participated in the planning and the execution of the operation. During the attack, he was seriously wounded in the stomach by fire from Germans in the gate house where Bytnar was held. Despite this he threw two grenades enabling his comrades to withdraw from the action. He later died in a hospital from his wounds, aged 22.\n\nDuring the Warsaw uprising, Dawidowski's code name \"Alek\" was later used as the code name for the 2nd Platoon of the 2nd company (\"Rudy\") of Batalion Zośka. He was posthumously awarded the Silver Cross of the Virtuti Militari and promoted to sergeant. In 2011 he was posthumously awarded the Commander's Cross with Star of the Order of Polonia Restituta.\n\nAn elementary school, Szkoła Podstawowa nr 391 im. Macieja Aleksego Dawidowskiego, in Warsaw is named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294257", "title": "Joe Miller (actor)", "text": "Joe Miller (actor)\n\nJoseph Miller (1684 – 15 August 1738) was an English actor, who first appeared in the cast of Sir Robert Howard's \"Committee\" at Drury Lane in 1709 as Teague.\n\nTrinculo in \"The Tempest\", the First Grave-digger in \"Hamlet\" and Marplot in Susanna Centlivre's \"The Busybody\", were among his many favourite parts. He is said to have been a friend of Hogarth.\n\nIn 1715 he appeared on bills promoting a performance on the last day of April, where he played Young Clincher in Farquhar's comedy, \"The Constant Couple or a Trip to the Jubilee\".\n\nOn 25 April 1717 he played Sir Joseph Whittol in William Congreve's \"Old Batchelor\". Tickets for this performance were adorned by a design by William Hogarth showing the scene where Whittol's friend Captain Bluffe is kicked by Sharper whilst his friend Bellmour tries to pull him away. This is described as a \"very valuable engraving\" in 1868. This ticket design was used for Joe Millers benefit performance on 13 April 1738.\n\nIn \"vacation periods\" between working at Drury Lane, he performed for William Pinkethman's company.\n\nHe frequented the \"Black Jack\" tavern on Portsmouth Street in London, which was a favourite of the Drury Lane players and those from Lincoln's Inn Fields. Allegedly he was very serious in the bar and this led to an in-joke whereby all his companions ascribed all new jokes to him.\n\nHis final performance was on 13 April 1738.\n\nOn his death on 15 August he was buried at St Clement Danes on Portugal Street, London. This churchyard was later built over by King's College Hospital. The grave is therefore lost.\n\nAfter Miller's death, John Mottley (1692–1750) brought out a book called \"Joe Miller's Jests, or the Wit's Vade-Mecum\" (1739), published under the pseudonym of Elijah Jenkins Esq. at the price of one shilling. This was a collection of contemporary and ancient coarse witticisms, only three of which are told of Miller. This first edition was a thin pamphlet of 247 numbered jokes. This ran to three editions in its first year.\n\nLater (not wholly connected) versions were entitled with names such as \"Joe Miller's Joke Book\", and \"The New Joe Miller\" to latch onto the popularity of both Joe Miller himself and the popularity of Mottley's first book. Joke books of this format (i.e. \"Mr Smith's Jests\") were common even before this date. It was common practice to learn one or two jokes for use at parties etc.\n\nOwing to the quality of the jokes in Mottley's book, their number increasing with each of the many subsequent editions, any time-worn jest came to be called \"a Joe Miller\", a Joe-Millerism, or simply a Millerism.\n\nJoke 99 states: \n\nJoke 234 speaks of: \n\nJoe Miller was referred to in Charles Dickens' \"A Christmas Carol\" (1843), by the character Scrooge, who remarks \"Joe Miller never made such a joke as sending [the turkey] to Bob's will be!\" Dickens also references Joe-Millerism in \"Sketches by Boz\", in chapter 1 of \"The Boarding-house\".\n\nGeorge Grossmith and Weedon Grossmith's 1892 comic novel, \"The Diary of a Nobody\" also makes reference to Joe Miller when Lupin, son of the chief protagonist and diary writer, Mr. Pooter, sarcastically states, \"Bravo Joe Miller\" in response to one of Mr. Pooter's failed jokes.\n\nJoe Miller was also referred to in James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" (1922) in the limerick that Lenehan whispers during the Aeolus episode to Stephen Dedalus, the last line of which is \"I can't see the Joe Miller. Can you?\".\n\nIsaac Asimov refers to Joe Miller's joke book on page 552 of \"Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare\". The work is used in his explanation of Beatrice's barb toward Benedick in Much Ado About Nothing-- Act II, scene i, lines 128-130.\n\nAccording to Leonard Feinberg, the 1734 edition contains one of the oldest examples of gallows humor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294261", "title": "Boca del Río", "text": "Boca del Río\n\nBoca del Río may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2294264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294264", "title": "Perdicaris affair", "text": "Perdicaris affair\n\nThe Perdicaris affair ( Perdicaris incident) refers to the kidnapping of Greek-American playboy Ion \"Jon\" Hanford Perdicaris (1840–1925) and his stepson, Cromwell Varley, a British subject, by Mulai Ahmed er Raisuli and his bandits on 18 May 1904 in Tangier, Morocco. Raisuli, leader of several hill tribes, demanded a ransom of $70,000, safe conduct, and control of two of Morocco's wealthiest districts from Sultan Abdelaziz of Morocco. During lengthy negotiations, he increased his demands to control of six districts.\n\nBorn in Greece in 1840 to the American ambassador and his wife, Perdicaris grew up mostly in New Jersey in the United States and was an American citizen. He had been living in Tangier since the 1870s. President Theodore Roosevelt felt obliged to react on his behalf in Morocco. Ultimately, he dispatched seven warships and several Marine companies to Tangier to convince the Sultan to accede to Raisuli's demands. Western European nations also reacted with force, with the United Kingdom, France, and Spain sending ships to back up the US in Morocco. John Hay, the American Secretary of State, issued a statement to the Republican National Convention in June 1904 that \"This government wants Perdicaris alive or Raisuli dead.\"\n\nRoosevelt's display of force in this incident is credited with helping the incumbent president win re-election later in 1904. After being released, Perdicaris moved with his family to England, settling in Tunbridge Wells.\n\nIon Perdicaris' father, Gregory Perdicaris, was sponsored in 1826 as a young Greek to study in the United States by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Perdicaris became a naturalized citizen of the US, and married the daughter of a wealthy family in South Carolina. In 1837 he returned to Greece, serving as the American ambassador. In 1840, his son Ion Perdicaris was born in Athens, Greece, while his father was serving as ambassador. The family returned to the United States in 1846, where the father at one time was a professor of Greek at Harvard University.\n\nThe family settled in Trenton, New Jersey, where Gregory Perdicaris became wealthy as one of the organizers of the Trenton Gas Company. The city was growing as an industrial center.\n\nFor many years, the son Ion lived the life of a dilettante. He entered the Harvard University class of 1860 but left at the end of his sophomore year and studied in Europe for a time. In 1862, because of the American Civil War, the family's property in South Carolina was in danger of confiscation by the government of the Confederate States of America. The younger Perdicaris traveled to Greece, intending to renounce his United States citizenship and acquire Greek nationality in order to avoid confiscation or being drafted into the Confederate States Army.\"\" This did not protect his property, and he left Athens. \n\nAfter the war ended, Perdicaris lived in Trenton with his father. He published some articles in \"The Galaxy\" in 1868, before moving to England. There he studied electricity and related engineering. In 1871 in Malvern, England, Perdicaris met Ellen Varley, wife of the eminent British telegraph engineer C.F. Varley. Varley was away on cable business. Ellen and Perdicaris began an affair that resulted in Ellen leaving her husband. The Varleys formally divorced in 1873.\n\nEllen settled in Tangier with Perdicaris, and her two sons and two daughters from her first marriage. She and her family were all British subjects. Perdicaris built a house there in 1877 known as the \"Place of Nightingales\", as he collected a menagerie of exotic animals. Perdicardis dabbled in the arts and retained some ties to the US: In 1876, he exhibited a painting at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. In 1879, Perdicardis produced a play at the Fifth Avenue Theatre in New York City, but it was unsuccessful. After 1884, he lived permanently in Tangier. Fascinated by Moroccan culture, Perdicaris wrote several books (few of them published to a wide audience) on the country. He became the unofficial head of Tangier's foreign community. Serving as president of the Hygienic Commission in Tangier, he helped gain construction of a modern sanitation system for the city. He also maintained business interests in England and the United States, frequently visiting New York.\n\nIn 1886, Perdicaris filed a complaint of misconduct against Felix Mathews, then the American Consul General in Morocco. Mathews had refused to prosecute a Moroccan for rape who was under American protegé status. Perdicaris also wrote and distributed a pamphlet entitled “American Claims and the Protection of Native Subjects in Morocco” in London in response to the issue. The government arrested and fined Perdicaris for shielding a Moroccan from arrest. (Later he sought and received redress for this). Through Perdicaris' crusading, the incident made national headlines in the United States, and Mathews was removed from his position in March 1887.\n\nMulai Ahmed er Raisuli was a leader of several hill tribes near Tangier. In 1903, after five of his men were captured by the government, he held Walter Harris, a correspondent of \"The Times\" in Morocco, as hostage in exchange for the release of his men. After that success, Rasuli targeted Ion Perdicaris for kidnapping.\n\nOn 18 May 1904, Perdicaris and Ellen's son Cromwell Varley, a British subject, were abducted from their summer home by Mulai Ahmed er Raisuli and a group of bandits (estimates of their number ranged wildly, from nine to one-hundred and fifty). Raisuli ruled three hill tribes in Morocco. His men cut the telephone lines, knocked out several Perdicaris servants, and left Ellen at the house. She later was able to contact the embassy, and at 11:00pm, the American Consul General, Samuel Gummeré, arrived at the house. \n\nThe consuls of Great Britain was also notified. On 19 May, a cable from Gummeré reached the United States. It read:\n\nAs Raisuli's group traveled through the Rif Mountains, Perdicaris's horse fell and the American broke his leg. Raisuli demanded of Sultan Abdelaziz of Morocco a $55,000 ransom (later raised to $70,000); removal of government troops from the region and an end to its harassment of the Er-Rif people; the removal, arrest, and imprisonment of the Pasha of Tangier and several other government officials; release of certain political prisoners; and cession of control of two of Morocco's wealthiest districts (later increased to six). Raisuli later added the stipulation that the United States and England must guarantee meeting these demands.\n\nWhen the US was notified of the kidnapping, Secretary of State, John Hay, was out of town. Assistant Secretary of State, Francis B. Loomis, dealt with the crisis. He diverted seven of the sixteen American ships in the Mediterranean Sea on a \"goodwill cruise\" to Tangier. Angered by the kidnapping, President Theodore Roosevelt reacted with a show of force. \n\nHay described the demands as \"preposterous\". The following day the United States ordered Admiral French Ensor Chadwick to dispatch a ship from the South Atlantic Squadron to Tangier. On 20 May, the British dispatched a torpedo boat from Gibraltar to the city. On 21 May, representatives from the sultan were sent to begin negotiations with the captors. By 25 May, negotiations had yet to achieve anything. On May 29, Raisuli threatened to kill the prisoners if his demands were not met in two days. The incident revealed internal tensions, as the foreign minister of Morocco allied with Raisuli's enemies. The Shereefs of Wazan were credited with progress in the negotiations. That same day, Theodore Frelinghuysen Jewell was ordered to dispatch three additional ships. When a messenger from the Sultan arrived at Rasuli's camp, he was sold to the highest bidder, and was executed by having his throat slit.\n\nThe armored cruiser and cruiser reached Tangier on 30 May, and Admiral Chadwick had a conference with the Sultan's representative. The next day, the gunboats and arrived, and France assured the United States they would do \"all in their power to rescue the prisoners\". On 1 June the ransom demand was increased to $70,000. Jewell arrived with , , and , bringing the total American ships in Tangier to seven, manned by several Marine companies, commanded by Major John Twiggs Myers. At the time, the gathering was the most numerous of American ships in any foreign port.\n\nThey were not to be used without express orders from Washington, as it was thought that any action by the Marines would lead to the deaths of the prisoners. The US planned to use them only to seize the custom-houses of Morocco, which supplied much of the nation's revenue, if the Moroccan government did not fulfill the demands of the United States. It insisted the government make the concessions necessary to persuade Raisuli to release Perdicaris, and to attack Raisuli if Perdicaris were killed. The only Marines to land in Morocco were a small detachment of a four men, carrying only sidearms. They were ordered to protect the Consulate and Mrs. Perdicaris. Two other US Marines were dispatched on 8 June to protect the Belgian legation.\n\nOn 30 May, A. H. Slocomb sent a letter to John Hay, claiming that Perdicaris was no longer an American citizen, having taken Greek citizenship. Though Roosevelt's resolve weakened, he decided to continue with the negotiations, as Raisuli believed that Perdicaris was an American citizen. Roosevelt tried to get Britain and France to join the U.S. in a combined military action to rescue Perdicaris, but the two countries refused. Instead, the two powers were covertly recruited to put pressure on the Sultan to accept Raisuli's demands. On 2 June the arrived in port, and tensions rose to the point that there were fears of an uprising in the city.\n\nOn 6 June, the and arrived, due to fears that the United States might force Morocco to give them a port. In response to the request of the British minister in Morocco, left Gibraltar on 7 June. That same day, President Roosevelt received confirmation that Perdicaris had registered in Athens as a Greek citizen. Negotiations continued and on 8 May, the Sultan granted Raisuli's demands, appointing Herid el Barrada as governor of Tangier. Angry tribesmen raided the home of an Englishman. Negotiations dragged on. The government removed its troops from Raisuli's region on June 9. On 14 June, an attempt was made to kidnap the Italian consul. On 15 June, Raisuli increased his demands to be given control of six, rather than two districts of Morocco.\n\nOn 19 June the Sultan accepted Raisuli's demands, with the date of release of captives set for 21 June. On 20 June, a hitch in negotiations occurred. Zelai, governor of an inland tribe, refused to act as intermediary. On 21 or 22 June the ransom money was deposited. On 22 June, Raisuli demanded another district for his control. Though a settlement had already been reached, a cable from Gummeré accusing the Sultan of holding up negotiations. \n\nSeeing the need to act, Hay issued a statement to the Republican National Convention, that was read by Joseph Gurney Cannon: \"We want Perdicaris alive or Raisuli dead.\" While it was clear that the convention would nominate the incumbent Roosevelt as the Republican candidate, Hay's statement electrified the Convention. One Kansas delegate exclaimed, \"Roosevelt and Hay know what they're doing. Our people like courage. We'll stand for anything those men do.\" After being nominated, Roosevelt easily won election in the fall of 1904. Perdicaris was home by 24 June, after most of Raisuli's demands were met.\n\nPerdicaris wrote a narrative of his captivity while held by Raisuli. It was published in \"Leslie's Weekly,\" followed by \"National Geographic,\" gaining a large audience. After his release, Perdicaris admitted he was no longer an American citizen. While he had received Greek citizenship, he never lived in Athens for the required two years, and never renounced his American citizenship. The State Department concluded that Perdicaris had not \"ever effectively acquired Greek, nor divested himself of American, citizenship.\" He was later issued a United States passport as an American citizen.\n\nDespite the circumstances, Perdicaris came to admire and befriend Raisuli, who had pledged to protect his prisoner from any harm. Perdicaris later said: \"I go so far as to say that I do not regret having been his prisoner for some time... He is not a bandit, not a murderer, but a patriot forced into acts of brigandage to save his native soil and his people from the yoke of tyranny.\" Twenty-first century historians, such as Jeffrey D. Simon, suggested that Perdicaris displayed Stockholm syndrome in identifying with his captor.\n\nThe Sultan of Morocco was required to pay the $70,000 ransom, and a further $4,000 to the United States to cover its expenses. Newspapers including \"The New York Times\" published editorials suggesting that France had to 'impose order' in the country. France intervened several times in Morocco's affairs in ensuing decades.\n\nPerdicaris and his family moved to England shortly after the incident, eventually settling in Tunbridge Wells. He occasionally returned to Trenton, where he maintained business interests. Perdicaris Place, off West State Street in Trenton, is named for him and his father. Ion Perdicaris died in London in 1925. Raisuli used the money he gained from ransoming Perdicaris to build his palace, nick-named the \"House of Tears\". Perdicaris published an autobiography in 1921, titled \"The Hand of Fate.\"\n\nThe details of the incident (especially the fact that Perdicaris's US citizenship was in doubt) were kept secret until 1933, when historian Tyler Dennett mentioned the crisis in his biography of John Hay.\n\n\"Hostages to Momus\", a short story by the American author O. Henry, was inspired by the kidnapping of Ion Perdicaris. In the story, the character \"Burdick Harris,\" a Greek citizen, stands for him. (\"Bur-dick-Harris\" is a play on \"Per-dic-aris\", as the names rhyme, if pronounced as the author intended). The humorous story was written shortly after the incident.\n\nBritish author and adventurer Rosita Forbes published \"The Sultan of the Mountains: The Life Story of the Raisuli\" (1924), a full-length biography of Raisuli. (The book is currently out of print in English, but a Spanish translation was published in 2010.) Other books have discussed the incident, including David S. Woolman's \"Rebels in the Rif\", Michael B. Oren's \"Power, Faith and Fantasy: America in the Middle East, 1776 to the Present\" and Bill Fawcett's \"Oval Office Oddities\", and a lengthy, in-depth chapter on the kidnapping and President Roosevelt's reaction is included in Edmund Morris's second Roosevelt biography, \"Theodore Rex\".\n\nThe story of Ion Perdicaris's kidnapping was loosely adapted to film in the 1975 motion picture \"The Wind and the Lion\", with Sean Connery in the role of Raisuli and Brian Keith as Roosevelt. However, to add some glamour to the tale, the 64-year-old bearded hostage was replaced with attractive young \"Eden Pedecaris\", played by Candice Bergen. The film incorrectly showed US Marines invading Morocco and battling soldiers of the German Empire (who were not present in Morocco at the time), but it succeeded in presenting the personality of Raisuli and his interaction with his prisoners.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294267", "title": "Jenifer Alcorn", "text": "Jenifer Alcorn\n\nJenifer Lynn Alcorn (born July 15, 1970) is a retired, undefeated WIBA, IWBF, and IBA World Champion female professional boxer.\n\nAlcorn grew up in Le Grand, California and later moved to Fresno. She was well known in Fresno athletic circles before beginning her career as a boxer. She was a stand-out high school athlete and attended California State University, Fresno.\n\nDespite only having six amateur bouts, Alcorn fought in the women's nationals, 1999 USA Boxing National Championships, losing a 10-1 decision to eventual silver medalist Jean Martin of Brooklyn, N.Y. in the 139 pound quarterfinals.\n\nAlcorn then launched a professional boxing career, with one goal above all others...to set an example of achievement and success through hard work for her children.\n\nShe made her pro debut on July 2, 1999 in Fresno, where she TKO'd Robyn Covino in 0:59 seconds of the first round.\n\nAlcorn eventually stepped up her level of competition by taking on undefeated Jessica Rakoczy, for the vacant IWBF Lightweight title. Alcorn won a ten-round split (96-94 92-98 98-92) decision over Rakoczy, by carrying the fight to Rakoczy aggressively.\n\nOn April 19, 2003 at Selland Arena in Fresno, Alcorn won an eight-round unanimous (78-74 77-75 77-75) decision over Mia St. John.\n\nOn December 11, 2003 at Palace Indian Gaming Center in Lemoore, California, Alcorn won a ten-round split (96-93 96-93 94-95) decision over Melissa Del Valle for the vacant WIBA Lightweight title. Alcorn was knocked down by a left hook in the second round, and Del Valle landed effectively with overhand rights throughout the bout. However, Del Valle faded in the late going and Alcorn won the critical late rounds. Alcorn remained undefeated at 18-0-0 (11 KO) while Del Valle fell to 28-4-1 (11 KO).\n\nSoon after the Del Valle fight, Alcorn announced her retirement from boxing on February 5, 2004, citing the stress that her boxing career placed on her children. saying \"After eight years of training, I know I'll feel the effects of walking away, but I've seen fighters stay in too long, and I've seen the effect it has on their mind and body. By going out on top, the worst I'll be is a former 3-time World Champion. Every good thing has to come to an end.\" She says she will continue her work with the Fresno State women's basketball team and her fitness training business.\n\nAlcorn and her family appeared on the October 9, 2006 episode of the U.S. version of \"Wife Swap\".\n\nAlcorn also runs a successful 'bootcamp' style workout routine called Team JIB JAB for those who want to better themselves through diet and exercise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294272", "title": "Carducci", "text": "Carducci\n\nCarducci is an Italian surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2294274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294274", "title": "Joseph Milner", "text": "Joseph Milner\n\nJoseph Milner (1744–1797), an English evangelical divine, has a reputation particularly for his work on \"The History of the Church of Christ\" (1794–1809).\n\nHe was born at Leeds and educated at Leeds Grammar School and Catharine Hall, Cambridge. On graduation he went to Thorp Arch, West Yorkshire as assistant in a school kept by Christopher Atkinson, the vicar of the parish, received holy orders, and became Atkinson's curate. At Thorp Arch he made a lifelong friendship with the son of the vicar, Miles Atkinson, who subsequently became a leader of the evangelical party and vicar of St Paul's, Leeds.\n\nStill in deacon's orders Milner left Thorp Arch to become headmaster of Hull Grammar School. There his pupils included William Dealtry, Samuel Marsden, George Pryme, Thomas Perronet Thompson, and Peter William Watson.\n\nMilner was in 1768 elected afternoon lecturer at Holy Trinity Church, Hull. He now paid for the education of his brother Isaac Milner. In 1770 he became a follower of the rising evangelical school, suspected of Methodism, and the nature of his congregation at the High Church changed. He also undertook the charge of North Ferriby. Hull became a centre of evangelicalism.\n\nMilner's chief friends were the Rev. James Stillingfleet (1741–1826) of Hotham, and the Rev. William Richardson of York, who both shared his religious views. In 1792 he had a severe attack of fever; in 1797 the mayor and corporation offered him the living of Holy Trinity, mainly through the efforts of William Wilberforce, but Milner fell ill and died on 15 November 1797. He was buried in Holy Trinity Church, and a monument to his memory was erected in it.\n\nMilner's major work was the \"History of the Church of Christ\" (London, 1794–1809). He lived to complete the first three volumes, and two more were added by his brother, Isaac Milner (1750–1820), dean of Carlisle, who re-edited the whole work in 1810. John Scott (1777–1834) published a new continuation in three volumes (1826, 1829, and 1831). Samuel Roffey Maitland criticised Milner's history on the Waldenses (1832); the Rev. John King defended Milner, but Maitland published \"Strictures on Milner's Church History\" (1834). A controversy ensued, and the Milner's work had a new edition, published by the Rev. Thomas Grantham in 1847.\n\nOther works published by Milner in his lifetime were:\n\n\nHe published essays and numerous sermons. He also edited, with William Richardson, the \" Posthumous Works\" of Thomas Adam (1786).\n\nAfter Milner's death many of his sermons were found, and these were published in four volumes under the title of \"Practical Sermons\", (1800) with a memoir by the editor, Isaac Milner; and \"the second\"] (1809), edited by the Rev. W. Richardson. These two were later republished together. A third volume (1823) was edited by the Rev. John Fawcett, and a fourth (1830), \"On the Epistles to the Seven Churches, the Millennium, the Church Triumphant, and the 130th Psalm\", by Edward Bickersteth. In 1855 Milner's \"Essentials of Christianity, theoretically and practically considered\", which had been left in manuscript, and had been revised by his brother, was edited for the Religious Tract Society by Mary Milner, the orphan niece of whom Joseph Milner had taken charge, and writer of her uncle Isaac's \"Life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2294276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294276", "title": "Maksymilian Ciężki", "text": "Maksymilian Ciężki\n\nMaksymilian Ciężki (; Samter, Province of Posen (now Szamotuły, Poland), 24 November 1898 – 9 November 1951 in London, England) was the head of the Polish Cipher Bureau's German section (\"BS–4\") in the 1930s, during which time—from December 1932—the Bureau decrypted German Enigma messages. \n\nDuring the German invasion of Poland in September 1939, Ciężki escaped to France to continue work on breaking Enigma ciphers. In 1943 he was captured by the Germans and interned in an S.S. concentration camp.\n\nIn the 1930s, Ciężki, as an army captain, was chief of the Polish General Staff Cipher Bureau's German section (\"Biuro Szyfrów-4\", abbreviated \"BS-4\"). This section \"broke\" (decrypted) German Enigma machine ciphers. Ciężki was also deputy to the Cipher Bureau's chief, Major (later, Lt. Col.) Gwido Langer, and in addition supervised the radio-intercept stations at Starogard in the Polish Corridor, at Poznań in western Poland, and at Krzesławice, near Kraków in southern Poland. \n\nIn March 1943, now-Major Ciężki, Lt. Col. Langer, Lt. Antoni Palluth and civilians Edward Fokczyński and Kazimierz Gaca were betrayed by their French guide and captured by the Germans as they attempted to cross from German-occupied France into Spain. \n\nCiężki and Langer were sent to an SS concentration camp where, during interrogations, they managed to protect the secret of Enigma decryption. They convinced their interrogators that, while the Poles had had some success with solving the Enigma early on, changes introduced by the Germans just before the start of the war had prevented any further decryption.\n\nPalluth, Fokczyński and Gaca — according to Col. Stefan Mayer, prewar chief of the intelligence department in Section II of the Polish General Staff — likewise \"were acquainted to the last detail with the... breaking [of] Enigma. They were kept by [the] Germans in most awful conditions [at a time] when [the] Enigma secret was still of great importance for the Western Allies. Langer and his four comrades did not reveal [it] to the Germans, thus [making it possible to continue] exploiting this source of [intelligence] till the end of the war.\" \n\nIn mid-1945, liberated, Major Ciężki and Lt. Colonel Langer arrived in London, where they were badly received by Colonel Gano, chief of the Polish Section II in Britain. Gano had believed a distorted account by Lt. Colonel Bertrand that represented the failure to evacuate Langer's group from France as having been due to Langer's hesitation and lack of nerve. Langer and Ciężki were sent to a Polish signals camp at Kinross, Scotland, where Langer, bitter, disappointed, and convinced that he had been betrayed by the French when they no longer had need of him, died on 30 March 1948.\n\nCiężki died on 9 November 1951, after living the last three years on subsidies from the Assistance Board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294279", "title": "Hans Hendrik", "text": "Hans Hendrik\n\nHans Hendrik (; 2 June 1832 – 11 August 1889) was a Kalaallit interpreter, Arctic explorer, and the first Inuk to publish an account of his travels. He was born in the southern settlement of Fiskenæsset.\n\nHendrik was hired by the American explorer Elisha Kent Kane for the 1853–1855 second Grinnell expedition to search for the lost Franklin expedition. He established his worth in the winter of 1854, when participating in a search for four of the men who were lying frozen and disabled somewhere northwest of the ship, which was beset in the ice in Rensellaer Bay.\n\nHendrik located their sledge track, which brought the rescue party to the men. He also assisted with communication with the local Inuit, and was instrumental in hunting efforts, including tracking and finding a wounded caribou in February 1855 when the men were beginning to starve and show signs of scurvy. It was due to Henrik's ability and effort that the important sledging journey to Cape Constitution was completed. For these efforts, Hendrik's agreed upon salary was two barrels of flour and 52 pounds of salt pork.\n\nAfter the Grinnell expedition, Hendrik returned to Qeqertarsuatsiaat, in western Greenland, where he married. In a report submitted by Sir Francis Leopold McClintock on , near the conclusion of his own expedition in search of Franklin, it was reported by the Inut near Cape York that Hans was residing at Whale Sound.\n\nHendrik made his second northern voyage aboard the \"United States\" under Isaac Israel Hayes' American expedition of 1860–1861. At the end of August 1860, Hayes touched at Cape York and picked up Hans, his wife, and child. On 21 December, Hans and astronomer August Sonntag began their ice journey—a journey from which Sonntag did not return. Hans managed to eventually reach an Inuit settlement, saving his own life. The \"United States\" reached Upernavik on 15 August 1861, near which Hendrik and his family would remain for the next three years. Following that, they returned to Fiskernaes.\n\nHendrik's third journey on the \"Polaris\" expedition of 1871–1873, led by Charles Francis Hall under Captain Budington. Hans joined the voyage, along with his wife and four children. Hall died during the voyage of apoplexy on 8 November 1871. Hendrik was among the party left behind after Hall's death when the broke loose of the ice and failed to return.\n\nDuring the party's six-month drift on a gradually-shrinking ice-floe, Hendrik and the Canadian Inuk Ebierbing managed to provide food for the entire party; they were eventually picked up by a sealer in April 1873. Following this journey, Hendrik made a trip to America, including visits to Washington D.C. and New York, before returning home to Fiskernaes.\n\nHendrik's last sea voyage was under George Strong Nares in the British Arctic expedition of 1875–1876. Hendrik presumably joined the crew of at Smith Sound before proceeding to the northernmost reaches of Greenland. The expedition encountered problems with pack ice and scurvy, spending one winter locked in the ice. Hendrik's hunting and handling of dogsleds contributed both to the exploration and the survival and ultimate rescue of the most of the crew.\n\nHendrik retired from expedition support and worked as boatswain and laborer at the Greenland settlements. His arctic journeys made him wealthy by the standards of his community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294280", "title": "Paracentesis", "text": "Paracentesis\n\nParacentesis (from Greek κεντάω, \"to pierce\") is a form of body fluid sampling procedure, generally referring to peritoneocentesis (also called laparocentesis or abdominal paracentesis) in which the peritoneal cavity is punctured by a needle to sample peritoneal fluid.\n\nThe procedure is used to remove fluid from the peritoneal cavity, particularly if this cannot be achieved with medication. The most common indication is ascites that has developed in people with cirrhosis.\n\nIt is used for a number of reasons:\n\nThe procedure is often performed in a doctor's office or an outpatient clinic. In an expert's hands, it is usually very safe, although there is a small risk of infection, excessive bleeding or perforating a loop of bowel. These last two risks can be minimized greatly with the use of ultrasound guidance.\n\nThe patient is requested to urinate before the procedure; alternately, a Foley catheter is used to empty the bladder. The patient is positioned in the bed with the head elevated at 45–60 degrees to allow fluid to accumulate in lower abdomen. After cleaning the side of the abdomen with an antiseptic solution, the physician numbs a small area of skin and inserts a large-bore needle with a plastic sheath 2 to 5 cm (1 to 2 in) in length to reach the peritoneal (ascitic) fluid. The needle is removed, leaving the plastic sheath to allow drainage of the fluid. The fluid is drained by gravity, a syringe or by connection to a vacuum bottle. Several litres of fluid may be drained during the procedure; however, if more than two litres are to be drained, it will usually be done over the course of several treatments. After the desired level of drainage is complete, the plastic sheath is removed and the puncture site bandaged. The plastic sheath can be left in place with a flow control valve and protective dressing if further treatments are expected to be necessary.\n\nIf fluid drainage in cirrhotic ascites is more than 5 litres, patients may receive intravenous serum albumin (25% albumin, 8g/L) to prevent hypotension (low blood pressure). There has been debate as to whether albumin administration confers benefit, but a recent 2016 meta-analysis concluded that it can reduce mortality after large-volume paracentesis significantly. However, for every end-point investigated, while albumin was favorable as compared to other agents (e.g., plasma expanders, vasoconstrictors), these were not statistically significant and the meta-analysis was limited by the quality of the studies — two of which that were in fact unsuitable — included in it.\n\nThe procedure generally is not painful and does not require sedation. The patient is usually discharged within several hours following post-procedure observation provided that blood pressure is otherwise normal and the patient experiences no dizziness.\n\nThe serum-ascites albumin gradient can help determine the cause of the ascites.\n\nThe ascitic white blood cell count can help determine if the ascites is infected. A count of 250 WBC per ml or higher is considered diagnostic for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Cultures of the fluid can be taken, but the yield is approximately 40% (72-90% if blood culture bottles are used).\n\nMild hematologic abnormalities do not increase the risk of bleeding. The risk of bleeding may be increased if:\n\nAbsolute contraindication is acute abdomen that requires surgery.\n\nRelative contraindications are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2294286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294286", "title": "Doctor Who: Destiny of the Doctors", "text": "Doctor Who: Destiny of the Doctors\n\nDoctor Who: Destiny of the Doctors is a PC video game based on the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". It was released on 5 December 1997 by BBC Multimedia.\n\nA collaboration between BBC Multimedia and the British developer Studio Fish, \"Destiny of the Doctors\" is a CD-ROM which received an 11+ age rating from ELSPA. It is supported by Microsoft Windows 95 and works on all subsequent forms of Windows, though some PCs running XP and Vista experience compatibility issues. It was released in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Australia, as well as some countries in Europe, and found modest acclaim from some magazines, including the now defunct \"PC Planet\".\n\nThe game featured extensive, newly recorded audio dialogue by Tom Baker, Peter Davison, Colin Baker, Sylvester McCoy and Nicholas Courtney. William Hartnell and Patrick Troughton were represented by a voice actor impersonating their portrayals of the First and Second Doctors. The substitute Hartnell and Troughton clips were laced with artificial grain to simulate vintage recordings. Jon Pertwee originally agreed to appear in the game but died before recording could take place; by agreement with his widow, Ingeborg Pertwee, he was represented in the game using audio clips from the television series. The game also contains Anthony Ainley's final recorded performance as the Master before his death. It also marks the first, and only, time that Ainley played the Master with a natural, grown beard rather than a false one.\n\nThe story was written by longtime \"Doctor Who\" writer Terrance Dicks.\n\n\n\"Note: David Coker voiced the First Doctor and Second Doctor.\n\nThe Doctor's nemesis the Master has taken control of the planet Siralos, which is made of \"pure psychic energy\". With this planet's power, he plans to mould the universe into his will. To begin, he takes the first seven incarnations of the Doctor out of time and space and puts them in the Determinant, a domain he has created from the conquered will of Siralos. He plans to eradicate any trace of the Doctor from time and space, so he may be free to rebuild the cosmos as he pleases. However, the player's character, the Graak (a psychic being created by the Doctor), pledges to stop the Master's plans, and the game begins.\n\nThe Graak is an intelligent, psychic and seemingly altruistic organism, turquoise in colour and resembling a jellyfish. It floats about four feet from the ground, and has no visible organs nor any recognizable features. The Master states that the Graak is protoplasmic. Although it has no limbs, the Graak is dexterous enough to be able to handle items such as a sonic screwdriver and a radio transmitter. It only speaks when it asks the Doctor questions as part of a challenge, and has a high voice varying in tone and inflection (implying that speaking is a strain). When the Master calls the Graak \"a good little doggie\", it is heard to bark.\n\nIt is a matter of debate as to how the game fits into the continuity of \"Doctor Who\". There are references to the \"seven complete incarnations of the Doctor\", with no reference made to either the Eighth Doctor, despite the game being released some time after the 1996 TV movie. However, the TARDIS database does vaguely mention the Seventh Doctor's regeneration. It has been speculated that the Master's imprisonment at the end of the game is by the Daleks, which would then lead into the opening of the TV Movie. This could also explain the absence of any mention of the Eighth Doctor (if the events of the game are set before the TV Movie).\nThe bulk of the game takes place in the Doctor's TARDIS (and, on occasion, the Master's TARDIS, reached via \"junctions\" between the two time machines). The game begins in the Console Room of the Fourth Doctor's TARDIS, and the player must then select one of the Doctor's seven incarnations and activate the TARDIS to go in search of them.\n\nUpon reaching the TARDIS of the selected Doctor (and also before almost every puzzle in the game), the player can use a \"Time Winder\" (a pyramid-like save point) and then set out into the TARDIS to find the Master (and, accordingly, the Doctor).\n\nUpon leaving the Console Room, the player, as the Graak, must find the Great Divide: a chasm which separates the TARDIS from the Determinant. However, the Master has placed several of the Doctor's enemies in the TARDIS to make things more difficult for the Graak, such as Daleks, Cybermen, Autons, Ice Warriors, Quarks, Sea Devils, Silurians, Sontarans, Yeti and Zygons. There are weapons and implements in the TARDIS that can be used to incapacitate or kill these monsters, some of which can be kept throughout the quest (such as the sonic screwdriver, or a radio used to contact Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart for advice and hints), and others which can only be used for a limited time (such as Dalekanium and watering cans).\n\nUpon reaching the Great Divide, the player selects a symbol and the Master gives the Graak a riddle. During the loading time, a map of the area of the TARDIS the player will explore is shown. The Graak will have to complete a certain objective (e.g. perform the \"Doctor Who\" theme on floor tiles), find certain information on monsters or Doctors (either from the Doctor's \"City of Thoughts\" database in his TARDIS or from the Master's \"Monster Database\"), or collect an item (such as a Stattenheim remote, or a Nestene Consciousness control sphere). Whilst the player is scouring the TARDIS(es), they may use telepathic links with the Doctor (resembling the TV title sequence effect of the Third Doctor's episodes) and the Doctor will give a short clue to the player. Having completed their task (out of a possible 28 tasks), the Graak then returns and gives the Master the item, or crosses a grid of tiles, or selects the true Doctor out of three possible choices, or similar. If the player fails, they will have to begin again (from the nearest Time Winder). If they succeed, they will have to face the Master in the Determinant. If they defeat the Master, that incarnation of the Doctor is freed:\n\n\nThe game received mixed reviews.\nPC Gamer saw the game as part of a larger trend of disappointing Doctor Who games despite the rich subject matter. In analaying the challenging Doctor Who poses to video gaming, the site noted that the personality of the Doctor himself would necessitate abstract item puzzles or dialogue-based puzzles rather than action-oriented gameplay.\n\nAll of Anthony Ainley's recorded scenes as the Master from this game were included on the DVD release of \"Survival\" but without the background music played in them.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2294287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294287", "title": "Terlipressin", "text": "Terlipressin\n\nTerlipressin (trade names Teripress by New Medicon Pharma and Glypressin by Ferring Pharmaceuticals) is an analogue of vasopressin used as a vasoactive drug in the management of low blood pressure. It has been found to be effective when norepinephrine does not help. It also helps prevent urination.\n\nIndications for use include norepinephrine-resistant septic shock and hepatorenal syndrome. In addition, it is used to treat bleeding esophageal varices.\n\nTerlipressin is currently not available in the United States, or Canada, but it is available in New Zealand, Australia, much of Europe, India, Pakistan & UAE.\n\nTerlipressin must not be used during pregnancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294288", "title": "Tiana Benjamin", "text": "Tiana Benjamin\n\nTiana Opium Benjamin (born 5 October 1984) is an English actress, known for playing Chelsea Fox in the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\".\n\nBenjamin trained at the Anna Scher Theatre in London. In 2005, she made a cameo appearance in the film \"Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire\" as Angelina Johnson, and voiced the character for the video game adaptation. In 2006, Benjamin joined the cast of BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\", portraying the role of Chelsea Fox. Her decision to leave \"EastEnders\" was announced on 2 April 2010.\n\nIn 2011, Benjamin starred in the 2011 drama film \"Fast Girls\". She also played a role in the fourth episode of BBC crime drama \"The Interceptor\" in 2015.\n\nIn 2016, Benjamin starred in \"The Dumping Ground\" as Bailey Wharton's mother Alison. It was later discovered that her character was the mother of Bryony.\n"}
{"id": "2294289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294289", "title": "211 (number)", "text": "211 (number)\n\n211 (two hundred [and] eleven) is the natural number between 210 and 212. It is also a prime number.\n\n211 is an odd number.\n\n211 is a primorial prime, sum of three consecutive primes (67 + 71 + 73), Chen prime, centered decagonal prime, and self prime.\n\n211 is a repdigit in base 14 (111).\n\nMultiplying its digits, it is still a prime (2), and adding its digits, it is square (4). Rearranging its digits, 211 becomes 121, which also is a square. Adding any two of its digits will be prime (2 or 3).\n\n2-1-1 is special abbreviated telephone number reserved in Canada and the United States as an easy-to-remember three-digit telephone number meant to provide quick information and referrals to health and human service organizations for both services from charities and from governmental agencies.\n\n211 is also associated with E211, the preservative sodium benzoate\n\n211 is also the California Penal Code section defining robbery. Sometimes it is paired with 187, California PC section for murder.\n\n211 is also an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) document known as an Electronic Bill of Lading.\n\n211 is also a nickname for Steel Reserve, a malt liquor alcoholic beverage.\n\n211 is also SMTP status code for system status.\n\n+211 is the code for international direct-dial phone calls to South Sudan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294297", "title": "Vincenzo Carducci", "text": "Vincenzo Carducci\n\nVincenzio Carduccio (in Spanish, sometimes \"Vicencio\" or Vicente Carducho; 1576/78–1638) was an Italian painter.\n\nHe was born in Florence, and was trained as a painter by his brother Bartolomeo Carduccio, whom he followed to Madrid as a boy.\n\nHe initially painted some works at Valladolid and helped his brother in painting at the Escorial for Philip II of Spain. He returned to the court of Philip III in Madrid in 1606 and helped decorate the recently rebuilt Palacio del Pardo. While at work his brother died, and Vicente took his place. He painted there a history of Achilles. When finished, he was employed for four years by the monks of the Chartreuse of el Paular to decorate their monastery with 54 canvases of historical figures the great cloister. 27 represent the live of St. Bruno, 27 of martyrs.\n\nHe worked a great deal for the subsequent monarch, Philip IV, and his best pictures are those he executed for him as decorations, now preserved in the Prado. Examples of his work are preserved at Toledo, Segovia, and several other Spanish cities. For many years he labored in Madrid as a teacher of his art, and among his pupils were Juan Ricci, Pedro Obregon, Vela, Francisco Collantes, and other distinguished representatives of the Spanish school during the 17th century.\n\nHe also authored a treatise, \"De las Excelencias de la Pintura\" or \"Diálogos de la pintura, su defensa, origen, essencia, definición, modos, y differencias\", published in 1633. Written in classical tradition as a dialogue between a master and an apprentice. Following strict piety of the Spanish realm, the text urges:\n\nCarducho also assailed the verism of practiced by some such as Velázquez, and particularly was critical of Caravaggio and his followers, on whom he wrote:\n\nCarducho died in Madrid. \n\nThe largest collection of his Works remain in the Prado Museum. The Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando owns two paintings of the series made for the Basilica de San Francisco el Grande in Madrid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294301", "title": "Bartolomeo Carducci", "text": "Bartolomeo Carducci\n\nBartolomeo Carducci (156014 November 1608) was an Italian painter, better known as Carducho, the Spanish corruption of his Italian patronymic.\n\nHe was born in Florence, where he studied architecture and sculpture under Bartolomeo Ammanati, and painting under Federico Zuccari. He assisted Zuccari and Giorgio Vasari in the decoration of the cupola of the Duomo of Florence. The latter master he accompanied to Madrid, where he painted the ceiling of the Escorial library, assisting also in the production of the frescos that adorn the cloisters of that noted palace. His brother, Vincenzo Carducci also aided in the work, and succeeded him as chief painter to King Philip III of Spain.\n\nHe died in Spain, where most of his works are to be found. Among the most celebrated of them is a \"Descent from the Cross\", in the church of San Felipe el Real, in Madrid, now in The Prado, along with a \"Last Supper\"\".\" The Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando also owns a \"Penitent St. Jerome\"\".\" Bartolomeo with his brother Vincenzo painted the notable reliquary altarpieces of San Diego de Valladolid, 1604-1606, which are exhibited in Museo Nacional de Escultura Colegio de San Gregorio, in that city. Among his pupils was Francisco López.\n"}
{"id": "2294303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294303", "title": "Antoni Palluth", "text": "Antoni Palluth\n\nAntoni Palluth (11 May 1900, Pobiedziska, Province of Posen – 18 April 1944), was a founder of the AVA Radio Company. The company built communications equipment for the Polish military; the work included not only radios but also cryptographic equipment. Palluth was involved with the German section (\"BS-4\") of the Polish General Staff's interbellum Cipher Bureau. He helped teach courses on cryptanalysis, and he was involved with building equipment to break the German Enigma machine.\n\nPalluth was a civil-engineer graduate of the Warsaw Polytechnic. In January 1929, he was one of the instructors in a cryptology course organized by the Cipher Bureau, at Poznań University, which was attended by selected mathematics students. The students included future Cipher Bureau civilian employees Marian Rejewski, Jerzy Różycki and Henryk Zygalski.\nIn the 1930s, Palluth was one of the four directors of the AVA Radio Company in Warsaw, which produced cryptologic equipment designed by the Cipher Bureau.\n\nIn March 1943, while attempting to cross the border from German-occupied France into Spain, Palluth was captured by the Germans along with the Cipher Bureau's chief, Lt. Col. Gwido Langer, its German section's chief, Major Maksymilian Ciężki, and civilians Edward Fokczyński and Kazimierz Gaca.\n\nPalluth died during an Allied air raid at the German Sachsenhausen concentration camp.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294305", "title": "Movietone sound system", "text": "Movietone sound system\n\nThe Movietone sound system is an optical sound-on-film method of recording sound for motion pictures that guarantees synchronization between sound and picture. It achieves this by recording the sound as a variable-density optical track on the same strip of film that records the pictures. The initial version was capable of a frequency response of 8500 Hz. Although sound films today use variable-area tracks, any modern motion picture theater (excluding those that have transitioned to digital cinema) can play a Movietone film without modification to the projector (though if the projector's sound unit has been fitted with red LED or laser light sources, the reproduction quality from a variable density track will be significantly impaired). Movietone was one of four motion picture sound systems under development in the U.S. during the 1920s, the others being DeForest Phonofilm, Warner Brothers' Vitaphone, and RCA Photophone, though Phonofilm was primarily an early version of Movietone.\n\nAs a student, Theodore Case became interested in the use of modulated light to carry speech, and in 1916 set up a laboratory to study the photo-electric properties of materials. He developed the \"Thalofide cell\", a sensitive photocell, which was used as part of an infra-red communication system by the U.S. Navy during, and for some years after WW1.\n\nIn 1922 Case and his assistant Earl I. Sponable turned their attention to \"talking pictures\". In that same year Case was approached by Lee de Forest who had been attempting since 1919 to create an optical soundtrack for motion picture film in a system he called \"Phonofilm\". De Forest was having little success and turned to Case for help, so from 1922 until 1925 Case and de Forest collaborated in the development of the Phonofilm system. Amongst other Case inventions Case contributed the Thalofide photocell and also the \"Aeo-light\", a light source that could be readily modulated by audio signals and was used to expose the soundtrack in sound cameras.\n\nIn 1925, however, Case ended his relationship with de Forest due in the main to de Forest's tendency to claim the entire credit for the Phonofilm system for himself despite the fact that most of the critical inventions had come from Case. Documents supporting this, including a signed letter by De Forest that states that Phonofilms are only possible because of the inventions of Case Research Lab, are located at the Case Research Lab Museum in Auburn, New York. In 1925, therefore, Case and Sponable continued the development of their own system, now called \"Movietone\".\n\nFrom 1924 onwards Sponable had turned his attention to the design of single-system cameras, in which the sound and picture are recorded on the same negative. He asked Bell & Howell to modify one of their cameras to his design, but the results were unsatisfactory. Consequently, the Wall machine shop in Syracuse, New York was asked to rebuild this camera and the results were much improved.\n\nSubsequently, many single-system 35mm cameras were produced by Wall Camera Corporation, which much later produced the three-film Cinerama cameras. Wall initially converted some Bell & Howell Design 2709 cameras to single-system, but most were Wall designed and produced. Single-system cameras were also produced by Mitchell Camera Corporation during World War II for the U.S. Army Signal Corps, although these cameras were quite rare.\n\nPartly as a result of the single system experiments, the aspect ratio of approximately 1.19:1 that is created by printing an optical soundtrack on top of the 35mm full aperture became known colloquially as the \"Movietone ratio\". It was used extensively by Hollywood and European studios (apart from those that adopted sound-on-disc) between the late 1920s and May 1932, when the Academy ratio of 1.37:1 was introduced to restore the effective shape of the silent frame.\n\nThe 1950s brought the first 35mm kinescope camera with sound-on-film rather than separate, from Photo-Sonics, with a Davis Loop Drive mechanism built within the camera box. This camera was essential for TV network time-shifting in the years before Videotape. The sound galvanometer was made by RCA and was designed for good to excellent results when the kinescope negative was projected, thereby avoiding making a print before the delayed replay. The Davis mechanism was a Western Electric development.\n\nAfter the split with de Forest, Case adopted a revised position for the projector soundhead, which was now placed below the picture head, with a sound-picture offset of 14 ½ inches (368 mm) (which is close to the present day standard), rather than being placed above the picture head as had been the phonofilm practice. Case also adopted the 24 frames/sec speed for Movietone, bringing it in line with the speed already chosen for the Western Electric Vitaphone sound-on-disc system, and thus establishing 24 frames/sec as the standard speed for all sound films, whether sound-on-disc or sound-on-film. With a few exceptions, this has remained the standard speed for professional sound films ever since.\n\nAt this point, the Movietone system was adopted by the AMPAS as the Academy's standard. It and the later RCA Photophone system were interchangeable in most respects. See RCA Photophone for technical details and lists of the industry adopters.\n\nMovietone entered commercial use when William Fox of the Fox Film Corporation bought the entire system including the patents in July 1926. Although Fox owned the Case patents, the work of Freeman Harrison Owens, and the American rights to the German Tri-Ergon patents, the Movietone sound film system uses only the inventions of Case Research Lab.\n\nWilliam Fox hired Earl I. Sponable (1895–1977) from Case Research Lab in 1926, when he purchased the sound-on-film patents from Case. The first feature film released using the Fox Movietone system was \"Sunrise\" (1927) directed by F. W. Murnau. It was the first professionally produced feature film with an optical sound track. The sound in the film included only music, sound effects, and very few unsynchronized words. The system was used for sound acting sequences in Mother Knows Best (1928).\n\nLess than two years after purchasing the system from Case, Fox bought out all of Case's interests in the Fox-Case company. All of Fox's sound feature films were made using the Movietone system until 1931 when it was superseded by a Western Electric recording system using the light-valve invented by Edward C. Wente in 1923. However, Fox Movietone News used the system until 1939, because of the ease of transporting the single-system's sound film equipment.\n\nThe Case Research Lab sound system influenced many industry standards, such as location of the optical sound 20 frames in advance of the image it accompanies. The current \"SMPTE\" standard for 35 mm sound film is +21 frames for optical, but a 46-foot theatre reduces this to +20 frames; this was originally done partly to ensure the film runs smoothly past the sound head, but also to ensure that no Phonofilm could again be played in theaters — the Phonofilm system being incompatible with Case Research Lab specifications — and also to ease the modification of projectors already widely in use.\n\nSponable worked at the Fox Film Corporation (later 20th Century Fox) Movietone studios on 54th Street and 10th Avenue in New York City until he retired in the 1960s, eventually winning an Academy Award for his technical work on the development of CinemaScope. Sponable had many contributions to film technology during his career, including the invention of the perforated motion-picture screen that allowed placing the speakers behind it to enhance the illusion of the sound emanating directly from the film action. During his years at Fox, Sponable also served for a time as an officer of the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers. He published a concise history of sound film in the April 1947 issue of \"The SMPE Journal\" (\"The SMPTE Journal\" after 1950).\n\nThe history of Case Research Lab has long been unheralded for numerous reasons. Theodore Case died in 1944, after donating his home and laboratory to be preserved as a museum to the inventions of Case Research Lab. The museum's first director, who oversaw the museum for 50 years, put the laboratory's contents into storage and converted the building into an art studio. The Case Research Lab sound studio was located on the second floor of the estate's carriage house and that was rented to the local model train club until the early 1990s.\n\nFox was seriously injured in a July 1929 car accident, lost his company in 1930 when his loans were called in and lost the 1936 lawsuit in the U.S. Supreme Court against the film industry for violating the Tri-Ergon patents he owned. Sponable did little to establish the record of Case Research Lab inventions, other than his April 1947 article in \"The Journal of the SMPE\".\n\nIncredibly, it was also in 1947 that the Davis Loop Drive was first introduced to Western Electric licensees, including Twentieth Century-Fox (WECo RA-1231; and still made to this day by a successor company). \n\nRecently, Case Research Lab, the adjoining carriage house, and Case's home have been restored and research is ongoing with the collections of the lab that include all receipts, notebooks, correspondence, and much of the laboratory's original equipment, including the first recording device created to test the AEO light. In the collections are also letters from Thomas Edison, an original copy of the Tri-Ergon patents, and an internal document from Fox Films written in the 1930s. This latter document says that once it became public knowledge that Sponable perfected the variable-area system of sound-on-film at the Fox Studios, that system became the standard and replaced the inventions of Case Research Lab.\n\nA number of films owned by Case Research Lab and Museum and restored by George Eastman House in Rochester, New York, are in the collections of both of those institutions. The Case Research Lab and Museum has additional sound-film footage of Theodore Case, and recently discovered copies of the same films at the Eastman House, are in a much higher state of preservation. Movietone News films are in the collections of 20th-Century Fox and the University of South Carolina at Columbia, including the only known footage of Earl I. Sponable talking. Sponable can also be seen in footage of the premiere of the film \"The Robe\".\n\nPhonofilms that were produced using Case Research Lab inventions are in the collections of the Library of Congress and the British Film Institute.\n\nVariable density (VD) recording systems developed from Movietone gradually lost market share to variable area (VA) ones developed from Photophone from the 1940s onwards, a process that gathered pace as VA-related patents expired. Though both methods are theoretically capable of achieving similar standards of recording, duplication and reproduction, quality control in the lab proved to be far more critical in the duplication of VD tracks than VA ones: slight errors in printer light settings and sensitometry and densitometry control will affect the signal-to-noise ratio far more on a VD track than on a VA one. For this reason archives have tended to remaster original VD tracks to VA negatives for preservation and the creation of new prints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294312", "title": "Midodrine", "text": "Midodrine\n\nMidodrine is a vasopressor/antihypotensive agent. Midodrine was approved in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1996 for the treatment of dysautonomia and orthostatic hypotension. In August 2010, the FDA proposed withdrawing this approval because the manufacturer, Shire plc, failed to complete required studies after the medicine reached the market.\n\nIn September 2010, the FDA reversed its decision to remove midodrine from the market and allowed it to remain available to patients while Shire plc collected further data regarding the efficacy and safety of the drug. Shire plc announced on September 27, 2011 that it was continuing the process to work with the FDA towards a final approval of the drug.\n\nMidodrine is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. It can reduce dizziness and faints by about a third, but can be limited by troublesome goose bumps, skin itch, gastrointestinal discomfort, chills, elevated blood pressure while lying down, and urinary retention. A meta-analysis of clinical trials of midodrine or droxidopa in patients with low blood pressure when standing found that midodrine increased standing blood pressure more than droxidopa but that midodrine but not droxidopa increased the risk of high blood pressure when lying down. Small studies have also shown that midodrine can be used to prevent excessive drops in blood pressure in people requiring dialysis.\n\nMidodrine has been used in the complications of cirrhosis. It is also used with octreotide for hepatorenal syndrome; the proposed mechanism is constriction of splanchnic vessels and dilation of renal vasculature. Studies have not been sufficiently well conducted to show a clear place for midodrine.\n\nMidodrine is contraindicated in patients with severe organic heart disease, acute kidney disease, urinary retention, pheochromocytoma or thyrotoxicosis. Midodrine should not be used in patients with persistent and excessive supine hypertension.\n\nHeadache, feeling of pressure/fullness in the head, vasodilation/flushing face, scalp tingling, confusion/thinking abnormality, dry mouth, nervousness/anxiety and rash.\n\nMidodrine is a prodrug which forms an active metabolite, desglymidodrine, which is an α-receptor agonist and exerts its actions via activation of the alpha-adrenergic receptors of the arteriolar and venous vasculature, producing an increase in vascular tone and elevation of blood pressure. Desglymidodrine does not stimulate cardiac beta-adrenergic receptors. Desglymidodrine diffuses poorly across the blood–brain barrier, and is therefore not associated with effects on the central nervous system.\n\nAfter oral administration, midodrine is rapidly absorbed. The plasma levels of the prodrug peak after about half an hour, and decline with a half-life of approximately 25 minutes, while the metabolite reaches peak blood concentrations about 1 to 2 hours after a dose of midodrine and has a half-life of about 3 to 4 hours. The absolute bioavailability of midodrine (measured as desglymidodrine) is 93%.\n\nMidodrine is an odorless, white, crystalline powder, soluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol.\n\nMidodrine contains a stereocenter and consists of two enantiomers, making it a racemate; \"i.e.\", a 1:1 mixture of (\"R\")- and (\"S\")-forms:\nAcylation of 1,4-dimethoxybenzene with chloroacetyl chloride gives the chloroketone 2. The halogen is then converted to the amine 3 by any set of standard schemes, and the ketone reduced to an alcohol with borohydride (4). Acylation of the amino group in this last intermediate with chloroacetyl chloride affords the amide 5. The halogen is then displaced with azide and the resulting product 6 reduced catalytically to the glycinamide, midodrine (7).\n"}
{"id": "2294321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294321", "title": "Granado Espada", "text": "Granado Espada\n\nGranado Espada is a Korean fantasy MMORPG developed by IMC Games Co.,Ltd. Originally released in South Korea in February 2006, the English localizations were launched in the summer of 2007 in North America and Southeast Asia. \"Granado Espada\" won the 2006 Korean Presidential Award for Best Graphics and Game of the Year, with features previously unseen in an MMORPG (such as the ability for players to control multiple characters at the same time). \"Granado Espada\" features a unique art style based on the Baroque period of Europe, differing from the standard “sword and sorcery” fantasy themes of the genre.\n\nThe world of \"Granado Espada\" takes place on a newly discovered continent based on the Americas during the Age of Exploration. The world is divided into different maps and grouped into themed regions such as forests, tropical jungles, plains, swamps, deserts and ice fields.\n\nThe continent, currently under the control of the fictional Kingdom of Vespanola as a colony, is in a crisis due to negligence by the home nation due to a war in the Old World. On the continent itself, internal strife has arisen from the feud between the Royalists supporting the Vespanolan crown, and the Republicans campaigning for independence. Therefore, the Vespanolan Queen has ordered a policy of Reconquista for the continent by attracting more people from the Old World to settle there. The player takes the role of a pioneering family from the Old World, eager to explore the continent and eliminate elements that will threaten the survival of its people.\n\n \"Granado Espada\" distinguishes itself from many modern-day MMORPGs with a Multiple Character Control (MCC) system. Rather than playing one character at a time, or using multiple clients, a player may control a party of up to three characters simultaneously. This aspect of the game gives it more of the feel of traditional, non-networked role-playing video games. Up to three characters can be selected to be part of a team in the Barracks Mode or Quarters. Any member of the party can be selected to be part of a team, regardless of differences in levels or classes.\n\nDungeons in \"Granado Espada\" are interspersed between towns and generally composed of three to five levels with successively more difficult mobs. \nBoxes and barrels are a unique feature of dungeons - and part of the anti-AFK features of the game. They randomly spawn throughout the dungeon, and if destroyed they release a group of monsters to\nattack the players.\n\nThe final levels of the first two dungeons - Al Quelt Moreza and the Tetra Ruins - end with a main quest storyline Mission Room for a single player, or a room in which a boss mob may be challenged by teams of players. Missions are instances, wherein players get their own \"instance\" of a specific map just for themselves. Thus there can be several players attempting to kill a boss in a dungeon, each within their own instances.\n\nThere are Waypoints or (player chosen) save locations that players may teleport to by using a warp scroll. Five locations may be saved initially. Up to five more waypoint locations may be purchased from the Cash Shop (Bazaar).\n\nTeleporters or Warps also exist to teleport players to fixed areas in the game using an item called the Teleport/Warp scroll. A new player is able to visit the three main towns (Reboldeaux, Port of Coimbra and Auch) from the beginning, and is not required to conduct exploration trips to find them. Both zone maps and a global map is provided to help players navigate through the game.\n\nQuests are an important part of the game, though the quantity and quality varies at different levels. They provide some rewards such as \"Vis\" (the game's currency), experience cards, Glaziums (polishers), equipments or recruitable NPCs cards. Various NPCs throughout the towns and in some dungeon locations may be approached to initiate quests, which, like in traditional MMORPG format, usually consist of killing a number of monsters and/or obtaining their drops. With the release of Pioneering quests, players are able to delve into the story revolving around Granado Espada and its colonial power, Vespanola, in addition to the various factions on the continent itself, allowing new players to build on their quests bit-by-bit.\n\nGranado Espada has a main quest line that extends to the highest levels and zones: the Frozen Fields of the north, Errac (Zeia), the mysterious southwestern region of Castilla, as well as the isolated isle of Viron (Byron). Access to the high-level end game raids such as the Ice Wizard's Tower, Mufasa of the Occulta Fortress, Tower of Chaos in Castilla in addition to Lucifer Castle can only be gained by completing the main pioneering quest line and other prerequisite quests.\n\nShiny crystals are a new addition to the game since V5.0. These crystals are common drops from lower level mobs and can be turned in for pioneer weapons and armors designed to help a pre-veteran character gain levels more easily. In addition, all pioneer equipments at levels 1, 20, 40 and 60 have the base stats of items 20 levels higher, while level 80 pioneer equipments have the same stats as a normal level 96 equipment (currently removed).\n\n\"Granado Espada\" has a Dueling System by which a player may issue a challenge to another player's team. Both teams then enter a combat arena separate from the rest of the actual game world to do battle. This feature is available by clicking on the other family's name for a duel and also available at PvP officers in the Major cities (Reboldoeux, Coimbra, Auch) where four types of battles are available.\n\nAnother method for PvP is through the Baron system. In Player-kill (PK) servers, players are able to forcibly attack another player without their consent, and in the process become a baron as a penalty like dropping their items in inventory from baron level 1 to 4, while at level 5 baron they would start to drop their equipped item. Barons are not able to speak with NPCs and are treated as mobs while on the field. Being in baron mode also allows player access to Los Toldos, a hideout for barons, and to get the opportunity to complete quests within there. To remove the Baron mode, players must kill mobs that enable them to decrease their Baron points. Once they reach zero, the player will be able to get out of Baron mode.\n\nIn the past, players would only be able to PvP with those playing in the same server. With the introduction of the Cross-World PvP system in Version 5.0, players from different servers are able to duel each other in individual or team modes. The individual or team which wins at least three rounds will be declared the winner. Points are acquired or deducted based on the number of matches the player wins or loses. Additional benefits including experience points and purchase points for the Cross-World PvP shop are also awarded to players regardless of whether they win or lose. To encourage participation, there is also a ladder system in which players are ranked according to the points they receive through winning or losing matches.\n\nInitially, players are able to create their own family from five stock models, namely - the Fighter, Musketeer, Wizard, Scout, and Elementalist. As the player progresses through the game, NPC characters can be recruited into the player's family. The said characters' fighting abilities can be customized through learning and developing various fighting stances, in addition to equipping them with various armors and accessories with different options. Costumes also play a large role in the customization process, and many have been developed for both the stock characters and RNPCs.\n\nAll characters are assumed to be from the same family. They all share the same family surname that is used to identify a player in game. Characters are generated and maintained within a Barracks System. It allows players to see all of their active characters, and use the \"Dressing Room\" to create new characters if space permits. Each individual barrack may hold up to nine characters. Each country's version of Granado Espada provides a different number of initial starting slots with a new account. Using in-game money or the cash shop, users can expand their slots. Every ninth slot automatically opens a new barrack. Therefore, if the player has 20 slots, barracks one and two are full and the player has two characters in the third.\n\nBased on the Korean regional server version, there are currently a maximum of twelve barracks (108 characters) per account.\n\nGranado Espada allows the trading of RNPC (Recruitable NPCs) or UPC (Unique Playable Character) cards between different players, allowing combinations of teams with more than one of the same RNPC, as a player may only obtain a particular RNPC card once. The card is used up once the RNPC is created in the Barracks.\n\nSome RNPCs may only be purchased by using items from the Cash Shop (Bazaar). Soso (Feng Ling), Baek-Ho (Baihu), Angie, Kurt and Eduardo (Edward) are examples of this class of RNPCs (No longer pay in cash shop). Their cards are not tradeable. Instead, one must purchase a Mercenary card from the Cash Shop (Bazaar). Using the said Mercenary License card, the RNPC is \"Merced\" and can then be traded.\n\nPremium RNPCs, for example, Emilia the Sage, can be obtained by the code provided in the Granado Espada Limited Signature Edition Box Set. Depending on which regional server the player is on, other RNPCs such as Panfilo the Battlecook, Idge the Battlesmith can be purchased from the Cash Shop while Ralph is only available during promotions. The Japanese server has its own unique RNPCs Mifuyu, which can only be obtained for a limited period through a quest, and Andre de Lou-Oshiba, a recent addition based on the real-life Japanese comedian. Other regional servers starting from the Korean server has since modified Mifuyu and released her as Asoka, with different stats and stances. The Japanese server has since released an alternate Asoka with a dark-colored scheme compared the original Mifuyu, who sports a red/white-color scheme.\n\nA Family may join a faction (clan). A faction can hold up to a hundred players. When a faction feels it is powerful enough, it may challenge and attempt to complete two quests to raise its faction/clan level to 51, then 52. Upon completion of the second quest, a faction may choose to join either the Royalist or Republican Party, in which faction members gain a buff which raises their family level.\n\nEvery Saturday evening (North American time) or Sunday evening (Singapore time) these factions compete against each other in a Colony War to control the colonies located in various zones of the world map. As an incentive, factions which occupy a colony are rewarded with vis based on the number of colonies they occupy.\n\nWith the V7.0 patch, factions may join either Lealtad (Esmero) or Gleichstellung (Souveran), which are the secret militant arms of the Royalist and Republican parties respectively. Individual faction members can also join these secret societies to gain access to side-quests as well as to raise their respective factions' levels. For every five members who join their faction's affiliated secret society, the faction's level will increase by one as well as increases its members' attack damage on mobs by 2% per level gained.\n\nIn addition, players belonging to these two opposing secret societies will square off in three different zones, namely the three towns of Cite de Reboldeoux, Port of Coimbra and the City of Auch. This full-scale Alliance War is available every Saturday, and lasts for 90 minutes. Opposing parties not only have to defeat enemy players, but also acquire items scattered all over the map or disarm the opposing party's leader and his/her followers to gain points to gain victory.\n\nEach class has several Stances which have varying level and equipment dependencies. Each stance's level is independent from a character's level. As the character levels a stance they gain skill points that can be used within that stance in addition to increasing the stance's stat bonuses. A stance may have up to five different skills which are unlocked as the stance levels up. Additional generic stances may be purchased at the class Master, from Emilia for constellation expert stances, while some are rewarded via quests.\n\nOne feature of stances is that stances which have the same equipment requirements can be swapped on the fly using the F5-F8 keys (alternatively, using the number keys 4-7). The musketeer's \"Standing Shot\" and \"Kneeling Shot\" stances are examples of this, as well as the fighter's \"Back Guard\" and \"High Guard\" stances.\n\nHowever, stances are limited in that only particular stances may be used with a certain equipment type, e.g., a fighter wanting to use the Roof Guard stance would have to use a Great Sword, rather than a sword and shield. A musketeer wanting to use the Flintlock stance would have to use a Rifle, rather than a pistol. A stance is usable only when it is learned; unlearned stances are greyed-out and unavailable for use.\n\nWhen a new player starts out, their character starts out at Level 1, while the RNPCs he or she recruits start out at various levels. When the characters reach level 100, they are able to be promoted with the use of 25 Shiny Crystals to become Veterans, and in the process create a new leveling system. In later updates, players gain the ability to move beyond Veteran level to become Experts (Level 110-120) and Masters (Level 120 and above).\n\nHanbitSoft, the publisher of the Granado Espada, manages the Korean and Japanese (under its subsidiary Hanbit Ubiquitous Entertainment) servers by itself while regional servers are licensed to various online game companies based in their respective regions.\n\nK2 Network announced in January 2007 that they would be bringing \"Granado Espada\" to the North American and European markets in Summer 2007 under the title of \"Sword of the New World\". Originally released under a pay-to-play model, the game later became free-to-play on August 21, 2007. K2 Network was subsequently renamed GamersFirst and changed the name of the North American server to \"Sword 2\". GamersFirst announced on 31 October 2012, that due to the expiration of the licensing contract with IMCGames, North American operations of the game would be transferred to T3Fun, a subsidiary of the Korean publisher HanbitSoft. Although GamersFirst had a functional server for the European market, publishing rights for the EU market would be transferred to RNTS Media GmbH after the expiration of the contract. RNTSgames has announced the name of the EU regional server to be \"Granado Espada - Resurrection\".\n\nOn 10 August 2007, IAHGames, the company which the game is licensed to in Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam as well as Australia and New Zealand, announced its business model for \"Granado Espada\". Subsequently, they informed players that on August 30, 2007, the game would become commercial. IAHGames gave players a 90-day free trial if they achieved Level 20 by that time. New players had a free five-day trial period and after which, they are required to pay. On December 5, 2007, as with other regional servers, the game became free-to-play. On 27 April 2017, IAHGames ceased game service in SEA Server operation.\n\nAfter more than three years of operation The9, licensee and operator of the mainland Chinese regional server, has announced that it would terminate Granado Espada's game service, citing the expiration of its contract with IMC Games. It has since stopped accepting new registrants from September 22, 2010, and began to wind down the regional server gradually. On the midnight of November 22, 2010, the servers officially went down. Game service in Mainland China subsequently resumed in March, 2011 under a new licensee. Astrum Nival, the operator of the Russian regional server, has ceased game service on November 30, 2012. This marked the first time that a Granado Espada regional server has completely ceased service without any transfer to another local operator.\n\nThe latest content theme for the Korean server is \"Return to Orpesia\". After defeating the evil Viscount Montoro, the player gets the opportunity to return to the old continent of Orpesia, where Bristia, the defeated enemy of Vespanola, announces the opening of a sea route to the New World, linking the midway island of Viron (Byron) to the Bristian port city of Kielce. The player then gets involved in a new main quest line and aids the Bristian Liberation Army to free their homeland from Vespanolan hegemony.\n\nWith the release of the \"Return to Orpesia\" expansion, version numberings have returned to 1.0, with an added \"B\", which either stands for \"Bristia\" or \"Beginning\" to symbolize a major milestone in the game's content and storyline. As of April 2013, the Korean, Japanese, Taiwanese, Southeast Asian and North American regional servers have upgraded to the new \"Return to Orpesia\" series. However, the Korean servers reverted to the original version numberings on January 9, 2013, reason being that the new \"B\" version series caused confusion. Thus, IMC decided to revert to the original numberings which is still used by its internal development team. Subsequent patches to other regional servers also followed suit.\n\nThe current version is Symphonia Episode 2 in T3Fun server.\n\nCritical reaction to the North American release has been mixed. IGN's Metacritic lists an average rating for the game at 66, which is also the listed industry average for all games at the site. GameRankings has the game listed at a similar figure of 70%. GameSpot gave a rating of 4.0 (out of 10.0) citing \"tedious quests and little payoff\". IGN expressed similar concerns, noting the familiar grind between many other Korean MMOs. \"You know, it's frustrating because as much as you want to like this game, unless Korean is your preferred flavor of MMO, you probably just won't.\"\n\nX play on G4 gave it a 4 out of 5; Reviewer Adam Sessler was pleased, noting that out of all the free MMORPGs this one was worth playing, saying it was refreshing to have a setting other than a fantasy world, and citing the unique gameplay mechanic of the MCC system. PC Gamer magazine, also gave it a positive review, giving the game a 90% out of 100% rating, saying it \"\"offered a fresh feel through small improvements and one substantial innovation\"\" compared to other Korean MMOs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294325", "title": "Project Eden (video game)", "text": "Project Eden (video game)\n\nProject Eden is a 2001 action-adventure video game developed by Core Design and published by Eidos Interactive. It was released for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 2. The planned Dreamcast version was cancelled. The plot involves a squad of four law enforcement agents investigating the disappearances of people by working their way downwards through layers of a towering \"mega-city\". Project Eden's gameplay emphasises puzzle-solving, requiring the player or players to control each of the four characters and use their individual abilities to make progress. A single player can control any one of the characters, and jump between them at will or up to four players can play simultaneously as different members of the team. \n\nThe game starts with Urban Protection Agency agents Carter, Andre, Minoko and Amber heading below city limits to find two technicians missing from the Real Meat Company (a corporation that ironically produces synthetic meat). The suspicions of the team revolve around a local and dangerous gang named The Death Heads. The UPA team tracks the gang down to their base in St. Lucia's Church; but on their way, the gang members and many animals also start mutating into strange creatures. Clearing their way through the Church, battling the mutants, the UPA Team finally get close to the technicians, only to see them being taken far below city limits, possibly to ground zero (the term used for the ground level of the earth itself). The UPA Control instructs the UPA Team to recover a creature, a live one, for analysis; which shows that it has been a regular dog which had been tampered with using an old Gene splicer (this hints at the fact that genetic technology has advanced greatly). The analysis also reveals that the creatures they have been attacked by are being controlled by a signal; which is their next job, to both find and if possible, recover the technicians, and locate the source of the signal.\n\nOn their way the UPA Team encounter little girls who are blonde, wear a red dress and call themselves Lucy. After some talk they mutate into dangerous beasts. Minoko, while going to another sector of the city by a high-speed railcar, mentions that she once had a sister named Lucy, but that Lucy had died due to a genetic illness she and their mother suffered from. As they continue, the team starts to question if Minoko's family was involved in their situation. The train crashes before reaching its destination, and leaves Minoko trapped in by a group of cannibals. Upon their arrival, Carter asks Control to check out Minoko's father, Dr. Joseph Molenski, who was once a skilled technician and a biological engineer, and who was sacked from Real Meat for stealing machinery for his own research. As a fugitive, Molenski was never acquired by UPA, nor was Lucy. Minoko was taken to the UPA Recreation Program, and thus became a UPA Agent.\n\nAfter traversing a former zoo that is now inhabited by cannibals and mutants, the team arrive at Ground Zero, the nominal ground level of the city. The team continues to levels below sea level. During their investigation, they stumble upon a video of Dr. Molenski, saying that he has found a nuclear bunker underneath, and has also rigged up a basic gene splicer. He also mentions that using it, he hopes to cure Lucy.\n\nThe UPA Team enter the Eden Bunker, and upon their entrance, they discover that Dr. Molenski was trapped in a time dilation field, a field that which stops time around a given area, or slows it down immensely; similar to the effect of the team's Timeshock weapon. Molenski appears to be reaching out towards a computer. After deactivating the time dilation field, Minoko is kidnapped. Lucy tells Minoko that she has been creating the creatures, and the girls that mutated (in attempt to find a new body for herself) were her failures due to the different DNA of those girl victims that were too much to deal with. Since Minoko is her biological sister, Lucy wishes to take her body.\n\nMeanwhile, Molenski is told that fifteen years have passed, and asked what has happened. The answer is simple; in order to keep Lucy alive, Molenski had linked her mind to the computers, running half of her brain with them, while keeping her body in a time dilation field. However, since the computers were networked, Lucy took them over and tried to solve things her way. The other three UPA Team members rescue Minoko, and they deactivate Lucy's time dilation field causing her death. Molenski removes the computer connected to Lucy's head and inserts it into a robot body he has built for her to try to keep her brain alive. Mission accomplished, the UPA Team returns to the surface.\n\n\"Project Eden\" received \"average\" reviews on both platforms according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. \"The Electric Playground\" gave the PC version a favorable review and said, \"A few minor annoyances like poor enemy AI and some puzzles that seem almost too difficult keep it from a higher score, but if you’re looking for a game you can invest some time in and not feel like you came away with nothing, welcome to Eden.\" AllGame gave both console versions three stars out of five each, saying of the PC version, \"Playing Project Eden at least once is worthwhile, but the linear puzzles, bad combat engine, and a multiplayer component that utilizes it limit hard-drive life considerably. Once finished, it's doubtful any gamer will return to the city depths\"; and of the PlayStation 2 version, \"It is designed specifically for those who enjoy using their minds, and it will occasionally even frustrate the best of those players.\"\n\nKevin Rice reviewed the PC version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"This game needs a coat of wax and a buffing, but the creativity in its design and execution warrant playing through.\"\n\nIGN ranked it as the 87th best PlayStation 2 game. \"Project Eden\" was a nominee for GameSpot's 2001 \"Best Adventure Game\" award, which ultimately went to \"\".\n"}
{"id": "2294333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294333", "title": "Executive Intelligence Review", "text": "Executive Intelligence Review\n\nExecutive Intelligence Review (\"EIR\") is a weekly newsmagazine founded in 1974 by the American political activist Lyndon LaRouche. Based in Leesburg, Virginia, it maintains offices in a number of countries, according to its masthead, including Wiesbaden, Berlin, Copenhagen, Paris, Melbourne, and Mexico City. As of 2009, the editor of \"EIR\" was Nancy Spannaus. As of 2015, it was reported that Nancy Spannaus was no longer editor-in-chief, that position being held jointly by Paul Gallagher and Tony Papert.\n\n\"EIR\" is a publication owned by the LaRouche movement. Others include \"The New Federalist\"; \"21st Century Science and Technology\"; \"Nouvelle Solidarité\" in France; \"Neue Solidarität\", published by LaRouche's Bürgerrechtsbewegung Solidarität in Germany; and \"Fidelio\", a quarterly magazine published by the Schiller Institute, also in Germany. The \"New Solidarity International Press Service\", or NSIPS, was a news service credited as the publisher of \"EIR\" and other LaRouche publications.\n\n\"The New Federalist\" suspended publication in 2006 as a result of financial problems; \"Fidelio\" magazine published its last number in 2006 because editor Kenneth Kronberg decided to stop working on it; in April 2007 he committed suicide. \"New Solidarity International Press Service\" was supplanted by EIR News Service because \"New Solidarity\" newspaper was closed in 1987, after the massive in Leesburg, VA.\n\nJohn Rausch writes that the magazine emerged from LaRouche's desire in the 1970s to form a global intelligence network. His idea was to organize the network as if it were a news service, which led to his founding \"The New Solidarity International Press Service\" (NSIPS), incorporated by three of LaRouche's followers in 1974. According to Rausch, this allowed the LaRouche movement to gain access to government officials under press cover. As NSIPS's funds grew, \"EIR\" was created.\n\nIn the 1980s an annual subscription cost $400. Nora Hamerman, an \"EIR\" editor, said in 1990 that the magazine had a circulation of 8,000 to 10,000. She indicated the magazine was owned by the \"EIR\" News Service, but declined to say who owned the news service. An ad on a LaRouche website urged readers to subscribe. \"As you will quickly discover, the \"Executive Intelligence Review\" is not an ordinary weekly news magazine. Every week, \"EIR\" runs unique political analyses, reports and interviews which you can't find anywhere else.\"\n\nThe magazine has published many controversial articles, including claims that Queen Elizabeth II is the head of an international drug-smuggling cartel, that another member of the British royal family killed Roberto Calvi, the Italian banker who died in London in 1982, and that the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 was the first strike in a British attempt to take over the United States. In 1997 it published review of the book \"La face cachee de Greenpeace\" (The hidden face of Greenpeace), which claimed that Greenpeace \"is an irregular warfare apparatus in the service of the British oligarchy\". The magazine occasionally expands its articles into book-length pieces, which have included \"Dope, Inc: The Book that Drove Henry Kissinger Crazy\" (1992) and \"The Ugly Truth about the ADL\".\n\nRausch writes that, despite the connection to LaRouche, \"EIR\" has received attention from the mainstream press on a handful of occasions. In 1988, one of its reporters, Nicholas Benton, received an answer during a press conference from President Ronald Reagan in response to a question about Michael Dukakis, which received considerable attention from other news outlets. In 1998, one of its senior writers, Jeffrey Steinberg, was interviewed on British television regarding LaRouche's theory that the British royal family had ordered the assassination of Diana, Princess of Wales. \"EIR\" has been described as the \"foremost exponent of the 'murder, not accident' theory\" of Diana's death. In 1999, \"EIR\" made international news when it listed on its website the names of 117 agents of the United Kingdom's MI6 intelligence service, a list claimed to have been obtained from renegade agent Richard Tomlinson (although the government later conceded that the list did not originate with him). An \"EIR\" spokesman said they received the information unsolicited.\n\n\"EIR\" offices were searched in 1986 as part of an investigation into LaRouche-related businesses. In 1988, \"EIR\" offices shared with another LaRouche entity, Fusion Energy Foundation, were seized to pay contempt of court fines related to the investigation. Contributing editor Webster Tarpley said that the closure was an effort by \"the invisible, secret, parallel government\" to silence LaRouche because of his presidential campaigns. LaRouche and several \"EIR\" staff members were eventually convicted of mail fraud and other charges. For more information see LaRouche criminal trials.\n\nFollowing criticism of financier George Soros by Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in 1997, Malayasian news media began printing vitriolic reports of Soros, some of them sourced to \"EIR\" or even copying text from the magazine verbatim. Ahmad Kassim, a politician who was instrumental in introducing LaRouche's ideas to Malaysians, described \"EIR\" as a \"news service like Reuters or anything else\" and compared LaRouche to Abraham Lincoln.\n\nIran's government-controlled Press TV often interviews analysts from the \"EIR\", including a 2013 interview with its spokesman Lawrence Freeman which concluded that the West was liable for the Algeria hostage taking. Press TV supported his conclusion that \"the US and their puppets Saudi Arabia and Qatar which have in the first place played a role in the creation of rebels are the root cause of incidents such as that which took place in Algeria.\"\n\nIn 2002 Arnaud de Borchgrave, Editor-in-Chief for \"The Washington Times\", called \"Executive Intelligence Review\" \"an anti-Semitic potpourri of disinformation, factoids, rumor, gossip, loony tunes and an occasional fact.\" \"EIR\" Counterintelligence Director Jeffrey Steinberg refers to that paper as the \"Moonie \"Washington Times\"\". \"The Washington Times\" was founded by Sun Myung Moon. \"The New York Review of Books\" said that \"Executive Intelligence Review\" \"echoes Kremlin propaganda\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294346", "title": "Southern Cameroons", "text": "Southern Cameroons\n\nSouthern Cameroons was the southern part of the British mandate territory of British Cameroons in West Africa. Since 1961 it has been part of the Republic of Cameroon, where it makes up the Northwest Region and Southwest Region. Since 1994, pressure groups in the territory claim there was no legal Document (Treaty of Union) in accordance to UNGA RES 1608(XV) paragraph 5, and are seeking to restore statehood and independence from the Republic of Cameroon. They renamed British Southern Cameroons as Ambazonia (from Ambas Bay).\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Versailles, the German territory of Kamerun was divided on June 28, 1919, between a French and a British League of Nations Mandate, the French, who had previously administered the whole occupied territory, getting the larger. The French mandate was known as Cameroun. The British mandate comprised two adjacent territories, Northern Cameroons and Southern Cameroons. They were administered from, but not joined to, the British territory of Nigeria through the British Resident (although some incumbents had the rank of District Officer, Senior Resident or Deputy Resident) with headquarters in Buea.\n\nApplying the principle of indirect rule, the British allowed native authorities to administer populations according to their own traditions. These also collected taxes, which were then paid over to the British. The British devoted themselves to trade, and to exploiting the economic and mining resources of the territory. South Cameroons students, including Emmanuel Mbela Lifafa Endeley, created the Cameroons Youth League (CYL) on 27 March 1940, to oppose what they saw as the exploitation of their country.\n\nWhen the League of Nations ceased to exist in 1946, most of the mandate territories were reclassified as UN trust territories, henceforth administered through the UN Trusteeship Council. The object of trusteeship was to prepare the lands for eventual independence. The United Nations approved the Trusteeship Agreements for British Cameroons to be governed by Britain on 6 December 1946.\n\nSouthern Cameroons was divided in 1949 into two provinces: Bamenda (capital Bamenda, hence also thus named) and Southern (capital Buea). Yet the residential type of administration was continued with a single British Resident at Buea, but in 1949 Edward John Gibbons was appointed Special Resident, and on 1 October 1954, when political power shifted to the elected government, succeeded himself as first of only two Commissioners.\n\nFollowing the Ibadan General Conference of 1950, a new constitution for Nigeria devolved more power to the regions. In the subsequent election thirteen Southern Cameroonian representatives were elected to the Eastern Nigerian House of Assembly in Enugu. In 1953, however, the Southern Cameroons representatives, unhappy with the domineering attitude of Nigerian politicians and lack of unity among the ethnic groups in the Eastern Region, declared a \"benevolent neutrality\" and withdrew from the assembly. At a conference in London from 30 July to 22 August 1953, the Southern Cameroons delegation asked for a separate region of its own. The British agreed, and Southern Cameroons became an autonomous region with its capital still at Buea. Elections were held in 1954 and the parliament met on 1 October 1954, with E.M.L. Endeley as Premier. As Cameroun and Nigeria prepared for Independence, South Cameroons nationalists debated whether their best interests lay with union with Cameroun, union with Nigeria or total independence. Endeley was defeated in elections on 1 February 1959 by John Ngu Foncha.\nReferendums were held in 1959 and 1961 in the Cameroons to determine union with Nigeria or Cameroun. In 1961, Northern Cameroons voted for union with Nigeria and Southern Cameroons for union with (the formerly French) Cameroun.\n\nSouthern Cameroons became part of Cameroon on 1 October 1961. Foncha served as Prime Minister of West Cameroun and Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Cameroun. However, the English-speaking peoples of the Southern Cameroons (now West Cameroun) did not believe that they were fairly treated by the French-speaking government of the country. Following a referendum on 20 May 1972, a new constitution was adopted in Cameroun which replaced the federal state with a unitary state. Southern Cameroons lost its autonomous status and became the Northwest Province and Southwest Province of the Republic of Cameroun. The Southern Cameroonians felt further marginalised. Groups such as the Cameroon Anglophone Movement (CAM) demanded greater autonomy, or independence, for the provinces.\n\nPro-independence groups claim that UN Resolution 1608 21 April 1961, which required the UK, the Government of the Southern Cameroons and Republic of Cameroun to engage in talks with a view to agreeing measures for union of the two countries, was not implemented, and that the Government of the United Kingdom was negligent in terminating its trusteeship without ensuring that proper arrangements were made. They say that the adoption of a federal constitution by Cameroun on 1 September 1961 constituted annexation of South Cameroons.\n\nRepresentatives of Anglophone groups convened the first All Anglophone Conference (AAC1) in Buea from 2 April to 3 April 1993. The conference issued the \"Buea Declaration\", which called for constitutional amendments to restore the 1961 federation. This was followed by the second All Anglophone Conference (AAC2) in Bamenda in 1994. This conference issued the \"Bamenda Declaration\", which stated that if the federal state was not restored within a reasonable time, Southern Cameroons would declare its independence. The AAC was renamed the Southern Cameroons Peoples Conference (SCPC), and later the Southern Cameroons Peoples Organisation (SCAPO), with the Southern Cameroons National Council (SCNC) as the executive governing body. Younger activists formed the Southern Cameroons Youth League (SCYL) in Buea on 28 May 1995. The SCNC sent a delegation, led by John Foncha, to the United Nations, which was received on 1 June 1995 and presented a petition against the 'annexation' of the Southern Cameroons by French Cameroun. This was followed by a signature referendum the same year, which the organisers claim produced a 99% vote in favour of independence with 315,000 people voting.\n\nArmed members of the SCNC took over the Buea radio station in Southwest Province on the night of 30 December 1999 and in the early hours of 31 December broadcast a tape of a proclamation of independence read by Judge Ebong Frederick Alobwede.\n\nAmnesty International has accused the Cameroun authorities of human right violations against South Cameroons activists.\n\nOn 9 January 2003, the SCNC and SCAPO filed a complaint with the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights against the Republic of Cameroun. Among other allegations, the complainants alleged that the Republic of Cameroun is illegally occupying the territory of Southern Cameroons. The Complainants alleged that the Republic of Cameroon has violated Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7(1), 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17(1), 19, 20, 21, 22, 23(1), 24 of the African Charter. The SCNC and SCAPO ultimately seek the independence of the territory of Southern Cameroons. In a decision reached at its 45th Ordinary Session on May 27, 2009, the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights found that the Republic of Cameroun has violated Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7(1), 10, 11, 19 and 26 the Charter. The Human Rights Commission determined that Articles 12, 13, 17(1), 20, 21, 22, 23(1) and 24 have not been violated.\n\nThe Human Rights Commission further recognized that under the African Charter and broad international law, Southern Cameroons meets the definition of a \"people\" under international law \"because they manifest numerous characteristics and affinities, which include a common history, linguistic tradition, territorial connection, and political outlook\". The Human Rights Commission declared itself incompetent \"rationae temporis\", to rule on allegations that occurred prior to 18 December 1989, date on which the African Charter came into force for the Respondent State (Republic of Cameroun). Hence, the Human Rights Commission declared itself incompetent to rule on the complainants' allegations with respect to events that occurred from the 1961 United Nations plebiscite to 1972 when the Federal and Union Constitutions were adopted to form the United Republic of Cameroon during which the Complainants claim the Respondent State (Republic of Cameroun) \"...established its colonial rule there, complete with its structures, and its administrative, military and police personnel, applying a system and operating in a language alien to the Southern Cameroon.\" The Human Rights Commission stated, however, that, if the Complainants can establish that any violation committed before 18 December 1989 continued thereafter, then the Commission shall have competence to examine it.\n\nThe Human Rights Commission addressed the question, whether the people of Southern Cameroons are entitled to the right to self-determination contextualizing the question by dealing, not with the 1961 UN Plebiscite, or the 1972 Unification, but rather the events of 1993 and 1994 on the constitutional demands vis-à-vis the claim for the right to self-determination of the Southern Cameroonian people. The Human Rights Commission stated that to invoke Self Determination as prescribed by Article 20 the African Charter, the Complainant must satisfy the Commission that the two conditions under Article 20(2), namely oppression and domination have been met. Based on events that occurred after December 18, 1989, the Human Rights Commission noted that the Complainants have not demonstrated if these conditions have been met to warrant invoking the right to self-determination. The Human Rights Commission also noted that in their submission, the Respondent State (Republic of Cameroun) implicitly accepted that self-determination may be exercisable by the Complainants on condition that they establish cases of massive violations of human rights or denial of participation in public affairs.\n\nThe Human Rights Commission noted that autonomy within a sovereign state is acceptable, in the context of self-government, confederacy, or federation while preserving the territorial integrity of a State party, can be exercised under the African Charter.\n\nThe Human Rights Commission recommended that the Respondent State (Republic of Cameroun) should among other things enter into constructive dialogue with the Complainants, and in particular SCNC and SCAPO, to resolve the constitutional issues, as well as grievances.\n\nFollowing the International Court of Justice ruling of 10 October 2002 that sovereignty over the Bakassi peninsula rested with Cameroon, SCAPO claimed that Bakassi was, in fact, part of the territory of Southern Cameroons. In 2002, SCAPO took the Nigerian government to the Federal High Court in Abuja to require it to take a case before the International Court of Justice to establish the right of the people of the Southern Cameroons to self-determination. The court ruled in their favour on 5 March 2002. On 14 August 2006 Nigeria handed over the Bakassi peninsula to Cameroon. SCAPO responded by proclaiming the independence of the Republic of Ambazonia, to include the territory of Bakassi.\nSouthern Cameroons, since then renamed to Ambazonia, is a member of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO) since 2005 and a charter member of the Organization of Emerging African States (OEAS).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294349", "title": "Liberty (magazine)", "text": "Liberty (magazine)\n\nLiberty magazine may refer to: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294351", "title": "Ayub Medical College", "text": "Ayub Medical College\n\nAyub Medical College (Urdu, Hindko: , , or AMC) is a leading public medical institute located in Abbottabad, Pakistan. It is one of the medical colleges affiliated to Khyber Medical University. AMC is home to 1,500 students in the MBBS and BDS programs, with clinical rotations at Ayub Teaching Hospital. Faculty members hold appointments at basic sciences and clinical departments. There are 212 full-time faculty members: lecturers, assistant professors, associate professors and professors. \nIn the late 1960s, a government study concluded that more medical colleges were needed in Pakistan to improve medical education, research and healthcare in the country. In particular, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was in dire need of health reforms - a decision was thus made in 1972 to construct another medical college outside of the Peshawar region. In 1975, four cities were shortlisted for the site of the new college; Abbottabad, Dera Ismail Khan, Mingora and Chitral. A decision was made in 1978 to build the new college in Abbottabad and on 9 May 1979, classes started at Ayub Medical College. The first batch consisting of 100 students (class of 1984) was accommodated at the Education Extension Centre, while the present college campus and teaching hospital were later on constructed north of the town. On 30 December 1990, the new campus opened its doors to students and faculty. Abbottabad District Headquarters Hospital remained affiliated to Ayub Medical College upon opening of Ayub Teaching Hospital in 1998. AMC was named after former President Ayub Khan, who hailed from nearby Haripur. The first Principal of AMC was Dr. Abdul Jamil Khan. Today AMC hosts one of the largest medical college campuses in Pakistan.\n\nThe Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery are awarded to students after five professional years of theoretical and clinical training. AMC features 24 clinical and 8 basic science departments with 212 full-time faculty members involved in teaching, patient care and advancing medical knowledge through scholarly clinical and basic science research. Annually, AMC educates and trains approximately 1000 medical students along with 200 resident physicians and fellows. In addition to offering the MBBS degree, AMC offers a BDS degree for dental students. In 2010, AMC introduced Community Oriented Medical Education (COME), a form of problem-based learning in a bid to convert from the annual system to a semester system. However the transition has been slow and faced a lot of problems regarding its acceptance and experience by the teachers and the taught.\nGraduates are eligible to apply for a medical license from the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council following the completion of the degree and one year of house job at a teaching hospital.\n\n\n\nAMC is fully recognized by the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council (PMDC). The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Pakistan has recognized many of its departments for post-graduate training in Medicine, Surgery, Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery and Pathology. The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Britain has granted recognition to the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at AMC for clinical training of MRCOG candidates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe campus consists of a medical school, teaching hospital, nursing school, dental school and paramedical institute with supporting amenities for all students and staff. The campus is also home to the Abbottabad CPSP Regional Centre and the Institute of Nuclear Medicine, Oncology and Radiotherapy.\n\nThe medical school building has four air-conditioned, spacious lecture halls with sophisticated audiovisual teaching aids, well-equipped laboratories and museums.\n\nThe Ayub School of Nursing is the nursing education unit at AMC, however most teaching and training occurs at Ayub Teaching Hospital.\n\nThe library provides various learning resources for both students and faculty. There are three main sections of library - the main hall, a reading room and a self-learning resource centre. The main hall houses a collection of over 10,000 books along with various medical journals including the Journal of Ayub Medical College or JAMC. The main hall also has a collection of encyclopedias, English and Urdu novels and poetry. The reading room is separated from the main hall by a glass partition and is mainly used by faculty members - it also houses the office of the chief librarian. The self-learning resource centre consists of 20 computers with access to the Digital Library of the Higher Education Commission.\n\nThe campus also provides hostel accommodation for up to 500 medical students, 300 internees, 100 nurses and a colony comprising 10 flats for non-teaching staff. The hostels are named after famous Pakistani personalities and regions.\nA sports complex including the PCB-AMC stadium for cricket and hockey ground have also been built.\n\nThe \"Journal of Ayub Medical College\" (J Ayub Med Coll, Abbottabad, JAMC, p-ISSN 1025-9589, e-ISSN 1819-2718, NLM ID: 8910750 is published by the Faculty of Ayub Medical College since January 1988 and has been indexed by Index Medicus, Medline, Pubmed, Index Copernicus, Index Pakistan, PakMediNet and WHO EMRO besides many other indexing agencies. It is also recognised by Pakistan Medical and Dental Council as a 'Standard Medical Journal' and placed in category 'X' by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. This makes it only the second medical journal in Pakistan to have been indexed and published worldwide. It is a peer reviewed journal and has gained its place as a standard medical journal globally. JAMC is the first medical journal available with illustrations FREE online.\n\n\n\"Former Principals\"\nStudents and alumni of Ayub Medical College are referred to as \"Ayubians\". Many partake is the various societies and clubs the college offers. Some societies which are medical oriented are governed by professors along with an associate society master who serve as \"academic advisers\" to students. Other societies are strictly governed by students. Students unions and political student bodies are banned from AMC. Due to its unique \"crossroad\" location, Ayub Medical College is one of the most ethnically diverse campuses in Pakistan with students from various backgrounds including, Balochs, Pashtuns, Hindkowans, Chitralis, Punjabis, Saraikis, Kashmiris, Kalash, Burusho, Shina and Baltis.\n\n\"Karakoram\" is the annual college magazine published at Ayub Medical College and maintained by the Ayubian Literary Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294357", "title": "Cord blood", "text": "Cord blood\n\nCord blood (umbilical cord blood) is blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth. Cord blood is collected because it contains stem cells, which can be used to treat hematopoietic and genetic disorders.\n\nCord blood is composed of all the elements found in whole blood - red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, platelets. Compared to whole blood some differences in the blood composition exist, for example, cord blood contains higher numbers of natural killer cells, lower absolute number of T-cells and a higher proportion of immature T-cells. However, the interest in cord blood is mostly driven by the observation that cord blood also contains various types of stem and progenitor cells, mostly hematopoietic stem cells. Some non-hematopoietic stem cell types are also present in cord blood, for example, mesenchymal stem cells, however these are present in much lower numbers that can be found in adult bone marrow. Endothelial progenitor cells and multipotent unrestricted adult stem cells can also be found in cord blood. The stem cells found in cord blood are often confused with embryonic stem cells - unlike embryonic stem cells, cord blood stem cells are all types of adult stem cells, are lineage restricted and are not pluripotent.\n\nCord blood is used the same way that hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is used to reconstitute bone marrow following radiation treatment for various blood cancers, and for various forms of anemia. Its efficacy is similar as well.\n\nAdverse effects are similar to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, namely graft-versus-host disease if the cord blood is from a genetically different person, and the risk of severe infection while the immune system is reconstituted. To assure that the smallest amount of complications occur during transplantation, levels of engraftment must be present; specifically both neutrophils and platelets must be being produced. This process of neutrophil and platelet production after the transplant, however, takes much longer than that of stem cells. In many cases, the engraftment time depends on the cell dose, or the amount of stem cells obtained in the sample of blood. In Dr. Moise’s article about umbilical cord blood (as cited in ), it was found that there is approximately 10% less stem cells in cord blood than there is in bone marrow. Therefore a sufficient amount of cord blood must be obtained in order to collect an adequate cell dose, however this amount varies from infant to infant and is irreplaceable. Given that this idea is quite new, there is still a lot of research that needs to be completed. For example, it is still unknown how long cord blood can safely be frozen without losing its beneficial effects.\n\nThere is a lower incidence with cord blood compared with traditional HSCT, despite less stringent HLA match requirements.\n\nUmbilical cord blood is the blood left over in the placenta and in the umbilical cord after the birth of the baby. There are several methods for collecting cord blood. The method most commonly used in clinical practice is the \"closed technique\", which is similar to standard blood collection techniques. With this method, the technician cannulates the vein of the severed umbilical cord using a needle that is connected to a blood bag, and cord blood flows through the needle into the bag. On average, the closed technique enables collection of about 75 ml of cord blood.\n\nCollected cord blood is cryopreserved and then stored in a cord blood bank for future transplantation. Cord blood collection is typically depleted of red blood cells before cryopreservation to ensure high rates of stem cell recovery.\n\nThe first successful cord blood transplant (CBT) was done in 1988 in a child with Fanconi anemia. Early efforts to use CBT in adults led to mortality rates of about 50%, due somewhat to the procedure being done in very sick people, but perhaps also due to slow development of immune cells from the transplant. By 2013, 30,000 CBT procedures had been performed and banks held about 600,000 units of cord blood.\n\nThe AABB has generated accreditation standards for cord blood banking facilities.\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration regulates any facility that stores cord blood; cord blood intended for use in the person from whom it came is not regulated, but cord blood for use in others is regulated as a drug and as a biologic. Several states also have regulations for cord blood banks.\n\nIn Europe, Canada, and Australia use of cord blood is regulated as well. In the United Kingdom the NHS Cord Blood Bank was set up in 1996 to collect, process, store and supply cord blood; it is a public cord blood bank and part of the NHS.\n\nA cord blood bank may be private (i.e. the blood is stored for and the costs paid by donor families) or public (i.e. stored and made available for use by unrelated donors). While public cord blood banking is widely supported, private cord banking is controversial in both the medical and parenting community. Although umbilical cord blood is well-recognized to be useful for treating hematopoietic and genetic disorders, some controversy surrounds the collection and storage of umbilical cord blood by private banks for the baby's use. Only a small percentage of babies (estimated at between 1 in 1,000 to 1 in 200,000) ever use the umbilical cord blood that is stored. The American Academy of Pediatrics 2007 Policy Statement on Cord Blood Banking stated: \"Physicians should be aware of the unsubstantiated claims of private cord blood banks made to future parents that promise to insure infants or family members against serious illnesses in the future by use of the stem cells contained in cord blood.\" and \"private storage of cord blood as 'biological insurance' is unwise\" unless there is a family member with a current or potential need to undergo a stem cell transplantation. The American Academy of Pediatrics also notes that the odds of using a person's own cord blood is 1 in 200,000 while the Institute of Medicine says that only 14 such procedures have ever been performed.\n\nPrivate storage of one's own cord blood is unlawful in Italy and France, and it is also discouraged in some other European countries. The American Medical Association states \"Private banking should be considered in the unusual circumstance when there exists a family predisposition to a condition in which umbilical cord stem cells are therapeutically indicated. However, because of its cost, limited likelihood of use, and inaccessibility to others, private banking should not be recommended to low-risk families.\" The American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation and the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists also encourage public cord banking and discourage private cord blood banking. Nearly all cord blood transplantations come from public banks, rather than private banks, partly because most treatable conditions can't use a person's own cord blood. The World Marrow Donor Association and European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies states \"The possibility of using one’s own cord blood stem cells for regenerative medicine is currently purely hypothetical...It is therefore highly hypothetical that cord blood cells kept for autologous use will be of any value in the future\" and \"the legitimacy of commercial cord blood banks for autologous use should be questioned as they sell a service which has presently no real use regarding therapeutic options.\"\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics supports efforts to provide information about the potential benefits and limitations of cord blood banking and transplantation so that parents can make an informed decision. In addition, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends that if a patient requests information on umbilical cord blood banking, balanced information should be given. Cord blood education is also supported by legislators at the federal and state levels. In 2005, the National Academy of Sciences published an Institute of Medicine (IoM) report titled \"Establishing a National Cord Blood Stem Cell Bank Program\".\n\nIn March 2004, the European Union Group on Ethics (EGE) has issued Opinion No.19 titled \"Ethical Aspects of Umbilical Cord Blood Banking\". The EGE concluded that \"[t]he legitimacy of commercial cord blood banks for autologous use should be questioned as they sell a service, which has presently, no real use regarding therapeutic options. Thus they promise more than they can deliver. The activities of such banks raise serious ethical criticisms.\"\n\nThough uses of cord blood beyond blood and immunological disorders is speculative, some research has been done in other areas. Any such potential beyond blood and immunological uses is limited by the fact that cord cells are hematopoietic stem cells (which can differentiate only into blood cells), and not pluripotent stem cells (such as embryonic stem cells, which can differentiate into any type of tissue). Cord blood has been studied as a treatment for diabetes. However, apart from blood disorders, the use of cord blood for other diseases is not in routine clinical use and remains a major challenge for the stem cell community.\n\nAlong with cord blood, Wharton's jelly and the cord lining have been explored as sources for mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), and as of 2015 had been studied in vitro, in animal models, and in early stage clinical trials for cardiovascular diseases, as well as neurological deficits, liver diseases, immune system diseases, diabetes, lung injury, kidney injury, and leukemia.\n\nCord blood is being used to get stem cells with which to test in people with type 1 diabetes mellitus.\n\nThe stem cells from umbilical cord blood are also being used in the treatment of a number of blood diseases including blood cancers.\n\nCord blood is also being studied as a substitute for normal blood transfusions in the developing world. More research is necessary prior to the generalized utilization of cord blood transfusion.\n"}
{"id": "2294359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294359", "title": "Baptist College of Florida", "text": "Baptist College of Florida\n\nThe Baptist College of Florida is a private Baptist college in Graceville, Florida. It was founded in 1943 and is sponsored by the Florida Baptist Convention. It was originally focused on training Baptist ministers but now offers degrees in theology, music, counseling, education, and business. It is nationally accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music and regionally accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294366", "title": "1902 in archaeology", "text": "1902 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1902 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294371", "title": "Pyrogallol", "text": "Pyrogallol\n\nPyrogallol is an organic compound with the formula CH(OH). It is a white, water-soluble solid although samples are typically brownish because of its sensitivity toward oxygen. It is one of three isomeric benzenetriols.\n\nIt is produced in the manner it was first prepared by Scheele (1786): heating gallic acid. Presently gallic acid is obtained from tannin. Heating induces decarboxylation:\n\nBecause tannin is expensive, many alternative routes have been devised. An alternate preparation involves treating \"para\"-chlorophenoldisulfonic acid with potassium hydroxide, a variant on the time-honored route to phenols from sulfonic acids.\n\nThe aquatic plant \"Myriophyllum spicatum\" produces pyrogallic acid.\n\nWhen in alkaline solution, it absorbs oxygen from the air, turning brown from a colourless solution. It can be used in this way to calculate the amount of oxygen in air, notably via the use of the Orsat apparatus.\n\nOne can find its uses in hair dyeing, dyeing of suturing materials and for oxygen absorption in gas analysis. It also has antiseptic properties. Pyrogallol was also used as a developing agent in black-and-white developers, but its use is largely historical except for special purpose applications. Hydroquinone is more commonly used today. It is also used in isolation of inert gases from a mixture of gases, which requires absorption of oxygen from the mixture.\n\nThough a popular photographic developing agent in the 19th and early 20th centuries, pyrogallol largely fell out of favor around the 1920s, although it was still used by a few notable photographers including Edward Weston. In those days it had a reputation for erratic and unreliable behavior, due possibly to its propensity for oxidation. It experienced a revival starting in the 1980s due largely to the efforts of experimenters Gordon Hutchings and John Wimberley.\n\nHutchings spent over a decade working on pyrogallol formulas, eventually producing one he named PMK for its main ingredients: pyrogallol, Metol, and Kodalk (the trade name of Kodak for sodium metaborate). This formulation resolved the consistency issues, and Hutchings found that an interaction between the greenish stain given to film by pyro developers and the color sensitivity of modern variable-contrast photographic papers gave the effect of an extreme compensating developer. From 1969 to 1977, Wimberley experimented with the Pyrogallol developing agent. He published his formula for WD2D in 1977 in Petersen's Photographic. PMK and other modern pyro formulations are now used by many black-and-white photographers.\n\nThe Film Developing Cookbook has examples.\n\nAnother developer mainly based on pyrogallol was formulated by Jay DeFehr. The 510-pyro, is a concentrate that uses Triethanolamine as Alkali, and pyrogallol and phenidone as combined developers. This developer has both staining and tanning properties and negatives developed with it are immune to the callier effect. It can be used for small and large negative formats.\n\nThe Darkroom Cookbook (Alternative Process Photography) has examples.\n\nPyrogallol use, e.g. in hair dye formulations, is declining because of concerns about its toxicity.\nIts (oral, rat) is 300 mg/kg.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294380", "title": "National Paralympic Games", "text": "National Paralympic Games\n\nThe National Paralympic Games are high-level multi-sport events held at the national level by the International Paralympic Committee and national Paralympic Committees in non-Olympic years. The events provide competitions for disabled athletes.\n\nThe Games started in 1948 a man by the name of Ludwig Guttmann created the events and competition for World War 2 veterans that had spinal injuries.\n\n\nIn the Paralympic Games they divide the athletes into different categories based on their disability the categories include:\n\nAmputee:-Athletes with a partial or total loss of at least one limb.\n\nCerebral Palsy:-Athletes with non-progressive brain damage, for example cerebral palsy, traumatic brain injury, stroke or similar disabilities affecting muscle control, balance or coordination.\n\nIntellectual Disability:-Athletes with a significant impairment in intellectual functioning and associated limitations in adaptive behaviour (currently suspended.)\n\nWheelchair:-Athletes with spinal cord injuries and other disabilities which require them to compete in a wheelchair.\n\nVisually Impaired:-Athletes with vision impairment ranging from partial vision, sufficient to be judged legally blind, to total blindness.\n\nAthletes with a physical disability that does not fall strictly under one of the other five categories, such as dwarfism, multiple sclerosis or congenital deformities of the limbs such as that caused by thalidomide.\n\nThe events that the athletes can participate in are IPC Alpine Skiing, Archery, IPC Athletics, Biathlon, Boccia, Canoe, Cross-country skiing, Cycling, Equestrian, Football 5-a-side, Football 7-a-a-side, Goalball, IPC Iced Sledge Hockey, Judo, IPC Powerlifting, Rowing, Sailing, IPC Shooting, Sitting Volleyball, IPC Swimming, Table tennis, Triathlon, Wheelchair Basketball, Wheelchair curling, Wheelchair dance, Wheelchair fencing, Wheelchair rugby, and Wheelchair tennis.\n\nWinter Paralympic Games:\n1976 - Paralympics I - Örnsköldsvik - Sweden\n1980 - Paralympics II - Geilo - Norway\n1984 - Paralympics III - Innsbruck - Austria\n1988 - Paralympics IV - Innsbruck - Austria\n1992 - Paralympics V - Albertville - France\n1994 - Paralympics VI - Lillehammer - Norway\n1998 - Paralympics VII - Nagano - Japan\n2002 - Paralympics VIII - Salt Lake City - United States\n2006 - Paralympics IX - Turin - Italy\n2010 - Paralympics X - Vancouver - Canada\n2014 - Paralympics XI - Sochi - Russia\n\nSummer Paralympic Games:\n1960 - Paralympics I - Rome - Italy\n1964 - Paralympics II - Tokyo - Japan\n1968 - Paralympics III - Tel Aviv - Israel\n1972 - Paralympics IV - Heidelberg - West Germany\n1976 - Paralympics V - Toronto - Canada\n1980 - Paralympics VI - Arnhem - Netherlands\n1984 - Paralympics VII - Stoke Mandeville - UK, New York - US\n1988 - Paralympics VIII - Seoul - South Korea\n1992 - Paralympics IX - Barcelona - Spain\n1996 - Paralympics X - Atlanta - United States\n2000 - Paralympics XI - Sydney - Australia\n2004 - Paralympics XII - Athens - Greece\n2008 - Paralympics XIII - Beijing - China\n2012 - Paralympics XIV - London - United Kingdom\n2016 - Paralympics XV - Rio de Janeiro - Brazil\n\nReferences:\nParalympic Games - Information, News and Events ()\nIPC Sports ()"}
{"id": "2294382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294382", "title": "Phospholamban", "text": "Phospholamban\n\nPhospholamban, also known as PLN or PLB, is a micropeptide protein that in humans is encoded by the \"PLN\" gene. Phospholamban is a 52-amino acid integral membrane protein that regulates the Calcium (Ca) pump in cardiac muscle cells.\n\nThis protein is found as a pentamer and is a major substrate for the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in cardiac muscle. In the unphosphorylated state, phospholamban is an inhibitor of cardiac muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca-ATPase (SERCA2) which transports calcium from cytosol into the sarcoplasmic reticulum. When phosphorylated (by PKA) - disinhibition of Ca-ATPase of SR leads to faster Ca uptake into the sarcoplasmic reticulum, thereby contributing to the lusitropic response elicited in heart by beta-agonists. The protein is a key regulator of cardiac diastolic function. Mutations in this gene are a cause of inherited human dilated cardiomyopathy with refractory congestive heart failure.\n\nWhen phospholamban is phosphorylated by PKA, its ability to inhibit SERCA2 is lost. Thus, activators of PKA, such as the beta-adrenergic agonist epinephrine (released by sympathetic stimulation), may enhance the rate of cardiac myocyte relaxation. In addition, since SERCA2 is more active, the next action potential will cause an increased release of calcium, resulting in increased contraction (positive inotropic effect). When phospholamban is not phosphorylated, such as when PKA is inactive, it can interact with and inhibit SERCA. The overall effect of phospholamban is to decrease contractility and the rate of muscle relaxation, thereby decreasing stroke volume and heart rate, respectively.\n\nGene knockout of phospholamban results in animals with hyperdynamic hearts, with little apparent negative consequence.\n\nMutations in this gene are a cause of inherited human dilated cardiomyopathy with refractory congestive heart failure.\n\nPhospholamban was discovered by Arnold Martin Katz and coworkers in 1974.\n\nPLN has been shown to interact with SLN and SERCA1.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294384", "title": "William Smith (South Carolina representative)", "text": "William Smith (South Carolina representative)\n\nWilliam Smith (September 20, 1751 – June 22, 1837) was a congressman, state senator and judge from South Carolina.\n\nSmith was born in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, the oldest son of Ralph Smith and Mercy Penquite Smith. He moved to what became Spartanburg District, South Carolina with his family in 1765, where he became a planter. He fought in the Revolutionary War and served as a county judge from 1785 to 1797. He served in the South Carolina Senate from the Spartanburg District from 1790 to 1796 and was later elected a Democratic-Republican to the fifth congress serving from 1797 to 1799. He was elected back to the South Carolina Senate serving from 1810 to 1818. He died in the Spartanburg District in 1837.\n"}
{"id": "2294385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294385", "title": "Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C.", "text": "Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C.\n\nMarine Barracks, Washington, D.C. is located at the corner of 8th and I Streets, Southeast in Washington, D.C. Established in 1801, it is a National Historic Landmark, the oldest post in the United States Marine Corps, the official residence of the Commandant of the Marine Corps since 1806, and main ceremonial grounds of the Corps. It is also home to the U.S. Marine Drum and Bugle Corps (\"The Commandant's Own\") and the U.S. Marine Band (\"The President's Own\"). Barracks Marines conduct ceremonial missions in and around the National Capital Region as well as abroad. They also provide security at designated locations around Washington, D.C. as necessary, carry out the distance education and training program of the Marine Corps through the Marine Corps Institute, and Barracks officers are part of the White House Social Aide Program.\n\nMarine Barracks Washington and the Historic Home of the Commandants were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1972. A property with eight contributing buildings was included in the listing. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1976.\n\nThe buildings at the Marine Barracks are some of the oldest in Washington. In 1801, President Thomas Jefferson and Lt. Col. William Ward Burrows, the commandant of the Marine Corps, rode horses about the new capital to find a place suitable for the Marines near the Washington Navy Yard. They chose a location within marching distance of both the Navy Yard and the Capitol and hired architect George Hadfield to design the barracks and the Commandant's House.\n\nWhen the British burned Washington during the War of 1812, they also captured the Marine barracks. It is traditionally held within the Marine Corps that, out of respect for the brave showing of the Marines at the Battle of Bladensburg, the British refrained from burning the barracks and the Commandant's house.\n\nThough neither Admiral Cockburn nor General Ross mentioned the Marines specifically in their conversation with the wounded Commodore Barney, it is now widely acknowledged that the compliment extends towards both Barney's Flotilla men and the 103 Marines present.\n\nThis was simply due to the fact that Miller's Marines had brought heavier field guns and small arms to act as the core of Barney's line. There is little doubt that Barney's sailors would have held their ground had it not been for the cannons dispensing grape and canister volley after volley into the 85th Regiment of Foot (Light Infantry).\n\nThis is supported by the fact that Baltimore artillery (also covering the bridge at the Washington Turnpike) on the Marines' right flank was only firing round shot in an attempt to stop Thornton from crossing the bridge. Round shot, in general, is very ineffective against dispersed troops such as the light infantry of the 85th.\n\nThis account of events still survives:\n\nThe people of the flotilla, under the orders of Captain Barney and the Marines, were justly applauded for their excellent conduct on this occasion. No troops could have stood better; and the fire of both artillery and musketry has been described as to the last degree severe. Captain Barney himself, and Captain Miller, of the Marine Corps, in particular, gained much additional reputation; and their conspicuous gallantry caused a deep and general regret that their efforts could not have been sustained by the rest of the army.\nThe \"last stand\" of the sailors and Marines is to this day immortalized by Col. Charles Waterhouse's painting of Captain Miller's Marines manning two of the three 12 lb Gribeuaval type cannons. The three guns themselves were hauled from the Marine barracks onto the battlefield to cover a strategic bridgehead.\n\nThis event has also been marked by sculptor Joanna Blake of Cottage City in her \"Undaunted in Battle.\" It shows a wounded Barney being helped by a Marine and flanked by a sailor presumably representing a member of the \"Flotilla.\" The background shows a wheeled cannon, likely one of the three hauled to the battlefield by the Marines. Ones that proved so decisive in holding off the British even if for a brief moment.\n\nSquare 927, now the block surrounded by 8th & I, and 9th & G Streets S.E., was entered in the National Register of Historic Places in 1972, and was then designated a National Historic Landmark by the Department of the Interior in 1976.\n\n8th and I has been the home of the Silent Drill Platoon and the Marine Band since the barracks' establishment in 1801 and the residence of the Commandant since 1806, when the Commandant's House was completed. The Commandant's house is the only original building left in the complex, the remainder having been rebuilt in 1900 and 1907. The Marine Corps Institute moved to the barracks from its previous home at Marine Barracks Quantico in 1920. The Drum and Bugle Corps has been based at the barracks since its formation in 1934.\nThe barracks complex is one of the oldest government buildings in continuous use in Washington, D.C., though some sources conflict on whether the White House is a year older. While traditionally known as the \"oldest post in the Corps\", Marines did serve at the Charlestown Navy Yard in Boston a year earlier, though they did not have a permanent detachment until 1805 nor a barracks until 1810, and it was vacated in 1974. The Tun Tavern is considered the birthplace of the Corps, having been used for one of the first Continental Marines' recruiting drives in 1775, though it is disputed if it occurred before one at Samuel Nicholas's family tavern, the .\n\n\nThe Marines assigned to the D.C. barracks must meet strict height, weight, and background check standards, since they perform in ceremonial parades, funerals, and other ceremonies for presidential and other national dignitaries. During the summer months, a sunset parade is held every Tuesday evening at the Marine Corps War Memorial in Rosslyn, Virginia near Arlington National Cemetery. In addition, an evening parade takes place at the Barracks every Friday evening from late spring until the end of summer. Since 2018, the sunset parade from the Barracks is broadcast on Facebook Live on select dates via the official FB page of the US Marine Corps, weather conditions permitting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294386", "title": "Battle of Fort Pitt", "text": "Battle of Fort Pitt\n\nThe Battle of Fort Pitt (in Saskatchewan) was part of a Cree uprising coinciding with the Métis revolt that started the North-West Rebellion in 1885. Cree warriors began attacking Canadian settlements on April 2. On April 15, they captured Fort Pitt from a detachment of North-West Mounted Police.\n\nIn the Canadian North-West, a period of escalating unrest immediately preceded the rebellion as Ottawa refused to negotiate with its disaffected citizens. While the Métis under Louis Riel declared a provisional government and mobilized their forces, Cree chief Big Bear was not planning any militarization or violence toward the Canadian settlers or government. Rather, he had tried to unify the Cree into a political confederacy powerful enough to oppose the marginalization of native people in Canadian society and renegotiate unjust land treaties imposed on Saskatchewan natives in the 1860s.\n\nThis nominally peaceful disposition was shattered in late March by news of the Métis victory over government forces at Duck Lake. Support for Riel was strong among native peoples. On April 2, Big Bear's warriors attacked the town of Frog Lake, killing nine civilians. Big Bear, against his wishes, was drawn into the rebellion.\n\nSimilar attacks continued, with Cree raiding parties pillaging the towns of Lac La Biche Saddle Lake, Beaverhill Lake, Bear Hills, Lac St. Anne and Green Lake. These events prompted the mobilization of an Alberta field force under Thomas Bland Strange. The Cree would later defeat the Albertans at the Battle of Frenchman's Butte.\n\nOn April 15, 200 Cree warriors descended on Fort Pitt. They intercepted a police scouting party, killing a constable, wounding another, and captured a third. Surrounded and outnumbered, garrison commander Francis Dickens (son of famed novelist Charles Dickens) capitulated and agreed to negotiate with the attackers. Big Bear released the remaining police officers but kept the townspeople as hostages and destroyed the fort. Six days later, Inspector Dickens and his men reached safety at Battleford.\n\nIn the spring of 2008, Tourism, Parks, Culture and Sport Minister Christine Tell proclaimed in Duck lake, that \"the 125th commemoration, in 2010, of the 1885 Northwest Resistance is an excellent opportunity to tell the story of the prairie Métis and First Nations peoples' struggle with Government forces and how it has shaped Canada today.\"\nFort Pitt, the scene of the Battle of Fort Pitt, is a Provincial Park and National Historic site where a National Historic Sites and Monuments plaque designates where Treaty six was signed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294388", "title": "Gassman indole synthesis", "text": "Gassman indole synthesis\n\nThe Gassman indole synthesis is a series of chemical reactions used to synthesize substituted indoles by addition of an aniline and a ketone bearing a thioether substituent.\n\nThis is a one-pot chemical reaction, and none of the intermediates are isolated. R can be hydrogen or alkyl, while R works best with aryl, but can also be alkyl. Electron-rich anilines, such as 4-methoxyaniline, tend to fail in this reaction.\n\nThe 3-position thiomethyl group is often removed using Raney nickel to give the 3-H-indole.\n\nThe reaction mechanism of the Gassman indole synthesis is divided among three steps.\n\nThe first step is the oxidation of the aniline 1 using \"tert\"-butyl hypochlorite (tBuOCl) to give the chloramine 2.\n\nThe second step is the addition of the keto-thioether to give the sulfonium ion 3, and is typically done at low temperatures (−78 °C).\n\nThe third and final step is the addition of a base, which in this case is triethylamine. Upon warming to room temperature, the base will deprotonate the sulfonium ion creating the sulfonium ylide 4, which quickly undergoes a [2,3]-sigmatropic rearrangement to give the ketone 5. The ketone 5 will undergo a facile condensation to give the desired 3-thiomethylindole 6.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294390", "title": "Abdullahi Ahmed An-Na'im", "text": "Abdullahi Ahmed An-Na'im\n\nAbdullahi Ahmed An-Na'im (\"Arabic: عبد الله أحمد النعيم\") (born in 1946) is a Sudanese-born Islamic scholar who lives in the United States and teaches at Emory University. He is the Charles Howard Candler Professor of Law at Emory University School of Law, associated professor in the Emory College of Arts and Sciences, and Senior Fellow of the Center for the Study of Law and Religion of Emory University.\n\nAn internationally recognized scholar of Islam and human rights and human rights in cross-cultural perspectives, Professor An-Na'im teaches courses in international law, comparative law, human rights, and Islamic law. His research interests include constitutionalism in Islamic and African countries, secularism, and Islam and politics. Professor An-Na'im directed the following research projects which focus on advocacy strategies for reform through internal cultural transformation:\n\n\nProfessor An-Na'im's current research projects include a study of Muslims and the secular state, and of human rights from state-centric to people-centered. He continues to further develop his theory advanced in his book \"Islam and the Secular State\".\n\nAn-Naim was born in the Sudan, where he was greatly influenced by the Islamic reform movement of Mahmoud Mohamed Taha. He is a naturalized American citizen, but retains Sudanese citizenship.\n\nAn-Naim earned a PhD (Law) from University of Edinburgh (Scotland) in 1976; LLB (Honours) and Diploma in Criminology at University of Cambridge (England), 1973; LLB (Honours) at University of Khartoum (Sudan), 1970.\n\nIn February 2009, An-Na`im received an Honorary Doctorate from the Université catholique de Louvain (UCL, Louvain-la-Neuve) and Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (K.U. Leuven, Leuven), Belgium. He also serves as Global Legal Scholar at the Law School, University of Warwick, UK (until November 2009); and Extraordinary Professor at the Centre for Human Rights, Faculty of Law, University of Pretoria (until November 2009).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294398", "title": "Crimson Moonlight", "text": "Crimson Moonlight\n\nCrimson Moonlight is a Swedish unblack metal band. The band was formed in the summer of 1997 with the mere intention of recording a primitive old school black metal demo and playing one show before breaking up. However, the breakup never happened, and they have since recorded two EPs and three full-length albums. They were previously signed to Rivel Records, currently to Endtime Productions. They have toured US twice, and have been featured in two metal documentary films.\n\nCrimson Moonlight was formed by Simon \"Pilgrim\" Rosén (vocals), Gustav \"Gurra\" Elowsson (drums), Petter Stenmarker (guitar, keyboards), Jonathan Jansson (guitar), and Simon Lindh (bass) in the summer of 1997. They recorded a demo called \"Glorification of the Master of Light\". Originally, their intention was to split the band after recording that demo, but they decided to carry on. In the year 1998, they recorded their first studio EP titled \"Eternal Emperor\", which presented a more keyboard-driven symphonic black metal style, in contrast to the more primitive, Horde-inspired music found on their demo. In 1998, Crimson Moonlight released a live album titled \"Live in Varsås\", and in 2001 released their second demo titled \"Heralding the Dawn\".\n\nA few years later, Crimson Moonlight signed a record deal with Rivel Records, a small Swedish label held by Christian Rivel. During that time, Jonathan Jansson and Simon Lindh left the band. Hubertus Liljegren, formerly of the then-split-up group Sanctifica, along with Per Sundberg, joined Crimson Moonlight as guitarists. In 2003, Crimson Moonlight recorded their first studio album titled \"The Covenant Progress\". Musically, the album took a more melodic black metal direction with less emphasis on symphonic keyboards. The album received positive reviews from metal music media, and by 2005 it had sold 2300 copies. During 2003, Crimson Moonlight played several tours around Europe to support \"The Covenant Progress\".\n\nIn 2004, Crimson Moonlight recorded their second album titled \"Veil of Remembrance\". The album showcased several changes in the band's style: they left keyboards in order to achieve a far more brutal sound, and went to incorporate grindcore and brutal death metal influences into their sound, inspired by groups such as Nile, Origin, Rotten Sound, and Nasum. During the studio sessions, Jani Stefanovic (of Divinefire, Renascent, and many other band's fame) was in Crimson Moonlight's line-up and had a notable role in creating their new style, now called death/black metal. Just like its predecessor, \"Veil of Remembrance\" was officially released on January 26, 2005 although it was already available since December 4, 2004. The album received positive reviews like its predecessor, but ended up selling fewer copies than \"The Covenant Progress\". In an interview with \"Harm\" magazine, the band believed that p2p-filesharing affected the low sales. They toured Europe again to support the album. At the end of 2004, they also released a compilation album titled \"Songs from the Archives\", which included the \"Eternal Emperor\" EP, tracks from both albums, demo tracks, and live recordings.\n\nFollowing this, the band went through some line-up changes. Both Hubertus Liljegren and Jani Stefanovic left, as did Erik Tordsson. Johan Ylenstrand joined as a bassist. Ylenstrand and Elowsson also play in a deathgrind band called Exhale, which has released one album and played at a US death metal festival called Maryland Deathfest. In 2006, Elowsson received endorsements of the drumming gear companies Sabian, Pearl, Remo, and Vic Firth.\n\nIn 2006, Crimson Moonlight's deal with Rivel Records had come to an end and the band began searching for new label. On June 17, 2006, the extreme metal label Endtime Productions announced that they signed Crimson Moonlight. Crimson Moonlight had recorded an EP in profound secrecy. During the summer, Crimson Moonlight played their first tour in the United States and sold the pre-release pressings of their new recording, which was entitled \"In Depths of Dreams Unconscious\". It featured two new songs and a re-recording of a song from their first demo. Musically, the EP continued on their death/black metal direction with a more melodic setting. The official release also contained an instrumental intro done by Swedish neoclassical group Arcana. \"In Depths of Dreams Unconscious\" was officially released February 1, 2007. In the summer of 2007, Crimson Moonlight played at the Cornerstone Festival in Bushnell, Illinois for the second time since 2006.\n\nIn late 2011, after a hiatus, the band launched an official Facebook site, played at NordicFest and announced that they were working on a new album.\nIn 2014 they released the single The Suffering, which was part of their album \"Divine Darkness\", released via Endtime Productions on February 26, 2016. Pilgrim did an interview in March 2016, stating the lineup consisted of himself, Gurra, Johan Ylenstrand, and Per Sundberg. The band is currently working on a new album titled \"Epiklesis - Maranatha\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2294400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294400", "title": "Hedera hibernica", "text": "Hedera hibernica\n\nHedera hibernica, common name Atlantic ivy or Irish ivy, is a woody vine native to the Atlantic coast of Europe.\n\nIt is an evergreen climbing plant, growing to 20–30 m high where suitable surfaces (trees, cliffs, walls) are available, and also growing as ground cover where there are no vertical surfaces. It climbs by means of aerial rootlets which cling to the substrate. Native to the Atlantic region, it has been cultivated and can appear in the wild outside its original area, along the Atlantic coast from Portugal, Spain, France, Ireland, British Isles, Germany, Scandinavian countries, and Baltic Sea.\n\nThe bark is first green, but soon after it becomes gray. Old branches are light gray with a finely furrowed bark. Buds are almost hidden by the leaf base, egg-shaped and bright green. The leaves have entire margins and are ovoid or with five triangular lobes. The surface is glossy dark green with light ribs, while the underside is pale green. The leaves of flowering shoots are, however, oval with entire margins. Flowering occurs in September–October. The fruits are blue-black berries. The whole plant and also the berries are slightly poisonous.\n\nThe plant has an attractive and elegant aspect. It is quite common in gardening, and has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. Like the related \"H. helix\" (English ivy), \"H. hibernica\" is an invasive weed in parts of North America with mild winters: in a recent study, 83% of 119 populations of invasive ivy sampled in the Pacific Northwest were found to be \"H. hibernica\" and not \"H. helix\" as was previously thought. In fact it can be troublesome in any garden, rapidly colonising hedges, trees and borders if not kept in check.\n\nIt may be a noxious weed or be invasive. It requires consistently moist soil, and can grow in any light environment from full sun to deep shade. Its natural habitat is forest or dense bush which is cool and cloud-covered for much of the year, such as is often found in mountainous regions near the ocean. It prefers well-drained or alkaline soils rich in nutrients and humus.\n"}
{"id": "2294413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294413", "title": "Elsa Lunghini", "text": "Elsa Lunghini\n\nElsa Lunghini, stage name Elsa (born 20 May 1973), is a French singer and actress. She was a teenage pop-star in the late-1980s. In 1986, she was the youngest singer to reach number one in the French charts, with the single \"T'en va pas\", and she went on to sell millions of records during the decade. \"Elsa\", her album of 1988, had achieved double-platinum status by 1993.\n\nDaughter of George Lunghini (actor, photographer and song writer) and Christiane Jobert (painter and also sister of actress Marlène Jobert and Charles Jobert, a camera operator and director of photography), she is of Italian origin on her father's side, and of Sephardic Jewish origin on her mother's side. She is a cousin of actresses Eva Green and Josephine Jobert.\n\nLunghini first performed in a movie at age seven, in 1981, in Claude Miller's \"Garde à vue\" (also starring Romy Schneider).\n\nShe was the youngest artist to be in the main program at the Olympia (Paris), at 17, in October 1990 as well as the youngest to have a number 1 hit in the Top 50 in France. At 13, in 1986, she remained number 1 for eight weeks with \"T'en va pas\" (soundtrack of the movie \"La Femme de ma vie\"). The song was composed by the Italian Romano Musumarra, who had worked and helped produced hits for 80s singer, Jeanne Mas. The song was a hit in France and sold elsewhere in Europe with an English recording.\n\nWith the help of her musician father, she recorded her LP \"Elsa\". It sold more than 600,000 copies with hit singles such as \"Quelque chose dans mon cœur\" (\"Something in my heart\"), \"Jour de neige\" (\"Snowing day\"), \"Jamais nous\" (with backing vocals by French singer Laurent Voulzy) (\"Never us\"), \"Un Roman d'amitié\" (duet with Glenn Medeiros) (\"Friend you give me a Reason\"), \"À la même heure dans deux ans\" (\"At the same time in two years\"). All were top 10 hits. At that time, Lunghini was the only artist to have her first four singles at number one or two. She became popular in the teen press, often compared with Vanessa Paradis.\n\nIn 1990, she made her second album, \"Rien que pour ça\" (\"Only for that\"). The songs were produced by her father and Elsa wrote the music for the single of the same name. \"Rien que pour ça\" was a top 20 hit. Two other excerpts were released: \"Pleure doucement\" (\"Cry softly\") and \"Qu'est-ce que ça peut lui faire\" (\"How does she matter\"). The two last singles were less successful. She made her first tour, at the Olympia.\n\nIn 1992, Lunghini recorded \"Bouscule-moi\" (\"Push me on\"), A mid-rock single with more adult lyrics. \"Bouscule-moi\" was a hit single. Her third album was \"Douce violence\" (\"Sweet violence\"). Two more singles promoted it but they failed to become hits.\n\nIn 1996, aged 23, she wrote and composed her fourth album, \"Chaque jour est un long chemin\" (Every day is a long way). It sold 20,000. From 20 to 24 September 2004, she gave shows in Paris at the Européen. A live DVD and a live CD went on sale in 2006.\n\nLunghini takes part annually in the Tour of the Resto du Coeur soup-kitchen charity and helps causes such as Sol En Si.\n\nShe has starred in two TV movies: 2002's \"La mort est rousse\" and 2004's \"Trois jours en juin\" and is now involved in a television advertising campaign for Danone yoghurt.\n\nShe lives in Paris and, from 1999 to 2006, was the fiancée of former footballer Bixente Lizarazu. They met at a Restos du Coeur concert, in which they were taking part. She is also a spokesperson for the Bout de Vie association, which helps the handicapped.\n\n\nCinema:\n\nTelevision:\n\n"}
{"id": "2294414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294414", "title": "Aleksander Kamiński", "text": "Aleksander Kamiński\n\nAleksander Kamiński, assumed name: \"Aleksander Kędzierski\". Also known under aliases such as \"Dąbrowski\", \"J. Dąbrowski, Fabrykant, Faktor, Juliusz Górecki, Hubert, Kamyk, Kaźmierczak, Bambaju\" (born 28 January 1903 in Warsaw, died 15 March 1978) – a teacher, educator, professor of humanities, co-founder of Cub Scouts methodology, scout instructor, scoutmaster, soldier of the Home Army and one of the ideological leaders of the Grey Ranks, chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Polish Scouting Association.\n\nJanina Kamińska's husband, Polish archaeologist, educator and instructor of the Polish Scouting Association, father of Ewa Rzetelska-Feleszko (linguistics professor).\n\nBorn in Warsaw, as a son of Jan Kamiński (pharmacist) and Petronela Kaźmierczak. In 1905, the family moved to Kiev, where Kamiński graduated from the Russian 4th grade general school. In 1914, he moved to Rostov and in 1916 to Uman.\n\nHard financial conditions (his father died in 1911) forced him to work as a bank messenger since around 1916. Since January 1918, a member of the 1st Men's Scouting Team \"Tadeusz Kościuszko\" in Uman. Kamiński held ranks of patrol leader, adjutant, team captain and troop adjutant since summer of 1919, and captain of the Uman Nest since May 1920 (which included male and female scouts).\n\nSince 1918 student of the Polish high school in Uman.\n\nAfter returning to Poland (in March 1921), he continued his education at the Kazimierz Kulwieć Middle School in Warsaw, where he received his maturity diploma in June 1922. Kamiński then studied history at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Warsaw and received his master's degree in January 1928.\n\nDuring his studies, he continued to work on a regular basis: from 1922, he was an assistant to the teacher, a teacher, and later head of the boarding house of the Central Welfare Council in Pruszków, from 1929 he worked as a history teacher at Saint Stanislaw Kostka Gymnasium in Warsaw, and from 1930 to 1931 he was the head of the boarding house of the Union of Military Settlers for the youth of vocational schools at Młocińska Street. Kamiński co-founded and then became a member of the governing bodies of the Educational Trade Union.\n\nAleksander Kamiński continued his activity in the Polish Scouting and Guiding Association. On 3 October 1922, the Commander-in-Chief appointed him leader with service from August 1921, and on 30 June 1924, he was appointed the rank of a petty scoutmaster. After changing the names of the scouting ranks (in December 1927) – a scoutmaster. From 1923, Kamiński was a team captain of the First Pruszkow Scouting Team \"Stefan Czarniecki\" (founded by Kamiński himself; in 1930 the Banner's command changed its name and number to 14th Masovian Scouting Team \"Stefan Czarniecki\";this is related to the unification of the numbering and names of the teams) and the 3rd Pruszków Scouting Team \"Tomasz Zan\". He also served as Deputy troupe leader. Kamiński kept a permanent column entitled \"Scouting life\" in the magazine \"Echo Pruszkowskie\".\n\nIn the years 1925–1927 commander of the Pruszków Troup, and from autumn 1928 to December 1929 commander of the Masovian Banner. At the same time, from September 1928 to June 1929, team captain of the 6th Warsaw Scouting Team \"Jan Henryk Dąbrowski\".Since 1931, head of the Minority Teams Department in the Headquarters of the Scouts. He was also the head of the Central Committee of the Union of Jewish Scouting Teams and Cubs.\n\nCreator of the cubs methodology (in cooperation with Jadwiga Zwolakowska). Author of novels, which were also methodological manuals for instructors of the ZHP Scouts: \"Antek Cwaniak\" (1932), \"Książka wodza zuchów\" (1933) and \"Koło rady\" (1935).\n\nHead of the Faculty of Cubs at the Headquarters of the Scouts until September 1937 (with a break from April to September 1933). Since September 1933 commander of the School of Cubs Instructors in Nierodzim, Cieszyn Silesia, and since May 1937 until the outbreak of the war head of the Scouting Centre in nearby Górki Wielkie near Skoczów (the School of Cubs Instructors was incorporated into the centre). Head of the Department of Senior Scouts Education in the Headquarters of the Polish Scouting Association.\n\nIn July 1934 Kamiński conducted an international cubs training course in Brenna (Beskid Śląski), later, in July 1938, headed a Polish delegation to an international conference of cubs instructors in Gilwell, Great Britain. He participated in Jamboree in Great Britain in 1929, Hungary in 1933 and the Netherlands in 1937, and in the International Cubs Conference in July 1939 in Edinburgh (the next such conference was to be held in Poland).\n\nAfter the outbreak of the war, evacuated in September 1939 from Silesia, he arrived in Warsaw around 12 September and joined the Scouting Rescue Headquarters. After the surrender of the capital he managed a temporary orphanage for children orphaned during the siege of Warsaw.\n\nIn conspiracy since October 1939, member of the strict Headquarters (\"Pasieka\") of the Grey Ranks. Since that month Kamiński was also active in the Service for Poland's Victory. The initiator, organizer and then editor-in-chief of the \"Information Bulletin\" (issued weekly since 5 November 1939 by the Warsaw-City District SZP-ZWZ-AK, and since spring of 1941 by the Home Army Headquarters, the most important conspiratorial newspaper in occupied Poland – circulation up to 47 thousand). During his work in the paper he used his alias \"Kaźmierczak\", and since November 1942 \"Hubert\", as well as \"Fabrykant\" and \"Kamyk\". He was also the author of most of the introductory articles in the \"Information Bulletin\".\n\nIn \"Przeglad Propagandowy\" (1943 No. 2), under the alias \"Hubert\", Kamiński published an article \"Podstawy ideowe propagandy wojskowej\" (The Ideological Basics of Military Propaganda).\n\nAt the same time, in April 1941 Kamiński succeeded Captain Zygmunt Hempel in leading the BiP Division of the Warsaw-City District of ZWZ – Warsaw District of the Home Army under the alias \"Faktor\", and from November 1942 – \"Fabrykant\". Among other things, a cell called \"Sztuka\" (Art) was created, which initiated works of art, which were distributed or exhibited during the occupation (puppet theatre, caricatures, songs). He organized and then supervised the work of the Propaganda Commission (KOPR), which since spring of 1942 had been producing the entire publishing output of the Home Army Warsaw District Headquarters. He remained the head of BiP of the Warsaw Home Army District Headquarters until June 1944.\n\nAt the same time, from 1941 until the outbreak of the Warsaw uprising, under the alias \"Hubert\", Kamiński was a counterintelligence officer in the unit II of the Main Headquarters of ZWZ-AK.\n\nCreator of the concept, founder and since December 1940 commander-in-chief of the Small Sabotage Organization \"Wawer\" under the pseudonym \"Dąbrowski\". At that time, he wrote an article titled \"Little Sabotage\" (Information Bulletin, 1 September 1940). The best known and most visible effects of Wawer's activity include drawings of the \"anchor\" of the Fighting Poland and \"V\" signs, as well as anti-German inscriptions in public places, distribution of leaflets, gassing of cinemas and megaphone actions. Kamiński personally participated in the first series of such actions – destruction of exhibitions of photographers showing photographs of uniformed Germans (5 December 1940).\n\nKamiński is the author of one of the most famous books of occupied Warsaw, \"Kamienie na szaniec\" (Stones for the Rampart), which was first published in July 1943. He wrote the book on the basis of Tadeusz \"Zośka\" Zawadzki's account of his colleagues from the 23rd Warsaw Scouting Team, including Jan Bytnar and Aleksy Dawidowski, written after the Arsenal action in April 1943.\n\nHe was also the author of The Great Game (the first edition was destroyed in 1942 by order of the Home Army Main Command as it was deconspirating the methods of underground combat, the second edition was not distributed due to the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, the third edition – Warsaw 1981) and \"Przodownik. Podręcznik dla kierowników oddziałów Zawiszy\" (\"The Leader. Manual for Branch Managers of Zawisza\") (part 1–2, December 1942, edition II 1943, edition III 1944).In April 1944, Kamiński was placed by the counterintelligence of the National Armed Forces (NSZ) on one of the so-called proscription lists (it included the names of people suspected of being leftist, Communist and/or Jewish in origin). In the NSZ document Aleksander Kamiński was described as \"a Jew-lover who always inclined towards the extreme left-communist\".\n\nDuring the Warsaw uprising he continued to be the editor-in-chief of the \"Information Bulletin\" (which at that time was already published openly as a daily newspaper) until the last issue on 4 October 1944.\n\nOn 30 September 1944 the head of the Home Army Headquarters, Colonel Jan Rzepecki, alias \"Chairman\", applied for Kamiński's promotion to the rank of Second Lieutenant of the Polish Army (WP) Reserve. After the capitulation of the Warsaw Uprising, he was no longer involved in any underground activity.\n\nFrom May 1945 to 1950 Kamiński was an assistant at the faculties of social pedagogy and general pedagogy of the University of Łódź. In 1947 he received his PhD degree in philosophy after defending his dissertation \"The Scouting method in upbringing and schooling\".\n\nStill active in the ZHP: from January 1946 he was a member of the Ideological Commission and the Law and Promise of Scouting. By the ordinance of 12 January 1946, Kamiński was appointed a member of the Provisional General Scouting Council, and from March 1946, he was the Second Vice President of the Polish Scouting Association. In 1947 he was deprived of this position, and in January 1949 removed from the ZHP for ideological reasons. At the beginning of 1950, Kamiński was also removed from the University of Łódź. In 1951, all his works were withdrawn from Polish libraries and censored. Until 1956, under surveillance of the Security Office.\n\nKamiński returned to scouting in 1956, when the events of October 1956 brought renewal and hope for democratic change in the country. Kaminski participated in discussions on the situation in the scouting sector and the possibility of reactivating ZHP. On 26 November 1956, he met with a group of instructors representing the Kraków community, who were in the process of finalizing the reactivation of ZHP. They refused to support him in the implementation of his concept of reactivating scouting activities within the OHPL (Scouting Organization of the People's Republic of Poland), presenting their position (and evidence) that the only correct solution was to reactivate the ZHP (which they did on 4 December 1956). At that time, at the beginning of December, he held meetings with 25 instructors from the pre-war ZHP. Kamiński went with them to the meeting of OHPL activists in Łódź, which was transformed into the \"All-Poland Meeting of Scouting Activists\" (National Congress of Scouting Activists). He became a member of the Supreme Scouting Council and was later elected Chairman.\n\nHowever, Kamiński held the position of the Chairman of the council for less than a year and a half. He resigned under pressure from the forces that sought to subjugate ZHP ideologically to the Polish United Workers' Party.\n\nIn 1958, Kamiński returned to work at the University of Łódź, where he headed the Department of Social Pedagogy. In 1958, he was a member of the National Committee of the Front of National Unity.\n\nIn 1959 he obtained his postdoctoral degree on the basis of his work \"Prehistory of Polish Youth Associations\", and in March 1969 he was awarded the title of Associate Professor.\n\nActive in the Polish Teachers Association and in the Polish Mental Hygiene Association, member of the Committee of Pedagogical and Psychological Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences. At the beginning of the 1970s, on the order of the authorities, Kamiński prepared a report on the consequences of possible introduction of work free Saturdays.\n\nAfter retiring in 1972, he returned to Warsaw, where he died on 15 March 1978. Buried at the Powązki Military Cemetery, Warsaw, in the quarters of the Home Army Scouting Battalion \"Zoska\" (A20-1-13). In the end Kamiński rested next to Rudy, Alek and Zośka, who were so close to him as the heroes of \"Stones for the Rampart\".\n\nOn 5 May 1991, the Yad Vashem Institute posthumously awarded Aleksander Kamiński the title of \"Righteous Among the Nations\" for his help given during the occupation to members of the Jewish scouts' organization and the Jewish resistance movement.\n\nOn 22 February 2008, on the Fraternal Thought Day, during the celebrations connected with the honorary patronage of 5 scouting organizations, the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński posthumously awarded Aleksander Kamiński the Commander's Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta.\n\n\n\n\nBy resolution of 9 January 2003, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland decided to designate the year 2003 as the Year of Aleksander Kamiński.\n\nOn 24 September 2005, the first monument in Poland to Aleksander Kamiński was unveiled in the Old Town Park in Łódź. Also in Łódź, on the wall of the house at No. 30, on the street bearing the name of Aleksander Kamiński, is a plaque commemorating his place of residence in the city. His bust is also located in the Royal Baths in Warsaw.\n\nIn 2014, Kamiński was a patron of the Łódź ZHP Banner, the Youth Palace in Katowice, 15 schools and 27 strains, teams and scout troops.\n"}
{"id": "2294417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294417", "title": "Psychic Detective (video game)", "text": "Psychic Detective (video game)\n\nPsychic Detective is a 1995 interactive movie video game that uses extensive amounts of live-action footage and features dozens of professional character actors. It was written by Michael Kaplan and directed by John Sanborn.\n\nThis game is not to be confused with the Japanese-only Psychic Detective series of adventure games developed by DataWest.\n\nThe game is set in San Francisco where the player assumes the role of Eric Fox (Kevin Breznahan), a psychic who earns his living doing a magic act in a seedy nightclub. One night, he is approached by the exotic Laina Pozok (Beata Pozniak), who senses that Eric is more powerful than he imagines. She trains Eric to \"hitch hike\" into people's minds. He sees what his subject sees, and hears what his subject hears; meanwhile, his body continues to interact with the world around him in an \"automatic pilot-like\" state. Laina hires Eric to attend a wake being held in honor of her father, who has died under mysterious circumstances.\n\nThe game begins when Eric enters the Pozok household, and is given the choice to remain in his body, or hitch hike aboard any one of a number of characters he encounters. Eric also has the ability to pick up objects and take a psychic reading of them, providing more clues to help solve the Pozok murder case. Before long, Eric is embroiled in a conspiracy involving a powerful religious cult, spies, and family intrigue, and he also has to deal with his growing romantic attachment to Laina. Occasionally throughout the game, Eric obtains access to \"psychic collectors\" which amplify his abilities and allow him to affect the moods and attitudes of the people around him, but at a cost.\n\n\"Psychic Detective\" is generally presented in first person (except during cut scenes), with icons appearing at intervals on the screen signifying people and objects Eric can interact with. Each game generally takes about 45 minutes to play, however multiple plays are required in order to uncover all aspects of the storyline, and there are a dozen alternate endings possible; depending upon the choices made by the player, many different storylines are uncovered, including one that occurs if the player makes no choices and simply watches events unfold. Occasional cut scenes timed to occur at certain points break the storyline into chapters, but which cut scene is viewed depends upon Eric's actions. The endgame portion of \"Psychic Detective\" breaks from the linear narrative and involves Eric playing a surreal board game against the villain.\n\n\"Psychic Detective\" was the brainchild of producer Jim Simmons, but the project ultimately involved nearly 200 people: 21 game developers at EA Studios, 80 film crew, and 95 actors. \n\nThe filming of the video sequences was handled by Colossal Pictures. The footage was shot on location in San Francisco and Oakland, California on twenty days over roughly six weeks.\n\nAccording to John Sanborn, development took over two years: Three months of brainstorming, six months of writing, and one year of editing and programming. The individual segments were edited in Adobe Premiere and authored in a proprietary Electronic Arts software.\n\nThe game was released on the PC, PlayStation and 3DO. The game includes adult language and sexual content in the PC and 3DO versions, which was censored from the PlayStation version.\n\nLive action footage from \"Psychic Detective\" was edited together to create a short film that was shown at a film festival in the mid-1990s.\n\nThe game received mixed reviews on its first release. Arinn Dembo, writing for Computer Gaming World, gave the game 4 stars. GameSpot gave the PC version a 4.7, calling the game \"innovative\", but asserting that the overabundance of interaction and storyline branches turns the experience into a confusing mess. They concluded \"Instead of being like a good movie enhanced by interactivity, Psychic Detective is a more like a movie... clouded with interactive options that eventually detract from the project.\"\n\n\"GamePro\" gave the 3DO version a positive review, calling it \"an entertaining interactive mystery game with an adult sensibility.\" They found the game an engaging challenge due to the need to be head-hopping in the right person at the right time and listen carefully to the complex dialogue, and praised the sharpness of the full-motion video graphics.\n\nReviewing the PlayStation version in \"Maximum\", David Hodgson complimented the uniqueness of the \"more 'adult' storyline\", but contended that full motion video-based games are not worth playing regardless of gameplay or content. He scored it 2 out of 5 stars. \"GamePro\", while warning that the game is strictly for older players, praised it for having a good murder mystery, \"Clean full-motion video (although mostly in a small-screen format), great sound, and more fun than \"Snowjob\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2294433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294433", "title": "Mary Collinson", "text": "Mary Collinson\n\nMary Collinson (born 22 July 1952 in Malta) is a model and actress. She was chosen as \"Playboy\" magazine's Playmate of the Month in October 1970, together with her twin sister Madeleine Collinson. They were the first identical twin Playmate sisters.\n\nThe Collinson twins first arrived in Britain in April 1969, and prior to their appearance in \"Playboy\" one of the first people to use them was the glamour photographer/film maker Harrison Marks who cast them as saucy maids in his short film \"Halfway Inn\". The film, made for the 8mm market, was shot sometime between their British arrival, and July 1970, when a still from the film was used in a Marks' advert that ran in that month's issue of \"Continental Film Review\" magazine.\n\nHer sister is quoted in \"The Playmate Book\" as saying that Mary has two daughters and now lives in Milan with an \"Italian gentleman,\" who she has been with for more than 20 years.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294437", "title": "Batman: Son of the Demon", "text": "Batman: Son of the Demon\n\nBatman: Son of the Demon is a 1987 graphic novel by writer Mike W. Barr and artist Jerry Bingham, published by DC Comics. It was released in both hardcover and softcover formats. \n\nAlthough it was deemed to be non-canon, Grant Morrison used this story in the 4-issue story \"Batman and Son\" in 2006. DC Comics published a new printing of \"Batman: Son of the Demon\" in 2006 featuring new cover art by Andy Kubert for the first time in standard comic book size with a cover price of $5.99 US, tying in with the \"Batman and Son\" arc.\n\nThe story centers on the eco-terrorist and head of the League of Assassins, Ra's al Ghul aiding Batman in his quest to solve the murder of Harris Blaine, one of Gotham City's most prominent scientists. Ra's al Ghul and Batman turn out to be searching for the same man, the terrorist known as Qayin. Qayin is a rogue assassin who had murdered Ra's al Ghul's wife Melisande, mother to his favorite daughter and heir-apparent, Talia, by throwing her into an early version of a Lazarus Pit. Batman has shared a stormy, on-again, off-again romance with Talia for many years, despite his ideological conflict with Ra's. During the course of the storyline, Batman has time to properly romance Talia. When Batman asks if there should have been a marriage ceremony of some sort, Talia replies that there already has been: her father had previously, in a bid to stop Batman from interfering with his plans, performed such a ceremony in the tradition of his own country, where only the consent of the bride was needed to constitute a marriage. Talia soon becomes pregnant, and the prospect of a family has a profound effect on Batman's demeanor, making him more risk-averse and softening his typically grim outlook. Batman is nearly killed protecting the recently pregnant (and still very dangerous in her own right) Talia from an attack by the assassin's agents. Observing Batman's dangerous and overly protective behavior, Talia resolves that she cannot allow him to continue to act in such a manner, as he will almost certainly be killed. To that end, Talia claims to have miscarried. Crushed by the news, Batman returns to his typically grim disposition, and he and Talia agree to have the marriage dissolved. Batman returns to Gotham, never knowing Talia is still carrying his child.\n\nThe child, a boy, is born and left with an orphanage, and soon adopted by a Western couple. The only hint of his impressive heritage is a jewel-encrusted necklace, a gift Bruce gave to Talia just before Qayin attacked Ra's' HQ.\n\nHilary Goldstein of IGN ranked \"Batman: Son of the Demon\" #5 on a list of the 25 greatest Batman graphic novels, calling it \"the best Ra's story ever told\" and \"one of the most well-paced action tales you'll ever read.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2294440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294440", "title": "TMC (TV channel)", "text": "TMC (TV channel)\n\nTMC () is a Franco–Monégasque general entertainment television channel, owned by the French media holding company TF1 Group.\n\nThe oldest private channel in Europe, TMC dates back to 1954, inaugurated by Rainier III, Prince of Monaco. Like several other European television channels, its first major broadcast was one relating to the country's reigning dynasty, in this case the marriage of Prince Rainier III and Grace Kelly. As a result of an agreement between Prince Rainier III and the French President François Mitterrand, TMC was able to be broadcast as far west as Montpellier, France, tripling its coverage (three million potential viewers).\n\nIn 1987 the channel was carried for a few hours on M6, a French television service — which made it available to much more of France — and the channel was eventually carried by CanalSat and became available in all of France and the Indian Ocean area. The channel also won a spot on the French language digital terrestrial television scheme, demonstrating its wide appeal.\n\nThe channel was owned jointly by the TF1 Group (40%), the AB Group (40%) and the Government of Monaco (20%). In 2010, TF1 Group bought AB Group's shares, In 2016, TF1 bought the Government of Monaco's shares, and now owns 100% of the channel.\n\nUntil 1995 TMC was a member of the European Broadcasting Union as a part of Radio Monte-Carlo (RMC). Currently the Monégasque membership is held by Groupement de Radiodiffuseurs Monégasques (GRMC), a joint organisation by Monte-Carlo Radiodiffusion (RMC) and Radio Monte Carlo (RMC).\n\nTélé Monte Carlo shows a variety of programmes, including many imports. It also produces much original programming that include news magazines, cooking shows, and talkshows, which include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294442", "title": "KDE Software Compilation 4", "text": "KDE Software Compilation 4\n\nKDE Software Compilation 4 (KDE SC 4) was the only series of the so-called KDE Software Compilation (short: KDE SC), first released in January 2008 and the last release being 4.14.3 released in November 2014. It was the follow-up to K Desktop Environment 3. Following KDE SC 4, the compilation was broken up into basic framework libraries, desktop environment and applications, which are termed KDE Frameworks 5, KDE Plasma 5 and KDE Applications, respectively.\n\nMajor releases (4.x) were released every six months, while minor bugfix releases (4.x.y) were released monthly.\n\nThe series included updates to several of the KDE Platform’s core components, notably a port to Qt 4. It contained a new multimedia API, called Phonon, a device integration framework called Solid and a new style guide and default icon set called Oxygen. It also included a new, unified desktop and panel user interface called Plasma, which supported desktop widgets, replacing K Desktop Environment 3’s separate components.\n\nOne of the overall goals of KDE Platform 4 was to make it easy for KDE applications to be portable to different operating systems. This was made possible by the port to Qt 4, which facilitated support for non-X11-based platforms, including Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. Versions 4.0 to 4.3 of KDE Software Compilation were known simply as \"KDE 4\" – the name change was a component of the KDE project’s re-branding to reflect KDE’s increased scope.\n\nThis is a short overview of major changes in KDE Software Compilation 4.\n\nThe port to the Qt 4 series was expected to enable KDE 4 to use less memory and be noticeably faster than KDE 3. The KDE libraries themselves have also been made more efficient. However, tests reveal that KDE 4.4 has the highest memory utilization on default Ubuntu installations when compared to GNOME 2.29, Xfce 4.6, and LXDE 0.5. Qt 4 is available under the LGPL for Mac OS X and Windows, which allows KDE 4 to run on those platforms. The ports to both platforms are in an early state. , KDE Software compilation 4 on Mac OS X is considered beta, while on Windows it is not in the final state, so applications can be unsuitable for day to day use yet. Both ports are trying to use as little divergent code as possible to make the applications function almost identically on all platforms. During \"Summer of Code 2007\" an icon cache was created to decrease application start-up times for use in KDE 4. Improvements were varied – Kfind, an application which used several hundred icons, started up in about a quarter of the time it took previously. Other applications and a full KDE session started up a little over a second faster.\n\nMany applications in the Extragear and KOffice modules have received numerous improvements with the new features of KDE 4 and Qt 4. But since they follow their own release schedule, they were not all available at the time of the first KDE 4 release – these include Amarok, K3b, digiKam, KWord, and Krita.\n\nThe most noticeable changes for users are the new icons, theme and sounds provided by the Oxygen Project. These represent a break from previous KDE icons and graphics, which had a cartoonish look. Instead Oxygen icons opt for a more photorealistic style. The Oxygen Project builds on the freedesktop.org Icon Naming Specification and Icon Theme Specification, allowing consistency across applications. The Oxygen team uses community help for better visuals in KDE 4, with both alternate icon sets and the winners of a wallpaper contest held by the Oxygen project being included in KDE 4. There is also a new set of human interface guidelines for a more standardized layout.\n\nPlasma provides the main desktop user interface and is a rewrite of several core KDE applications, like the desktop drawing and most notably the widget engine. Plasma allows a more customisable desktop and more versatile widgets.\n\nKWin, the KDE Window Manager, now provides its own compositing effects, similar to Compiz.\n\nPhonon is the name of the multimedia API in KDE 4. Phonon is a different approach to multimedia backends than in previous versions of KDE. This is because Phonon only functions as a wrapper, abstracting the various multimedia frameworks available for Unix-like operating systems into runtime switchable backends that can be accessed through a single API. This was done to provide a stable API for KDE 4 and to prevent it from depending on a single multimedia framework. Applications that use the Phonon API can be switched between multimedia frameworks seamlessly by simply changing the backend used in System Settings. Nokia adopted Phonon for multimedia use in Qt 4.4 and are developing backends for Gstreamer, Windows and OS X in the KDE SVN repository under the LGPL.\n\nSolid is the hardware API in KDE 4. It functions similarly to Phonon as it does not manage hardware on its own but makes existing solutions accessible through a single API. The current solution uses HAL, NetworkManager and BlueZ (the official Linux bluetooth stack), but any and all parts can be replaced without breaking the application, making applications using Solid extremely flexible and portable.\n\nThreadWeaver is a programming library to help applications take advantage of multicore processors and is included with kdelibs.\n\nKross is the new scripting framework for KDE 4. Kross itself is not a scripting language, but makes it easier for developers to add support for other scripting languages. Once an application adds support for Kross, any language Kross supports can be used by developers. New scripting languages can be added by creating a plugin for Kross, which benefits all applications using it.\n\nDecibel is a Telepathy-based communication framework, which was expected to be fully used by Kopete by KDE 4.2, but which is reported to be postponed indefinitely.\nStrigi is the default search tool for KDE 4, chosen for its speed and few dependencies. In concert with other software like Soprano, an RDF storage framework, and the NEPOMUK specification, Strigi will provide the beginnings of a semantic desktop in KDE 4. Users can tag files with additional information through Dolphin, which Strigi can index for more accurate searches.\n\nKDE 4 uses CMake for its build system. Since previous versions of KDE were only on Unix systems, autotools were used, but a new build system was needed for builds on operating systems like Windows. CMake also dramatically simplified the build process. The autotools build system had become so complicated by KDE 3 that few developers understood it, requiring hours of work for simple changes. In early 2007 CMake was shown to compile KDE 4 version of KDElibs 40 % faster than the autotools compiled KDE 3 version.\n\nDXS, previously known as GHNS (Get Hot New Stuff) and now adopted by freedesktop.org, is a web service that lets applications download and install data from the Internet with one click. It was used in the KDE 3 series but has been extended for use throughout KDE 4. One example was Kstars, that can use Astronomical data that is free for personal use but cannot be redistributed. DXS allows that data to be easily downloaded and installed from within the application instead of manually downloading it.\n\nAkonadi is a new PIM framework for KDE 4. Akonadi is a unification of previously separate KDE PIM components. In the past each application would have its own method for storing information and handling data. Akonadi itself functions as a server that provides data and search functions to PIM applications. It is also able to update the status of contacts. So if one application changes information about a contact, all other applications are immediately informed of the change.\n\nThe majority of development went into implementing most of the new technologies and frameworks of KDE 4. Plasma and the Oxygen style were two of the biggest user-facing changes.\n\nDolphin replaces Konqueror as the default file manager in KDE 4.0. This was done to address complaints of Konqueror being too complicated for a simple file manager. However Dolphin and Konqueror will share as much code as possible, and Dolphin can be embedded in Konqueror to allow Konqueror to still be used as a file manager.\n\nOkular replaces several document viewers used in KDE 3, like KPDF, KGhostView and KDVI. Okular makes use of software libraries and can be extended to view almost any kind of document. Like Konqueror and KPDF in KDE 3, Okular can be embedded in other applications.\n\nOn 11 May 2007, KDE 4.0 Alpha 1 was released marking the end of the addition of large features to KDE base libraries and shifting the focus onto integrating the new technologies into applications and the basic desktop. Alpha 1 included new frameworks to build applications with, providing improved hardware and multimedia integration through Solid and Phonon. Dolphin and Okular were integrated and a new visual appearance was provided through Oxygen icons.\n\nOn 4 July 2007, Alpha 2 was released. The release focused on integrating the Plasma desktop, improving functionality and stabilizing KDE.\n\nOn 2 August 2007, Beta 1 was released. Major features included a pixmap cache – speeding up icon loading, KDE PIM improvements, improved KWin effects and configuration, better interaction between Konqueror and Dolphin and Metalink support added to KGet for improved downloads.\n\nOn 6 September 2007, Beta 2 was released with improved BSD and Solaris support. The release included the addition of the Blitz graphic library – allowing for developers to use high performance graphical tricks like icon animation – and an overhaul of KRDC (K Remote Desktop Client) for Google’s \"Summer of Code\". Plasma was also integrated with Amarok to provide Amarok’s central context view.\n\nOn 16 October 2007, Beta 3 was released. The beta 3 release was focused on stabilizing and finishing the design of libraries for the release of KDE Development Platform. Plasma received many new features including an applet browser. The educational software received many improvements in Marble and Parley (formerly known as KVoctrain) with bugfixes in other applications. A program called Step, an interactive physics simulator, was produced as part of the Google Summer of Code.\n\nOn 30 October 2007, Beta 4 was released. A list of release blockers was compiled, listing issues that need to be resolved before KDE will start with the release candidate cycle for the desktop. The goals were to focus on stabilization and fixing the release blockers.\n\nAt the same time, the first release candidate of KDE 4.0 Development Platform was released. The development platform contains all the base libraries to develop KDE applications, including \"high-level widget libraries, a network abstraction layer and various libraries for multimedia integration, hardware integration and transparent access to resources on the network.\"\n\nOn 20 November 2007, Release Candidate (RC) 1 was released. This release was called a \"Release Candidate\" despite Plasma requiring further work and not being ready for release. On 11 December 2007, RC2 was released. The codebase was declared feature-complete. Some work was still required to fix bugs, finish off artwork and smooth out the user experience.\n\nKDE 4 was released on 11 January 2008. Despite being labelled as a stable release, it was intended for early adopters.\nContinuing to use KDE 3.5 was suggested for users wanting a more stable, \"feature complete\" desktop.\n\nThe release of KDE 4.0 was met with a mixed reception. While early adopters were tolerant of the lack of finish for some of its new features, the release was widely criticized because of a lack of stability and its \"beta\" quality. Computerworld reporter Steven Vaughan-Nichols criticised KDE 4.0 and KDE 4.1 and called for a fork of KDE 3.5 by rebuilding it on top of Qt 4. The same reporter later praised KDE 4.3 and welcomed the KDE 3.5 continuation project \"Trinity\". Although Linus Torvalds switched from GNOME to KDE on December 2005, he switched back to GNOME after Fedora replaced KDE 3.5 with 4.0. In an interview with Computerworld, he described KDE 4.0 as a \"break everything\" model and \"half-baked\" release, claiming that he expected it to be an upgrade of KDE 3.5, when the reality was that there were significant cases of features being regressed due to its extensive changes. (Torvalds did point out, however, that he understood why the developers in charge of the KDE project had chosen to make such drastic changes to the desktop environment in KDE 4.0 and the reason for its premature release, and that his criticism was more on the way KDE 4.0 was pushed out to the public.) Despite the criticism, reviewers such as Ars Technica’s Ryan Paul noted that the visual style \"is very attractive and easy on the eyes\" and \"exhibits a relatively high level of polish\" and that \"the underlying technologies still have a lot of very serious potential\".\n\nKDE 4.1 was released on 29 July 2008. KDE 4.1 includes a shared emoticon theming system which is used in PIM and Kopete, and DXS, a service that lets applications download and install data from the Internet with one click. Also introduced are GStreamer, QuickTime 7, and DirectShow 9 Phonon backends. Plasma improvements include support for Qt 4 widgets and WebKit integration – allowing many Apple Dashboard widgets to be displayed. There will also be ports of some applications to Windows and Mac OS X.\n\nNew applications include:\n\nKDE 4.2 was released on 27 January 2009. The release is considered a significant improvement beyond KDE 4.1 in nearly all aspects, and a suitable replacement for KDE 3.5 for most users.\n\nThe 4.2 release includes thousands of bug fixes and has implemented many features that were present in KDE 3.5 but had been missing in KDE 4.0 and 4.1.\nThese include grouping and multiple row layout in the task bar, icon hiding in the system tray, panel autohiding, window previews and tooltips are back in the panel and task bar, notifications and job tracking by Plasma, and the ability to have icons on the desktop again by using a Folder View as the desktop background where icons now remain where they are placed.\n\nNew Plasma applets include applets for leaving messages on a locked screen, previewing files, switching desktop Activity, monitoring news feeds, and utilities like the pastebin applet, the calendar, timer, special character selector, a QuickLaunch widget, and a system monitor, among many others. The Plasma workspace can now load Google Gadgets. Plasma widgets can be written in Ruby and Python. Support for applets written in JavaScript and Mac OS X dashboard widgets has been further improved. Theming improvements in the Task Bar, Application Launcher, System Tray and most other Plasma components streamline the look and feel and increase consistency. A new System Settings module, Desktop Theme Details, gives the user control over each element of various Plasma themes. Wallpapers are now provided plugins, so developers can easily write custom wallpaper systems in KDE 4.2. Available wallpaper plugins in KDE 4.2 will be slideshows, Mandelbrot fractals, and regular static images.\n\nNew desktop effects have been added such as the Magic Lamp, Minimize effect and the Cube and Sphere desktop switchers. Others, such as the desktop grid, have been improved. The user interface for choosing effects has been reworked for easy selection of the most commonly used effects. Compositing desktop effects have been enabled by default where hardware and drivers support them. Automatic checks confirm that compositing works before enabling it on the workspace.\n\nKRunner – the \"Run command…\" dialog – has extended functionality through several new plugins, including spellchecking, Konqueror browser history, power management control through PowerDevil, KDE Places, Recent Documents, and the ability to start specific sessions of the Kate editor, Konqueror and Konsole. The converter plugin now also supports quickly converting between units of speed, mass and distances.\n\nMulti-screen support has been improved through the Kephal library, fixing many bugs when running KDE on more than one monitor.\n\nNew applications include PowerDevil, a power management system for controlling various aspects of mobile devices. A new printing configuration system brings back a number of features users have been missing in KDE 4.0 and 4.1. The components \"printer-applet\" and \"system-config-printer-kde\" are shipped with the kdeadmin and kdeutils module. Killbots is a new game shipped with the kdegames module.\n\nAll applications have seen bugfixes, feature additions and user interface improvements. Dolphin now supports previews of files in toolbars and has gained a slider to zoom in and out on file item views. It can now also show the full path in the breadcrumb bar. Konqueror offers increased loading speed by prefetching domain name data in KHTML. A find-as-you-type bar improves navigation in webpages. KMail has a new message header list, and reworked attachment view. The KWrite and Kate text editors can now operate in Vi input mode, accommodating those used to the traditional UNIX editor. Ark, the archiving tool has gained support for password-protected archives and is accessible via a context menu from the file managers now. KRDC, the remote desktop client improves support for Microsoft’s Active Directory through LDAP. Kontact has gained a new planner summary and support for drag and drop in the free/busy view. KSnapshot now uses the window title when saving screenshots, making it easier to index them using search engines.\n\nThe KDE 4.2 release \"marks the end of the testing phase by being the first release ready for everyone – instead of just developers and enthusiasts\" according to Thom Holwerda, a member of OSNews.\n\nKDE 4.3 was released on 4 August 2009. Polishing KDE 4 was a focus of 4.3, with this release being described as incremental and lacking in major new features. KDE 4.3 fixed over 10,000 bugs and implemented almost 2,000 feature requests. Integration with other technologies, such as PolicyKit, NetworkManager & Geolocation services, was another focus of this release. KRunner’s interface has been overhauled. A much more flexible system tray has been developed. Many new Plasmoids have been added, including the openDesktop.org Plasmoid – an initial take on the Social Desktop. Plasma also receives more keyboard shortcuts.\n\nKDE SC 4.4 was released on 9 February 2010 and is based on version 4.6 of the Qt 4 toolkit. As such, KDE SC 4.4 carries Qt’s performance improvements as well as Qt 4.6's new features, such as the new animation framework \"Kinetic\".\n\nKAddressBook Is replaced by a completely new application with the same name – previously tentatively called KContactManager. Key features of the new KAddressBook are Akonadi integration and a streamlined user interface.\n\nAnother major new feature is an additional new Plasma interface, targeted towards netbooks.\n\nKopete is released as version 1.0.\n\nKAuth, a cross-platform authentication API, made its début in KDE SC 4.4. Initially only PolicyKit is supported as back-end.\n\nKDE SC 4.5 was released on 10 August 2010. New features include the integration of the WebKit library, an open-source web browser engine, which is used in major browsers such as Apple Safari and Google Chrome. KDE's own KHTML engine will continue to be developed.\n\nKPackage has been deprecated. KPackageKit was suggested to replace it but it didn't make it to replace it.\n\nKDE SC 4.6 was released on 26 January 2011 and has better OpenGL compositing along with the usual myriad of fixes and features.\n\nKDE SC 4.7 was released on 28 July 2011. This version updated KWin in order to be compatible with OpenGL ES 2.0, which will enhance its portability to mobile and tablet platforms. Other optimizations, such as the use of Qt Quick, were made in order to enhance this portability. This version also brought updates and enhancements to Plasma Desktop such as better network management and updates to certain widgets (like the Kickoff menu) as well as activities.\n\nAside from the desktop environment, version 4.7 updates many applications within the Software Compilation. Dolphin file manager has been updated to include a cleaner user interface. Marble, the virtual globe software, now supports voice navigation, a map creation wizard, as well as many new plugins. Gwenview image viewer now allows users to compare two or more photos side by side. The Kontact database has also been ported to Akonadi which allows the database to be easily accessible from other applications. Furthermore, the KMail database has also been ported to Akonadi. DigiKam has been updated to support face detection, image versioning, and image tagging. Other applications such as Kate, Kalzium, KAlgebra, KStars, and KDevelop have also been updated in this release. Moreover, version 4.7 fixed over 12,000 bugs.\n\nRelease 4.8 was made available on 25 January 2012.\n\nKWin’s rendering performance was increased by optimizing effect rendering. Window resizing was improved as well.\nOther KWin features are: QML based Window switcher (Tabbox), AnimationEffect class and initial Wayland support.\n\nA new major version of Dolphin shipped with KDE Applications 4.8. It has improved performance, better file name display, animated transitions, and many other new and improved features.\n\nCantor shipped with additional back-ends based on Scilab and Qalculate.\n\nKDE SC 4.9 was made available on 1 August 2012. The release featured several improvements to the Dolphin file manager, including the reintroduction of in-line file renaming, back and forward mouse buttons, improvement of the places panel and better usage of file metadata. Additionally, there were several improvements to KWin and Konsole. Activities were better integrated with the workspace. Several applications were updated, including Okular, Kopete, Kontact, and educational applications.\n\nKDE SC 4.10 was released on 6 February 2013. Many of the default Plasma widgets were rewritten in QML, and Nepomuk, Kontact and Okular received significant speed improvements.\n\n4.11 was released on 14 August 2013. Kontact and Nepomuk received many optimizations. The first generation Plasma Workspaces entered maintenance-only development mode.\n\nKDE SC 4.12 was released on 18 December 2013. Kontact received substantial improvements.\n\nKDE SC 4.13 was released on 16 April 2014. Nepomuk semantic desktop search was replaced with KDE's in house Baloo. KDE SC 4.13 was released in 53 different translations.\n\nKDE SC 4.14 was released on 20 August 2014. The release primarily focused on stability, with numerous bugs fixed and few new features added. This was the final KDE SC 4 release.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294443", "title": "Antonio Mira de Amescua", "text": "Antonio Mira de Amescua\n\nAntonio Mira de Amescua (1578?1636?), Spanish dramatist, was born at Guadix (Granada) about 1578. He is said, but doubtfully, to have been the illegitimate son of one Juana Perez. He took orders, obtained a canonry at Guadix, and settled at Madrid early in the 17th century. He is mentioned as a prominent dramatist in \"Rojas Villandrandos Loa\" (1603), which was written several years before it was published. In 1610, being then arch-dean of Guadix, he accompanied the count de Lemos to Naples, and on his return to Spain was appointed (1619) chaplain to the Cardinale-Infante Ferdinand of Austria; he is referred to as still alive in Montalbán's \"Para todos\" (1632), and he collaborated with Montalbán and Calderón in \"Polifemo y Circe\", printed in 1634. The date of his death is not known.\n\nMira de Amescua's plays are dispersed in various printed collections, and the absence of a satisfactory edition has prevented, his due recognition. He has an evenness of execution which indicates an artistic conscience uncommon in Spanish playwrights; he resisted the temptation to write too much, and he unites a virile dignity of expression to impressive conception of character.\n\nTwo of his plays\"La adversa fortuna de Don Bernardo de Cabrera\" and \"El ejemplo mayor de la desdicha\"are respectively the sources of Rotrou's \"Don Bernardo de la Cabrère\" and \"Belisaire\"; Moreto's \"Caer para levantar\" is simply a recast of Mira's \"El Esclavo del demonio\", a celebrated drama which clearly influenced Calderón when composing \"La Devoción de la cruz\"; and there is manifestly a close relation between Mira's \"La Rueda de la fortuna\" on the one hand and Corneille's \"Héraclius\" and Calderón's \"En esta vida todo es verdad y todo es mentira\". A few of Mira de Amescua's plays are reprinted in the \"Biblioteca de autores españoles\", vol. xlv.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294448", "title": "Automatism (law)", "text": "Automatism (law)\n\nAutomatism is a rarely used criminal defence. It is one of the mental condition defences that relate to the mental state of the defendant. Automatism can be seen variously as lack of voluntariness, lack of culpability (unconsciousness) or excuse (Schopp). Automatism means that the defendant was not aware of his or her actions when making the particular movements that constituted the illegal act. For example, Esther Griggs in 1858 threw her child out of a first floor window believing that the house was on fire, while having a sleep terror. In 2002, Peter Buck, lead guitarist of the band R.E.M., was cleared of several charges, including assault, which resulted from automatism brought on by a bad interaction between alcohol and sleeping pills. In a 2009 case in Aberporth in west Wales, Brian Thomas strangled his wife in their camper van, also during a sleep terror, when he mistook his wife for an intruder. The defence of automatism is denying that the person was acting in the sense that the criminal law demands. As such it is really a denial-of-proof – the defendant is asserting that the offence is not made out. The prosecution does not have to disprove the defence as is sometimes erroneously reported; the prosecution has to prove all the elements of the offence including the voluntary act requirement. Automatism is a defence even against strict liability crimes like dangerous driving, where no intent is necessary.\n\nThere are several limitations to the defence of automatism in English law. Prior fault generally excludes automatism. Intoxication generally excludes automatism, even when involuntary. Any defence that rests on insanity comes under the M'Naghten rules. Under English law internal causes of automatism are generally judged to be insane automatism and so result in the special verdict ('not guilty by reason of insanity') rather than simple acquittal.\n\nAutomatism is arguably the only defence that excludes responsibility by negating the existence of the actus reus which uniquely allows it to be a defence to both conventional and strict liability offences (although this argument could be extended to the status defence of insanity too). Strict automatism is a denial of actus reus and therefore most commonly used as a defence against strict liability offences. There are a number of reasons why a person may go into a state of automatism, including dissociation or hypo/hyperglycemia. Unconsciousness is the defence of denial of mens rea, which is easier to prove and hence more commonly used for non-strict liability crimes. For example, in cases of homicidal sleepwalking the illegal act is typically not denied but the intent to kill is. The defendant will typically be perplexed and confused and will not cover up the episode. Kenneth Parks, after killing his mother-in-law and severely injuring his father-in-law, drove to the police station stating that he thought he'd killed some people. The person's movements seem purposeful - the sleepwalker interacts with his environment in a limited way. Nonetheless the sleepwalker is not conscious of his actions. The use of the term automatism for these situations causes some confusion, as in these cases it is really the lack of intent on the part of the defendant which denies the mens rea of the offence rather than the actus reus (although this distinction is problematic in many instances), better called unconsciousness. Intention is a problem in crimes of strict liability. Very few people intend to crash their vehicles, so clearly something better than intent is required to define automatism.\n\nAnother issue with automatism is that when the issue is raised by the defence as a realistic defence (an evidentiary basis), the prosecution then has to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the defendant was acting voluntarily. This is the case for several other defences e.g. duress. The justification for this is that voluntary action is part of the definition of the offence, and therefore something under the presumption of innocence the prosecution has to prove. The evidentiary burden was laid down in \"Hill v Baxter\" where the defence of automatism failed because there was no good evidence for the alleged blackout. Evidentiary burden means that the defendant needs to provide evidence to satisfy the judge that the issue should be put to the jury, which normally requires medical evidence (although \"R v Woolley\", in which an HGV driver crashed after sneezing, proved an exception).\n\nBecause automatism is such a comprehensive defence, there are various exclusions to an automatism defence. The person must not be at fault. The classic example of this is falling asleep at the wheel of a car (\"Kay v Butterworth\"). Although one is not responsible for acts done while asleep, one can be held responsible for driving in a state where one would fall asleep at the wheel. The issue of prior fault applies to many diabetics who suffer hypoglycaemia while driving. Voluntary (and often involuntary) intoxication cannot cause legal automatism.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, there is a distinction made between 'sane automatism' and 'insane automatism'. Where the involuntariness is caused by a mental illness, or 'disease of the mind', as per the M'Naghten Rules, it will be regarded as 'insane automatism' and will often result in a special verdict of 'not guilty by reason of insanity'. This can have significant practical effects for the defendant, as they still may be detained after a special verdict as opposed to the straight acquittal available through sane automatism.\n\nThe M'Naghten Rules require a \"disease of mind\", which requires an internal cause. This is medically nonsensical, and does not always bear much relationship to continuing risk which is the main justification. This means that insane automatisms do not require total loss of voluntary control (see below). Thus they are easier to prove in some circumstances, but conversely the burden of proof is on the defendant. Sleepwalking was initially an exception to the internal/external doctrine until the case of \"R v Burgess\".\n\nThe most contentious qualifier is that there must be a total loss of control. In \"Attorney-General's Reference No 2 of 1992\", this definition of legal automatism was confirmed. A lorry driver had crashed, and his defence (backed up by expert evidence) was that the monotony of motorway driving had caused him to go into a state of 'driving without awareness' where although he could make minor adjustments to follow the road he was not truly conscious of driving. This followed the decisions of \"Watmore v Jenkins\" and \"Broome v Perkins\" where diabetic drivers who had driven 3 miles or more were held to not have the total loss of control necessary for the defence of automatism. This definition is problematic, and the Law Commission, Butler Committee and leading legal academic R. D. Mackay have all argued that this definition is too restrictive.\n\nClassically automatisms in the legal sense have been defined as spasms, reflexes, convulsions or acts committed in a state of unconsciousness e.g. sleep. However, there have been cases where the automatism defence was successful when none of these apply. In \"R v T\" the defendant had been raped a few days prior to committing a robbery. She was clearly conscious of what she was doing, but in a dissociative state due to post-traumatic stress disorder from being raped. However, in \"R v Isitt\", when the defendant drove away from a collision and evaded a police roadblock in a dissociative state, the defence was not successful. The Ontario Court of Appeal expressed a logical way of distinguishing such cases in \"Rabey v The Queen\". There the defendant went into a dissociative state due to being spurned. It was held that such a commonplace occurrence was not the sort of external stimulus that would cause legal automatism (although the insanity plea would be open to him).\n\nThe problem with omissions and automatism is that the strict legal definition requires total loss of control. A person may well not be able to avoid a crash even though he has some residual control. In this case, the law is imposing liability for failing to do the impossible. Several commentators, including H. L. A. Hart, have suggested that responsibility for omissions must be framed with reference to the actor's capabilities at the time, rather than the objective test.\n\nLa Forest J. in the Canadian Supreme Court case of \"R v Parks\", asserted that automatism is \"conceptually a subset of the voluntariness requirement\". One of the main rationales of criminal law is to use the threat of punishment as a deterrent to future wrongdoing. But, if an individual is to be deterred, he or she must be acting under voluntary control. If something is interfering with this control, automatism may be available as an excuse. Duress is not an example of involuntary action as although the choices faced by the person under duress may be difficult, nonetheless they are still acting voluntarily. Some would describe action under duress as non-voluntary as opposed to involuntary. This distinction is emphasized by the exclusion of the defense of duress for murder. In the words of the Queensland Court of Criminal Appeal in \"R v Milloy\", Thomas J says, that for automatism to succeed:\n\nOne of the difficulties is defining what a voluntary action is and is not. Words like \"willed\" have the same difficulty: a voluntary action is one that is willed, whatever that means. In Australia, \"Ryan v The Queen\", the defendant entered a shop with a loaded rifle for a robbery. In a sudden attack, the shop assistant caught the appellant by surprise, causing him by a reflex action to discharge the gun, killing the assistant instantly. The Crimes Act 1900 (NSW) requires that \"murder shall be committed where the \"act\" of the accused ... causing the death charged\". Barwick CJ said:\n\"That a crime cannot be committed except by an act or omission is axiomatic. It is basic, in my opinion, that the 'act' of an accused ... must be a 'willed', a voluntary act which has caused the death charged. It is the act which must be willed, though its consequences may not be intended.\"\n\nConcerning whether the firing of the gun was willed so as to constitute an 'act' for the purposes of the murder charge, Elliot comments that \"his reaction was like the sudden movement of a tennis player retrieving a difficult shot; not accompanied by conscious planning, but certainly not involuntary\". Despite accepting that the actual discharge was involuntary, Barwick CJ confirmed the murder conviction because \"the act causing death\" included the general circumstances in which the gun was fired. The judge and jury\n\nIn the U.S., in \"People v. Decina\" (1956) 2 NY2d 13 3, 143 the defendant had epilepsy. While driving his car, he had an epileptic seizure and the car went out of control, killing four people. Decina was convicted of negligent homicide because he had voluntarily driven an automobile without assistance knowing that a seizure was possible, breaching Penal Law 1053 on the negligent operation of a motor vehicle:\n\nThis reasoning matches that in English law where any foreseeable loss of control is excluded from automatism. To hold otherwise would be to excuse any driver or other person engaged in an activity where public safety is an issue, from the consequences of a loss of control that occurred after losing consciousness. Only sudden and unexpected health problems avoid culpability. In Scots law, \"Cardle v Mulrainey\" (1992) SCCR 658 applies the general requirement for cases involving a defence based on insanity or a comparable state, that there must be a total alienation of reason leading to a loss of self-control, to a case in which the accused claimed that he had involuntarily consumed a drug which had the effect that he knew what he was doing but was unable to refrain from acting (at 668):\n\nAustralian Model Criminal Code Committee state the law as follows (at 14–15):\n\nIn the U.S., \"People v Huey Newton\" (1970) 8 CA3d 359 holds that unconsciousness, when not self-induced (say, as by voluntary intoxication), is a complete defence to a criminal act even though the defendant's acts seem very goal-oriented. The medical evidence was that \"[a] gunshot wound which penetrates in a body cavity, the abdominal cavity or the thoracic cavity is very likely to produce a profound reflex shock reaction, that is quite different from a gunshot wound which penetrates only skin and muscle and it is not at all uncommon for a person shot in the abdomen to lose consciousness and go into this reflex shock condition for short periods of time up to half an hour or so.\" But the reflexive activity or unconsciousness need not cause physical collapse: it can exist where the subject physically acts in fact, but is not at the time conscious of acting (cf some European continental jurisdictions classify conduct resulting from automatism under the rubric of unconsciousness). In \"R. v. Cogdon\" (1950), unreported but noted in Morris, \"Somnambulistic Homicide: Ghosts, Spiders and North Koreans\" (1951) 5 \"Res Judicatae\" 29, the defendant struck her daughter on the head with an axe while sleepwalking and dreaming about North Koreans. Her movements were not voluntary, so she was acquitted. This interpretation of automatism is consistent with Lord Denning's \"dicta\" in \"Bratty v Attorney-General for Northern Ireland\" (1963) AC 386, at 409:\n\nSituations involving hypnotism, concussion, and sleepwalking may involve apparently deliberate and purposeful conduct. In fact this is the case for many situation where the defense of automatism is presented – spasms or reflex actions are rarely likely to be perceived as criminally liable acts. As for sleepwalking itself, the Canadian case of \"R v Parks\" exemplifies a certain judicial willingness to regard a sleepwalker as behaving as an automaton even though he had performed apparently goal-directed acts. The accused fell asleep in his living room. A few hours later he got up and drove 23 kilometres to his in-laws' home. Still asleep, he entered the house, found a knife in the kitchen and went to the bedroom where his in-laws were sleeping. He strangled and cut his father in-law, who survived the attack. The mother in-law died from the repeated stab wounds and the brutal beating. The medical experts at trial unanimously agreed that the accused was sleepwalking and that sleepwalking was not a 'disease of mind'. The Supreme Court agreed and held that sleepwalking can negate the voluntary ingredient of the \"actus reus\". There is widespread disagreement among forensic sleep experts that Kenneth Parks was in fact sleepwalking – it is not entirely clear the reason why the prosecution did not call its own experts on sleepwalking, one explanation being frank disbelief that the defence could succeed.\n\nThe point made in these cases is that the key component of the two categories of cases identified by Lord Denning in \"Bratty\" is a defendant's inability to control their behaviour and not the way in which loss or impairment of the conscious or deliberative functions of the mind arises. Similarly, under the Swedish Penal Code, acts during sleep and unconsciousness, reflex movements, spasms and convulsions, as well as acts performed under physical force or hypnosis are generally not punishable. Moreover, omissions caused by sleep, weakness, physical numbness or anaesthesia are generally not blameworthy. The issue is whether the accused had the ability to control the behaviour, including taking early precautions to avoid loss of control. But, in English law, the ruling in \"R v Sullivan\" (1984) AC 156 held that, for the purposes of the M'Naghten Rules, a disease of the mind need have no permanence, leading many academics to suggest that sleepwalkers might well be found to be suffering from a disease of the mind with internal causes unless there was clear evidence of an external causal factor. In \"R v Burgess\" the Court of Appeal ruled that the defendant who wounded a woman by hitting her with a video recorder while sleepwalking, was insane under the M'Naghten Rules. Lord Lane said, \"We accept that sleep is a normal condition, but the evidence in the instant case indicates that sleepwalking, and particularly violence in sleep, is not normal.\"\n\nOverall, this emphasis on control rather than consciousness is supported by clinical science. Michael Coles says:\n"}
{"id": "2294449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294449", "title": "1886 in archaeology", "text": "1886 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1886 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294450", "title": "USS Young (DD-312)", "text": "USS Young (DD-312)\n\nThe first USS \"Young\" (DD-312) was a \"Clemson\"-class destroyer in the United States Navy following World War I. She was named for John Young.\n\n\"Young\" was laid down on 28 January 1919 at San Francisco, California, by the Union Iron Works Plant of the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation; launched on 8 May 1919; sponsored by Mrs. John R. Nolan; designated DD-312 on 17 July 1920; and commissioned on 29 November 1920, Lieutenant H. J. Ray in command.\n\n\"Young\" fitted out at the Mare Island Navy Yard into December. Assigned to Division 34, Squadron 2, Pacific Fleet Destroyer Force, the destroyer remained inactive in the San Diego, California area through the end of 1921.\n\n\"Young\" departed San Diego on 14 January 1922, bound for Bremerton, Washington, and, proceeding via San Francisco, California, reached the Puget Sound Navy Yard on the 18th. Overhauled at Puget Sound, the destroyer departed the yard on 3 April and arrived at her home port, San Diego, on the 8th. The remainder of the year passed fairly uneventfully, with the destroyer continuing her largely anchored existence in San Diego harbor. However, she did fire short-range battle practices, operated briefly off the Mexican Coronados Islands, and recovered torpedoes for during the autumn of the year 1922.\n\nThe in-port routine changed the following year, when \"Young\" departed San Diego on 6 February 1923 and headed for Panama. En route, she stopped briefly at Magdalena Bay, the traditional target practice grounds for the Pacific Fleet, and fueled from before proceeding on south to the Pacific side of the Panama Canal Zone.\n\n\"Young\" participated in Fleet Problem I over the ensuing weeks. In this, the first Fleet Problem held by the United States Navy, the Battle Fleet was pitted against the Scouting Fleet augmented by a division of battleships. During the war games, \"Young\" performed antisubmarine screening for the dreadnoughts of the Battle Fleet and, when the scenario of exercises called for it, dashed in and made simulated torpedo attacks on the \"enemy\" battlewagons of the augmented Scouting Fleet. Upon completion of one phase of the exercises, she was present in Panama Bay when Secretary of the Navy Edwin C. Denby, accompanied by a party of congressmen embarked in the transport , reviewed the Fleet on 14 March.\n\n\"Young\" later departed Panamanian waters on 31 March and arrived back at San Diego on 11 April. She remained there until 25 June, when she headed north. She called at San Francisco from the 27th to the 29th and arrived at Tacoma, Washington, on 2 July. Two days later, in keeping with the occasion, \"Young\" sent her landing force ashore to march in Tacoma's Independence Day parade.\n\nAfter shifting to Seattle, \"Young\" underwent a period of upkeep alongside between 16 July and 17 August. During that time;, on 23 July, President Warren G. Harding, on a cruise to Alaska in \"Henderson\", reviewed the Fleet - one of his last official acts before his death a short time later.\n\nAfter spending a few days at Lake Washington following her upkeep period alongside \"Melville\", \"Young\" underwent a brief yard period at the Puget Sound Navy Yard before she sailed south, escorting Battle Division 4 to San Francisco Bay at the end of August. En route, \"Young\" practiced torpedo attacks through smoke screens as part of the slate of tactical exercises.\n\nFollowing a brief period moored at Pier 15, San Francisco, Division 11 got underway to return to San Diego on the morning of 8 September. As the ships made passage down the California coast, they conducted tactical and gunnery exercises in the course of what was also a competitive speed run of . Ultimately, when the weather worsened, the ships formed column on the squadron leader, . Unfortunately, through an error in navigation, the column swung east at about 2100, unaware of the danger that lurked in the fog dead ahead of them.\n\nAt 2105, \"Delphy\" - still steaming at - ran hard aground off Padernales Point, followed, in succession, by 6 other ships steaming in follow-the-leader fashion. Only quick action by the ships farthest astern prevented the total loss of the entire group.\n\n\"Young\", however, became one of the casualties. Her hull was torn by a jagged pinnacle, but she also ran into the still revolving propellers of the which did further damage to her hull. She swiftly capsized, heeling over on her starboard side within a minute and a half, trapping many of her engine and fire room personnel below. Lt. Cmdr. William L. Calhoun, \"Young's\" commanding officer, knew that there was no time to launch boats or rafts as the ship's list increased alarmingly following the grounding. Calhoun accordingly passed the word, through his \nexecutive officer, Lt. E. C. Herzinger, and Chief Boatswain's Mate Arthur Peterson, to make for the port side, to stick with the ship, and to not jump.\n\nWhile the survivors clung to their precarious, oily, surf-battered refuge, Boatswain's Mate Peterson proposed to swim 100 yards to a rocky outcropping to the eastward known as Bridge Rock. Before he could do so, however, providentially grounded between \"Young\" and Bridge Rock, shortening the escape route considerably. The two ships were about 75 yards apart.\n\nAt that juncture, Peterson dived into the sea and swam through the tumbling surf with a line to the nearby \"Chauncey\", which was also aground but in a far better predicament since she had remained on a comparatively even keel. The crew of \"Chauncey\" hauled Peterson aboard and made the line fast. Soon, a seven-man life raft from the \"Chauncey\" was on its way to \"Young\" as a makeshift ferry. The raft ultimately made 11 trips bringing the 70 \"Young\" survivors to safety. By 2330, the last men of the crew were on board \"Chauncey\"; at that point, Lt. Cmdr. Calhoun and Lt. Herzinger (the latter having returned to the ship after having been in the first raft across) left 'Young's' battered hull.\n\nIn the subsequent investigation of the Honda Point Disaster the Board of Investigation commended Lt. Cmdr. Calhoun for his \"coolness, intelligence, and seamanlike ability\" that was directly responsible for the \"greatly reduced loss of life.\" The Board also cited Boatswain's Mate Peterson for his \"extraordinary heroism\" in swimming through the turbulent seas with a line to Chauncey; Lt. Herzinger drew praise for his \"especially meritorious conduct\" in helping to save the majority of the ship's crew.\n\nRear Admiral S. E. W. Kittelle, Commander, Destroyer Squadrons, subsequently cited Lt. Cmdr. Calhoun's display of leadership and personality that saved \"three-quarters of the crew of the \"Young\"\" and Lt. Herzinger for his \"coolness and great assistance in the face of grave danger.\" Also commended by the admiral was Fireman First Class J. T. Scott, who attempted to close off the master oil valve to prevent a boiler explosion, volunteering to go below to the fireroom and go below the floor plates. The water, rapidly rising through the gashes in the ship's hull, however, prevented Scott from completing the task. He survived.\n\nTwenty men were lost in \"Young\", the highest death toll of any of the ships lost in the disaster at Point Honda.\n\nDecommissioned on 26 October 1923, \"Young\" was stricken from the Navy list on 20 November 1923 and ordered sold as a hulk.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294451", "title": "Tears on My Pillow", "text": "Tears on My Pillow\n\n\"Tears on My Pillow\" is a doo-wop song written by Sylvester Bradford and Al Lewis in 1958. The composition was first recorded by Little Anthony and the Imperials on End Records and was that group's debut recording under that name. The music was arranged by the great arranger Belford \"Sinky\" Hendricks who also arranged \"Two People in the World\", \"Hurts So Bad\", and \"Shimmy, Shimmy, Ko-Ko-Bop\". Their original recording of the song became a \"Billboard\" Top 10 Pop smash, peaking at #4, and was The Imperials' first million-seller. It was also a two-sided hit, with its flip side, \"Two People in the World,\" also becoming a major hit. Although it remains one of the Imperials' signature songs, \"Tears on My Pillow\" has been extensively covered, including a No. 1 in the UK Singles Chart version by Kylie Minogue in January 1990.\n\nEarly copies of the single were credited simply to \"The Imperials,\" a group which had previously been known as \"The Duponts\" and \"The Chesters.\" Brooklyn, New York deejay Alan Freed gave the group's lead singer, Anthony Gourdine, top billing while introducing the single over the air and the moniker of \"Little Anthony and the Imperials\" stuck.\n\n\"Tears on My Pillow\" was a #4 hit single in the United States. Selling over a million copies, \"Tears on My Pillow\" was the most successful single of the Imperials' doo wop period. Its success would be matched only by the Imperials' 1964 single \"Goin' Out of My Head.\"\nThe Imperials (\"Little Anthony\" Gourdine, Clarence Collins, Ernest Wright, Tracy Lord, and Nate Rogers - the last two of whom were later replaced by Sammy Strain) performed the song on numerous TV programs, including The Dick Clark Show and on the PBS Oldies special, \"Rock, Rhythm, and Doo-Wop\" in 1958 and 2002 respectively. They also performed the tune on the \"American Bandstand 40th Anniversary Special\" (also in 2002).\n\nThe song has been covered many times, most notably by Kylie Minogue and also the following:\n\n\"Tears on My Pillow\" is referenced by Dean Friedman in his 1977 hit song \"Ariel.\" It is included in the lyrics, \"I met a young girl, she sang mighty fine, 'Tears on My Pillow' and 'Ave Maria'.\"\n\nThe song was also used in the season one seventh episode of \"Sliders\" entitled \"The Weaker Sex,\" which originally aired as episode six. The character Rembrandt Brown (played by Cleavant Derricks) sings the song repeatedly on the street in an effort to raise money for a motel room.\n\nReleased by Australian singer Kylie Minogue as the final single from her second studio album, \"Enjoy Yourself\". It was released in February 1990 in Australia and on January 8, 1990 in Europe. Minogue's cover was also included on the soundtrack of the film \"The Delinquents\", which she also starred in. The song was the #1 single on the UK Singles Chart for one week in January 1990, and reached #35 on the Canadian Adult Contemporary Chart.\n\nThe music video shows Kylie in a black dress with a Brigitte Bardot hairstyle singing the song. The video is inter-cut with clips from the 1989 film \"The Delinquents\".\n\nMinogue performed the song on the following concert tours:\n\nThe song was also performed on:\n\nThese are the formats and track listings of major single releases of \"Tears on My Pillow\".\n\nCD single\n\n7\" vinyl single\n\n12\" vinyl single\n\nUS & Canadian cassette\n\n"}
{"id": "2294452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294452", "title": "Coffee table book", "text": "Coffee table book\n\nA coffee table book is an oversized, usually hard-covered book whose purpose is for display on a table intended for use in an area in which one entertains guests and from which it can serve to inspire conversation or pass the time. Subject matter is predominantly non-fiction and pictorial (a photo-book). Pages consist mainly of photographs and illustrations, accompanied by captions and small blocks of text, as opposed to long prose. Since they are aimed at anyone who might pick up the book for a light read, the analysis inside is often more basic and with less jargon than other books on the subject. Because of this, the term \"coffee table book\" can be used pejoratively to indicate a superficial approach to the subject.\n\nIn the field of mathematics, a coffee table book is usually a notebook containing a number of mathematical problems and theorems contributed by a community meeting in a particular place, or connected by a common scientific interest. An example of this was the Scottish Book created by mathematicians at Lviv University in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe concept of a book intended essentially for display over perusal was mentioned by Michel de Montaigne in his 1581 essay \"Upon Some Verses of Virgil\": \"I am vexed that my Essays only serve the ladies for a common movable, a book to lay in the parlor window...\" Almost two centuries later, Laurence Sterne in his 1759 comic novel \"The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman\" advanced the more lighthearted view that \"As my life and opinions are likely to make some noise in the world, and... be no less read than the Pilgrim's Progress itself- and, in the end, prove the very thing Montaigne dreaded his Essays should turn out, that is, a book for a parlour window...\"\n\nBeginning in the late 1940s, publisher Albert Skira and a few others, such as Cailler and Editions Tisné, Éditions Mazenod, and Harry N. Abrams, began producing large folio and quarto (4to) format art books, illustrated with tipped-in color plates, often for international markets that were significant in the development of coffee table books as known today.\n\nDavid Brower is sometimes credited with inventing the modern coffee table book. While serving as executive director of the Sierra Club, he had the idea for a series of books that combined nature photography and writings on nature, with, as he put it, \"a page size big enough to carry a given image’s dynamic. The eye must be required to move about within the boundaries of the image, not encompass it all in one glance.\" The first such book, \"This is the American Earth\", with photographs by Ansel Adams and others and text by Nancy Newhall, was published in 1960; the series became known as the \"Exhibit Format\" series, with 20 titles eventually published.\n\nThe term \"coffee table book\" appeared in Arts Magazine in 1961, and in 1962 \"The Coffee Table Book of Astrology\" was published. \n\nThey have also found uses in propaganda, such as a book on the life of East German leader Walter Ulbricht and another on Albanian leader Enver Hoxha.\n\nAs of 2011, Madonna's book \"Sex\" remained the most searched for out-of-print coffee table book.\n"}
{"id": "2294453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294453", "title": "2005 Canadian Paralympic Athletics Championships", "text": "2005 Canadian Paralympic Athletics Championships\n\nThe 2005 Canadian Paralympic Athletics Championships is a disabled athletics competition held in Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada in 2005.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294456", "title": "Arunah Shepherdson Abell", "text": "Arunah Shepherdson Abell\n\nArunah Shepherdson Abell (August 10, 1806 – April 19, 1888) was an American publisher and philanthropist from New England who was active in Pennsylvania and Maryland. Born in East Providence, Rhode Island, Abell learned the newspaper business as an apprentice at the \"Providence Patriot\". After stints with newspapers in Boston and New York City, he co-founded the \"Public Ledger\" in Philadelphia and later independently founded \"The Sun\" of Baltimore, Maryland; both were penny papers to appeal to the working class. Abell and his descendants continued ownership of \"The Sun\" as a family business until 1910.\n\nAbell is noted as an innovative publisher in the newspaper business, making use of new systems and technology: pony express delivery of news from New Orleans, using the telegraph to transmit news from the first Mexican–American War and a President's speech to the Congress in Washington, D.C., and using the new rotary/cylinder printing press invented by Richard March Hoe.\n\nAbell was born in East Providence, Rhode Island on August 10, 1806 to parents of generations of English ancestry; his father's family were originally from Stapenhill, Derbyshire (now part of Staffordshire). After leaving school at the age of 14, he worked as a clerk in a retail business specializing in West Indian wares, before he became an apprentice at the \"Providence Patriot\" newspaper in 1822. He served as a journeyman printer in Boston and New York City.\n\nIn New York, he met two other young newspapermen, Azariah H. Simmons and William Moseley Swain, and they became friends. Together, they decided to go into business and found a \"penny paper\". At the time, the majority of newspapers were associated with a political party or with business interests. For example, Abell's newspaper in Baltimore was strongly associated with the Democratic Party; Abell was offered a political appointment as a result of his work on it. Penny papers were a relatively new phenomenon at the time. Originating in England, they made newspapers accessible to the working class, whereas other existing papers were too expensive for many consumers. As New York already had a number of penny papers, Abell, Simmons, and Swain founded their paper in Philadelphia where there was less competition, starting the \"Public Ledger\" in 1836. Within 2 years, the \"Public Ledger\" absorbed its nearest rival, the \"Philadelphia Transcript\". Under Abell, the \"Ledger\" continued to appeal to the working class as a penny paper; he concentrated on sensationalist stories and scandals.\n\nThe following year, Abell convinced his partners to back him financially to found a penny paper in Baltimore, which at the time had a number of more expensive papers costing six pennies an issue. They agreed, based on his commitment to personally oversee the new venture. Abell published his first four-page tabloid-sized issue of \"The Sun\" on May 17, 1837. While it was an independent newspaper, \"The Sun\" editorially leaned toward the ideals of Jacksonian democracy as championed by sixth President Andrew Jackson. Soon each issue used the phrase \"Light for All\" as its motto, with a distinctive \"vignette\" (illustrated logo) on its masthead, which is still in use. The newspaper quickly became a success; within a year it had double the circulation (12,000) of its closest competitor.\n\nIn 1838, Abell married Mary Fox Campbell, a widow. They had children together.\n\nBy 1850, business was good enough that Abell commissioned architect James Bogardus to design a new building for the paper; it was to feature a cast iron facade. Throughout the 19th century, Baltimore had a number of newspapers. Many were overtly partisan, such as the pro-Republican, \"Baltimore American\" (it was derived from the city's first weekly/daily newspaper in 1773, reorganized in 1799). Despite its origins as a penny paper, by the late 19th century the \"Sun\" had won a position as the newspaper of choice of Baltimore's upper class. By 1864, Abell was sole proprietor of \"The Sun\" and had sold his share in the \"Public Ledger\" to partner Swain.\n\nAbell was a pioneer in making use of technology and a variety of transportation systems to transmit and deliver news. To get news from his reporters as quickly as possible, he used pony express, stagecoaches, trains, ships, and even carrier pigeons. He established a new pony express route from New Orleans, in conjunction with the publishers of the \"New Orleans Daily Picayune\", during the Mexican–American War. With this system, he learned of the U.S. victory at Veracruz, Mexico before officials in the nation's capital, Washington, D.C.; he sent word to the president. He was the first newspaperman to use telegraphy when he transmitted President John Tyler's message of May 11, 1846, and he was the first to buy a Hoe cylinder press. The carrier pigeons were part of a network that Abell established with another newspaper publisher in New York; they carried messages between that city, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington, D.C., and from incoming ships. They were superseded by the spread of telegraphy. Abell's newsroom received foreign news by a convoluted route. News from Europe was delivered to Halifax, Nova Scotia by ship; from there it was transported overland by pony express to Annapolis Royal, N.S., by steamship to Portland, Maine, and then by rail to Baltimore. Through a journey of nearly one thousand miles, the news was delivered in little more than two days from Halifax to Baltimore. In later years, Abell supported telegraph pioneer Samuel F.B. Morse and helped finance the construction of telegraph lines into Baltimore.\n\nBy the start of the American Civil War, Abell had increased circulation of \"The Sun\" to 30,000 subscribers. He remained owner of \"The Sun\" until his death. Abell is entombed in Baltimore's Green Mount Cemetery off Greenmount Avenue (Maryland Route 45) and East North Avenue.\n\nHis three sons and their grandsons retained control of the newspaper until 1910. As a result of a financial restructuring of the former Abell-Swain-Simmons partnership into a reorganized A.S. Abell Company, the newspaper was sold from family control. Also sold was the participating Safe Deposit bank and trust company which they had owned for those three decades.\n\n\"The Baltimore Sun\" has continued as a prominent, award-winning city, regional and national newspaper in the United States. As its founder, Abell has been criticized posthumously by opponents of positions held by the newspaper's editorial board. For instance, state senator Henry Herbert Balch denounced Abell during a filibuster of legislation to authorize construction of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge in 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294466", "title": "Hidden Field Equations", "text": "Hidden Field Equations\n\nHidden Fields Equations (HFE), also known as HFE trapdoor function, is a public key cryptosystem which was introduced at Eurocrypt in 1996 and proposed by following the idea of the Matsumoto and Imai system. It is based on polynomials over finite fields formula_1 of different size to disguise the relationship between the private key and public key. HFE is in fact a family which consists of basic HFE and combinatorial versions of HFE. The HFE family of cryptosystems is based on the hardness of the problem of finding solutions to a system of multivariate quadratic equations (the so-called MQ problem) since it uses private affine transformations to hide the extension field and the private polynomials. Hidden Field Equations also have been used to construct digital signature schemes, e.g. Quartz and Sflash.\n\nOne of the central notions to understand how Hidden Field Equations work is to see that for two extension fields formula_2 formula_3 over the same base field formula_4 one can interpret a system of formula_5 multivariate polynomials in formula_6 variables over formula_4 as a function formula_8 by using a suitable basis of formula_2 over formula_4. In almost all applications the polynomials are quadratic, i.e. they have degree 2. We start with the simplest kind of polynomials, namely monomials, and show how they lead to quadratic systems of equations.\n\nConsider a finite field formula_11, where formula_12 is a power of 2, and an extension field formula_13. Let formula_14 such that formula_15 for some formula_16 and gcdformula_17. The condition gcdformula_18 is equivalent to requiring that the map formula_19 on formula_20 is one to one and its inverse is the map formula_21 where formula_22 is the multiplicative inverse of formula_23. \n\nTake a random element formula_24. Define formula_25 by\n\nLet formula_27 to be a basis of formula_20 as an formula_1 vector space. We represent formula_30 with respect to the basis as formula_31 and formula_32. Let formula_33 be the matrix of the linear transformation formula_34 with respect to the basis formula_27, i.e. such that\n\nfor formula_37. Additionally, write all products of basis elements in terms of the basis, i.e.:\n\nfor each formula_39. The system of formula_40 equations which is explicit in the formula_41 and quadratic in the formula_42 can be obtained by expanding (1) and equating to zero the coefficients of the formula_43. \n\nChoose two secret affine transformations formula_44 and formula_45 , i.e. two invertible formula_46 matrices formula_47 and formula_48 with entries in formula_1 and two vectors formula_50 and formula_51 of length formula_6 over formula_1 and define formula_54 and formula_55 via:\n\nBy using the affine relations in (2) to replace the formula_57 with formula_58, the system of formula_40 equations is linear in the formula_60 and of degree 2 in the formula_61. Applying linear algebra it will give formula_40 explicit equations, one for each formula_63 as polynomials of degree 2 in the formula_61.\n\nThe basic idea of the HFE family of using this as a multivariate cryptosystem is to build the secret key starting from a polynomial formula_65 in one unknown formula_66 over some finite field formula_2 (normally value formula_68 is used). This polynomial can be easily inverted over formula_2, i.e. it is feasible to find any solutions to the equation formula_70 when such solution exist. The secret transformation either decryption and/or signature is based on this inversion. As explained above formula_71 can be identified with a system of formula_6 equations formula_73 using a fixed basis. To build a cryptosystem the polynomial formula_73 must be transformed so that the public information hides the original structure and prevents inversion. This is done by viewing the finite fields formula_2 as a vector space over formula_1 and by choosing two linear affine transformations formula_44 and formula_45. The triplet formula_79 constitute the private key. The private polynomial formula_65 is defined over formula_2. The public key is formula_73. Below is the diagram for MQ-trapdoor formula_79 in HFE\n\nThe private polynomial formula_65 with degree formula_86 over formula_87 is an element of formula_88. If the terms of polynomial formula_65 have at most quadratic terms over formula_90 then it will keep the public polynomial small. The case that formula_71 consists of monomials of the form formula_92, i.e. with 2 powers of formula_93 in the exponent\nis the basic version of HFE, i.e. formula_65 is chosen as\n\nThe degree formula_86 of the polynomial is also known as security parameter and the bigger its value the better for security since the resulting set of quadratic equations resembles a randomly chosen set of quadratic equations. On the other side large formula_97 slows down the deciphering. Since formula_65 is a polynomial of degree at most formula_86 the inverse of formula_65, denoted by formula_101 can be computed in formula_102 operations.\n\nThe public key is given by the formula_6 multivariate polynomials formula_73 over formula_4. It is thus necessary to transfer the message formula_106 from formula_107 in order to encrypt it, i.e. we assume that formula_106 is a vector formula_109. To encrypt message formula_106 we evaluate each formula_111 at formula_112. The ciphertext is formula_113.\n\nTo understand decryption let us express encryption in terms of formula_114. Note that these are \"not\" available to the sender. By evaluating the formula_111 at the message we first apply formula_44, resulting in formula_117. At this point formula_117 is transferred from formula_119 so we can apply the private polynomial formula_65 which is over formula_87 and this result is denoted by formula_122. Once again, formula_123 is transferred to the vector formula_124 and the transformation formula_45 is applied and the final output formula_126 is produced from formula_127.\n\nTo decrypt formula_128, the above steps are done in reverse order. This is possible if the private key formula_79 is known. The crucial step in the deciphering is not the inversion of formula_44 and formula_45 but rather the computations of the solution of formula_132. Since formula_65 is not necessary a bijection, one may find more than one solution to this inversion (there exist at most d different solutions formula_134 since formula_65 is a polynomial of degree d). The redundancy denoted as formula_136 is added at the first step to the message formula_106 in order to select the right formula_106 from the set of solutions formula_139. The diagram below shows the basic HFE for encryption.\n\nHidden Field Equations has four basic variations namely +,-,v and f and it is possible to combine them in various way. The basic principle is the following:\n\nThe operations above preserve to some extent the trapdoor solvability of the function.\n\nHFE- and HFEv are very useful in signature schemes as they prevent from slowing down the signature generation and also enhance the overall security of HFE whereas for encryption both HFE- and HFEv will lead to a rather slow decryption process so neither too many equations can be removed (HFE-) nor too many variables should be added (HFEv). Both HFE- and HFEv were used to obtain Quartz.\n\nFor encryption, the situation is better with HFE+ since the decryption process takes the same amount of time, however the public key has more equations than variables.\n\nThere are two famous attacks on HFE:\n\nRecover the Private Key (Shamir-Kipnis): The key point of this attack is to recover the private key as sparse univariate polynomials over the extension field formula_87. The attack only works for basic HFE and fails for all its variations.\n\nFast Gröbner Bases (Faugère): The idea of Faugère's attacks is to use fast algorithm to compute a Gröbner basis of the system of polynomial equations. Faugère broke the HFE challenge 1 in 96 hours in 2002, and in 2003 Faugère and Joux worked together on the security of HFE.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294475", "title": "Madeleine Collinson", "text": "Madeleine Collinson\n\nMadeleine Collinson (22 July 1952 – 14 August 2014) was a Maltese-British model and actress. She was chosen as \"Playboy\" magazine's Playmate of the Month in October 1970, together with her twin sister Mary Collinson. They were the first identical twin Playmate sisters.\n\nThe Collinson twins first arrived in Britain in April 1969, and prior to their appearance in \"Playboy\" one of the first people to use them was the glamour photographer/film maker Harrison Marks who cast them as saucy maids in his short film \"Halfway Inn\". The film, made for the 8mm market, was shot sometime between their British arrival, and July 1970, when a still from the film was used in a Marks' advert that ran in that month's issue of \"Continental Film Review\" magazine. \nBoth sisters went on to acting careers, mostly in B-movies. Madeleine married a British Royal Air Force officer and raised three children. She later moved back to Malta and was involved in cultural and educational activities there. In her final years, Madeleine Collinson lived in San Gwann Malta. \n\nAfter several months of illness, she died at Mater Dei Hospital in Msida on 14 August 2014 with her twin sister Mary present.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294476", "title": "The Crucifucks (album)", "text": "The Crucifucks (album)\n\nThe Crucifucks is a self-titled debut album, released in 1985 on Jello Biafra's Alternative Tentacles record label. Although it never achieved commercial success, it has procured a cult following, most likely due to Doc Corbin Dart's uniquely shrill vocals and violent political lyrics. The album was later issued on the group's compilation album \"Our Will Be Done\" with \"Wisconsin\" and a bonus track from the band's original lineup. In recent times, Doc Dart has seemingly disowned the album, calling it \"an abomination\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2294486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294486", "title": "USS Young", "text": "USS Young\n\nTwo ships in the United States Navy have been named USS \"Young\", the first for John Young (c. 1740–1781), a captain in the Continental Navy, and the second for Rear Admiral Lucien Young (1852–1912).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294487", "title": "SoHo (Australian TV channel)", "text": "SoHo (Australian TV channel)\n\nSoHo was an Australian pay television channel. Originally launched as FX in 1995 and oriented towards classic programming, it was rebranded as W. and shifted its focus to women's programming on 1 November 2003. Later, on 20 August 2012, it was again rebranded as SoHo and shifted its focus to drama television series.\n\nThe channel closed down on 4 October 2016, and was replaced by Binge.\n\nIn 1995, FX, then stylised as fX, was launched in Australia on Foxtel, featuring classic TV series (often branded as \"Golden Years of Television\").\n\nIn late 1998 fX became FX, which at the time was a channel aimed at women, unlike the international FX channels demographic, featuring shows such as The View and Donny and Marie.\n\nThe channel became available on Austar in April 1999.\n\nIn late 2000, FX was again rebranded, officially becoming \"Australia's first TV channel for women\".\n\nIt was relaunched as W. on 1 November 2003, shortly before digital broadcasting began. W screened original Australian programming such as \"Beauty and the Beast\", \"Love My Way\", \"From Here to Maternity\" and \"Studio A with Simon Burke\". It also had Pay-TV rights to many popular US primetime drama series such as \"Pushing Daisies\" and \"The Wire\" and repeats of many other series.\n\nAntonia Kidman, sister of actress Nicole Kidman, was the face of the W channel, for quite some time and has presented a few parenting and entertainment programs for this and other channels. W2, the timeshift channel broadcasting programs two hours later, was launched in September 2006. A website for the channel was also launched in September 2006.\n\nW. underwent a transformation in April 2009, which included an updated logo (now simply W) and several new additions to the primetime line-up. W HD was launched on 15 November 2009, on both Austar and Foxtel.\n\nIn 2012, it was announced that SoHo was to broadcast the new Australian drama \"Wentworth\", a re-imaging of the classic television show \"Prisoner\". The series started airing on 1 May 2013.\n\nThe channel closed on 30 September 2016, with existing programs being moved to other channels. Most programs migrated to Showcase, with a handful of other titles moving to TV H!TS, Arena and FOX8.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294497", "title": "1861 in archaeology", "text": "1861 in archaeology\n\n1861 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294503", "title": "The Awkward Age", "text": "The Awkward Age\n\nThe Awkward Age is a novel by Henry James, first published as a serial in \"Harper's Weekly\" in 1898-1899 and then as a book later in 1899. Originally conceived as a brief, light story about the complications created in her family's social set by a young girl coming of age, the novel expanded into a general treatment of decadence and corruption in English \"fin de siècle\" life. James presents the novel almost entirely in dialogue, an experiment that adds to the immediacy of the scenes but also creates serious ambiguities about characters and their motives.\n\nMr. and Mrs. Edward Brookenham host an effete, rather corrupt social circle. They are the parents of worthless Harold and sweet but knowledgeable Nanda (age eighteen). Mr. Longdon attends one of their social functions and is amazed at how much Nanda resembles her grandmother, his long-ago love who married another man. Vanderbank, a young civil servant with little money, admires both Mrs. Brookenham (nicknamed \"Mrs. Brook\") and Nanda. Mrs. Brook seems to want an affair with \"Van\" but he appears more interested in Nanda. Mr. Longdon promises him a dowry if he marries Nanda.\n\nMrs. Brook is instead trying to get her daughter married to Mitchy, a very rich but rather naive member of her social circle. But Nanda urges Mitchy to marry Aggie, the supposedly sheltered step-niece of one of Mrs. Brook's friends (the Duchess). Mitchy follows the advice, then watches helplessly as Aggie kicks over the traces and starts playing around on him. Van constantly hesitates about proposing to Nanda. She finally tells him and Mitchy to be kind to her mother, then prepares to stay at Mr. Longdon's country home as a kind of surrogate daughter.\n\nJames originally wanted this novel to resemble one of Gyp's superficial but entertaining novels of social decadence. But the material drew him on, and he wound up with a lengthy book about Nanda's eventual rejection of the often sleazy social circle around her mother. A lot of the characters who drop by Mrs. Brook's house are certainly no saints, and hypocrisy and deceit seem to be their favorite pastimes.\n\nMr. Longdon represents an idealized previous age of better morals and manners. He wants to see Nanda safely married and away from what he views as her mother's corrupting influence. Although the book ends with Nanda preparing to stay at his country house, there are no guarantees as to how her future will play out.\n\nWith the novel cast almost entirely in dialogue, it's sometimes difficult for the reader to detect the characters' genuine motives. But there's little doubt James meant the book as an attack on what he saw as the increasing irresponsibility and immorality of the society around him. James was always careful to sweeten this rather dour message with a lot of witty satire on the foibles of Mrs. Brook's social circle. He was particularly proud of his treatment of the resourceful if not overly honest Mrs. Brook herself.\n\nMany critics see the novel as parallel in theme and setting to James's earlier novel \"What Maisie Knew\", with Nanda as a slightly older version of Maisie.\n\nCritics have strongly disagreed on the worth of \"The Awkward Age\". F.R. Leavis praised it highly, calling it \"one of James' major achievements.\" Edmund Wilson, on the other hand, showed little patience with the \"gibbering crew\" surrounding Nanda with their vaguely corrupt schemes. More recent commentators have expressed similar differences.\n\nMany critics, such as Edward Wagenknecht, have detected over-treatment in the almost-all-dialogue presentation, which often strings out scenes to great length and complexity. James rejected this criticism emphatically in the \"New York Edition\" preface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294504", "title": "Dr. Zonk and the Zunkins", "text": "Dr. Zonk and the Zunkins\n\nDr. Zonk and the Zunkins was a CBC children's television series which ran three afternoons a week from 23 September 1974 to 14 April 1975.\n\nAlthough the show was cancelled after one season, it was notable for the number of cast members who went on to successful careers. Some of the cast members were also seen in the following season on the CBC Television series \"Coming Up Rosie\".\n\n\nThe show centered on scenes set in the bedroom of a young boy named Billy Meek with robot/computer-like puppets called Zunkins named Zooey and Dunkin who would come to life each episode out of a comic book featuring the adventures of the never seen superhero Dr. Zonk. The rest of the cast were featured in randomly themed comedy sketches that the Zunkins would show to their human friend.\n\nA survey of 600 potential viewers found that the series was deemed childish and that viewership was being lost to competing American sitcoms. This led the producers to feature several of the performers in an entirely new series, \"Coming Up Rosie\", based on a more conventional sitcom concept.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294506", "title": "GeCAD Software", "text": "GeCAD Software\n\nGECAD Software was a Romanian Computer Aided Design (CAD) software development company established in 1992 by Radu Georgescu. Over time, GECAD's focus shifted from CAD software to security-related software, mainly antivirus software. Its most prominent product, Reliable Antivirus, or RAV, was first developed in 1994. In 2003, after amassing over 10 million users in 60 countries worldwide, the technology was acquired by Microsoft. In 2004, GECAD Software reshaped its entire business and became GECAD Group.\n\nNow, GECAD Group invests in companies with high growth potential with the ability to innovate and deliver new ideas and products in their markets. Investment is focused primarily on software and hi-tech companies, including security software, cloud technologies, eCommerce, cryptocurrencies and payment methods. In 2005, the GECAD Group investing in founding the Avangate eCommerce payments platform.\n\nGECAD Group permanently invests in new businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294508", "title": "Darren Ward (footballer, born 1978)", "text": "Darren Ward (footballer, born 1978)\n\nDarren Philip Ward (born 13 September 1978) is an English footballer plays for Hemel Hempstead Town. Ward has played for all three major South London teams, Charlton Athletic, Crystal Palace and Millwall. He also played for and was briefly joint caretaker manager at Swindon Town.\n\nBorn in Kenton, a district of Harrow, Ward started his career at Watford, making his debut on 20 April 1996 against arch-rivals Luton. But opportunities were scant for Ward in the next few seasons – he made eight appearances in 1996–97 and, after suffering a badly broken leg, only one appearance in each of the following two seasons.\n\nWard was loaned out to Q.P.R., in the 1999–2000 season, playing fifteen games, and was generally impressive. On his return to Watford he became one of their first-team centre-halves, playing against teams like Manchester United and Arsenal in the club's final two months in the Premiership and scoring in a 1–1 draw with Middlesbrough. On their return to Division 1, Ward continued to be a first team regular, making 40 appearances in 2000–01.\n\nGianluca Vialli's arrival at Vicarage Road in the summer of 2001 saw a considerable re-modelling of the side, and Ward was one the casualties. He moved to Millwall in October 2001 for £500,000 where he became a regular first team player, and was nicknamed 'The Peckham Beckham', due to the fact that his haircut is similar to that of former England captain David Beckham. At The New Den, Ward and Matthew Lawrence stood out at the central defensive position, as the Lions played in the 2004 FA Cup Final, against Manchester United. Ward played the full 90 minutes, as Millwall were beaten 3–0.\n\nIn May 2005 he moved across south-London to Crystal Palace for £1.1m, signing a three-year deal. Ward initially did well and his goalscoring form made him very popular, but by the end of his first season this good form disappeared, and by May 2007 he was out of the side, with Mark Hudson and Leon Cort preferred instead.\n\nIn July 2007, Ward joined Wolves on a three-year contract for an undisclosed fee however it was announced in May 2008 that he would be one of many casualties leaving the club, after spending less than a year there. However, after showing a positive attitude, Ward was taken off the transfer list and told to fight for his place.\n\nHe went on a two-month loan to Watford in September 2008, the club where he began his career, but this was halted after nine appearances when he suffered a cheekbone fracture. He scored once during his second spell at Watford, in a 3–0 win over QPR.\n\nHe joined Charlton Athletic on loan for the remainder of the 2008–09 season on 30 January 2009, but was unable to prevent the team being relegated to League One. He returned to his parent club in the summer, who loaned him out again in September 2009, this time to his former team Millwall on a three-month loan, made permanent on 1 January 2010. He signed a three-year contract extension with Millwall in June 2010.\n\nWard signed permanently for Swindon Town on 4 January 2013, after a successful loan spell. He signed a four-month loan deal at the beginning of the 2012–13 season until January which resulted in signing the 18-month deal.\n\nOn 20 February, following the departure of Paolo Di Canio, Swindon announced that along with Tommy Miller, Ward would be taking temporary charge of the squad for the game against Preston on 23 February.\n\nOn 8 January 2015, it was announced that Ward would be joining Crawley Town on loan from Swindon Town until the end of the 2014–15 season. Ward had made 499 career appearances, and has said that he wants to make it to the 600 mark. He scored his first goal for Crawley in a 2–0 win over Notts County on 18 April 2015.\n\nOn 8 November 2015, Ward signed for Yeovil Town on a short-term contract until January 2016. After being made captain of Yeovil following the appointment of Darren Way as manager, Ward signed an extension to his contract until June 2017. At the end of the 2016–17 season, Ward was released by Yeovil along with five other players.\n\nIn February 2018, Ward signed for National League South side Hemel Hempstead Town.\n\nDarren is the brother of ex-Luton Town goalkeeper Scott Ward and Notts County's ex-West Ham United defender Elliott Ward. He turned down the opportunity of joining West Ham and the Premiership before opting for Palace, claiming he didn't want to keep his brother out of the team.\n\nAs of February 2011, he runs a cattery in Hertfordshire.\n"}
{"id": "2294521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294521", "title": "Juan Pérez de Montalbán", "text": "Juan Pérez de Montalbán\n\nJuan Pérez de Montalbán (1602 – 25 June 1638) was a Spanish Catholic priest, dramatist, poet and novelist.\n\nHe was born at Madrid. At the age of eighteen, he became a licentiate in theology. He was ordained priest in 1625, and appointed notary to the Inquisition. In 1619 he began writing for the stage under the guidance of Lope de Vega, who is said to have assisted him in composing \"El Orfeo en lengua castellana\" (1624), a poem obviously intended to compete with Jáuregui's \"Orfeo\", published earlier in the same year.\n\nMontalbán's father, a publisher at Madrid, issued a pirated edition of Quevedo's \"Buscón\", which roused an angry controversy. The violence of these polemics, the strain of overwork, and the death of Lope de Vega so affected Montalbán that he became insane; he died at Madrid on 25 June 1638. His last work was a eulogistic biography of Lope de Vega in the \"Fama póstuma\" (1636).\n\nHis plays, published in 1635–1638, are all in the manner of Lope de Vega. They were staged with much success, but, with the exception of \"Los Amantes de Teruel\", are little more than clever improvizations. Montalbán almost rivaled Lope de Vega in dramatic productiveness, but, according to one critic, he followed that writer's conventional manner, flimsiness in construction, and carelessness in execution too closely.\n\nThe prose tales in \"Sucesos y prodigios de amor, en ocho novelets ejemplares\" (1624) and \"Para todos: Exemplos morales, humanos y divinos\" (1632) were very popular. George Ticknor characterized “The Disastrous Friendship,” a tale in the former collection, as one of the best in the Spanish language. “Aurora and the Prince,” was translated into English by Thomas Stanley (1647).\n\nA libellous attack on Quevedo, entitled \"El Tribunal de la justa venganza\" (1635), is often ascribed to Montalbán. Montalbán's reputation was such that sometimes his name appeared on works by other writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294532", "title": "Lou Lamoriello", "text": "Lou Lamoriello\n\nLouis Lamoriello (born October 21, 1942) is an American professional ice hockey executive who is the president of hockey operations and general manager for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He is also the former general manager of both the Toronto Maple Leafs and the New Jersey Devils of the NHL. Lamoriello's tenure as general manager of the New Jersey Devils from 1987 to 2015 was the third-longest by an NHL general manager with a single team, following those of Conn Smythe and Art Ross. Lamoriello resigned from New Jersey on May 4, 2015, and became the 16th general manager of the Maple Leafs on July 23 of the same year.\n\nUnder Lamoriello's management, the Devils, who had been barely competitive for their first five years in New Jersey, became one of the most successful teams in the NHL. The Devils made the Stanley Cup playoffs all but three times between 1988 and 2012, qualified for five Stanley Cup Finals (in 1995, 2000, 2001, 2003, and 2012) and won the Stanley Cup three times (in 1995, 2000, and 2003). Lamoriello also served as general manager for Team USA in the 1996 World Cup of Hockey, in which the U.S. won the gold medal, as well as for the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano. Lamoriello also played a key role in negotiating the settlement of the 2004–05 NHL lockout to resume play for the 2005–06 season.\n\nIn 2009, Lamoriello was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in the builders category, while in 2012, Lamoriello was inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nLamoriello was born in Johnston, Rhode Island. After attending La Salle Academy in Providence, Rhode Island, Lamoriello graduated from Providence College in 1963. He received varsity letters in baseball and hockey and served each team as captain during his senior year. He played collegiate summer baseball in the Cape Cod Baseball League (CCBL) for the Harwich Mariners (1961-62), Orleans Cardinals (1963), and in 1964 as the player-manager of the Bourne Canalmen. A star player, he remained in the league after his playing days, capturing the league championship in 1965 as field manager of the Sagamore Clouters, and in 1967 managing the Yarmouth Indians. In 2009, Lamoriello was inducted into the CCBL Hall of Fame.\n\nLamoriello was a math teacher at Johnston Senior High School in Johnston, Rhode Island, for several years ending in the early 1970s.\n\nLamoriello became head coach of the Providence College Friars men's ice hockey team in 1968 and became athletic director in July 1982. During the 1982–83 season, the Friars were 33–10–0, the best record in the nation that year, and appeared in the Frozen Four for the first time since 1964. Lamoriello resigned as head coach in 1983. As athletic director, he hired Rick Pitino as the head coach of the men's basketball team; Pitino would go on to take Providence to the Final Four in 1987.\n\nIn July 1983, Lamoriello joined his fellow athletic directors at Boston College, Boston University, the University of New Hampshire and Northeastern University in forming the Hockey East Association. He helped produce an interlocking schedule agreement with the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA) and negotiate the first television package in college ice hockey.\n\nLamoriello was the first commissioner of Hockey East. The conference's executive committee voted on March 7, 1988, to name the conference championship trophy in his honor, as the Lamoriello Trophy. A permanent trophy was commissioned and was presented at the 1999 championship.\n\nOn April 30, 1987, Lamoriello resigned as Hockey East commissioner and as athletic director at Providence to become president of the NHL's New Jersey Devils.\n\nIn April 1987, Devils then-owner John McMullen appointed Lamoriello team president. Lamoriello named himself general manager just before the start of the 1987–88 season, a move that surprised many NHL observers. He had never played, coached or managed in the NHL, and was virtually unknown outside the American college hockey community.\n\nOver the next 28 years, Lamoriello presided over one of the most successful rebuilding projects in North American professional sports history. In his first season as general manager, the Devils notched their first winning season in franchise history (dating back to their time as the Kansas City Scouts [1974–76] and Colorado Rockies [1976–82]) and reached the Wales Conference Finals. The Devils made the playoffs in all but five of his 27 seasons as general manager, and appeared in the Stanley Cup Finals in 1995 (won), 2000 (won), 2001 (lost), 2003 (won) and 2012 (lost). After YankeeNets bought the Devils in 2000, Lamoriello was named chairman and CEO of the Devils, as well as vice-chairman and CEO of the then co-owned New Jersey Nets. He dropped the chairmanship of the Devils and resigned his posts on the Nets after Jeffrey Vanderbeek bought the Devils from YankeeNets in 2004. For the most part, McMullen, Vanderbeek and current owner Joshua Harris left the Devils' operations in Lamoriello's hands.\n\nIn 1992, Lamoriello was awarded the Lester Patrick Trophy for outstanding service to hockey in the United States. He also served as general manager for Team USA in the 1996 World Cup of Hockey (in which the U.S. won the gold medal) and the 1998 Winter Olympics.\n\nLamoriello is well known in NHL circles for his hard-nosed approach to contract negotiations. Pat Verbeek, Kirk Muller and Bill Guerin, among others, have been traded out of town after losing contract negotiations. He nearly traded Ken Daneyko, the Devils' all-time leader in games played, in 1989. According to Daneyko, Lamoriello believes in paying a third-line player as much as a first-line player if he feels they have the same value to the team.\n\nLamoriello, backed by Scouting Director David Conte, is known as a master drafter, showing consistent shrewdness in identifying and signing top talent that other teams were passing over. For example, superstar goaltender Martin Brodeur was a 20th overall pick, while Czech star left winger Patrik Eliáš was drafted 51st. Players drafted in the first 20 picks have been the rare exception rather than the rule. \"He hasn't been able to money-whip everybody the way the Yankees do, outspending the world every year. Lamoriello has done what he has done mostly by being smart and tough and holding the whole thing together by himself sometimes,\" says sports journalist Mike Lupica.\n\nLamoriello said he studied the game for a long time before starting to manage at the NHL level. The former high school math teacher says that during his two-decade long tenure at Providence College, and later when commissioner of Hockey East, he followed professional hockey closely. When he started with the Devils in 1987, he says he took what he considered to be the best parts of the great teams — the Green Bay Packers, the New York Yankees and the Montreal Canadiens — and using his analytical background, applied them to managing the Devils.\n\n\"Lou's a model for our business. This is not just the best run franchise in the NHL, it’s the best-run franchise in pro sports,\" says long-time NHL executive and former Calgary Flames president of hockey operations, Brian Burke.\n\nLamoriello has been lauded by NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman for his key role in bringing Soviet hockey stars, such as Viacheslav Fetisov and Sergei Starikov, to the NHL in the late 1980s. \"Clearly he was one of the visionaries that understood there were highly talented hockey players in the former Soviet Union that could have a place in this League,\" said Bettman. It was one of the reasons cited by Bettman for Lamiorello's 2009 induction into the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nLamoriello has fostered a \"unique corporate culture\" that has encouraged player loyalty. For example, Martin Brodeur took below market contracts to stay with the Devils for years, while defenseman Ken Daneyko played all 1,283 of his NHL games with the team.\n\"I like to think of my players as a family,\": says Lamoriello. \"And I like to think the success we’ve had through the years shows that the players value that as much as they do the Stanley Cups, knowing that the two go hand in hand.\"\n\nWhen Lamoriello is asked the key to his success, he says it has been his systematic approach to player development. \"It’s the team character this squad has... that you build on. I don’t ever use the word 'rebuild.' Based on my college background, I like to look at my roster as my seniors, juniors, sophomores and freshmen and gauge their development and roster turnover based on players going from one of those classes into the next. You have to build your staff and encourage them to be creative and realistic in their approach—and (not) be afraid to make a mistake. We stress that in drafting, player development, and coaching. You grow from your mistakes. I know I have.\"\n\nWhen others are asked what makes Lamoriello successful, his dedication and singular focus on winning are mentioned again and again. Despite public disagreements, both superstar Claude Lemieux and former assistant coach John MacLean returned to the organization because of Lamioriello's \"dedication to winning\". Veteran Devils defenseman Ken Daneyko says Lamoriello key factors in success are \"his winning attitude, discipline and dedication. Nobody works harder\".\n\nOn May 4, 2015, the Devils announced Lamoriello had handed his general manager post to Ray Shero, though he would remain as team president.\n\nOn July 23, 2015, Lamoriello resigned from the New Jersey Devils to accept the general manager position with the Toronto Maple Leafs. Lamoriello worked under Maple Leafs president Brendan Shanahan, who was the first player Lamoriello drafted as an NHL general manager in the 1987 NHL Entry Draft. On April 30, 2018, Shanahan informed Lamoriello that he will no longer continue as general manager, but would remain with the organization as a special advisor. Shanahan stated that Lamoriello's contract called for him to serve as general manager for three years before making a transition to an advisory role. \n\nMuch as he did in New Jersey, Lamoriello helped rebuild a previously moribund team. The Leafs had only made the playoffs once in ten years, but rebounded to make the playoffs in his last two seasons as general manager. To date, Lamoriello's stint in Toronto is the only time in his career as an NHL executive that he did not have the final say in hockey matters.\n\nOn May 22, 2018, Lamoriello was hired by the New York Islanders as their president of hockey operations. On June 5, 2018, Lamoriello fired head coach Doug Weight and general manager Garth Snow and named himself general manager. On June 21st, Lamoriello would go on to sign Barry Trotz as head coach fresh off a Stanley Cup victory, and a subsequent resignation from the Washington Capitals.\n\nOn December 19, 2005, following the surprise resignation of Larry Robinson as Devils head coach, Lamoriello named himself interim head coach for the rest of the season. The Devils eventually made it the Eastern Conference Semifinals before falling to the Carolina Hurricanes. When asked on television after the Devils' victory over the New York Rangers in the first round of the playoffs if he was interested in becoming head coach permanently, Lamoriello replied, \"Absolutely not,\" eventually hiring Claude Julien as head coach following the season.\n\nOn April 2, 2007, Lamoriello fired Julien and named himself interim coach once again. The firing took place with three games left in the season, when the Devils had the second-best record in the East and were on their way to setting a franchise record for regular season wins. However, Lamoriello did not believe Julien had the team ready for the playoffs.\n\nOn December 27, 2014, Lamoriello announced that he, along with Scott Stevens and Adam Oates, would act as co-head coaches of the Devils following the firing of Peter DeBoer the day prior.\n\nIn 1980, Lamoriello was inducted into the Providence College Athletic Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1988, Hockey East named the conference championship trophy in Lamoriello's honour, the Lamoriello Trophy. A permanent trophy was commissioned and was presented at the 1999 championship.\n\nOn June 23, 2009, it was announced Lamoriello would be inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in the builders category. He was honoured during the November 6–9 induction weekend, alongside Brett Hull, Brian Leetch, Luc Robitaille and Steve Yzerman.\n\nLamoriello has been the general manager for three Stanley Cup championships, in 1995, 2000 and 2003.\n\nAdditionally, as a minority owner of Major League Baseball's New York Yankees, Lamoriello has a World Series ring from the Yankees' 2009 World Series championship.\n\nOn July 12, 2012, Lamoriello was inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nLou Lamoriello has three adult children: Christopher, Heidi and Tim. Christopher works for the New York Islanders as director of player personnel, previously having worked with the Devils in the scouting department, as the senior vice president of hockey operations, and the general manager of the Albany Devils. Tim is a senior staff attorney for the New York Islanders. His son Chris married Olympic gold medallist Vicki Movsessian.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294542", "title": "Pseudoholomorphic curve", "text": "Pseudoholomorphic curve\n\nIn mathematics, specifically in topology and geometry, a pseudoholomorphic curve (or \"J\"-holomorphic curve) is a smooth map from a Riemann surface into an almost complex manifold that satisfies the Cauchy–Riemann equation. Introduced in 1985 by Mikhail Gromov, pseudoholomorphic curves have since revolutionized the study of symplectic manifolds. In particular, they lead to the Gromov–Witten invariants and Floer homology, and play a prominent role in string theory.\n\nLet formula_1 be an almost complex manifold with almost complex structure formula_2. Let formula_3 be a smooth Riemann surface (also called a complex curve) with complex structure formula_4. A pseudoholomorphic curve in formula_1 is a map formula_6 that satisfies the Cauchy–Riemann equation\nSince formula_8, this condition is equivalent to\nwhich simply means that the differential formula_10 is complex-linear, that is, formula_2 maps each tangent space\nto itself. For technical reasons, it is often preferable to introduce some sort of inhomogeneous term formula_13 and to study maps satisfying the perturbed Cauchy–Riemann equation\nA pseudoholomorphic curve satisfying this equation can be called, more specifically, a formula_15-holomorphic curve. The perturbation formula_13 is sometimes assumed to be generated by a Hamiltonian (particularly in Floer theory), but in general it need not be.\n\nA pseudoholomorphic curve is, by its definition, always parametrized. In applications one is often truly interested in unparametrized curves, meaning embedded (or immersed) two-submanifolds of formula_1, so one mods out by reparametrizations of the domain that preserve the relevant structure. In the case of Gromov–Witten invariants, for example, we consider only closed domains formula_3 of fixed genus formula_19 and we introduce formula_20 marked points (or punctures) on formula_3. As soon as the punctured Euler characteristic formula_22 is negative, there are only finitely many holomorphic reparametrizations of formula_3 that preserve the marked points. The domain curve formula_3 is an element of the Deligne–Mumford moduli space of curves.\n\nThe classical case occurs when formula_1 and formula_3 are both simply the complex number plane. In real coordinates\nand\nwhere formula_29. After multiplying these matrices in two different orders, one sees immediately that the equation\nwritten above is equivalent to the classical Cauchy–Riemann equations\n\nAlthough they can be defined for any almost complex manifold, pseudoholomorphic curves are especially interesting when formula_2 interacts with a symplectic form formula_33. An almost complex structure formula_2 is said to be formula_33-tame if and only if\nfor all nonzero tangent vectors formula_37. Tameness implies that the formula\ndefines a Riemannian metric on formula_1. Gromov showed that, for a given formula_33, the space of formula_33-tame formula_2 is nonempty and contractible. He used this theory to prove a non-squeezing theorem concerning symplectic embeddings of spheres into cylinders.\n\nGromov showed that certain moduli spaces of pseudoholomorphic curves (satisfying additional specified conditions) are compact, and described the way in which pseudoholomorphic curves can degenerate when only finite energy is assumed. (The finite energy condition holds most notably for curves with a fixed homology class in a symplectic manifold where J is formula_33-tame or formula_33-compatible). This Gromov compactness theorem, now greatly generalized using stable maps, makes possible the definition of Gromov–Witten invariants, which count pseudoholomorphic curves in symplectic manifolds.\n\nCompact moduli spaces of pseudoholomorphic curves are also used to construct Floer homology, which Andreas Floer (and later authors, in greater generality) used to prove the famous conjecture of Vladimir Arnol'd concerning the number of fixed points of Hamiltonian flows.\n\nIn type II string theory, one considers surfaces traced out by strings as they travel along paths in a Calabi–Yau 3-fold. Following the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, one wishes to compute certain integrals over the space of all such surfaces. Because such a space is infinite-dimensional, these path integrals are not mathematically well-defined in general. However, under the A-twist one can deduce that the surfaces are parametrized by pseudoholomorphic curves, and so the path integrals reduce to integrals over moduli spaces of pseudoholomorphic curves (or rather stable maps), which are finite-dimensional. In closed type IIA string theory, for example, these integrals are precisely the Gromov–Witten invariants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294563", "title": "1814 in archaeology", "text": "1814 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1814 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294568", "title": "Kidnapped (1995 film)", "text": "Kidnapped (1995 film)\n\nKidnapped is a 1995 TV adventure drama film directed by Ivan Passer and starring Armand Assante as Highlander Alan Breck and Brian McCardie as Lowlander David Balfour. Among the supporting actors are Michael Kitchen and Brian Blessed. The film was based on the 1886 novel \"Kidnapped\" by author Robert Louis Stevenson. Christopher Reeve had originally been cast as Breck prior to his spinal cord injury in a horse race which left him a quadriplegic on May 27, 1995. \n\nThe adaptation starts by describing a divided Scotland which is populated by Highlanders and Lowlanders who are loyal to different kings. Alan Breck Stewart is characterised as a leading figure of Jacobitism who tried \"to keep the flame alive\". It ends when Stewart leaves Scotland forever \"to have a distinguished career in the French Army\", while Balfour stays and marries a lady from the Highlands. Another voice-over tells they had sons who \"were neither Highlanders nor Lowlanders. They were Scots.\"\n\nThe film was shot in Ireland.\n\nAlan Breck Stewart (Armand Assante) returns to his home village, which is already menaced by the highland clearances. His foster father James Stewart of the Glen (Brian McGrath) issues the taxpayers' money for the exiled House of Stuart to him and beseeches him to meet King George's factor, the \"Red Fox\" Colin Roy Campbell of Glenure (Brendan Gleeson). Alan Stewart only grudgingly complies, because he regards the “Red Fox” as a traitor, for at the Battle of Culloden he had to fight against Loudon's Highlanders, a regiment of Highlanders led by Campbells.\n\nAt about the same time David Balfour (Brian McCardie) leaves the fictitious small village Essendean in the Scottish Lowlands. Reverend Campbell tells him he was given a letter in charge by David's late father. It is a letter of introduction addressing a Laird. The reverend informs him that his late mother never wanted him to go to the “House of Shaws” and asks him to stay in Essendean. But David is driven by wanderlust, and therefore resolves to go.\n\nThe \"Red Fox\" receives Alan Stuart with an abettor who holds the guest at gun point. An English officer named William Reid (Michael Kitchen) and his soldiers are in waiting when the \"Red Fox\" offers to protect James Stewart of The Glen. Alan Stuart asks him twice to swear his kin will be protected indeed but even so he merely receives a mute grin. Alan decides the man cannot be trusted and eludes in order to continue his mission.\n\nDavid has meanwhile reached the “House of Shaws”. He also finds all of a sudden a gun directed at him. The man who threatens to shoot him turns out to be his uncle Ebenezer (Patrick Malahide). Ebenezer reluctantly invites him in, but later on tries to kill him by an arranged accident. David survives, yet the next day Ebenezer has him kidnapped by a criminal sea captain. David wakes up on a ship going to America, where he shall be sold as a slave.\n\nWhen David is trapped, William Reid and “the Red Fox” try to assassinate Alan Breck in the woods. They fail because William Reid smokes a pipe with strong tobacco. Alan Breck, who therefore can literally smell the trap, steals a horse and escapes. He leaves a paper with a quote from A Counterblaste to Tobacco written by James I of England. The “Red Fox” relishes this humiliation of Englishman William Reid.\n\nDavid becomes Captain Forbes' new cabin boy, for the previous cabin boy has been murdered by the sailor Mr. Shuan. Alan Breck, who needs to leave for France in a foggy night, accidentally happens to end up on the same ship. David is supposed to wait on Alan. The criminal sea captain attempts to ambush Alan for his gold but David confounds these plans and helps Alan Breck to stand his ground. A severe storm then causes a wreckage.\n\nAlan and David return as castaways to the Scottish onshore. Alan runs into his friend Ewan of Appin, who was just exposed as a Jacobite spy. As his dying friend informs him, William Reid plans to frame James Stewart of The Glen for a murder he is about to carry out. Alan tries to prevent this but he can only witness how the \"Red Fox” is shot dead by a sniper. David gets the impression Alan was the assassin and breaks up with him.\n\nDavid is caught by British soldiers who consider him an accomplice of the murderer. Alan can free him. Once they are safe, Alan refutes David's theories about the murder. Both of them go to James Stewart of The Glen and warn him. Against his will he is defended by them when the Red Coats come to arrest him.\n\nSoon William Reid himself comes to Alan's home village in order to arrest Alan's foster father. James Stewart of The Glen sacrifices himself for his people's sake, but despite that they are driven of the land. Captain Forbes (Adam Blackwood), William Reid's direct subordinate, is appalled.\n\nAlan seeks to prove James Stewart's innocence. He visits gunsmith Angus (David Kelly), who has produced the very gun used for the Appin Murder. This leads to Hamish MacDonald (Jonathan Ryan) as a primary suspect. Alan now goes to the Earl of Dunbrea (Alan Stanford), a former MacDonald clan chief and asks him for support. The Earl's grand daughter Mary guides Alan and David to her cousin Hamish's house.\n\nHamish does confess the murder but William Reid kills him under the pretence of self-defence. Alan is put in prison and is forced to watch James Stewart of The Glen being executed. David and the Earl of Dunbrea and his granddaughter free Alan Breck. In order to hide, Alan visits his old brother-in-arms Ewen MacPherson of Cluny (Brian Blessed).\n\nWilliam Reid concedes to Captain Forbes that he has indeed paid Hamish MacDonald to kill the “Red Fox”. As Captain Forbes learns, the “Red Fox” was considered too lenient towards his fellow countrymen and now William Reid is his successor as the King's factor. Following that Captain Forbes meets with Alan Breck and condones Reid's looming demise. Even so, before Alan Breck finally confronts William Reid and kills him, he takes care that David can eventually successfully claim his heritage. After he had done for David Balfour, what he failed to achieve for Bonnie Prince Charlie, he puts an end to William Reid's deceptive schemes and then leaves Britain forever.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294574", "title": "Pro Cluentio", "text": "Pro Cluentio\n\nPro Cluentio is a speech by the Roman orator Cicero given in defense of a man named Aulus Cluentius Habitus Minor.\n\nCluentius, from Larinum in Samnium, was accused in 69 BC by his mother Sassia of having poisoned his stepfather, Statius Abbius Oppianicus. Cluentius had prosecuted Oppianicus successfully in 74 BC for attempting to poison him, securing Oppianicus' exile. Both sides in the lawsuit were accused of bribing the jurors during the trial to secure conviction of one another, but only Oppianicus' bribe was revealed at the time. Oppianicus died in disgrace three years later, leaving his widow Sassia to plot revenge against her son. Cicero divides his action in two parts: in the first one, he defends Cluentius' reputation. He shows that Oppianicus' crimes were so enormous, that Cluentius had no need of corrupting the judges; actually, he ridicules Oppianicus because he was cheated by a mediator in bribes. The second part deals with the alleged poisoning, and is very brief, since Cicero considers the accusation as ludicrous.\n\nStatius Albius Oppianicus came from one of Larinum's most prominent families, the Oppianici; he was married five different times throughout his life and was widely suspected of poisoning his first wife Cluentia. Through his son Oppianicus the Younger, the issue of Oppianicus' second marriage to Magia Auria, Oppianicus senior plotted to obtain the fortune of his mother-in-law Dinaea. Oppianicus the Younger was the heir-presumptive to Dinaea's estate, recently enlarged after the deaths of two of her sons, Gnaeus Magius and Numerius Aurius, in the Civil Wars between Marius and Sulla. However, it was discovered that her presumed-dead third son, M. Aurius, was in fact alive and living in servitude in Gaul. Oppianicus arranged for the murder of Dinaea and sent an assassin to kill M. Aurius before he could be rescued by family members. He then altered Dinaea's will, which had left only a portion of her estate to her grandson, making Oppianicus the Younger the sole inheritor.\n\nWhen the news of M. Aurius' death in Gaul reached Larinum, the relatives of Dinaea raised such an outcry that Oppianicus fled the town and took refuge in one of Sulla's camps. Through the favor he enjoyed with Sulla, Oppianicus had his Aurii accusers proscribed; he returned to the town with martial powers and killed his enemies. The paternal aunt of Cluentius was Oppianicus' ex-wife; Oppianicus kills her and, with the same poison, his own brother. His brother's wife is pregnant; Oppianicus poisons her before she bears, and inherits. Cn. Magius, Oppianicus' brother-in-law, dies; in his will, he leaves everything to his yet unborn son. Oppianicus, who is next in the line of succession, pays Magius' wife a large sum, and she aborts. He then marries her, although the marriage does not last long. Then he goes to Rome, becomes intimate with a young dissolute, Asuvius, and kills him after he has signed a will in his favor.\n\nIn 80 BC, Oppianicus fell in love with Sassia, the widow of his former brother-in-law, Aulus Cluentius Habitus the Elder. Cluentius the Elder had fallen victim to the Sullan proscriptions and the widowed Sassia then fell in love with her son-in-law Melinus and forced her daughter to divorce him so that she could marry him herself. Oppianicus arranged for the murder of Melinus so that Sassia could be free to marry him; she was disinclined, however, to be a stepmother, so Oppianicus obligingly murdered his two youngest sons before she agreed to the marriage.\n\nCicero was so successful that the young Cluentius was absolved of the charges. In the process the reputation of Sassia was completely destroyed. According to Quintilian, Cicero afterwards boasted that he had pulled the wool over the judges' eyes (\"se tenebras offudisse iudicibus in causa Cluenti gloriatus est\", \"Institutio Oratoria\" 2.17.21; the context is in discussion of orators who say false things not because they are themselves unaware of the truth, but to deceive other people).\n\nCicero's spirited defence in \"Pro Cluentio\" presents an insight into the life in Larinum in 66 BC, and also provides an image of a ruthless woman which has lasted for more than two thousand years.\n\nAs for the literary aftermath, Oppianicus will extend its influence into the farthest future: for instance, queen Tamora and her blackamoor Aaron in Titus Andronicus out-Oppianicus Oppianicus; and Juliette, a novel of an author whose very name is contrary to modesty, is clearly under Oppianicus' spell. The Italian erudite Mario Praz has written a whole book, Romantic Agony, about Oppianical influences in 19th century literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294579", "title": "May Morris", "text": "May Morris\n\nMary \"May\" Morris (25 March 1862 – 17 October 1938) was an English artisan, embroidery designer, jeweller, socialist, and editor. She was the younger daughter of the Pre-Raphaelite artist and designer William Morris and his wife and artists' model, Jane Morris.\n\nMay Morris was born on 25 March 1862 at Red House, Bexleyheath, and named Mary, as she was born on the Feast of the Annunciation.\nMay learned to embroider from her mother and her aunt Bessie Burden, who had been taught by William Morris. In 1878, she enrolled at the National Art Training School, precursor of the Royal College of Art. In 1885, aged 23, she became the Director of the Embroidery Department at her father's enterprise Morris & Co.\n\nIn 1886, May fell in love with Henry Halliday Sparling (1860–1924), secretary of the Socialist League. Despite her mother's concerns about her future son-in-law, they married on 14 June 1890 at Fulham Register Office. The Sparlings were divorced in 1898, and May resumed her maiden name.\n\nIn 1907, she founded the Women’s Guild of Arts with Mary Elizabeth Turner, as the Art Workers Guild did not admit women.\n\nShe edited her father's \"Collected Works\" in 24 volumes for Longmans, Green and Company, published from 1910 to 1915, and, after his death, commissioned two houses to be built in the style that he loved in the village of Kelmscott in the Cotswolds. Her companion at Kelmscott from 1917 until her death was Mary Lobb, a Land Army volunteer in the village.\nMay Morris died at Kelmscott Manor on 17 October 1938.\n\nMay Morris was an influential embroideress and designer, although her contributions are often overshadowed by those of her father, a towering figure in the Arts and Crafts movement. She continued his resurrection of free-form embroidery in the style which would be termed art needlework. Art needlework emphasized freehand stitching and delicate shading in silk thread thought to encourage self-expression in the needleworker in sharp contrast with the brightly coloured Berlin wool work needlepoint and its \"paint by numbers\" aesthetic which had gripped much of home embroidery in the mid-19th century.\n\nMay Morris was also active in the Royal School of Art Needlework (now Royal School of Needlework), founded as a charity in 1872 under the patronage of Princess Helena to maintain and develop the art of needlework through structured apprenticeships. The school originally opened in the autumn of 1872 in rooms in Sloane Street, London, with a staff of twenty women overseen by Lady Welby and Mrs Dolby, an \"authority in ecclesiastical work\". While the course available in the government schools of design for women was theoretical only, the RSAN had the distinct advantage of a practical, hands-on technical training. The school grew rapidly, and by 1875 had moved into their third locale, conveniently located in Exhibition Road next to the South Kensington Museum. The collections of ancient embroidery in the Museum were studied in an effort to understand and relearn old work.\n\nAlso among the staff at the RSAN were Jane Morris's sister, Elizabeth Burden, who was chief technical instructor from 1880, and designers Deborah Birnbaum (c1889) and Nellie Whichelo (c1890).\n\nMay Morris taught embroidery at the LCC Central School of Art in London from 1897, and was head of the Embroidery department from 1899 until 1905, thereafter continuing her association with the Central School as Visitor until 1910. She also taught at Birmingham, Leicester and Hammersmith Art School.\n\nBy 1916, there were many art schools under the LCC umbrella that included embroidery in their curriculum. Among the embroidery instructors were sisters Ellen M Wright and Fanny I Wright, both previously employed in the Embroidery Department at Morris & Co., and trained by May Morris. Ellen M Wright also taught at the Clapham School of Art, aided by Miss F Pooley, and Eleanor R Harriss and Mrs L Frampton taught at the Hammersmith School of Arts & Crafts.\n\nMorris also designed and made jewellery. She began to design jewellery around the turn of the 20th century, and was probably inspired by the Birmingham jewellers Arthur and Georgie Gaskin, who were old family friends. Examples of her jewellery are in the Victoria and Albert Museum and Amgueddfa Cymru – National Museum Wales\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294581", "title": "1818 in archaeology", "text": "1818 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1818 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294582", "title": "Juan de Jáuregui", "text": "Juan de Jáuregui\n\nJuan Martínez de Jáuregui y Aguilar (; also known as Juan Martínez de Jáuregui y Hurtado de la Sal) (24 November 1583 – 11 January 1641), was a Spanish poet, scholar and painter in the Siglo de Oro.\n\nJuan Martínez de Jáuregui y Hurtado de la Sal was born and baptized in Seville, Andalusia. His parents were Miguel Martínez de Jáuregui, a \"hidalgo\"—which is an untitled Spanish nobleman—from La Rioja, and Doña Isabel de la Sal from Seville. He was the fifth of their ten children; the oldest became later commissioner (\"regidor\") of Seville. The poet changed his second name (the one coming from his mother) to \"Aguilar\", coming from one of his grandmothers.\nAbout his youth very little is known. In his discourse \"Arte de la pintura\" (\"The Art of Painting\") some references to various travels to Italy can be found and it is known that he stayed in Rome, probably to study painting. He returned to Spain shortly before 1610 with a reputation as both a painter and a poet. In the preface to the \"Novelas exemplares\", Miguel de Cervantes says that Jáuregui painted his picture, and in the second part of \"Don Quixote\", praises Jáuregui's translation of Tasso's \"Aminta\", published at Rome in 1607. The picture by Jáuregui is lost; there is no evidence supporting any surviving painting being that of Jáuregui.\n\nJáuregui's \"Rimas\" (1618), a collection of graceful lyrics, where he integrated also some translations of Horace, Martial and Ausonius, is preceded by a controversial preface which attracted much attention on account of its outspoken declaration against the \"culteranismo\" of Luis de Góngora. Another Spanish poet, Francisco de Quevedo, mentioned Jáuregui in \"La perinola\" with scorn.\n\nThrough the influence of Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares, he was appointed groom of the chamber to Philip IV, and gave an elaborate exposition of his artistic doctrines in the \"Discurso poético contra el hablar culto y oscuro\" (1624), a skillful attack on the new theories, which procured for its author membership in the honorary Order of Calatrava. It is plain, however, that the shock of controversy had shaken Jáuregui's convictions, and his poem \"Orfeo\" (1624) is visibly influenced by Góngora.\n\nJáuregui died at Madrid on 11 January 1641, leaving behind him a translation of the \"Pharsalia\" which was not published until 1684. This rendering reveals Jáuregui as a complete convert to the new school, and it has been argued that, exaggerating the affinities between Lucan and Góngora—both of Cordoban descent — he deliberately translated the thought of the earlier poet into the vocabulary of the later master. This is possible; but it is at least as likely that Jáuregui unconsciously yielded to the current of popular taste, with no other intention than that of conciliating the public of his own day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294584", "title": "Kidnapped (1971 film)", "text": "Kidnapped (1971 film)\n\nKidnapped is a 1971 British adventure film, directed by Delbert Mann and starring Michael Caine, Trevor Howard, Jack Hawkins and Donald Pleasence, as well as a number of well-known British character actors. The film is based on the 1886 novel \"Kidnapped\" and the first half of the 1893 sequel \"Catriona\" by Robert Louis Stevenson.\n\nYoung David Balfour arrives at a bleak Scottish house, the House of Shaws, to claim his inheritance. The house and land have been under the custodianship of his father's brother, Ebeneezer Balfour, but on reaching adulthood, the land and property become David's. Ebeneezer is having none of it, however, so he first tries to murder him, then has him kidnapped by sea captain Hoseason, with whom he has \"a venture for trade in the West Indies\". David is shipped off to be sold as a slave in the Carolinas. He strikes up a friendship with Alan Breck, escaping from Prince Charles Edward Stuart's defeat at Culloden. Breck is in a cobble which is run down in the fog by Hoseason's ship and once aboard, asks Hoseason to take him to France. When Hoseason refuses, Breck offers him 60 guineas to put him down on Loch Linnhe.\n\nOn discovering that Breck has a money belt full of Jacobite gold, Hoseason and his crew try to kill Breck, but he is forewarned by David and the two kill half a dozen of the crew before the others retreat. Hoseason offers terms to end the fighting, but the ship runs aground. Only Breck and Balfour appear to survive and they manage to get to land. They set out for Edinburgh, dodging the ruthless Redcoats. Numerous adventures follow as they meet up with Breck's family, friends and foes alike. These include Breck's cousin, James Stewart, and his daughter Catriona, with whom David falls in love.\n\nThe film was originally made for television but was screened in cinemas in some countries, as with other adaptations of classics directed by Delbert Mann, including \"Heidi\" and \"David Copperfield\". Filming started in May 1971.\n\n\"Kidnapped\" was shot almost entirely on location in Scotland. Places include Argyll, Mull, Culross and Stirling Castle. The opening moorland scene of the end of the Battle of Culloden was filmed in Argyll, with highlander extras provided by Lochaber High School, Fort William, Highland and redcoat extras by Oban High School. Pinewood Studios was used for some interior scenes.\n\nThe film was originally known as \"David and Catriona\".\n\nThe soundtrack was composed and conducted by Roy Budd. The end title song, \"For All My Days\", was sung by Mary Hopkin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294588", "title": "1912 in archaeology", "text": "1912 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1912 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294598", "title": "Kidnapped (1938 film)", "text": "Kidnapped (1938 film)\n\nKidnapped (1938) is an adventure film directed by Otto Preminger (who was uncredited) and Alfred L. Werker, starring Warner Baxter and Freddie Bartholomew, and based on the 1886 novel \"Kidnapped\" by Robert Louis Stevenson.\n\nIn 1747, David Balfour's evil uncle arranges for him to be kidnapped and sent to sea where he meets exiled Alan Breck. The two make their way back to Scotland and justice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294620", "title": "Eastern bettong", "text": "Eastern bettong\n\nThe eastern bettong (\"Bettongia gaimardi\"), also known as the Balbo (by the Ngunnawal People who used to keep them as pets), southern bettong and Tasmanian bettong, is a bettong whose natural range includes southeastern Australia and eastern Tasmania.\n\nTwo formerly recognised species, \"Bettongia cuniculus\" (Tasmanian bettong) and \"Bettongia gaimardi\" (eastern bettong), were placed into a single species with two subspecies by Wakefield in 1967:\n\nThe introduction of the red fox and European rabbit to Australia led to the extinction of the mainland subspecies during the 1920s. The Tasmanian subspecies still exists. \n\nIn 2012, a small population was reintroduced to the mainland in Canberra. The reintroduction to Mulligans Flat Woodland Sanctuary was successful, and led to further reintroductions using an on-site breeding program out of the nearby Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve and wild eastern bettongs translocated from Tasmania.\n\nThis animal's habitat is dry, open eucalypt forests and grassy woodlands at altitudes between sea level and 1,000 meters.\n\nA major component of their diet is truffles and other underground fungi, as well as roots and tubers. Insects and grubs are also eaten. It is unique in that it will travel up to 1.5 km from its nest to a feeding area, a considerable distance for such a small creature.\n\nA nocturnal animal, the bettong sleeps during the day in a domed nest. The nests are made with densely woven grass, leaves and shredded bark in a sheltered site such as a shallow depression in the ground or under a fallen log or clump of vegetation. The animal uses its curved prehensile tail to transport the nesting materials to the nest site. The animal only uses the nest for one or two nights, before it moves on in search of food.\n\nLike other bettongs, the eastern bettong is a continuous breeder, producing young throughout the year. The gestation period is 21 days, after which the infant (referred to as a \"joey\") remains in the pouch for an additional 105 days.\n\nWhile the mainland population became extinct in the 1920s, the Tasmanian population has remained secure. One concern is that most of the bettongs are found on private land, with only two groups found within reserves. Red foxes are a major threat. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature has raised the threat status for eastern bettongs from least concern to near threatened.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294622", "title": "Jon Macken", "text": "Jon Macken\n\nJonathan Paul Macken (born 7 September 1977 in Blackley, Manchester) is an English football manager and former player who played as a striker.\n\nHe began his career with Premier League side Manchester United in 1995 but was released two years later after failing to make a first-team appearance. He joined Preston North End for £250,000 and managed to notch up 63 goals in 189 league matches until his departure to Manchester City in 2002. Macken eventually made his first Premier League appearance for City. He only managed to score seven goals in 51 appearances during his three years with City but notably scored against United in the Manchester derby in 2004. He signed for Crystal Palace in 2005 and while there, moved to Ipswich Town on loan. In 2007, he moved again to Derby County but was loaned out to Barnsley after failing to make an impact at Pride Park where he failed to score in 11 league appearances. He joined Barnsley permanently in 2008 and moved again to Walsall two years later. He was released by The Saddlers at the end of the 2011–12 season and joined Northern Premier League side Northwich Victoria, before joining Stockport County briefly in 2013.\n\nHe has one international cap for the Republic of Ireland which he earned in 2004 whilst a Manchester City player.\n\nMacken began his career at Manchester United and signed professional in 1996, but never played a first-team game for them and left on 22 July 1997 in a £250,000 move to Preston North End in 1997.\n\nHe scored over 70 goals at Preston, twice winning the Player of the Year award. In 1999-2000, under David Moyes, 25 goals from Macken saw Preston win the Second Division title.\n\nFollowing this success, Macken moved into the Premier League with a transfer to Manchester City in February 2002, for a fee of £5 million. He is most remembered at City for scoring the winner in the 4-3 comeback win against Tottenham in the 2003–04 FA Cup on 4 February. However, he was severely hampered by a succession of injuries, and only made 27 league starts in over three years. This downturn in his career brought about a move away from Manchester and Macken joined Crystal Palace in the summer of 2005 for £1.1 million.\n\nInitially, Macken did not get into the Palace team, and was behind England international Andrew Johnson and Republic of Ireland international Clinton Morrison. An injury to Johnson gave him a chance, initially, but then he himself got injured. His own replacement, Dougie Freedman showed good form, and despite a recovery from injury, Macken did not get back in the team.\n\nHowever, things turned upwards from there. Poor form by Morrison in the run-up to the Christmas period gave Macken his chance, and he scored his first competitive goal for Palace in the game at Coventry City, on 14 October 2005 (he had previously scored in a pre-season friendly), and scored again on 26 December, at Ipswich Town, although he was later sent off.\n\nMore injuries then continued to limit his chances, and the partnership with Johnson continued to alternate between Morrison and Dougie Freedman, with many fans voicing their discontent that Macken was not living up to his price-tag. Johnson was sold to Everton, prompting the return of Sándor Torghelle to the club from his loan at Panathinaikos, creating speculation that Macken may be leaving the club, but the appointment of Peter Taylor as manager appeared to silence this. Taylor, a known fan of Macken, had reportedly tried to sign him for Hull, while he was in charge there.\n\nTorghelle left permanently for Greece, but again his playing opportunities were limited. On deadline-day of the Summer 2006 transfer window, he made a further move to Ipswich Town in The Championship, this time on loan, being handed the number 27 shirt. The loan was finally agreed when Ipswich agreed to pay an increased proportion of his wages. Macken scored three goals for the Tractor Boys before returning to Selhurst Park.\n\nOn 31 January 2007 Macken joined Derby County on a free transfer. Derby were promoted to the Premier League at the end of the 2006–07 season, but he failed to win a regular place, or even score for The Rams, and was loaned out to Championship side Barnsley for two months in November 2007. Although he was recalled on 27 December 2007 he eventually signed a permanent deal with the Tykes on 28 January 2008 for an undisclosed six-figure fee.\n\nMacken initially joined Barnsley on 1 November 2007, on loan from Derby County. He made his debut against the club that made his name, Preston North End. He remained goalless for his first nine games, despite having produced a string of fine performances. On 22 December, he scored his first Barnsley goal against promotion chasing Bristol City after a fine run and shot.\n\nThe goals were flowing for Macken and he notched a brace against Stoke City on 26 December. First a header from a Martin Devaney corner. His second goal came courtesy of a Kayode Odejayi knock-down from another Devaney cross. He then returned to Derby after Paul Jewell took over.\n\nHe made a couple of substitute appearances for the Rams but his inevitable return to Barnsley was secured on 28 January 2008 for £200,000.\n\nThe next day, he marked his return with a fine finish in the home game with Colchester United. He bagged the second goal in a 2–1 win over West Bromwich Albion on 9 February and he was again on the scoresheet as the Reds thrashed Ipswich Town on 11 March.\n\nHe was released by Barnsley after the 2009–10 season and left when his contract expired in June.\n\nOn 19 August 2010, League One club Walsall signed Macken on a one-year deal with the option of a further year. On 9 May 2012 it was announced that Macken had been released by Walsall.\n\nOn 9 October 2012 it was reported that Macken had signed for Northwich Victoria. He made his debut for the club in a 1–1 draw at Newcastle Town, as an 80th-minute substitute, that evening.\n\nOn 31 January 2013, it was announced by Stockport County that Jon Macken had signed until the end of the 2012–13 season on a free transfer. Along with Mark Cullen and Jake Fowler, he was the first signing by new manager Darije Kalezić.\n\nMacken made his Stockport debut as a second-half substitute in County's 3–2 home win over Nuneaton Town on 2 February. He scored his first goal for the club against rivals Macclesfield Town on 30 March. Following their relegation from the Conference National, he was released.\n\nOn 24 February 2015, Macken came out of retirement to sign for Bamber Bridge. He made his debut in a 2–1 defeat to Darlington 1883 on 28 February.\n\nMacken made his debut for the England U20 national team in June 1997; he replaced Danny Murphy in the 64th minute of the win against the United Arab Emirates during the 1997 FIFA World Youth Championship in Malaysia. He picked up a late booking in the 5−0 win at the Larkin Stadium. This turned out to be his only cap.\n\nDespite representing England at youth level, Macken was cleared to play for the Republic of Ireland in 2004; he qualified because of his grandparents who were born in Cavan. On 18 August 2004, he made his debut when he replaced Clinton Morrison in the 63rd minute of the 1−1 draw with Bulgaria at Lansdowne Road.\n\nIn September 2017 he was appointed as manager of non-league club Radcliffe Borough. He left the club in January 2020 citing differences over the future direction of the club.\n\nPreston North End\nDerby County\n\nAwards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294625", "title": "Rarotonga International Airport", "text": "Rarotonga International Airport\n\nRarotonga International Airport is the Cook Islands' main international gateway, located in the town and district of Avarua, Rarotonga, 3 km west of the downtown area on the northern coast.\n\nBecause of the proximity of the runways to the nearby roads, it is possible to get very close to the aircraft while they are departing and landing. Runway 08, which is at the western end of the runway, in particular is often very popular when a large jet is landing.\n\nIn 2003, the terminal and departure and check-in areas were revamped at a cost of US $650,000. An $8.5m reconstruction project commenced in 2009 to revamp and expand the existing terminal facilities. The new-look terminal was officially opened on 22 June 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294640", "title": "Kontinent", "text": "Kontinent\n\nKontinent was an émigré dissident journal which focused on the politics of the Soviet Union and its satellites. Founded in 1974 by writer Vladimir Maximov, its first editor-in-chief, it was published in German and Russian and later translated into English. A Norwegian edition, \"Kontinent Skandinavia\", was published from 1979 to 1981.\n\nIts Editorial Board included Raymond Aron, George Bailey, Saul Bellow, Józef Czapski, Robert Conquest, Milovan Djilas, Alexander Galich, Jerzy Giedroyc, Gustaw Herling-Grudzinski, Eugène Ionesco, Arthur Koestler, Naum Korzhavin, Mihajlo Mihajlov, Ludek Pachman, Alexander Sakharov, Alexander Schmemann, Zïnaida Schakovskoy, Wolf Siedler, Ignazio Silone, Strannik, and Carl-Gustav Ströhm.\n\nThis initial issue featured a debate between Andrei Sakharov and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn regarding Solzhenitsyn's \"Letter to the Soviet Leaders\".\n\n\"Kontinent\" continues to be published in English and Russian by Russia House. Currently, the editorial is located at Moscow,\nregistered in the committee on the printed materials of the Russian federation, registration license є 014255. Kontinent follows traditions of scientific journals correcting errors indicated by readers. The Russian version has been available online since 1999.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294644", "title": "Finn Gustavsen", "text": "Finn Gustavsen\n\nFinn Gustavsen (22 April 1926 in Drammen – 20 July 2005) was a Norwegian socialist politician active from 1945 to the late 1970s. He was noted for his uncompromising style and willingness to take contrarian stands.\n\nGustavsen was born into a middle-class family in Drammen, where his father supported the family as the manager of the local cooperative store. Gustavsen started out his career as an industrial worker in Horten and Holmestrand. He became active in the Norwegian Labour Party youth movement (Arbeidernes Ungdomsfylking) in the fall of 1945 after he earned his university entrance certificate in a year.\n\nThe year after, he was hired as a reporter for the regional socialist paper in Vestfold, moved on to the national youth periodical for the Labor Party, then was part of a radical group that formed a foreign affairs journal called \"Orienteering\". Although most vocal on foreign policy issues related to the arms race and what the editors generally termed \"power bloc politics,\" the magazine became the platform for a left-wing faction within the Labor Party. This opposition was met with threats - sometimes carried out - of expulsion from the party.\n\nIn 1961, Gustavsen left the party and formed Sosialistisk Folkeparti and was immediately elected into Storting, the Norwegian Parliament as a representative from Oslo. He served as an elected member for the Sosialistisk Folkeparti (SF) (1961–1965 and 1965–1969) and it successor Sosialistisk Venstreparti (1973–1977). When the Labor Party lost its majority in Stortinget, Gustavsen's party became necessary for Labor Party governments to survive votes of no confidence.\n\nGustavsen decided to turn out the Labor government of Einar Gerhardsen in 1963 over the so-called Kings Bay Affair, ushering in a short-lived but symbolically important non-socialist government under John Lyng.\n\nAlthough Gustavsen's personality was strongly associated with his party, he made a considerable effort to resist that association. He opted out of reelection twice and had to be persuaded to resume leadership roles. He was a staunch opponent of Norwegian membership in the European Union and resisted the alliance with the Norwegian Communist Party. He risked criminal prosecution for his disclosures of Norwegian plans to build Loran C facilities in support of submarine warfare in Norwegian waters.\n\nIn 1977 he resigned from politics and accepted the position as the Norwegian Development Agency's representative in Mozambique. He also resumed his journalistic career, acting as an editor for the party newspaper Ny Tid.\n"}
{"id": "2294646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294646", "title": "Taime Downe", "text": "Taime Downe\n\nTaime Downe (; born Gustave Molvik on September 29, 1964) is an American musician who first became notable as the lead singer of 1980s hard rock band Faster Pussycat.\n\nDowne became interested in music at a very early age. In high school he formed a band named The Bondage Boys, and going under the stage name \"Vaun Hammer\", he released a song with this band called \"The Loser\" on \"Northwest Metalfest\", a compilation featuring ten Seattle-area bands, including early Metal Church. Sometime after this, he left Seattle for San Diego and then moved on to Los Angeles.\n\nBefore achieving musical fame, Taime worked for Retail Slut in Hollywood and ran the stage lights at the Troubadour. Magnus Walker of Serious Clothing accidentally got his start when, walking into Retail Slut, Downe asked where he had got his pants from. Even though Walker had actually bought them in Hollywood for less than $10, he replied 'England' and Downe asked him to source 8 pairs - at an agreed price of $25 - to sell in the store. \n\nIn 1985 he formed the band Faster Pussycat. The five-member band released their debut album in 1987.\n\nFaster Pussycat were signed to Elektra Records and sold over 500,000 copies of 1989's \"Wake Me When It's Over\". They toured with Y&T, Ace Frehley, Alice Cooper, Mötley Crüe, KISS, David Lee Roth, and others. Their next album \"Whipped!\", released in 1992, faced the surging popularity of alternative rock and was less popular. The band broke up that year, with Taime moving to Chicago to work with Pigface. Taime also sang backing vocals on Skid Row's 1995 cover of the Ramones' \"Psycho Therapy\".\n\nTaime returned to Los Angeles shortly after and put together his own industrial rock band called The Newlydeads for which he wrote and produced. Around 1998, he opened his own club, called The Pretty Ugly Club, with co-owner JD Terziu, and the club achieved the same level of success as The Cathouse, the club Taime had formerly run with Riki Rachtman. Taime has also been the promoter of other clubs in L.A. such as Thunder Pussy and Pretty Pussy. He also was the DJ at Metal Skool with Josh Richman as the MC.\n\nThe Newlydeads released a remix CD called \"Re-Bound\" and in 2001 released \"Dead End\". The same year Downe reunited for a tour with original Faster Pussycat members Brent Muscat and Greg Steele joining him. The newly re-formed band opened for Poison in 2002.\n\nIn 2006, he released \"Dreams from a Dirt Nap\", a Newlydeads best-of album, in May, and the new Faster Pussycat album \"The Power and the Glory Hole\" in July.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294647", "title": "The Water Is Wide (book)", "text": "The Water Is Wide (book)\n\nThe Water Is Wide is a 1972 memoir by Pat Conroy and is based on his work as a teacher on Daufuskie Island, South Carolina, which is called Yamacraw Island in the book. The book is sometimes identified as nonfiction and other times identified as a novel.\n\nYamacraw is a poor island lacking bridges and having little infrastructure. The book details Conroy's efforts to communicate with the islanders, who are nearly all directly descended from slaves and who have had little contact with the mainland or its people. He struggles to find ways to reach his students, ages 10 to 13, some of whom are illiterate or innumerate, and all of whom know little of the world beyond Yamacraw. Conroy (called \"Conrack\" by most of the students) does battle with the principal, Mrs. Brown, over his unconventional teaching methods and with the administrators of the school district, whom he accuses of ignoring the problems at the Yamacraw school.\n\nA film adaptation, titled \"Conrack\", was created in 1974, starring Jon Voight. A Hallmark Hall of Fame TV movie titled \"The Water Is Wide\", starring Jeff Hephner and Alfre Woodard, was made in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294648", "title": "Donald Duck (orange juice)", "text": "Donald Duck (orange juice)\n\nDonald Duck is the name of a brand of frozen and refrigerated orange juice by the Florida's Natural Growers agricultural cooperative, which was known as Citrus World from 1969 to 1998, and before that as the Florida Citrus Canners Cooperative. The brand was introduced in 1940 and is the cooperative's oldest brand. Donald Duck, one of Walt Disney's cartoon and comic book characters, is the mascot for the brand. He appears on the packaging and marketing, and in its advertising. For many years Donald Duck also appeared on the juice plant's water storage tank in Lake Wales, until 1998, when the cooperative decided to remove the Donald Duck logo as part of its name change and rebranding.\n\nIn 1987 the brand was the subject of a lawsuit between Citrus World and its rival Tropicana Products, which alleged that the Donald Duck \"Fresh 'N Natural\" brand was being marketed deceptively as fresh squeezed juice when it was actually made from concentrate.\n"}
{"id": "2294661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294661", "title": "Yuan Zhen", "text": "Yuan Zhen\n\nYuan Zhen (; 779 – September 2, 831), courtesy name Weizhi (), was a Chinese poet and politician of the middle Tang Dynasty. In prose literature, Yuan Zhen is particularly known for his work \"Yingying's Biography\", which has often been adapted for other treatments, including operatic and musical ones. In poetry, he is remembered for the inclusion of some of his poems by popular anthologies, his verses on exotic topics (such as the former Liangzhou), and for being part of the group of \"New Yuefu\" poets, which often used poetry as a form of expression and protest, but one potentially subtle enough to avoid the likely repercussions of more direct criticism. The poetic circle in which Yuan Zhen was involved included Bai Juyi, among others. Politically Yuan Zhen was briefly chancellor, during the reign of Emperor Muzong.\n\nA native of Luoyang, Yuan Zhen was a descendant of Northern Wei's imperial family. He lost his father at the age of seven and moved to Fengxiang (), near today's Baoji, Shaanxi with his mother Lady Zheng (). Yuan began his writings at the age of fifteen. He was a member of Bai Juyi's literary circle and a key figure in the ancient literature revival. He was a friend of Bai Juyi and also of Xue Tao, a courtesan and famous poet who might have been his lover. Bai Juyi and Yuan Zhen made a \"Green Mountain pact\" to retire together as Taoist recluses once they had accumulated enough funds, but Yuan's untimely death kept them from achieving that dream. In 813, Yuan wrote a grave inscription for Du Fu, which contains some of the earliest known praise for his predecessor's works.\n\nYuan Zhen was born in 779, around the time of Emperor Dezong's ascension to the throne. He was a 10th-generation descendant of Tuoba Shiyijian, the grandfather of Northern Wei's founder Emperor Daowu, who was posthumously honored Emperor Zhaocheng after Northern Wei's founding. Yuan Zhen's male ancestor line was renamed Yuan, from Tuoba, when Emperor Xiaowen changed Xianbei names to Han names in 496. Subsequently, ancestors of Yuan Zhen's served as officials of Sui Dynasty and Tang Dynasty. His grandfather Yuan Fei () served as a county secretary general, while his father Yuan Kuan () served as a low-level official at the ministry of justice, as well as secretary to an imperial prince.\n\nYuan Kuan died when Yuan Zhen was seven, and Yuan Zhen was raised by his mother Lady Zheng, who was considered an intelligent woman. As the household was poor, she did not send Yuan Zhen to school, but taught him to read and write herself. It was said that Yuan became capable of writing at age eight, and at age 14 passed the imperial examination for understanding two Confucian classics. At age 23, he was made a copyeditor at the Palace Library.\n\nIn 806, when Yuan Zhen was 27, during the reign of Emperor Dezong's grandson Emperor Xianzong, Yuan underwent a special imperial examination before Emperor Xianzong dealing with strategic thinking, and when the list of 18 examinees who passed the examination was announced, Yuan was ranked first — in a group that included such individuals as Bai Juyi, Dugu Yu (), Xiao Mian, and Shen Chuanshi (). As a result, Yuan was made \"You Shiyi\" (), a junior advisor at the legislative bureau of government ().\n\nYuan had an outspoken personality, and after being put into an advisorial post, he started submitting suggestions to Emperor Xianzong. In particular, because the officials Wang Shuwen and Wang Pi, who dominated the court of Emperor Xianzong's father Emperor Shunzong — who had previously served as Emperor Shunzong's staff members while Emperor Shunzong was crown prince — were at that time denounced as frivolous and power-hungry, Yuan submitted an essay detailing what he saw as qualifications that the crown prince's and other imperial princes' staff members should have, and Emperor Xianzong was impressed upon reading it. Yuan further submitted proposals involving the defense of the northwestern borders with Tufan and Huigu. Emperor Xianzong, in response, summoned him and requested opinions on strategies to take there. As a result, though, the ruling officials at the time were jealous of Yuan, and they had him sent out of the capital Chang'an to serve as the sheriff of Henan County (), one of the two counties making up the eastern capital Luoyang. Yuan subsequently left governmental service for some time while observing a mourning period after his mother's death. Once the mourning period was over, he was recalled to governmental service, to serve as \"Jiancha Yushi\" (), a mid-level imperial censor.\n\nIn 809, Yuan was on a mission to Dongchuan Circuit (東川, headquartered in modern Mianyang, Sichuan), when he submitted accusations that the deceased former military governor (\"Jiedushi\") of Dongchuan, Yan Li (), had collected taxes illegally and improperly seized the property of 88 households. As a result, the seven prefectural prefects who served under Yan were all punished. However, among the ruling officials, there were those who had deep friendships with Yan, and as a result of this incident, Yuan was sent out of the capital to serve at the Luoyang branch of the office of the imperial censors. While at Luoyang, he continued to pursue various officials for misconduct, including the caning of a county magistrate by the governor of Zhexi Circuit (浙西, headquartered in modern Zhenjiang, Jiangsu), Han Gao (), leading to the magistrate's death, and the improper use of imperial messenger posts by the military governor of Wuning Circuit (武寧, headquartered in modern Xuzhou, Jiangsu), Wang Shao (), to host the casket of the recently deceased eunuch monitor of the Wuning army. Meanwhile, when the mayor of Henan Municipality (i.e., the Luoyang region, not only the two counties), Fang Shi (), was accused of improper conduct, Yuan issued an order suspending Fang from office pending investigations. However, after investigations, Fang was only punished by being stripped of one month of salary, and Yuan was recalled to Chang'an. While stopping at the imperial messenger post at Fushui (敷水, in modern Weinan, Shaanxi), Yuan got into a dispute with an imperial eunuch messenger — variously reported as either Liu Shiyuan () (by the \"Old Book of Tang\") or Qiu Shiliang (by the \"New Book of Tang\"), in which the eunuch, as a result of the dispute, hit Yuan's face and injured him — Emperor Xianzong ruled that Yuan had overstepped his authorities as censor and demoted him to serve as the logistics officer at Jiangling Municipality (江陵, in modern Jingzhou, Hubei), despite defenses submitted on his behalf by Li Jiang, Cui Qun, and Bai.\n\nWhile at Jiangling, Yuan wrote many poems, and his style and Bai's were both popular and referred by the populace as \"Yuanhe Style\" () — \"Yuanhe\" being Emperor Xianzong's era name. The eunuch monitor of Jingnan Circuit (荊南, headquartered at Jiangling), Cui Tanjun (), was impressed by Yuan's talents and did not treat him as a subordinate, but rather with great respect; he also often collected Yuan's poems and recited them. Meanwhile, sometime thereafter, Yuan was made the military advisor to the prefect of Tong Prefecture (通州, in modern Nantong, Jiangsu), while Bai was made the military governor of Jiang Prefecture (江州, in modern Nanchang, Jiangxi). Despite the distance between the two, they often wrote poems to each other, which often ran 30 to 50 lines, sometimes up to 100 lines. The people of the Yangtze River region became impressed by their poems and often read and studied them. Many of Yuan's poems showed his sadness at being exiled from the capital.\n\nIn 819, by which time Yuan was serving as the secretary general of Guo Prefecture (虢州, in modern Sanmenxia, Henan), he was recalled to Chang'an to serve as \"Shanbu Yuanwailang\" (), a low-level official at the ministry of rites (禮部, \"Libu\"). Then-chancellor Linghu Chu, himself a talented writer, had long been impressed by Yuan's literary abilities, requested that he submit his writings to Linghu. Yuan did so, and the writings impressed LInghu greatly, comparing him to the Liu Song Dynasty poets Bao Zhao () and Xie Lingyun. Meanwhile, Emperor Xianzong's son and crown prince Li Heng, who had heard his concubines recite Yuan's poetry and referring to Yuan as \"Savant Yuan\" (), was impressed.\n\nIn 820, by which time Li Heng was emperor (as Emperor Muzong), Cui Tanjun was recalled to Chang'an, and he offered to Emperor Muzong, as a gift, a collection of over 100 poems by Yuan Zhen. Emperor Muzong was pleased, and asked Cui where Yuan was at that point, and Cui replied that Yuan was serving in an office lacking authority. That same day, Emperor Muzong promoted Yuan to be \"Cibu Langzhong\" (), a supervisorial official at the ministry of rites, and further put him in charge of drafting edicts for Emperor Muzong. However, because this was an irregular promotion, Yuan was looked down by his colleagues. On one occasion, when many imperial officials were gathering to eat melons, there were flies which gathered on the melons. Wu Ruheng () waved his fan to chase away the flies, and made the double entendre, \"Where did you come from? Why did you come here?\" This caused many of Wu's colleagues to be shocked and lose composure, but Wu did not. Nevertheless, Yuan's poetry continued to become increasingly popular at Chang'an, such that the people were rushing to learn it. Soon thereafter, Yuan was made chief imperial scholar (翰林承旨學士, \"Hanlin Xueshi\") as well as \"Zhongshu Sheren\" (), a mid-level official at the legislative bureau. Because of the friendship that Yuan had with Cui, the other eunuchs were also trying to become friendly with Yuan, particularly the one of the directors of palace communications (\"Shumishi\"), Wei Hongjian ().\n\nIn 821, Yuan was involved in an incident that was considered one of the precipitating incidents of the coming Niu-Li Factional Struggles. At that time, both Yuan and imperial scholar Li Deyu were involved in power struggles with Yuan's fellow \"Zhongshu Sheren\" Li Zongmin. Meanwhile, Li Zongmin's junior colleague at the legislative bureau, Yang Rushi () and the deputy minister of rites (禮部侍郎, \"Libu Shilang\") Qian Hui () were in charge of overseeing the imperial examinations. The military governor Duan Wenchang (a former chancellor) and the imperial scholar Li Shen both made secret pleas to Qian for certain examinees. However, when the results were announced, the examinees that Duan and Li Shen recommended were not given passing results, while among those passing the examinations were Zheng Lang, the brother of the examination bureau (門下省, \"Menxia Sheng\") official Zheng Tan; Pei Zhuan () the son of the military governor Pei Du (also a former chancellor); Li Zongmin's son-in-law Su Chao (); and Yang Rushi's brother Yang Yinshi (). This thus brought a popular uproar, and Duan submitted a report accusing Yang Rushi and Qian of being unfair. When Emperor Muzong requested opinions from the imperial scholars, Li Deyu, Yuan, and Li Shen all agreed with Duan's opinion. Emperor Muzong thus ordered Li Zongmin's colleague Wang Qi () to conduct a re-examination, while demoting Qian, Li Zongmin, and Yang Rushi to be prefectural prefects and deposing 10 of the examinees selected by Qian and Yang Rushi. This was said to be the start of some 40 years of struggles between Li Deyu and his associates (known as the Li Faction) and Li Zongmin and his associates (known as the Niu Faction, named after Li Zongmin's ally Niu Sengru).\n\nMeanwhile, Pei Du was leading a campaign against rebel generals Zhu Kerong and Wang Tingcou north of the Yellow River. It was said that, while Yuan had no resentment toward Pei personally, he wanted to be chancellor and was fearful that if Pei were victorious, Pei would be recalled and would again dominate the court, and therefore Yuan, as well as his ally Wei Hongjian, were interfering with requests that Pei was making of Emperor Muzong during the campaign. Pei, incensed, submitted a harshly worded accusation against Yuan and Wei. Emperor Muzong was displeased with Pei's accusations, but as Pei was a prominent statesman, placated Pei by demoting Wei to be the director of the imperial armory and Yuan to be the deputy minister of public works (工部侍郎, \"Gongbu Shilang\"), relieving Yuan of his position as imperial scholar. However, it was said that Emperor Muzong continued to trust Yuan greatly, despite removing him from his imperial scholar post. Indeed, soon thereafter, after the campaign ended (when the imperial government capitulated to Zhu and Wang by making them military governors), Yuan was made a chancellor with the title \"Tong Zhongshu Menxia Pingzhangshi\" (). (It was said that the capitulation was advocated by Yuan, who wanted to relieve Pei of his military command.)\n\nMeanwhile, during the campaign against Zhu and Wang, Wang had put Niu Yuanyi (), a general loyal to the imperial government, under siege at Shen Prefecture (深州, in modern Hengshui, Hebei). Yu Fang (), an advisor to an imperial prince, who wanted to submit an extraordinary suggestion to gain a promotion, suggested to Yuan that Yu's friends Wang Zhao () and Yu Youming () be sent to Wang Tingcou's Chengde Circuit (成德, headquartered in modern Shijiazhuang, Hebei) to try to persuade Wang Tingcou's officers to lift the siege on Shen Prefecture. Yuan accepted the idea, and, as part of the plan, gave Wang Zhao and Yuan Youming some 20 commission certificates to give them to Wang Tingcou's officers. A man named Li Shang () heard of the plan, but misinterpreted this as a plot by Yuan and Yu Fang to assassinate Pei. He reported this to Pei, but Pei took no action. He then reported it to the Left Shence Army (). After Emperor Muzong received report of this, he had Han Gao investigate the matter. After the investigation was complete, it was concluded that there was no evidence that Yuan intended to assassinate Pei, but as a result, both Pei (who by this point had returned to Chang'an and was again serving as chancellor) and Yuan were relieved of their chancellor posts, less than four months after Yuan was made chancellor. Yuan was sent out of the capital to serve as the prefect of Tong Prefecture (同州, in modern Weinan). When a number of advisorial officials subsequently submitted objections that Yuan's punishment was too light, Emperor Muzong stripped Yuan of one of his ceremonial posts as the director of Changchun Palace (長春宮, in Tong Prefecture). While the investigations were still ongoing, the mayor of Jingzhao Municipality (京兆, i.e., the Chang'an region), Liu Zungu (), was putting Yuan's house under constant guard. When Yuan complained about this, Emperor Muzong punished Liu.\n\nAfter Yuan served for two years at Tong Prefecture, he was made the governor (觀察使, \"Guanchashi\") of Zhedong Circuit (浙東, headquartered in modern Shaoxing, Zhejiang) as well as the prefect of its capital prefecture Yue Prefecture (). Yuan retained a staff that was also talented in literature, and they took tours of the picturesque locations of the circuit three or four times per month. They also often wrote poems. His deputy Dou Gong (), in particular, became a famed poet himself, and they often wrote poems to each other. Meanwhile, while at Zhedong, Yuan also became known for being corrupt and gathering wealth. He served there for eight years, including the entire brief reign of Emperor Muzong's son Emperor Jingzong.\n\nIn 829, by which time Emperor Jingzong's brother Emperor Wenzong was emperor, Yuan Zhen was recalled to Chang'an to serve as \"Shangshu Zuo Cheng\" (), one of the secretaries general of the executive bureau (尚書省, \"Shangshu Sheng\"). He tried to reorganize the bureau, and he expelled seven officials under him who had poor reputations. However, as Yuan himself was not known for exemplary ethics, he did not receive much support from other officials. When the chancellor Wang Bo died in 830, Yuan tried to use his connections to again become chancellor, but was unable to do so. Instead, he was sent out to Wuchang Circuit (武昌, headquartered in modern Wuhan, Hubei) to serve as its military governor and the prefect of its capital prefecture E Prefecture (). He became ill suddenly in fall 831 and died within a day of falling ill. He was given posthumous honors. As his son Yuan Daohu () was then only two years old, his funeral was hosted by his cousin Yuan Ji (). He left a collection of 100 volumes of poems, draft edicts, commemorative texts, and essays. He also compiled a 300-volume work collecting ancient and contemporary legal rulings.\n\nAs an official, Yuan Zhen pursued his poetic activities under during Emperor Muzong's and Emperor Jingzong's reigns, both his own taking an active interest in the works of other poets.\n\nYuan Zhen was part of the New Yuefu Movement, which involved poets interested in reviving some of the aspects of the yuefu style folk ballad verse popular during the Han Dynasty, with an interest in poetry as a form of political and societal critique. The group includes Bai Juyi (considered to be their leader), Zhang Ji, and Wang Jian.\n\nYuan Zhen had four of his poems selected for inclusion in the famous poetry anthology \"Three Hundred Tang Poems\". These were translated by Witter Bynner with the following titles:\n\n\nThe three \"Elegies\" are laments for his wife who died young.\n\nThe \"Biography of Ying-ying\" is one of the most widely read and adapted \"chuanqi\", or short stories in the classical language. It has been translated by James Hightower (\"Yüan Chen and 'The Story of YIng-ying'\" HJAS 33 (1973): 90-123), Arthur Waley (available in the \"Anthology of Chinese Literature\" by Cyril Birch, vol. I. (). An online translation by Patrick Moran includes the Chinese text. here.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294665", "title": "Language-Sensitive Editor", "text": "Language-Sensitive Editor\n\nLanguage-Sensitive Editor (LSE) is a full-screen visual editor for the VAX/VMS and OpenVMS Operating systems. LSE is implemented by using the Text Processing Utility (TPU) language. It is part of the DECset programming tool set, which also contains a test manager, the performance and coverage analyzer (PCA), a code management system (CMS), and a module management mystem (MMS).\n\nLSE requires the features of a VT100 terminal and successors, or a compatible terminal emulator. It has the following features:\n\nAs shipped in 1999 LSE came with templates for the following programming languages:\n\nAs of 2007 the following additional templates were supplied:\n"}
{"id": "2294666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294666", "title": "No Place Like Home (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)", "text": "No Place Like Home (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)\n\n\"No Place Like Home\" is the fifth episode of season 5 of the television show \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\".\n\nTwo months ago, several monks, speaking Czech, rushed to perform a ritual while a powerful force of some sort threatened their lives. In the present, Buffy stakes a vampire outside an abandoned building, and then gets caught by the night watchman, who thinks she's a teen looking for a rave. As she turns to leave, he tells her not to forget her glow-ball, an effulgent orb which Buffy doesn't recognize but takes to investigate.\n\nBuffy makes breakfast for her mom, who is still suffering from headaches that the doctors can't explain. Dawn takes credit for the breakfast, telling Joyce that Buffy only helped. Joyce and Dawn bond (Joyce calling Dawn \"my little pumpkin belly\"), which leaves Buffy feeling like an outsider.\n\nGiles' big opening at The Magic Box is less than successful at first, but eventually, the magic shop gets to be so popular that he can't handle it all on his own. Buffy presents the orb to Giles, but Giles can't explain it right away, though he recognizes it as paranormal in origin because \"it's so shiny.\"\n\nWhile picking up a prescription for her mother at the hospital, Buffy encounters the night watchman again as he's being strapped down to a gurney. He's less than stable, but he manages to warn Buffy that she will be attacked through her family.\n\nA monk works on a blueprint in an empty building just as The Beast smashes through a large steel door, revealing itself to be a supernatural blond female. The Beast ties him up and tortures him for information about \"the Key,\" but he won't tell her anything. She starts to speak crazily until she puts her fingers to the head of a security guard and seems to suck the life force from him.\n\nBuffy assumes that the danger she was warned about is what is causing her mother's headaches. Anya recommends to Buffy that she perform a spell to reveal any spells that may be affecting her family. Buffy doesn't want Riley to feel unwanted, so she offers to let him help her with the spell. He realizes what she's doing, then they talk and agree to take care of each other.\n\nBuffy performs the ritual in her bedroom then walks around her house to look for anything unusual. Nothing appears weird about her mother, but Buffy sees Dawn's image flashing in and out of pictures around the house. When she enters Dawn's room, Buffy sees Dawn's possessions, bed, desk, and decorations also fading in and out, as well as Dawn herself. Buffy confronts Dawn about it, and she concludes that Dawn isn't her sister. Buffy physically assaults and threatens Dawn, telling her to stay away from their mother, but Buffy's supposed little sister appears truly confused and doesn't understand Buffy's sudden change in attitude.\n\nGiles calls to tell Buffy about the orb, a Dagon Sphere, and its purpose of protection from an unnamed evil. Buffy returns to the abandoned building in hopes of finding more information. Buffy encounters Spike lurking outside her home and demands to know what he was doing there. Spike gives a rather poor and unsatisfying explanation (\"Out for a walk... bitch\"), though Buffy nonetheless decides to let him off with a warning, to which Spike gets frustrated and launches a bizarre rant against her before departing, leaving Buffy puzzled. Looking down, Buffy notes a small pile of Spike's discarded cigarette butts; he must have been loitering there for several hours. Shaking her head, she proceeds to return to the warehouse as Dawn watches the whole exchange from the window.\n\nBuffy comes up against the Beast, who quickly proves to be too strong for Buffy to handle. After taking quite a beating, Buffy is able to escape with the monk. The Beast throws a tantrum, causing the room to collapse on her, which delays her pursuit. Back at The Magic Box, Giles offers Anya a job when he realizes that the job is too much for just one, and that she enjoys handling the money.\n\nIn his last moments of life, the monk warns Buffy that she must protect the key. He tells her that the key is a collection of energy put into a human form, Dawn's form. They sent her to the Slayer to be protected from those looking for it. Before he dies, he tells her that her memories of Dawn were constructed, and that Dawn is now an innocent human who not only needs the protection of the Slayer, but also the love of a sister. When Buffy returns home, she apologizes to Dawn, and the two girls are able to relate on at least one subject - their concern for their mother.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294672", "title": "The Water Is Wide (song)", "text": "The Water Is Wide (song)\n\n\"The Water Is Wide\" (also called \"O Waly, Waly\" or simply \"Waly, Waly\") is a folk song of Scottish origin, based on lyrics that partly date to the 1600s. It remains popular in the 21st century. Cecil Sharp published the song in \"Folk Songs From Somerset\" (1906). It is related to Child Ballad 204 (Roud number 87), \"Jamie Douglas\", which in turn refers to the ostensibly unhappy first marriage of James Douglas, 2nd Marquis of Douglas to Lady Barbara Erskine.\n\nThe imagery of the lyrics describes the challenges of love: \"Love is handsome, love is kind\" during the novel honeymoon phase of any relationship. However, as time progresses, \"love grows old, and waxes cold.\" Even true love, the lyrics say, can \"fade away like morning dew.\"\n\nThe modern lyric for \"The Water Is Wide\" was consolidated and named by Cecil Sharp in 1906 from multiple older sources in southern England, following English lyrics with very different stories and styles but the same meter. Earlier sources were frequently published as broadsheets without music. Performers or publishers would insert, remove, and adapt verses from one piece to another: floating verses are also characteristic of hymns and blues verses. Lyrics from different sources could be used with different melodies of the same metre. Consequently, each verse in the modern song may not have been originally composed in the context of its surrounding verses nor be consistent in theme.\n\n\"The Water is Wide\" may be considered a family of lyrics with a particular hymn-like tune.\n\n\"O Waly Waly\" (Wail, Wail) may be sometimes a particular lyric, sometimes a family tree of lyrics, sometimes \"Jamie Douglas\", sometimes one melody or another with the correct meter, and sometimes versions of the modern compilation \"The Water is Wide\" (usually with the addition of the verse starting \"O Waly, Waly\"). Benjamin Britten used the melody and verses of \"The Water is Wide\" for his arrangement—which does not have the \"O Waly, Waly\" verse, yet is titled \"Waly, Waly\". A different melody is used for the song \"When Cockleshells turn Silver Bells\", also subtitled \"Waly, Waly\". Yet another melody for \"O Waly, Waly\" is associated with the Lord Jamie Douglas lyric.\n\nA key ancestor is the lyric \"Waly, Waly, Gin Love Be Bonny\" from Ramsay's \"Tea Table Miscellany\" (1724), given below. This is a jumble of verses from other lyrics including \"Arthur's Seat shall be my Bed\" (1701), \"The Distressed Virgin\" (1633) and the Scottish scandal ballad (1776).\n\nThe use of \"cockleshells\" and \"silver bells\" in Thomson's version (1725) pre-dates the earliest published Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary (1744) and may relate to torture.\n\nSome though not all versions of \"Jamie Douglas\" have the first verse that starts 'O, Waly, Waly'. Andrew Lang found a variant verse in Ramsay's \"Tea Table Miscellany\" from a sixteenth-century song.\n\nPredecessors of \"The Water is Wide\" also influenced lyrics for other folk and popular songs, such as the modern version of the Irish \"Carrickfergus\" (1960s) and the American \"Sweet Peggy Gordan\" (1880). The Irish folk song \"Carrickfergus\" shares the lines \"but the sea is wide/I cannot swim over/And neither have I wings to fly\". This song may be preceded by an Irish language song whose first line \"A Bhí Bean Uasal\" (\"It was a noble woman\") matches closely the opening line of one known variation of Lord Jamie Douglas: \"I was a lady of renown\". However, the content of the English-language \"Carrickfergus\" includes material clearly from the Scots/English songs not in any known copy of \"A Bhí Bean Uasal\" suggesting considerable interplay among all known traditions. The Welsh version is called \"Mae'r môr yn faith.\"\n\nThe modern \"The Water Is Wide\" was popularized by Pete Seeger in the folk revival. There have been multiple subsequent variations of the song and several names—including \"Waly, Waly\", \"There is a Ship\", and \"Cockleshells\"—which use and re-use different selections of lyrics. The song \"Van Diemen's Land\" on the album \"Rattle and Hum\" by U2 uses a variation of the melody of \"The Water Is Wide\".\nThe song \"When the Pipers Play,\" sung by Isla St. Clair on the video of the same name, uses the melody of \"The Water is Wide.\"\nIn 1991, the French singer Renaud recorded \"La ballade nord-irlandaise\" (The Ballad of Northern Ireland), introducing the tune widely to the francophone world. And, in the Dunkerque carnival, they sing \"putain d'Islande\" based on the same melody.\n\nThe lyrics for \"Waly, Waly, Gin Love Be Bonny\" from \"Ramsay's Tea Table Miscellany\" (1724).\n<poem>\nO Waly, waly (a lament – \"woe is me\") up the bank,\nAnd waly, waly doun the brae (hill),\nAnd waly, waly, yon burn-side (riverside),\nWhere I and my love wont to gae.\nI lean'd my back into an aik (oak),\nI thocht it was a trusty tree;\nBut first it bow'd, and syne (soon) it brak (broke),\nSae my true love did lightly me.\n\nO waly, waly, but love be bonnie (beautiful),\nA little time while it is new,\nBut when 'tis auld (old), it waxeth cauld (cold),\nAnd fades away like the morning dew.\nO wherefore should I busk my heid (adorn my head)?\nOr wherefore should I kame (comb) my hair?\nFor my true love has me forsook,\nAnd says he'll never love me mair (more).\n\nNow Arthur Seat shall be my bed,\nThe sheets shall ne'er be fyl'd by me,\nSaint Anton's well shall be my drink,\nSince my true love has forsaken me.\nMartinmas wind, when wilt thou blaw (blow),\nAnd shake the green leaves off the tree?\nO gentle death, when wilt thou come?\nFor of my life I am weary.\n\n'Tis not the frost, that freezes fell,\nNor blawing snaws (snow) inclemency,\n'Tis not sic cauld (such cold) that makes me cry,\nBut my love's heart grown cauld to me.\nWhen we cam in by Glasgow town,\nWe were a comely sight to see;\nMy love was clad in the black velvet,\nAnd I my sell in cramasie (crimson).\n\nBut had I wist (known), before I kiss'd,\nThat love had been sae ill to win,\nI'd lock my heart in a case of gold,\nAnd pin'd it with a silver pin.\nOh, oh! if my young babe were born,\nAnd set upon the nurse's knee,\nAnd I my sell were dead and gane,\nFor a maid again I'll never be.\n</poem>\n\nSome popular lyrics for \"The Water is Wide\" are within the book \"Folk Songs For Solo Singers\", though many versions have been printed and sung.\n\nJürgen Klos traces the first verse to \"I'm Often Drunk And Seldom Sober\" (c. 1780), the second to \"The Seamans leave taken of his sweetest Margery\" (c. 1660), the third to \"Oh Waly, Waly, Gin Love Be Bonny\" (already 'old' when published in c. 1724), and the fourth to \"Hey trollie lollie, love is jolly\" (c. 1620.) He could not trace the melody before 1905.\n\n<poem>\nThe Water is Wide\nI Cannot get over\nNor have I Wings\nWith which to-o-o fly\nO-o-h give me a boat\nThat can carry Two\nWe both shall Row\nMy friend and I-i-I\"\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nThe water is wide \nI cannot get o'er\nNo wings have I \nNo wings have I to-o fly\nGive me a boat\nThat will carry two\nWe both shall row,\nmy friend and I.\n\nVerse 2:\nAs I look out\nacross the sea\na Bright horizon beckons me\nAnd I am called to do my best\nand be the most\nthat I can be.\n</poem>\n\n\nThe Voyage Home\n\n<poem>\nThe water is wide, I cannot get o'er\nAnd neither have I wings to fly,\nBuild me a boat that can carry two\nAnd both shall row, my love and I.\n\nI leaned my back up against an oak,\nTo find it was a trusty tree,\nI found you true, love, when first you spoke,\n'tis true you are, and ever shall be.\n\nOur love shines clearly against the storm,\nTurns darkest night to brightest day,\nTurns turbulent waters to perfect calm,\nA blazing lamp to light our way.\n\nLove is the centre of all we see,\nLove is the jewel that guides us true,\nNo matter what, love, you'll stay with me,\nNo matter what, my love, I'll stay with you.\n\nThe water is wide, I cannot get o'er\nAnd neither have I wings to fly,\nBuild me a boat that can carry two\nAnd both shall row, my love and I.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nThe water is wide, I cannot cross o'er,\nAnd neither have I the wings to fly.\nBuild me a boat that can carry two\nAnd both shall row, my true love and I.\n\nA ship there is and she sails the sea\nShe's laden deep, as deep can be.\nBut not so deep as the love I'm in,\nAnd I know not if I sink or swim.\n\nI leaned my back against a young oak,\nThinking 'twere a trusty tree.\nBut first it bent and then it broke,\nThus did my love prove false to me.\n\nO love is handsome and love is kind,\nBright as a jewel when first it's new\nBut love grows old and waxes cold,\nAnd fades away like the morning dew,\nAnd fades away like the morning dew.\n</poem>\n\n\"O Waly, Waly\" has been a popular choice for arrangements by classical composers, in particular Benjamin Britten, whose arrangement for voice and piano was published in 1948. John Rutter uses it for the Third Movement in his \"Suite for Strings\" (1973).\n\nThe tune is often used for the hymn \"When I Survey the Wondrous Cross\" by Isaac Watts. It is also the tune for John Bell's \"When God Almighty came to Earth\" (1987) and F. Pratt Green's \"An Upper Room did our Lord Prepare\" (1974). Additionally, Hal H. Hopson used the tune for his work \"The Gift of Love\". Hopson also wrote Christian lyrics to \"The Water is Wide\", which are often performed by church choirs.\n\nMack Wilberg has arranged the tune to \"Thou Gracious God\" by Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr., which the Mormon Tabernacle Choir performs in the album \"[[Peace Like a River (album)|Peace Like a River][[]\". \n\nBecause the melody is consistent with the words of [[Adon Olam]], a prayer closing most modern Jewish services, [[Susan Colin]] performed a version with an also-revised prayer.. One congregation's choir performed it with the standard Hebrew prayer.. One instrumental version is consistent with the stanzas of the prayer.\n\n[[Oregon (band)|Oregon]] has a jazz version of this on their 30th studio album, \"[[Lantern (Oregon album)|Lantern]]\".\n\nClassical singers who have recorded \"O Waly, Waly\" include [[Maura O'Connell]] (Irish Alto), [[Thomas Allen (baritone)|Sir Thomas Allen]] (English baritone), [[Janet Baker]] (English mezzo-soprano), [[Ian Bostridge]] (English tenor), [[Sarah Brightman]] (English soprano), [[Alfred Deller]] (English counter-tenor), [[Anthony Rolfe Johnson]] (English tenor), [[John Langstaff]], [[Richard Lewis (tenor)|Richard Lewis]] (English tenor), [[Felicity Lott]] (English soprano), [[Benjamin Luxon]] (English bass-baritone), [[Derek Lee Ragin]] (American countertenor), Aksel Schiotz (Danish tenor), [[Daniel Taylor (countertenor)|Daniel Taylor]] (Canadian counter-tenor), [[Robert Tear]] (Welsh tenor), [[Frederica von Stade]] (American mezzo-soprano), [[Carolyn Watkinson]] (English mezzo-soprano), and [[Kathleen Ferrier]] (English contralto). The King's Singers have a setting combined with the cello solo from J. S. Bach's Suite no. 1 on their British Isles folk song album, \"Watching the White Wheat\".\n\nThe [[Library of Congress]] audio archives contain a recording of the American composer [[Samuel Barber]] singing this tune and accompanying himself on piano in a recital broadcast from the [[Curtis Institute]] in [[Philadelphia]] on 26 December 1938.\n\n\"The Water is Wide\" has also been recorded countless times, with popular renditions by [[Maura O'Connell]] (Irish Alto folk singer), [[June Tabor]] (1976 solo album, \"Airs and Graces\"), [[Angie Aparo]], [[The Highwaymen (folk band)|The Highwaymen]], [[The Seekers]], [[Peter, Paul and Mary]] (titled \"There is a Ship\"), [[Sheila Jordan]] (\"Lost and Found\", 1989), [[Cowboy Junkies]], [[Bob Dylan]], [[Pete Seeger]], [[Rangers (band)|Rangers]], [[Joan Baez]], [[Fred Neil]], [[Enya]], [[Steeleye Span]], [[Linda Ronstadt]], [[Karla Bonoff]], [[James Taylor]], [[John Gorka]], [[Daniel Rodriguez (tenor)|Daniel Rodriguez]], [[Luka Bloom]], [[Steve Goodman]], [[Eva Cassidy]], [[Rory Block]], [[Tom Chapin]], [[Charlestown (Manning album)|Kathy Hampson]]'s Free Elastic Band, and [[Ed Gerhard]].\n\n[[Mark Knopfler]] recorded an instrumental version of \"The Water is Wide\" following the death of musician [[Chet Atkins]], who had collaborated with Knopfler in several musical projects.\n\nThe lyrics vary from period to period and from singer to singer.\n\nCarolyn Hester recorded the song twice, first on her self-titled LP for Tradition Records in 1960, then on her \"Live At Town Hall\" in 1965, but not released until 1990.\n\n[[The Kingston Trio]] released a version under the title \"The River is Wide\" in 1961. The New Christy Minstrels recorded this same melody in 1963 with entirely different lyrics, arranged by [[Randy Sparks]] and retitled \"Last Farewell\".\n\n[[Esther & Abi Ofarim]] recorded \"Oh Waly Waly\" in 1963 for their album \"Songs Der Welt\", and for their live concert album in 1969. Esther re-released the song on box-set CD \"Mein Weg zu mir\" in 1999.\n\n[[Roger McGuinn]] of [[the Byrds]] recorded the song on his first solo album (1973).\n\n[[Cliff Richard]] recorded a version on his 1982 album \"[[Now You See Me, Now You Don't (album)|Now You See Me, Now You Don't]]\".\n\n[[Neil Young]] wrote new, environmentally themed lyrics to the tune, and recorded it as \"Mother Earth (Natural Anthem)\" on his 1990 album \"[[Ragged Glory]]\".\n\n[[Karla Bonoff]] recorded a version that is included on the 1991 soundtrack for the US television program \"[[Thirtysomething (TV series)|thirtysomething]]\", and was used to conclude the 2006 airing of episode 94 (\"Solo\") of the fifth season of the TV show \"[[Alias (season 5)|Alias]]\".\n\nFrench singer [[Renaud]] helped make the tune famous among French-speaking countries. He wrote pacifist lyrics to the song \"La ballade nord-irlandaise\" (the Northern-Irish Ballad) for his 1991 album \"[[Marchand de cailloux]]\", evoking the troubles of Northern Ireland. The Breton group [[Tri Yann]] also recorded a French version \"La Mer est sans fin\" (the Sea Is Endless), in addition to a Breton version \"Divent an dour\".\nThe first French version is \"La mer est immense\" (The sea is Wide) by the New Zealand singer [[Graeme Allwright]] on his 1966 album \"[[Joue, joue, joue]]\".\n\nThe American-born Taiwanese artist [[Leehom Wang]] included a rendition of this song on his 1995 debut album, \"Love Rival Beethoven\".\n\nIn the late 1990s [[Jewel (singer)|Jewel]], [[Sarah McLachlan]], and the [[Indigo Girls]] collaborated on a version of the song in concert on the [[Lilith Fair]] tour.\n\n[[Barbra Streisand]] included \"The Water is Wide\" paired with \"Deep River\" on her 1997 \"Higher Ground\" album.\n\n[[Cam Clarke]] included it on his 1999 album \"Inside Out\".\n\nThe \"[[Two Worlds (Lee Ritenour and Dave Grusin album)|Two Worlds]]\" album released by jazz musicians [[Lee Ritenour]] and [[Dave Grusin]] in 2000 included a performance of \"The Water is Wide\" combined with \"[[Oh Shenandoah|Shenandoah]]\" sung by the soprano [[Renée Fleming]].\n\nAmerican jazz artist [[Charles Lloyd (jazz musician)|Charles Lloyd]] recorded \"[[The Water Is Wide (Charles Lloyd album)|The Water Is Wide]]\", a CD released in 2000 on ECM Records with Lloyd (tenor saxophone) [[John Abercrombie (guitarist)|John Abercrombie]] (guitar), [[Brad Mehldau]] (piano), [[Larry Grenadier]] (double-bass), and [[Billy Higgins]] (drums). The Charles Lloyd Quartet released another version of the song on the\" Mirror\" CD (2010), with Lloyd (tenor saxophone), [[Jason Moran (musician)|Jason Moran]] (piano), [[Reuben Rogers]] (bass), and [[Eric Harland]] (drums).\n\n[[Charlotte Church]], the Welsh child soprano, recorded a popularised rendition of this song on her 2001 album \"Enchantment\".\n\n[[Eva Cassidy]]'s version was released posthumously on her 2003 album \"[[American Tune (album)|American Tune]]\" as well as on the 1994 bootleg album \"Live at Pearl's\".\n\nAmerican jazz pianist [[Eyran Katsenelenbogen]] recorded this song on his album \"It's Reigning Kats & Dogs & Bogen\", released in 2003.\n\n[[Chloë Agnew]], the youngest member of [[Celtic Woman]], recorded this song for her album \"Chloë\" (2002) with the help of composer [[David Downes (Irish composer)|David Downes]].\n\n[[Runrig]], the Scottish Gaelic rock band, recorded this song for the first in their series of \"Access All Areas\" fanclub-only live albums in 2001.\n\nIn 2006, [[Triniti]] released the song on their \"[[Trinití (album)|self-titled debut album]]\", as did [[Órla Fallon]] on the album of the same name.\n\n[[Hayley Westenra]]'s album \"[[Treasure (Hayley Westenra album)|Treasure]]\", released in 2007, contained another version. This is not in the made in the EU version of Treasure 2007, but is the second track in Haley Westenra's album \"Odyssey\" made in the EU 2005 / 2006.\n\n[[Masaaki Kishibe]]'s 2008 album \"My Favorites\" includes a fingerstyle acoustic guitar rendition, instead incorporating the vocal melodies into the guitar melodies. American pianist, [[John Laing (pianist)|John Laing]] features this song on his debut album \"Awakened\" and it features [[Brittany Benish]] on guitar.\n\n[[Alexander Armstrong (comedian)|Alexander Armstrong]] recorded the song on his 2015 solo album, \"[[A Year of Songs]]\", with an orchestral accompaniment.\n\nJohn Gorka sang the song on the 1998 album \"Where Have All The Flowers Gone\", a two-CD celebration of Pete Seeger songs by numerous artists.\n\nSchoonerfare sang \"The Water is Wide\" on their 2005 album, titled \"And Both Shall Row\".\n\nThe second Christmas album from Christian rock band, Mercyme, used the tune for their arrangement of \"[[O Come, O Come, Emmanuel]]\" on their 2015 album, [[Mercyme]], \"It's Christmas!\".\n\nThe thirtieth album of the band [[Oregon (band)|Oregon]] called \"[[Lantern (Oregon album)|Lantern]]\", released in 2017 on [[CAM Jazz]], contains a version of the song as arranged by [[Paul McCandless]].\n\nDavid Sanborn recorded the song, with Linda Ronstadt on vocals, in 1985. Arrangement was by Don Grolnick. It is included on Sanborn's compilation album, \"[[Love Songs (David Sanborn album)|Love Songs]]\", and was previously unreleased.\n\nIt played in the opening and closing credits of the 1964 film, \"Nobody Waved Goodbye\".\n\n[[Bob Dylan]] and [[Joan Baez]] rendered a version of the song for Bob Dylan's 1978 film, \"[[Renaldo and Clara]]\".\n\nIt was performed by [[Susanna Hoffs]] in the film \"[[Red Roses and Petrol]]\" directed by [[Tamar Simon Hoffs]], as part of the soundtrack.\n\nIt was used over the final scenes in Terence Davies' 1988 film \"[[Distant Voices, Still Lives]]\" as the characters disappear into the darkness.\n\nThe song was played repeatedly as part of the soundtrack to the film \"[[The River Wild]]\" (Universal Pictures, 1994). A version recorded by [[Cowboy Junkies]] was used during the end credits.\n\nThe lyrics of the song are spoken, just before the assassination scene, by [[Jesse James]]' daughter in the 2007 film \"[[The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford]]\".\n\nIt was used as a musical motif throughout the 2001 film \"[[The Simian Line]]\".\n\nIt was performed by a blind fiddle player in the 1984 film \"[[The Bounty (1984 film)|The Bounty]]\", starring [[Anthony Hopkins]] and [[Mel Gibson]].\n\nIt was performed by Yukawa Shione as part of the festival in the 2005 Japanese film \"[[Linda Linda Linda]]\".\n\nIt was used during end credits of the 1996 TV film \"[[Homecoming (1996 film)|Homecoming]]\" starring [[Anne Bancroft]].\n\nIt was used in TV drama \"Boardwalk Empire\", first season.\n\n[[Gerard Way]] is confirmed to have recorded the song for Kevin Smith's film \"[[Tusk (2014 film)|Tusk]]\".\n\n[[PJ Harvey]] recorded this song in 2014 for the second season of [[BBC Two]]'s \"[[Peaky Blinders (TV series)|Peaky Blinders]]\".\n\nIn the episode \"The Magdalen Martyrs\" of the \"[[Jack Taylor (TV series)|Jack Taylor]]\" TV series the character Kate Noonan played by [[Nora-Jane Noone]] sings this song in a pub.\n\nPerformed by [[John Rutter]] and the [[Cambridge Singers]], the song features in [[Isobel Waller-Bridge]]'s score for [[Emma (2020 film)]].\n\nThe [[CBS]] TV series \"[[The Unit]]\" featured an episode in [[The Unit (season 2)|season 2]] entitled \"[[The Water is Wide (The Unit)|The Water is Wide]]\", in which Unit members must disarm a bomb in the office of the [[Secretary-General of the United Nations|Secretary-General of the UN]], while their wives seek an alleged [[Vietnam War POW/MIA issue|POW/MIA soldier]] in [[Vietnam]].\n\nSouth Korea's movie \"[[Pure Love (film)|Pure Love]]\" uses this song, singing by Soo-uk played by [[Kim So-hyun]].\n\nThe 2020 movie \"[[Emma (film)|Emma]]\" uses this song, performed by the Cambridge Singers, directed by [[John Rutter]], courtesy of Collegium Records.\n\n\n[[Category:17th-century songs]]\n[[Category:Bob Dylan songs]]\n[[Category:Barbra Streisand songs]]\n[[Category:Gerard Way songs]]\n[[Category:Peter, Paul and Mary songs]]\n[[Category:English folk songs]]\n[[Category:Scottish folk songs]]\n[[Category:Northumbrian folklore]]\n[[Category:Eva Cassidy songs]]\n[[Category:Year of song unknown]]\n[[Category:Songwriter unknown]]\n[[Category:Child Ballads]]"}
{"id": "2294675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294675", "title": "Almanac (band)", "text": "Almanac (band)\n\nAlmanac was a jazz project whose members were Bennie Maupin (flute, tenor saxophone), Cecil McBee (bass), Mike Nock (piano) and Eddie Marshall (drums).\n\n"}
{"id": "2294679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294679", "title": "Bob Wente", "text": "Bob Wente\n\nBob Wente (May 28, 1933 – August 13, 2000) was an American racing driver.\n\nHe started racing midget cars in 1953 at the St. Louis Auto Racing Association. He won the Midwest region of the USAC National Midget championship in 1960, and finished second by 9.75 points to Jimmy Davies. Wente won the USAC Indoor Midget championship in 1961. He won his first USAC National Midget championship in 1963 after finishing second for three straight years. Wente is second on the list of all-time USAC National Midget car winners behind Mel Kenyon.\n\nNotable races that he won include the Hut Hundred in 1963, and the Night Before the 500 in 1969 and 1976.\n\nWente used his midget car experiences to earn a ride in the USAC Championship Car series. He raced in the 1963-1965 and 1967 seasons, with 11 career starts, including the 1964 Indianapolis 500. He finished in the top ten 5 times, with his best finish in 3rd position in 1965 at Trenton.\n\nDespite witnessing the tragic events in front of him on the opening lap of the 1964 Indianapolis 500 that claimed the lives of Eddie Sachs and Dave MacDonald, Wente charged from his 32nd starting spot to take ninth place at the checkers in his number 68, Trevis/Offenhauser. Wente attempted to qualify the next two seasons in 1965 and 1966, but failed to make the field.\n\nWente also won a single USAC Sprint car race.\n\nWente remained in the racing business long after his driving career ended. He stayed busy by owning and operating a restaurant named Wente's O & W (Open Wheel) in Chesterfield, Missouri up until his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294680", "title": "Case presentation", "text": "Case presentation\n\nA case presentation is a formal communication between health care professionals (doctors, pharmacists, nurses, therapists, nutritionist etc.) regarding a patient's clinical information. Essential parts of a case presentation include:\n"}
{"id": "2294683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294683", "title": "Mel Kenyon", "text": "Mel Kenyon\n\nMel Kenyon (born April 15, 1933 in Dekalb, IL.) is a former midget car driver. He is known as the \"King of the Midgets\", \"Miraculous Mel\" and \"Champion of Midget Auto Racing.\" The Motorsports Hall of Fame of America says \"Many consider him to be midget car racing's greatest driver ever.\" \n\nHe attended his first auto race in 1946. Kenyon began his racing career in 1954 racing a 1937 Chevy Coupe. He totaled the car when a tire blew out. He raced modified stocks in 1955. In 1958, Mel began his career in the midgets.\n\nKenyon's first championship was in NASCAR's Florida midget series in 1962, but he changed to USAC in the middle of the season and finished fifth in the USAC National Midget championship points.\n\nKenyon won the 1963 Turkey Night Grand Prix. He finished second in the 1963 USAC championship points, and won his first USAC National Midget championship in 1964.\n\nKenyon failed to qualify for his first Indianapolis 500 in 1965. Kenyon's tenth career race in a USAC IndyCar was at Langhorne Speedway in Langhorne, Pennsylvania on June 20, 1965. Mel's engine blew up sending oil all over the car, his firesuit and the track. He lost control of the car, hit the wall and was knocked unconscious. Jim Hurtubise and Ralph Liguori slid in the oily track and ran straight into Mel's fuel tank. Joe Leonard, also involved in the crash, rescued Kenyon from the burning car. Because of severe burns, Kenyon went through multiple operations at the San Antonio Burn Center, and he lost nearly all of his fingers on his left hand. Mel, his brother Don and their father Everett designed a special glove with a rubber grommet sewn into the palm. The glove fit on Mel's hand and hooked into the steering wheel. The trio formed a racing team called 3-K Racing, with Don as the crew chief.\n\nKenyon returned to racing in 1966. He had twelve first or second-place finishes, and finished second in the National Midget points. He qualified for his first Indianapolis 500 just eleven months after his fiery crash, and finished fifth.\n\nHe won 17 of 49 features to claim the National midget title in 1967.\n\nKenyon finished third in the 1968 Indianapolis 500 in a car sponsored by his hometown of Lebanon, Indiana. He did most of the work on the engine despite his hand. He routinely tore down and reassembled the Offenhauser engine by himself. He won the 1968 National Midget crown.\n\nKenyon took fourth in the 1969 Indianapolis 500.\n\nHe nearly won his first Champ car event at Michigan International Speedway on July 16, 1972. Kenyon was leading as he approached the white flag, but his Foyt powered Eagle ran out of fuel. Mel coasted around the track and finished third.\n\nHe finished fourth in his last of eight Indianapolis 500s in 1973. He had four Top 5 finishes in the classic race.\n\nHe won his second Turkey Night Grand Prix in 1975. The event was held on the 605 Speedway, the first time the event was held on pavement.\n\nHe had over 100 victories in midget cars in 1984 when he was inducted in the National Midget Auto Racing Hall of Fame. He won the 1985 National Midget championship a year after his induction.\n\nKenyon won the Indianapolis Speedrome midget car track title in 1993.\n\nKenyon stopped racing on the national tour in 1995 after his wife Marieanne became virtually comatose after suffering a major head injury in a bicycle accident. Kenyon won the Midwest-based NAMARS championships in 1995, 1996, and 1997 while in his sixties.\n\nKenyon continued racing after his 70th birthday in 2003. His son, Brice Kenyon, won the 2004 Indianapolis Speedrome midget track championship at the 1/5 mile track. Kenyon competed in the full schedule at the Indianapolis Speedrome in 2005 against his son.\n\nKenyon has seven USAC National Midget championships, eight runners-up in the season points standings, and Top 5 point finishes in 21 of 27 seasons between 1966 and 1988.\n\nAt his Motorsports Hall of Fame induction in 2003 he had 111 feature wins, 131 seconds, 107 thirds, 81 fourths, and 69 fifths, for a total of 419 Top 5 finishes. He also had 688 Top 10 finishes. The totals are for USAC National midget races only, and don't include races in the NAMARS national races, regional or local races. He had counted 380 midget total feature wins, including wins in Australia and New Zealand. three NAMARS midget championships, and over 380 midget feature wins in all.\n\nKenyon competed in 65 USAC Championship (IndyCar) and eight Indianapolis 500 races.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294685", "title": "Pulmonary atresia", "text": "Pulmonary atresia\n\nPulmonary atresia is a congenital malformation of the pulmonary valve in which the valve orifice fails to develop. The valve is completely closed thereby obstructing the outflow of blood from the heart to the lungs. The pulmonary valve is located on the right side of the heart between the right ventricle and pulmonary artery. In a normal functioning heart, the opening to the pulmonary valve has three flaps that open and close\n\nIn congenital heart defects such as pulmonary atresia, structural abnormalities can include the valves of the heart, and the walls and arteries/veins near the heart muscle. Consequently, blood flow due to the aforementioned structural abnormalities is affected, either by blocking or altering the flow of blood through the human cardiac muscle.\n\nThe symptoms/signs of pulmonary atresia that will occur in babies are consistent with cyanosis, some fatigue and some shortness of breath (eating may be a problem as well).\n\nIn the case of pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect, one finds that decreased pulmonary blood flow may cause associated defects such as:\n\nIn terms of the cause of pulmonary atresia, there is uncertainty as to what instigates this congenital heart defect. Potential risk factors that can cause this congenital heart defect are those the pregnant mother may come in contact with, such as:\n\nIn regards to the diagnosis of pulmonary atresia the body requires oxygenated blood for survival. pulmonary atresia is not threatening to a developing fetus however, because the mother's placenta provides the needed oxygen since the baby's lungs are not yet functional. Once the baby is born its lungs must now provide the oxygen needed for survival, but with pulmonary atresia there is no opening on the pulmonary valve for blood to get to the lungs and become oxygenated. Due to this, the newborn baby is blue in color and pulmonary atresia can usually be diagnosed within hours or minutes after birth.\n\nThe diagnosis of pulmonary atresia can be done via the following exams/methods: an echocardiogram, chest x-ray, EKG and an exam to measure the amount of in the body.\n\nThere are two types of pulmonary atresia.\n\nThe treatment of pulmonary atresia consists of: an IV medication called prostaglandin E1, which is used for treatment of pulmonary atresia, as it stops the ductus arteriosus from closing, allowing mixing of the pulmonary and systemic circulations, but prostaglandin E1 can be dangerous as it can cause apnea. Another example of preliminary treatment is heart catheterization to evaluate the defect or defects of the heart; this procedure is much more invasive. Ultimately, however, the individual will need to have a series of surgeries to improve the blood flow permanently. The first surgery will likely be performed shortly after birth. A shunt can be created between the aorta and the pulmonary artery to help increase blood flow to the lungs. As the child grows, so does the heart and the shunt may need to be revised in order to meet the body's requirements.\n\nThe type of surgery recommended depends on the size of the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery, if the right ventricle is small and unable to act as a pump, the surgery performed would be the Fontan procedure. In this three-stage procedure, the right atrium is disconnected from the pulmonary circulation. The systemic venous return goes directly to the lungs, by-passing the heart. Very young children with elevated pulmonary vascular resistance may not able to undergo the Fontan procedure. Cardiac catheterization may be done to determine the resistance before going ahead with the surgery.\n\nThe prognosis for pulmonary atresia varies for every child, if the condition is left uncorrected it may be fatal, but the prognosis has greatly improved over the years for those with pulmonary atresia. Some factors that affect how well the child does include how well the heart is beating, and the condition of the blood vessels that supply the heart. Most cases of pulmonary atresia can be helped with surgery, if the patient's right ventricle is exceptionally small, many surgeries will be needed in order to help stimulate normal circulation of blood to the heart. If uncorrected, babies with this type of congenital heart disease may only survive for the first few days of life. Many children with pulmonary atresia will go on to lead normal lives, though complications such as endocarditis, stroke and seizures are possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294686", "title": "Dakar–Niger Railway", "text": "Dakar–Niger Railway\n\nThe Dakar–Niger Railway connects Dakar, Senegal to Koulikoro, Mali. The name refers to the Niger River, not the Republic of Niger. It serves many cities in Senegal, including Thiès, and in Mali, including Kayes, Kita, Kati, Bamako. The line covers a course of 1,287 km of which 641 km lies in Mali. The line is managed by the Transrail consortium.\n\nAs of 2013 passenger services in Mali were only being offered three days between Bamako and Kayes via Kati and Diamou. There were no international passenger trains in operation in 2014 but passenger services in Senegal existed between Dakar and Thiès.\n\nConstruction work on the Dakar–Niger Railway began at the end of the 19th century under the French general Gallieni, commander of French Sudan.\n\nThe railroad connected the Niger River with the port of Dakar, allowing the transport of raw materials across the globe. The line was completed at the beginning of the 20th century, the Kayes-Koulikoro section being inaugurated in 1904.\nHowever, the final section of the line did not open until 1924.\n\nIn 1947, the railroad workers went on a several-month strike to obtain the same rights as the French railwaymen. The successful strike was celebrated as a turning point in the anti-colonial struggle by Senegalese writer Ousmane Sembène in his 1960 novel, \"Les bouts de bois de Dieu\".\n\nWith the independence of Mali and Senegal, after the break-up of the Mali Federation, control of the railroad was divided between two national organisations, the \"Régie des Chemin de fer du Mali (RCFM)\" and the \"Régie des Chemins de Fer du Sénégal\".\n\nAn agreement between Senegal and Mali in 1962 determined the common operation of the line by the two railway companies.\n\nAn accident, which happened on 13th of May 2009, killed five and injured thirty-seven, when a Dakar bound train came off the tracks between Bala and Goudiry in Tambacounda Region, Senegal. Four carriages reportedly overturned, but no official cause has been determined.\n\nIn October 2003, Senegal and Mali privatised the railway following pressure from the World Bank. The Transrail Consortium, a Franco-Canadian management consortium, took over management of the line, changing hands several times. Management issues and a lack of investment led to serious degradation of the infrastructure and rolling stock and numerous delays. In Senegal, the maximum speed of the trains in many places have been limited to 20 km/h due to the bad state of the tracks. \n\nDespite Transrail's obligation to maintain a passenger service, they concentrated on the transport of goods. Many stations have been closed and the numbers of connections reduced, creating difficulties for isolated communities. Apart from the petit train de banlieue, twice-daily service between Dakar and Thiès, passenger services have been suspended since the 2009 accident.\n\nTransrail was bought in 2007 by the Belgian company Vecturis. The line has not operated since May 2010. In 2015, the governments of Mali and Senegal reached an agreement with China Railway Construction Corp (International) to restore the respective parts of the line. The concession to Transrail was terminated, and a new entity, Dakar Bamako Ferroviaire was to take its place.\n\n\"Tableau comparative des exportations par rail\" No sources are given for any of this data, which shows the number of tons of different products exported in various years:\n\n\nThere are a number of branch lines including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294687", "title": "Self-shrinking generator", "text": "Self-shrinking generator\n\nA self-shrinking generator is a pseudorandom generator that is based on the shrinking generator concept. Variants of the self-shrinking generator based on a linear-feedback shift register (LFSR) are studied for use in cryptography.\n\nIn difference to the shrinking generator, which uses a second feedback shift register to control the output of the first, the self-shrinking generator uses alternating output bits of a single register to control its final output. The procedure for clocking this kind of generator is as follows:\n\n\nThis example will use the connection polynomial \"x + x + x + x + 1\",\nand an initial register fill of \"1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0\".\n\nBelow table lists, for each iteration of the LFSR, its intermediate output before self-shrinking, as well as the final generator output. The tap positions defined by the connection polynomial are marked with blue headings. The state of the zeroth iteration represents the initial input.\n\nAt the end of four iterations, the following sequence of intermediate bits is produced: \"0110\".\n\nThe first pair of bits, \"01\", is discarded since it does not match either \"10\" or \"11\". \nThe second pair of bits, \"10\", matches the second step of the algorithm so a zero is output.\n\nMore bits are created by continuing to clock the LFSR and shrinking its output as described above.\n\nIn their paper, Meier and Steffelbach prove that a LFSR-based self-shrinking generator with a connection polynomial of length \"L\" results in an output sequence period of at least 2, and a linear complexity of at least 2.\n\nFurthermore, they show that any self-shrinking generator can be represented as a shrinking-generator. The inverse is also true:\nAny shrinking generator can be implemented as a self-shrinking generator, although the resultant generator may not be of maximal length.\n\nAn attack presented by the authors requires about 2 steps, assuming a known connection polynomial.\n\nA more advanced attack, discovered by Mihaljević, is able to break a register a hundred bits in length in around 2 steps, using an output sequence of only 4.9 x 10 bits.\n\nAnother attack \n\n"}
{"id": "2294688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294688", "title": "WVIT", "text": "WVIT\n\nWVIT, virtual channel 30 (UHF digital channel 31), branded on-air as NBC Connecticut or NBC CT, is an NBC owned-and-operated television station licensed to New Britain, Connecticut, United States and serving the Hartford–New Haven television market. Owned by the NBC Owned Television Stations subsidiary of NBCUniversal (itself a subsidiary of Comcast), it is sister to Hartford-licensed Class A Telemundo owned-and-operated station WRDM-CD (channel 19). The two stations share studios on New Britain Avenue in West Hartford and transmitter facilities on Rattlesnake Mountain in Farmington, Connecticut.\n\nOn cable, WVIT is carried primarily on channel 4 throughout the Hartford–New Haven television market.\n\nWVIT signed on for the first time on February 13, 1953, as WKNB-TV, owned by the New Britain Broadcasting Company along with WKNB radio (840 AM, now WRYM). The calls stood for Kensington–New Britain. It is Connecticut's second-oldest television station and the first on the UHF band. It has been an NBC affiliate for nearly all of its history. However, during its first two and a half years, it carried CBS programming as one of two affiliates in Connecticut, along with WNHC-TV (now WTNH) in New Haven. At the time, Hartford and New Haven were recognized by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) as separate television markets; the Commission would merge them into one market in 1954.\n\nIn January 1955, NBC announced it would purchase the WKNB stations for just over $600,000. Though the network was acquiring both radio and television outlets, the key to the deal was channel 30–as one of the first UHF stations to be owned by a major network, the FCC encouraged the networks to expand their owned-and-operated holdings to include outlets in the new band to help ensure its viability. Indeed, NBC made plans to boost channel 30's signal to cover the entire market.\n\nWKNB-TV began carrying the full NBC programming schedule in October 1955. The FCC approved the sale to NBC in December 1956, nearly two years after it was first announced. The network then renamed channel 30 WNBC (for New Britain, Connecticut) in January 1957. In its first stint as an NBC-owned station, channel 30 failed to gain much headway in the ratings, largely because television manufacturers were not required to include UHF tuning capability until 1964. Viewers had to buy an expensive converter to watch WNBC, and even with one the picture was barely viewable. In addition, plans to relocate the station's tower and to boost transmission power never moved forward.\n\nIn September 1957, the Hartford-based Travelers Insurance Company signed on independent station WTIC-TV (channel 3, now WFSB), the state's second and last VHF station. Within a year of its debut (and despite its radio sister having been an NBC radio affiliate for over thirty years) WTIC-TV became Connecticut's CBS affiliate, replacing its owned-and-operated station, WHCT-TV (channel 18, now Univision affiliate WUVN). NBC then realized its UHF experiment was a lost cause (it had shut down its other owned UHF station in Buffalo, New York in October 1958), and in June 1959 sold WNBC and WKNB radio for $750,000 to Plains Television Inc., a joint venture of Transcontinental Properties and H & E Balaban Corporation (WKNB was spun off immediately afterward). As part of the deal, Springfield Television, the owner of fellow NBC affiliate WWLP in Springfield, Massachusetts, was to have held a one-third share in channel 30; it abandoned this stake before the deal's completion after concerns arose over WWLP and WNBC's overlapping coverage areas, but continued to hold an option to reacquire it for some time afterward pending FCC approval. In May 1960, channel 30's callsign changed again – this time to WHNB-TV (for Hartford-New Britain); NBC reclaimed the WNBC calls for its flagship radio and television combination (the former WRCA-AM-FM-TV) in New York City.\n\nIn 1966, WHNB-TV became, once again, one of two NBC affiliates in Connecticut; the network signed with Waterbury-licensed WATR-TV (channel 20) in order to get its programming into New Haven on a strong signal. By this time, television manufacturers were now required to include all-channel tuning. Channel 30 itself made up for the shortfall in its market coverage by operating two low-power translators (starting in 1971): W79AI (channel 79) in Torrington and W59AA (channel 59) in New Haven.\n\nIn the summer of 1977 Plains Television announced it would sell WHNB-TV to the original iteration of Viacom for $15 million. The former CBS Inc. subsidiary, which became a leading television producer and distributor and the founder of Showtime (now the current ViacomCBS after CBS' merger with the second incarnation of Viacom), was making its first foray into broadcast station ownership. Shortly after assuming control in the spring of 1978, channel 30's call letters were changed to the present WVIT on June 12 (for \"Viacom International Television\") to reflect its new ownership. Viacom immediately announced plans to boost WVIT's signal, and also made upgrades in the station's news department. In 1980, channel 30 signed on with a new transmitter that more than doubled its coverage area, giving it a clear signal to much of New Haven for the first time, though the channel 59 repeater was kept in service. WVIT became the sole Connecticut-based NBC affiliate in March 1982, when WATR-TV's affiliation contract with NBC ended and the station became independent WTXX (it is now WCCT-TV). The Torrington translator was turned off in 1987, and the New Haven repeater was shut down in the middle 1990s to allow full-powered WTVU (now WCTX) to begin operations.\n\nViacom purchased Paramount Pictures in 1994, and merged its five-station group (WVIT; KMOV in St. Louis; WHEC-TV in Rochester, New York; WNYT in Albany, New York; and KSLA-TV in Shreveport, Louisiana) into the Paramount Stations Group. Shortly thereafter, the merged company decided to divest itself of all of its major network affiliates to focus on stations that carried its then-upstart United Paramount Network (UPN). WVIT, the first television outlet Viacom purchased was the last station to be sold, as Viacom agreed to trade channel 30 to former owner NBC in return for future purchase rights to WWHO in Chillicothe, Ohio and WLWC in New Bedford, Massachusetts, two UPN-affiliated stations NBC was operating by way of local marketing agreements. The sale closed on December 8, 1997, making WVIT an NBC O&O for the second time in its history.\n\nOn December 4, 2017, NBCUniversal announced that it would buy Telemundo affiliate WRDM-CD and its Springfield satellite station WDMR-LP from ZGS Communications, as with several other NBC O&Os, WRDM would become a sister station to WVIT, creating the third duopoly in the Hartford–New Haven television market, following the duopolies of Nexstar Media Group's WTNH/WCTX and Tegna's WTIC-TV/WCCT-TV (though as a low-power station, WRDM is exempt from FCC ownership caps, including the duopoly rule). ZGS had sold WRDM's spectrum in the FCC's incentive auction for $10,574,516 and indicated that the station would enter into a post-auction channel sharing agreement, which occurred with WVIT at the start of the year. The sale was officially completed on February 1, 2018.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nDigital subchannel 30.2 carried NBC Weather Plus; national network operations for that service ended in December 2008. NBC Plus then aired on that subchannel. This channel utilized the same graphics as Weather Plus, with a new 'NBC Plus' logo and without the on camera meteorologist segments. WVIT was the last remaining NBC-owned station to continue to air NBC Plus. On December 20, 2012, WVIT replaced NBC Plus with Cozi TV, a new network featuring classic television series and lifestyle programming. Digital subchannel 30.3 carried Universal Sports; transition for a Digital-only broadcast network into a cable- and satellite-exclusive service was occurred on January 1, 2012 when the station deleted the subchannel along with its fellow affiliates to remove or replace the network from their digital signals. The digital subchannel was reactivated again in 2015, when WVIT added the Spanish-language digital network TeleXitos, a new network featuring classic television series dubbed in Spanish exclusively to the stations owned by Telemundo, making it the only NBC-owned station to carry the Spanish-language digital channel. Following the station's parent's official acquisition of Telemundo affiliated station WRDM-CD/WDMR-LP in February 2018, the TeleXitos affiliation was moved to the newly launched digital subchannel of WRDM-CD and WDMR-LP, with the subchannel was deleted again from their digital signal.\n\nWVIT shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 30, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 35, using PSIP to display WVIT's virtual channel as 30 on digital television receivers. With the transition, the height of the station's transmitter tower was increased to .\n\nOn August 2, 2019, this station was moved from channel 35 to channel 31.\n\nOn June 16, 2017, WVIT announced that it would not air that week's edition of \"Sunday Night with Megyn Kelly\", which featured an interview with radio host Alex Jones. The station cited viewer, advertiser and management sensitivities to the views of Jones, as he had previously expressed a denial of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings. Otherwise, the station clears the entire NBC lineup.\n\nOn June 13, 2016, WVIT became the second station in Connecticut to debut a 4:00 p.m. newscast. On the same day, WVIT began using Artworks' new \"Look N\" standardized graphics that were first adopted by sister station WNBC, also its music was changed by begin using 615 Music's \"The Tower\", which is first adopted in 2000 by sister stations WMAQ-TV and KNBC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294691", "title": "Binnaz Uslu", "text": "Binnaz Uslu\n\nBinnaz Uslu (born March 12, 1985 in Ankara) is a retired Turkish middle-distance and long-distance runner. She was banned from sport for life in 2014, after her second doping violation. The tall athlete at is a member of Enkaspor athletics team, where she was coached by Yahya Sevüktekin. Uslu is a student at the Gazi Üniversitesi in Ankara.\n\nShe participated at the 2005 Mediterranean Games in Almería and won a bronze medal in 800 m with 2:02.68. In the 4×400 metres relay, she won another bronze medal with her teammates Özge Gürler, Birsen Bekgöz and Pınar Saka in 3:40.75 minutes. In 2006 at the 13th SPAR European Cross Country Championships in San Giorgio su Legnano, Italy she won the gold medal in the under 23 section.\n\nShe won the silver medal at the 2010 European Cross Country Championships behind Jessica Augusto.\n\nUslu failed a drug test for doping taken by the IAAF during a camp in Antalya, Turkey on March 13, 2007. She was banned from athletics from March 2007 to March 2009. Her coach Yahya Sevüktekin was also banned.\n\nIn 2014, she was banned from sport for life after IAAf re-analyzed a sample she had given at the 2011 IAAF World Athletics Championships in Daegu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294693", "title": "Kevin Talley", "text": "Kevin Talley\n\nKevin Talley (born May 21, 1978) is an American heavy metal drummer for Dååth, Feared, Sylencer and Nothnegal. He is the former drummer for Dying Fetus, Misery Index, Six Feet Under, Chimaira and Suffocation. In addition, he was the touring drummer for Battlecross in 2013.\n\nTalley filled in on drums with The Black Dahlia Murder after their touring drummer, Pierre Langlois, was denied entry into the States by his home country of Canada. He was a session drummer on Soils of Fate's 2003 release \"Crime Syndicate\". He filled in with The Red Chord for their 2006 tour, and was also filling in with Hate Eternal for their 2006 North American tour, after Derek Roddy left the band due to personal reasons. In May and June 1998, Kevin filled in the drum throne for Suffocation on their U.S. tour. Kevin also auditioned to be the drummer for Slayer after Paul Bostaph's departure in late 2001, but the job ultimately went to their original drummer, Dave Lombardo. Talley played on Chimaira's self-titled album and toured with them until early 2006. He now plays with Dååth and Nothnegal; in addition to this, he played drums in 2012 on the tracks titled \"Cradle to Grave\" and \"Novus Ordo Seclorum\" by Creative Waste. In 2019 he played drums on Nonvector's debut EP \"A Short Trip Home\".\n\nHe is a native of San Antonio and still lives there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294695", "title": "Leopoldo Marco Antonio Caldani", "text": "Leopoldo Marco Antonio Caldani\n\nLeopoldo Marco Antonio Caldani (1725–1813) was an Italian anatomist and physiologist.\n\nCaldani was born in Bologna, Italy. He studied medicine in Bologna, receiving his degree in 1750, and became a professor of practical medicine in 1755. Caldani left to become professor of theoretical medicine at Padua, and in 1771 became professor of anatomy, retiring in 1805.\n\nHe was a champion of Haller's theory of irritability and was noted for experimental studies on the function of the spinal cord and for the introduction of electricity in the physiology of the nerves. His most celebrated work is his anatomical atlas, in which he was aided by his nephew Floriano. He died in Padua, Italy in 1813.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294704", "title": "Baringo", "text": "Baringo\n\nBaringo may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2294708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294708", "title": "Russ Gamester", "text": "Russ Gamester\n\nRussell (Russ) Gamester, born on January 9, 1965 in Lombard, Illinois is an American auto racing driver.\n\nA long time competitor in United States Auto Club (USAC) racing, Gamester collected the USAC National Midget title in 1989. Now residing in Peru, Indiana, he competes in the USAC Silver Crown Series. He passed his IRL rookie test at Texas Motor Speedway in 2000. He attempted to complete rookie orientation for the 2000 Indianapolis 500 in a Dreyer & Reinbold Racing car, but failed to complete the test.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294710", "title": "Pacific Ocean Blue", "text": "Pacific Ocean Blue\n\nPacific Ocean Blue is the debut solo album by American songwriter-musician Dennis Wilson, co-founder of the Beach Boys, and the only one to be released in his lifetime. When released in August 1977, it was warmly received critically, and noted for outselling the Beach Boys' contemporary efforts. Two singles were issued from the album, \"River Song\" and \"You and I\", which did not chart.\n\nThe album remains a focal point of Wilson's legacy, being referred to as a \"classic\". It was voted number 838 in Colin Larkin's \"All Time Top 1000 Albums\". Wilson intended to record a follow-up, entitled \"Bambu\", but the album was left unfinished at the time of his death in December 1983.\n\nAfter several attempts, starting in 1970, to realize his own project, some of which made it to the finished album, Wilson recorded the bulk of \"Pacific Ocean Blue\" in the months spanning the fall of 1976 to the following spring, at the Beach Boys' own Brother Studios. At the time of recording, Dennis' hard living had begun affecting his looks and more importantly his singing voice, which now delivered grainy and rough, yet still deeply soulful, vocals.\n\nRecalling the time Wilson spent working on the album, co-producer Gregg Jakobson said, \"This was when he fully accepted himself as an artist. Brian had shown him chords on the piano, but as he'd become more proficient the music that came forth was not derivative of that. Having his own studio helped tremendously. With a little encouragement, and the right tools, Dennis took off.\"\n\nBrian reported that his reaction when Dennis played him early mixes of the album was \"Dennis, that's funky! That's \"funky\"!\"\n\nReleased in August 1977, \"Pacific Ocean Blue\" received mixed reviews upon release, but in subsequent years has been re-evaluated by critics and is now widely praised. Although it was praised contemporaneously by Brian Wilson, the elder Wilson denied knowing that Dennis had recorded an album at all in a 2008 interview with Pitchfork Media. It has appeared on several \"Best-of\" lists including Robert Dimery's \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die,\" and Mojo's \"Lost Albums You Must Own\" and \"70 of the Greatest Albums of the 70s\" lists. In 2005, it was ranked #18 in GQ's \"The 100 Coolest Albums in the World Right Now!\" list. He did occasionally perform his solo material on the 1977 Beach Boys tour. \"Pacific Ocean Blue\" later developed a status as a cult item. In December 2018, under the name Chewing, Nik Ewing of Local Natives along with Cults, Nico Segal and Pop Etc covered Dennis Wilson's album in its entirety. \n\nAt the time of its initial release, the album didn't do well commercially: Despite a significant promotional campaign, the album peaked at #96 during a short 12-week Billboard chart run. The disappointing performance of the record, combined with Wilson's increasingly unreliable professional behavior, led his record label to pull support for a modest West Coast tour that had been scheduled to promote the album.\n\nIssued by Caribou/CBS Records on CD in 1991, \"Pacific Ocean Blue\" went out of print within a year due to ongoing disagreements over copyright ownership; the album was virtually unavailable for more than fifteen years. Copies of the extremely rare 1991 CD sold for over $200.\n\nLegacy Recordings released a special 30th anniversary, 2-disc edition of \"Pacific Ocean Blue\" on June 17, 2008. It includes material from the \"Bambu\" sessions. A limited edition 180-gram vinyl multi-LP box set was also released on the Sundazed label.\n\nNotable on the reissue is the inclusion of the song \"Holy Man\", recorded for \"Pacific Ocean Blue\" in 1977, in two versions. Wilson had completed work on the instrumental backing track but never finished a satisfactory vocal, erasing an original attempt. For the reissue, Taylor Hawkins of the Foo Fighters was recruited to record a vocal version in Wilson's style given their similarities. The song's original lyricist, Gregg Jakobson, was tapped to help recall the song's original melody and to write lyrics for the song. In 2009, Queen guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor contributed vocals.\n\nDespite missing the UK Album Chart on its original 1977 release, the expanded reissue of \"Pacific Ocean Blue\" entered the UK album chart at #16, also reaching #5 on the Norway album chart. In addition, the package managed to reach #8 on Billboard's Top Pop Catalog Albums chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294711", "title": "Bobby East", "text": "Bobby East\n\nRobert \"Bobby\" East (born December 17, 1984 in Torrance, California), is an American auto racing driver. He has raced in the United States Auto Club, the Auto Racing Club of American, and NASCAR. He currently resides in Brownsburg, Indiana. \nIn 2001, East became the youngest driver in USAC history to win a feature when he won a USAC National Midget event at the Illiana Motor Speedway in Schererville, Indiana at the age of 16 years, six months, and 25 days in 2001.\n\nEast competed full-time in the USAC National Midget Series where he was the champion in 2004 driving the Steve Lewis Racing #9. The car's chassis was built by his father, Bob East, who is legendary short-track car builder of midgets, sprints, and silver crown machines. The title gave him the distinction of the being the youngest national champion in the series' history at age 19.\n\nEast was the most victorious driver during the 2004 USAC season with 15 victories among the series' three divisions. He wound up in victory lane seven times in national midgets, five times in national sprint cars, and once each in the Silver Crown, Western States Sprint Car, and Speedrome Regional Midget Series during the season. The highlights of the season were winning the Hut Hundred and the Turkey Night Grand Prix.\n\nEast has moved on to NASCAR. He made his Busch Series debut at Memphis Motorsports Park in October 2005, finishing a solid 17th. He then made his Craftsman Truck Series debut in a Roush Racing Ford at Phoenix. However, he wrecked late in that event.\n\nEast currently is a member of Ford Motor Company's driver development program and competed in the Craftsman Truck Series in 2006 for Wood Brothers/JTG Racing as a teammate to fellow rookie Marcos Ambrose. He finished 23rd in points despite missing two races. In 2007, East ran with Brewco Motorsports, splitting time in the #27 and #37 cars, and a few ARCA races as well. He ran part-time in the Craftsman Truck Series in 2008, driving the #09 Zaxby's Ford F-150 for Jack Roush.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294712", "title": "Mark Hayes (golfer)", "text": "Mark Hayes (golfer)\n\nMark Stephen Hayes (July 12, 1949 – July 17, 2018) was an American professional golfer. He had three victories on the PGA Tour in the 1970s, including the 1977 Tournament Players Championship. He played in the 1979 Ryder Cup as a late replacement for Tom Watson.\n\nBorn in Stillwater, Oklahoma, Hayes played collegiately at Oklahoma State University, where he was a two-time All-American. He won the Sunnehanna Amateur in 1972.\n\nHayes won three times on the PGA Tour: the Byron Nelson Golf Classic and Pensacola Open in 1976 and the Tournament Players Championship in 1977. He also won the PGA Tour-sponsored Tallahassee Open in 1986 and three Oklahoma Opens.\n\nHayes had his best finish in a major championship at the U.S. Open in 1980, where he began the final round of play two shots out of the lead but shot a final round 74 to finish T6. He was also the first round leader at the 1975 PGA Championship, but finished T22. In the second round of The Open Championship in 1977, Hayes shot 63 at the Ailsa Course at Turnberry to establish a new single round record at The Open Championship by two strokes. The previous record of 65 was set by Henry Cotton in the second round in 1934 at Royal St. George's.\n\nHayes played in the 1979 Ryder Cup team after Tom Watson gave up his spot to be with his wife at the birth of their first child. Hayes lost both his matches on the second day but won his singles match against Antonio Garrido on the final day, to help the United States to a 17 to 11 win over the European team.\n\nAfter turning 50, Hayes joined the Senior PGA Tour. His best finish was T10 at the 2001 Siebel Classic in Silicon Valley.\n\nHayes was well known for his trademark bucket caps.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Hayes began preparing for a career in golf course design and construction. In 1990, he established a golf course design firm. His projects were built in Oklahoma and neighboring states.\n\nHayes died on July 17, 2018, from early-onset Alzheimer's disease.\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (0–2)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294714", "title": "Mark Hayes (composer)", "text": "Mark Hayes (composer)\n\nMark Hayes (born March 28, 1953) is an American composer and arranger. His predominant output is of choral music in the Christian sacred music and gospel music genres.\n\nHayes was born in Ladysmith, Wisconsin. After receiving a bachelor's degree in piano performance with Magna Cum Laude from Baylor University in 1975, he entered a career in composing and arranging music.\n\nHayes' influence in the sacred choral and piano genres have brought him international recognition.\n\nHayes has written numerous choral arrangements of sacred music and has more than 1,000 publications. He has also published several books of arrangements for solo singers and solo piano, including 10 Christmas Songs for Solo Voice, 10 Spirituals for Solo Voice, and 10 Hymns and Gospel Songs for Solo Voice.\n\nIn 2004, Hayes premiered a contemporary setting of the ancient hymn \"Te Deum\" at Carnegie Hall, set for choir and soloists.\n\nHe is a recurring recipient of the Standard Award from ASCAP, and was given the Dove Award for Praise and Worship Album of the Year in 1986. He also received the Award for Exemplary Leadership in Christian Music from Baylor University Center for Christian Music Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294715", "title": "Omenn syndrome", "text": "Omenn syndrome\n\nOmenn syndrome is an autosomal recessive severe combined immunodeficiency. It is associated with hypomorphic missense mutations in immunologically relevant genes of T-cells (and B-cells) such as recombination activating genes (RAG1 and RAG2), Interleukin-7 receptor-α (IL7Rα), DCLRE1C-Artemis, RMRP-CHH, DNA-Ligase IV, common gamma chain, WHN-FOXN1, ZAP-70 and complete DiGeorge syndrome. It is fatal without treatment.\n\nThe symptoms are very similar to graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). This is because the patients have some T cells with limited levels of recombination with the mutant RAG genes. These T cells are abnormal and have a very specific affinity for self antigens found in the thymus and in the periphery. Therefore, these T cells are auto-reactive and cause the GVHD phenotype.\n\nA characteristic symptom is chronic inflammation of the skin, which appears as a red rash (early onset erythroderma). Other symptoms include eosinophilia, failure to thrive, swollen lymph nodes, swollen spleen, diarrhea, enlarged liver, low immunoglobulin levels (except immunoglobulin E, which is elevated), low T cell levels, and no B cells.\n\nOmenn syndrome is caused by a partial loss of RAG gene function and leads to symptoms similar to severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome, including opportunistic infections. The RAG genes are essential for gene recombination in the T-cell receptor and B-cell receptor, and loss of this ability means that the immune system has difficulty recognizing specific pathogens. Omenn Syndrome is characterised by the loss of T-cell function, leading to engraftment of maternal lymphocytes in the foetus and the co-existence of clonally expanded autologous and transplacental-acquired maternal lymphocytes.\nOmenn syndrome can occasionally be caused in other recombination genes, including IL-7Rα and RMRP.\n\nThe only treatment for Omenn syndrome is chemotherapy followed by a bone marrow transplantation. Without treatment, it is rapidly fatal in infancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294720", "title": "Urofollitropin", "text": "Urofollitropin\n\nUrofollitropin is a purified form of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) that is manufactured by extraction from human urine and then purified to remove various proteins and other substances. FSH is important in the development of follicles (eggs) produced by the ovaries. Given by subcutaneous injection, it is used in combination with human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) to assist in ovulation and fertility. It is also used with \"in vitro\" fertilization methods. The dosage is adjusted to each individual's response.\n\nThe most common side effects are abdominal or pelvic pain, bloating, as well as redness, pain or swelling at the injection site. Follitropin is possibly associated with increased risk of endometrial carcinoma. It is not for use during pregnancy, as there is evidence for birth defects under follitropin treatment.\n\nBravelle sold in the United States from March 2014 through October 2015 is subject to a recall and refund by its maker, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, because certain batches of the medicine had a lower strength than stated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294736", "title": "Arnold Motorsports", "text": "Arnold Motorsports\n\nArnold Motorsports was a NASCAR Nextel Cup Series team operated by Don Arnold, owner of Arnold Development Companies and Arnold & Arnold Real Estate. 1983 Winston Cup champion Bobby Allison was the Vice President of operations and also served a consultant. From 2004 to 2005, the team formed a partnership with then-Craftsman Truck Series team Germain Racing as Germain-Arnold Racing, although Germain fielded Toyota Tundras in the Truck Series while the Cup Series team fielded Dodges.\n\nArnold Motorsports was formed in 2003 after the purchase of the race shop and equipment of Melling Racing. The team debuted as the No.79 Arnold Development Companies Dodge, with Pro Cup Series driver Billy Bigley Jr. driving., the team originally planned to run 34 races, but eventually scaled back its plans. After Bigley failed to qualify for the three events he attempted, he was released. Derrick Cope attempted the season finale at Homestead, but also failed to qualify.\n\nThe team returned full-time in 2004 with Derrike Cope at the wheel. Cope co-owned the team and merged his Quest Motor Racing team with Arnold's. The team briefly received sponsorship from Redneckjunk.com (unrelated to a RacingJunk.com that sponsored Carl Long during this same time frame), but was forced to remove its decals by NASCAR because the sanctioning body didn't believe it \"projected the proper image of [the] sport.\" \nAfter twelve starts, Cope was replaced by Mike Wallace at Dover. Wallace, along with P. J. Jones, Jeff Fuller and Todd Bodine, finished out the year.\n\nIn 2005 Jimmy Spencer drove the car in what was a limited schedule due to lack of sponsorship. The team announced Allied Buildings as the sponsor for the rest of 2005 and all of 2006 at the Brickyard 400 at Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Arnold also owned a share of a Craftsman Truck Series team with Germain Motor Company as the No.30 Toyota. But Arnold sold the interest in that team to focus on Cup. The team's only attempt in 2006 came at the Daytona 500 with Larry Foyt as driver, but the team missed the race. In May 2006, the team announced it was shutting down. The shop later housed Spraker Racing in the ARCA Re/MAX Series Team founder Don Arnold died in December 2015.\n\nThe team's 50 car is featured in the video game \"\" driven by Cope, and in \"\" driven by Jimmy Spencer. Germain Racing's truck series cars in the latter game were listed under Arnold Motorsports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294746", "title": "The Shooting", "text": "The Shooting\n\nThe Shooting is a 1966 western film directed by Monte Hellman, with a screenplay by Carole Eastman (using the pseudonym \"Adrien Joyce\"). It stars Warren Oates, Millie Perkins, Will Hutchins, and Jack Nicholson, and was produced by Nicholson and Hellman. The story is about two men who are hired by a mysterious woman to accompany her to a town located many miles across the desert. During their journey, they are closely tracked by a black-clad gunslinger who seems intent on killing all of them.\n\nThe film was shot in 1965 in the Utah desert, back-to-back with Hellman's similar western, \"Ride in the Whirlwind\", which also starred Nicholson and Perkins. Both films were shown at several international film festivals but it was not until 1968 that the U.S. distribution rights were purchased by the Walter Reade Organization. No other domestic distributor had expressed any interest in the films. Walter Reade decided to bypass a theatrical release, and the two titles were sold directly to television.\n\nWillet Gashade (Oates), a former bounty hunter, returns to his small mining camp after a lengthy absence and finds his slow-witted friend Coley (Will Hutchins) in a state of fear. Coley explains to Gashade that their partner, Leland Drum (B. J. Merholz), had been shot to death two days before by an unseen assassin. The killing was possibly committed in revenge for the accidental trampling death of \"a little person\" in town, which may have been caused by Gashade's brother, Coin. Coin had inexplicably rushed away from their camp moments before the shooting death. Coley becomes increasingly paranoid, and Gashade takes his friend's gun away from him.\n\nThe following day, a young woman (Perkins) shoots her horse to death immediately outside of the camp. The sound of the gunshot temporarily sends the frightened Coley into hiding. Gashade examines the dead horse and notes that it appeared to be perfectly healthy, though the woman had said its leg was broken. The woman offers Gashade a thousand dollars to lead her to a place called Kingsley. Although openly distrustful of her, he grudgingly accepts the offer. Coley, apparently smitten by the woman, accompanies them.\n\nThe young woman is rude and insulting to both Gashade and Coley. She refuses to tell them her name. The three stop briefly in Crosstree. Gashade learns that Coin was seen there only a day or two before. As they continue traveling slowly through the hot desert, Gashade observes that they are being followed by a stranger dressed in black. He is Billy Spear (Nicholson), who continues to keep his distance from them. Gashade sees that the woman appears to be signaling to the man. Coley makes attempts to talk to the woman but she continually taunts and insults him. She also repeatedly refuses to answer any of Gashade's questions regarding the purpose of their journey.\n\nAt night, Spear suddenly walks into their camp and joins them. Hired by the woman as a gunslinger for reasons unknown, Spear is suspicious and hostile toward Gashade and contemptuous of Coley. He repeatedly threatens both of their lives. Gashade advises Coley to keep away from Spear.\n\nThe woman rides her horse hard. When it dies of exhaustion, Coley gives his horse to the woman and Gashade allows Coley to ride with him. Later, the woman loses the trail and asks Gashade to lead on. Gashade's horse shows signs of fatigue so Gashade tells Coley to join the woman on her horse, but Spear forbids him from doing so. The woman says that the journey would be much easier without Coley. She and Spear demand that he be left behind. Gashade, under threat by Spear, reluctantly agrees and tells Coley he will come back for him soon.\n\nThe three see a bearded man (Charles Eastman) sitting in the middle of the desert nursing a broken leg. The man tells the woman that the person she is seeking is only one day's ride away. She leaves him a canteen of water. Meanwhile, the bearded man's lost horse is found by Coley. He mounts the horse and rides back to the group. He charges at Spear, who shoots him dead. Gashade buries his friend in the sand.\n\nAll of the horses die. The group runs out of water, but they still keep moving. Gashade sees Spear growing weaker and, when the moment is right, attacks him. They fight, and after knocking Spear unconscious, Gashade grabs a large rock and crushes the killer's gun hand. Gashade walks after the woman, who is now closely following a man up the side of a rock formation. The man turns around and Gashade sees that the man is his look-alike brother, Coin. Gashade attempts to tackle the woman as she pulls out a gun and takes aim at Coin, but it is too late: Coin and the woman shoot each other dead. Gashade, lying next to the woman's corpse, whispers, \"Coin.\" Spear stumbles aimlessly under the hot sun.\n\n\nIn 1964, Monte Hellman and Jack Nicholson had made two films together, \"Back Door to Hell\" and \"Flight to Fury\", which were produced by Roger Corman and filmed back-to-back in the Philippines. After completing the films, the director and actor wrote a screenplay called \"Epitaph\" and presented it to Corman to produce. Corman did not care for the script but asked if the two would be willing to do a western for him instead. When they expressed an interest, Corman further suggested that they film \"two\" westerns, in a manner similar to the Philippine-shot movies they had just finished. They agreed and, while Nicholson started working on the script for \"Ride in the Whirlwind\", Hellman asked their mutual friend Carole Eastman to write \"The Shooting\".\n\nAccording to Hellman, Eastman's script was used almost exactly as written with no need for any rewrites. However, Hellman felt the first part of the script had too much expository material involving Gashade's trip through the desert as he returned to the mining camp, so Hellman simply deleted it, noting that \"Exposition, by its very nature, is artificial.\" After discarding the material, Hellman began shooting at approximately \"Page 10\" of the screenplay. He felt the story was \"perfectly simple\" and didn't need any additional information to help the audience figure things out. Nonetheless, Corman insisted on Hellman inserting a certain amount of exposition that Corman hoped would help explain the story. Corman felt that if mention was made three times during the course of the film that Gashade had a brother, audiences would not be confused by the climactic sequence. Hellman reluctantly agreed.\n\nAfter briefly considering Sterling Hayden for Gashade, Hellman was shopping in a Los Angeles bookstore when he suddenly and simultaneously thought of Perkins, Warren Oates, and Will Hutchins for the main roles. Perkins was Hellman's next door neighbor at the time, and she had known both Hellman and Nicholson for many years, having first met them while all of them were attending the same acting class. Hellman immediately telephoned Nicholson with his casting idea. Nicholson agreed that the three actors would be perfect.\n\nHellman and Nicholson scouted locations for several weeks, and looked at such familiar locales as Monument Valley before deciding on Kanab, Utah. They chose that area because it offered them both the \"box canyon\" needed for \"Whirlwind\" and the \"desolate desert\" for \"The Shooting\". Parts of the film were shot at Kanab Canyon, Calvin Johnson Ranch, and Glen Canyon in Utah.\n\nCorman financed the picture, serving as the film's uncredited executive producer. The budget was $75,000. Shooting began on April 15, 1965, with a production crew consisting of only seven individuals. During the first two days of the production, actual shooting was extremely limited due to near-constant rain which caused severe flooding in the areas they had planned to shoot. Hellman estimated that $5,000 of the already small budget was eaten up by the wasted time. Another $10,000 of the budget was for the horse wranglers' salaries, the only union element of the film, apart from the actors. Corman's deal with Hellman and Nicholson was that if the film went over budget, any additional costs would come out of their own pockets. Despite the initial problems, the film was completed for the original budget estimate.\n\nBecause of the restrictively low budget, no light equipment was utilized during the shoot. Gregory Sandor shot the entire film in natural light. For the film's many tracking shots, Hellman estimated the crew had only been able to bring along about eight feet of dolly tracks.\n\nAfter \"The Shooting\" was completed, production immediately commenced on Hellman's \"Ride in the Whirlwind\", a similarly mysterious western that also featured Nicholson and Perkins in the cast. Both films were completed in a total of six weeks of continuous shooting (three weeks per film).\n\nHellman reportedly spent over a year editing the films, then had them played at various film festivals throughout the world. In 1967, both films received excellent reviews at the Montreal World Film Festival, and were shown out-of-competition at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nNo U.S. distributor expressed any interest in either film. Nicholson sold the foreign rights to a French film producer, but the producer went bankrupt, and the prints of both films remained in bond at the Paris airport for almost two years. After \"considerable legal maneuvering\", Hellman and Nicholson were able to get the rights reverted to them. In 1968, Hellman managed to get both films theatrical showings in Paris, albeit without a distributor. According to Hellman,\" The Shooting\" was a sizeable arthouse hit and played for over a year in Paris. Also in 1968, the U.S. rights for both were sold to the Walter Reade Organization, a New York-based theatre chain that occasionally distributed films (they also handled the initial release of \"Night of the Living Dead\"). They decided to pass on a theatrical release. Instead, both films were sold directly to television. In 1971, theatrical rights to the film were obtained by Jack H. Harris Enterprises Inc., who purchased the rights based \"on the strength of Jack Nicholson's new-found fame.\"\n\nAs \"The Shooting\" was never released theatrically, and had sparse television showings, it initially had a very limited core of fans. Those critics who did manage to view the film were extremely enthusiastic, and generally found it superior to Hellman's companion western, \"Ride in the Whirlwind\". Danny Peary in \"Cult Movies\" (1981), after admitting that he had difficulties with the \"puzzling\" climax, noted \"But while the end may ask more questions than it answers, the exciting journey that brings us to this point is one of the most rewarding sequences in the history of westerns.\" Leonard Maltin said it was an \"...ultimately powerful film with an offbeat performance by Nicholson as a hired gun... and an incredible, unexpected finale.\" David Pirie in \"Time Out\" wrote, \"Probably the first Western which really deserves to be called existential... Hellman builds remorselessly on the atmosphere and implications of the 'quest' until it assumes a terrifying importance in itself... What Hellman has done is to take the basic tools of the Western, and use them, without in anyway diluting or destroying their power, as the basis for a Kafkaesque drama.\" Phil Hardy's \"The Aurum Film Encyclopedia: The Western\" notes that \"Hellman's calculated style, replete with disorientating close-ups and strange moments... confirm the detached fatalism of his story. This is a marvelous film.\" James Monaco's \"The Movie Guide\" described the film as \"[H]ighly effective, playing with various levels of character and ideas... it is a fine western stylization that should not be missed.\" Jonathan Rosenbaum has referred to the film as the first acid western, and cited it as an inspiration for Jim Jarmusch's \"Dead Man\". On review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes the film has a 100% rating based on reviews from 16 critics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294747", "title": "Jean Baptiste Carnoy", "text": "Jean Baptiste Carnoy\n\nJean Baptiste Carnoy (11 January 1836 – 6 September 1899), born in Rumillies (Belgium), was a Roman Catholic priest and a scientist in the field of cytology. He made the initial explanation of the real nature of the albuminoid membrane, and conducted noted experiments on cellular segmentation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294749", "title": "Miracle Whip", "text": "Miracle Whip\n\nMiracle Whip is a sauce condiment manufactured by Kraft Foods and sold throughout the United States and Canada. It is also sold by Mondelēz International (formerly also Kraft Foods) as Miracel Whip throughout Germany. It was developed as a less expensive alternative to mayonnaise in 1933.\n\nPremiering at the Century of Progress World's Fair in Chicago in 1933, Miracle Whip soon became a success as a condiment for fruits, vegetables, and salads. Its success was bolstered by Kraft's advertising campaign, which included sponsorship of a series of two-hour radio programs. At the end of its introductory period, Miracle Whip was outselling all mayonnaise brands.\n\nAccording to Kraft archivist Becky Haglund Tousey, Kraft developed the product in house, using a patented \"emulsifying machine\", invented by Charles Chapman, to create a product that blended mayonnaise and less expensive salad dressing, sometimes called \"boiled dressing\" and \"salad dressing spread\". The machine, dubbed \"Miracle Whip\" by Chapman, ensured that the ingredients, including more than 20 spices, were thoroughly blended.\n\nAnother story claims that Miracle Whip was invented in Salem, Illinois, at Max Crosset's Cafe, where it was called \"Max Crossett's X-tra Fine Salad Dressing\", and that Crosset sold it to Kraft Foods in 1931 for $300. () While stating that Kraft did buy many salad dressings, Tousey disputes the claim that X-tra Fine was Miracle Whip.\n\nSince 1972, Miracle Whip has been sold as Miracel Whip in Germany. It was formerly produced by Kraft Foods, and is now made by Mondelēz International, in Bad Fallingbostel.\n\nMiracle Whip is made from water, soybean oil, high-fructose corn syrup, vinegar, modified corn starch, eggs, salt, natural flavor, mustard flour, potassium sorbate, spice, and dried garlic.\n\nSix Flags announced a new partnership with the Miracle Whip brand in 2009.\n\nKraft paid Lady Gaga to include Miracle Whip in the music video for her song \"Telephone\".\n\nMiracle Whip advertising features prominently in the Electronic Arts video game Skate 3, including a dedicated trick, contest, and an achievement called \"Don't Be So Mayo\".\n\nIn the late 2000s and early 2010s, Miracle Whip attempted more \"hip\" advertising (much of it explained above), with footage of teenagers having fun while an announcer berated mayonnaise. Criticism by Stephen Colbert led to Miracle Whip buying ad time on his show, \"The Colbert Report\", and attacking Colbert for being a \"mayo lover\". This also included publishing an open letter stating the attack was \"raising hell, man\" (though the whole debacle may have been staged by Kraft and Comedy Central). Eventually, this advertising was dropped.\n\nIn 2018, the town of Mayo, Florida temporarily changed its name to Miracle Whip as a promotional stunt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294750", "title": "Tule fog", "text": "Tule fog\n\nTule fog is a thick ground fog that settles in the San Joaquin Valley and Sacramento Valley areas of California's Central Valley. Tule fog forms from late fall through early spring (California's rainy season) after the first significant rainfall. The official time frame for tule fog to form is from November 1 to March 31. This phenomenon is named after the tule grass wetlands (\"tulares\") of the Central Valley. Tule fog is the leading cause of weather-related accidents in California.\n\nTule fog is a radiation fog, which condenses when there is a high relative humidity (typically after a heavy rain), calm winds, and rapid cooling during the night. The nights are longer in the winter months, which allows an extended period of ground cooling, and thereby a pronounced temperature inversion at a low altitude.\n\nIn California, tule fog can extend from Bakersfield to Red Bluff, covering a distance of over . Tule fog occasionally drifts as far west as the San Francisco Bay Area via the Carquinez Strait, and can even drift westward out through the Golden Gate, opposite to the usual course of the coastal fog.\n\nTule fog is characteristically confined mainly to the Central Valley due to the mountain ranges surrounding it. Because of the density of the cold air in the winter, winds are not able to dislodge the fog and the high pressure of the warmer air above the mountaintops presses down on the cold air trapped in the valley, resulting in a dense, immobile fog that can last for days or at times for weeks undisturbed. Tule fog often contains light drizzle or freezing drizzle where temperatures are sufficiently cold.\n\nTule fog is a low cloud, usually below in altitude and can be seen from above by driving up into the foothills of the Sierra Nevada to the east or the Coast Ranges to the west. Above the cold, foggy layer, the air is typically mild, dry and clear. Once tule fog has formed, turbulent air is necessary to break through the temperature inversion layer. Daytime heating sometimes evaporates the fog in patches, although the air remains chilly and hazy below the inversion and fog reforms soon after sunset. Tule fog usually remains longer in the southern and eastern parts of the Central Valley, because winter storms with strong winds and turbulent air affect the northern Central Valley more often.\n\nVisibility in tule fog is usually less than an eighth of a mile (about 600 ft or 200 m). Visibility can vary rapidly; in only a few feet, visibility can go from to near zero.\n\nThe variability in visibility is the cause of many chain-reaction pile-ups on roads and freeways. In one such accident on Interstate 5 near Elk Grove south of Sacramento, 25 cars and 12 big-rig trucks collided inside a fog bank in December 1997. Five people died and 28 were injured. In February 2002, two people were killed in an 80-plus-car pile-up on State Route 99 between Kingsburg and Selma. On the morning of November 3, 2007, heavy tule fog caused a massive pile-up that included 108 passenger vehicles and 18 big-rig trucks on northbound State Route 99 between Fowler and Fresno. Visibility was about at the time of the accident. There were two fatalities and 39 injuries in the crash.\n\nTule fog events are often accompanied by drizzle. Sunlight cannot penetrate the fog layer, keeping temperatures below freezing. Episodes of freezing drizzle occasionally accompany tule fog events during winter. Such events can leave an invisible glaze of black ice on roadways, making travel especially treacherous.\n\n"}
{"id": "2294754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294754", "title": "David Dorfman", "text": "David Dorfman\n\nDavid Dorfman (born February 7, 1993) is an American former actor. He portrayed Aidan Keller in the 2002 horror film remake \"The Ring\", and its 2005 sequel \"The Ring Two\". His other film roles include Sammy in \"Panic\", Joey in \"Bounce\", and Jedidiah Hewitt in \"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre\". He has also portrayed the character \"Charles Wallace Murry\" in the film version of \"A Wrinkle in Time\". In 2008, Dorfman appeared in the film \"Drillbit Taylor\". He was cast alongside Thomas Haden Church in \"Zombie Roadkill\", and appeared as a soldier of the Lannisters in the \"Game of Thrones\" seventh season episode \"Dragonstone.\"\n\nDorfman currently serves as Legal Counsel, U.S. House of Representatives, Ranking Member of Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia.\n\nIn 2006, Dorfman was admitted to UCLA at age 13. In 2011, he graduated as valedictorian, and was admitted to Harvard Law School at 18.\n"}
{"id": "2294769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294769", "title": "Thomas Dwight", "text": "Thomas Dwight\n\nThomas Dwight (1843–1911) was an American physician, anatomist and teacher.\n\nThomas Dwight was born on October 13, 1843 in Boston, Massachusetts. His father was also named Thomas Dwight (born September 27, 1807), part of the New England Dwight family. His mother was Mary Collins Warren, whose father John Collins Warren (1778 –1856), and grandfather John Warren (1753–1815) were both surgeons.\n\nDwight joined the Catholic Church in 1856, and graduated from the Harvard Medical School in 1867.\nAfter studying abroad, he was instructor in comparative anatomy at Harvard College, 1872–1873, he also lectured at Bowdoin College. He succeeded Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. as Parkman professor of anatomy at Harvard Medical School in 1883. In the Warren Museum of Anatomy at Harvard, Dwight arranged a section of osteology, considered one of the best in existence, and he had an international reputation as an anatomist. Among his writings are: \"\"Frozen Sections of a Child\"\" (1872); \"\"Clinical Atlas of Variations of the Bones of the Hands and Feet\"\" (1907); \"\"Thoughts of a Catholic Anatomist\"\" (1911), a valuable work of Christian apologetics.\n\nDwight died September 8, 1911 in Nahant, Massachusetts, at age 68.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294770", "title": "Ensign Pulver", "text": "Ensign Pulver\n\nEnsign Pulver is a 1964 American Technicolor film in Panavision and a sequel to the 1955 film \"Mister Roberts\". The movie stars Robert Walker Jr., Burl Ives, Walter Matthau and Tommy Sands and features Millie Perkins, Larry Hagman, Kay Medford, Peter Marshall, Jack Nicholson, Richard Gautier, George Lindsey, James Farentino and James Coco.\n\nThe film was directed and co-written by Joshua Logan, who had directed and co-written the 1948 \"Mister Roberts\" stage play on Broadway, and also shot scenes for the 1955 film after director John Ford fell ill.\n\nThe story concerns the U.S.S. \"Reluctant\", which is at anchor beside a tropical island. The ship's captain is as much of a \"Captain Bligh\" as ever. Several of the film's events – such as attacking the Captain while he is watching a film, and one the sailors trying to obtain compassionate leave to deal with a dying child – are taken from Thomas Heggen's original novel \"Mister Roberts\". The characters of Pulver, Doc and several crewmen return from the first film, but played by different actors.\n\nU.S. Navy Ensign Frank Pulver (Robert Walker Jr.) feels unappreciated, as usual. Even when he personally aims a sharp object into the hindquarters of the hated Captain Morton (Burl Ives), the happy crew cannot imagine that the all-talk, no-action Pulver could be behind it. A poll to guess at the identity of the \"ass-sassin\" results in votes for almost everyone except Pulver, which he bitterly resents.\n\nShipmates like Billings (Larry Hagman), Insigna (James Farentino), Skouras (James Coco) and Dolan (Jack Nicholson) don't take Pulver seriously while despising the captain, who refuses to grant leave to a seaman named Bruno (Tommy Sands) to attend his daughter's funeral back home. Doc (Walter Matthau) is the only one aboard who believes in Pulver's potential at all.\n\nAt sea for months at a time, Pulver is unable to indulge his greatest interest, women, until a company of nurses land on a nearby atoll. The head nurse (Kay Medford) is pleased to meet him when Pulver introduces himself as a doctor serving on a destroyer, but young nurse Scotty (Millie Perkins) suspects the truth and a smitten Pulver confesses it to her, that he's no doctor and nothing more than a junior officer on \"the worst ship in the Navy.\"\n\nBruno becomes so deranged, he attempts to kill the captain. Pulver reluctantly intervenes, but the captain falls overboard, and is about to drown until Pulver lowers a life raft and dives in to save him. Separated from their ship, with the crew unaware for hours that they are missing, Pulver and Morton bicker aboard the raft. The ensign takes notes while the delusional captain reveals dark secrets about his past.\n\nIn need of emergency surgery, Morton ends up owing his life yet again to Pulver, who follows Doc's instructions over a radio and removes the captain's appendix. Back aboard ship, Morton's natural tendencies resurface and he tries to return to his martinet ways. Although Pulver has the goods on him now he shows genuine compassion for the captain and convinces him to leave the ship for his own well-being. Morton takes his advice and departs, turning over command to the popular LaSeur (Gerald S. O'Loughlin).\n\nCast notes\n\n\"Ensign Pulver\" began production under the working title \"Mr. Pulver and the Captain\". Location scenes for the film were shot in Mexico City and Acapulco, Mexico.\n\nActor Jack Nicholson took it upon himself to assist director Josh Logan with casting, becoming an informal \"assistant producer.\" Logan, who hoped that the film would repeat the success of \"Mister Roberts\", recognized that it had fallen short of that mark, writing in his autobiography:\n\nWe thought we had everyone in the picture that anyone could ask for ... But we had left out the most important thing: the catalytic agent, Mister Roberts. And without him, the story falls into shreds. No one really cares about the others enough to create suspense as to the outcome.\n\nIn the original film, Jack Lemmon had won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of Ensign Pulver, James Cagney had played the Captain, William Powell was Doc, and Henry Fonda portrayed Mister Roberts.\n\nConcurrent with the release of the film, Dell Publishing issued a paperback novelization of the film by W. H. (William Henry) Manville, writing under the pseudonym he used for tie-in work, \"Henry Williams.\"\n\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "2294776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294776", "title": "1920 in archaeology", "text": "1920 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
