{"id": "2302081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302081", "title": "T-tubule", "text": "T-tubule\n\nT-tubules (transverse tubules) are extensions of the cell membrane that penetrate into the centre of skeletal and cardiac muscle cells. With membranes that contain large concentrations of ion channels, transporters, and pumps, T-tubules permit rapid transmission of the action potential into the cell, and also play an important role in regulating cellular calcium concentration. Through these mechanisms, T-tubules allow heart muscle cells to contract more forcefully by synchronising calcium release throughout the cell. T-tubule structure may be affected by disease, potentially contributing to heart failure and arrhythmias. Although these structures were first seen in 1897, research into T-tubule biology is ongoing.\n\nT-tubules are tubules formed from the same phospholipid bilayer as the surface membrane or sarcolemma of skeletal or cardiac muscle cells. They connect directly with the sarcolemma at one end before travelling deep within the cell, forming a network of tubules with sections running both perpendicular (transverse) to and parallel (axially) to the sarcolemma. Due to this complex orientation, some refer to T-tubules as the transverse-axial tubular system. The inside or lumen of the T-tubule is open at the cell surface, meaning that the T-tubule is filled with fluid containing the same constituents as the solution that surrounds the cell (the extracellular fluid). Rather than being just a passive connecting tube, the membrane that forms T-tubules is highly active, being studded with proteins including L-type calcium channels, sodium-calcium exchangers, calcium ATPases and Beta adrenoceptors.\n\nT-tubules are found in both atrial and ventricular cardiac muscle cells (cardiomyocytes), in which they develop in the first few weeks of life. They are found in ventricular muscle cells in most species, and in atrial muscle cells from large mammals. In cardiac muscle cells, T-tubules are between 20 and 450 nanometers in diameter and are usually located in regions called Z-discs where the actin filaments anchor within the cell. T-tubules within the heart are closely associated with the intracellular calcium store known as the sarcoplasmic reticulum in specific regions referred to as terminal cisternae. The association of the T-tubule with a terminal cistern is known as a diad.\n\nIn skeletal muscle cells, T-tubules are between 20 and 40 nm in diameter and are typically located either side of the myosin strip, at the junction of overlap between the A and I bands. T-tubules in skeletal muscle are associated with two terminal cisternae, known as a triad.\n\nThe shape of the T-tubule system is produced and maintained by a variety of proteins. The protein amphiphysin-2 is encoded by the gene BIN1 and is responsible for forming the structure of the T-tubule and ensuring that the appropriate proteins (in particular L-type calcium channels) are located within the T-tubule membrane. Junctophilin-2 is encoded by the gene JPH2 and helps to form a junction between the T-tubule membrane and the sarcoplasmic reticulum, vital for excitation-contraction coupling. Titin capping protein or Telethonin is encoded by the gene TCAP and helps with T-tubule development and is potentially responsible for the increasing number of T-tubules seen as muscles grow.\n\nT-tubules are an important link in the chain from electrical excitation of a cell to its subsequent contraction (excitation-contraction coupling). When contraction of a muscle is needed, stimulation from a nerve or an adjacent muscle cell causes a characteristic flow of charged particles across the cell membrane known as an action potential. At rest, there are fewer positively charged particles on the inner side of the membrane compared to the outer side, and the membrane is described as being polarised. During an action potential, positively charged particles (predominantly sodium and calcium ions) flow across the membrane from the outside to the inside. This reverses the normal imbalance of charged particles and is referred to as depolarisation. One region of membrane depolarises adjacent regions, and the resulting wave of depolarisation then spreads along the cell membrane. The polarisation of the membrane is restored as potassium ions flow back across the membrane from the inside to the outside of the cell.\n\nIn cardiac muscle cells, as the action potential passes down the T-tubules it activates L-type calcium channels in the T-tubular membrane. Activation of the L-type calcium channel allows calcium to pass into the cell. T-tubules contain a higher concentration of L-type calcium channels than the rest of the sarcolemma and therefore the majority of the calcium that enters the cell occurs via T-tubules. This calcium binds to and activates a receptor, known as a ryanodine receptor, located on the cell's own internal calcium store, the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Activation of the ryanodine receptor causes calcium to be released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, causing the muscle cell to contract. In skeletal muscle cells, however, the L-type calcium channel is directly attached to the ryanodine receptor on the sarcoplasmic reticulum allowing activation of the ryanodine receptor directly without the need for an influx of calcium.\n\nThe importance of T-tubules is not solely due to their concentration of L-type calcium channels, but lies also within their ability to synchronise calcium release within the cell. The rapid spread of the action potential along the T-tubule network activates all of the L-type calcium channels near-simultaneously. As T-tubules bring the sarcolemma very close to the sarcoplasmic reticulum at all regions throughout the cell, calcium can then be released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum across the whole cell at the same time. This synchronisation of calcium release allows muscle cells to contract more forcefully. In cells lacking T-tubules such as smooth muscle cells, diseased cardiomyocytes, or muscle cells in which T-tubules have been artificially removed, the calcium that enters at the sarcolemma has to diffuse gradually throughout the cell, activating the ryanodine receptors much more slowly as a wave of calcium leading to less forceful contraction.\n\nAs the T-tubules are the primary location for excitation-contraction coupling, the ion channels and proteins involved in this process are concentrated here - there are 3 times as many L-type calcium channels located within the T-tubule membrane compared to the rest of the sarcolemma. Furthermore, beta adrenoceptors are also highly concentrated in the T-tubular membrane, and their stimulation increases calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum.\n\nAs the space within the lumen of the T-tubule is continuous with the space that surrounds the cell (the extracellular space), ion concentrations between the two are very similar. However, due to the importance of the ions within the T-tubules (particularly calcium in cardiac muscle), it is very important that these concentrations remain relatively constant. As the T-tubules are very thin, they essentially trap the ions. This is important as, regardless of the ion concentrations elsewhere in the cell, T-tubules still have enough calcium ions to permit muscle contraction. Therefore, even if the concentration of calcium outside the cell falls (hypocalcaemia), the concentration of calcium within the T-tubule remains relatively constant, allowing cardiac contraction to continue.\n\nAs well as T-tubules being a site for calcium entry into the cell, they are also a site for calcium removal. This is important as it means that calcium levels within the cell can be tightly controlled in a small area (i.e. between the T-tubule and sarcoplasmic reticulum, known as local control). Proteins such as the sodium-calcium exchanger and the sarcolemmal ATPase are located mainly in the T-tubule membrane. The sodium-calcium exchanger passively removes one calcium ion from the cell in exchange for three sodium ions. As a passive process it can therefore allow calcium to flow into or out of the cell depending on the combination of the relative concentrations of these ions and the voltage across the cell membrane (the electrochemical gradient). The calcium ATPase removes calcium from the cell actively, using energy derived from adenosine triphosphate (ATP).\n\nIn order to study T-tubule function, T-tubules can be artificially uncoupled from the surface membrane using a technique known as \"detubulation\". Chemicals such as glycerol or formamide (for skeletal and cardiac muscle respectively) can be added to the extracellular solution that surrounds the cells. These agents increase the osmolarity of the extracellular solution, causing the cells to shrink. When these agents are withdrawn, the cells rapidly expand and return to their normal size. This shrinkage and re-expansion of the cell causes T-tubules to detach from the surface membrane. Alternatively, the osmolarity of the extracellular solution can be decreased, using for example hypotonic saline, causing a transient cell swelling. Returning the extracellular solution to a normal osmolarity allows the cells to return to their previous size, again leading to detubulation.\n\nThe idea of a cellular structure that later became known as a T-tubule was first proposed in 1881. The very brief time lag between stimulating a striated muscle cell and its subsequent contraction was too short to have been caused by a signalling chemical travelling the distance between the sarcolemma and the sarcoplasmic reticulum. It was therefore suggested that pouches of membrane reaching into the cell might explain the very rapid onset of contraction that had been observed. It took until 1897 before the first T-tubules were seen, using light microscopy to study cardiac muscle injected with India ink.  Imaging technology advanced, and with the advent of transmission electron microscopy the structure of T-tubules became more apparent leading to the description of the longitudinal component of the T-tubule network in 1971. In the 1990s and 2000s confocal microscopy enabled three-dimensional reconstruction of the T-tubule network and quantification of T-tubule size and distribution, and the important relationships between T-tubules and calcium release began to be unravelled with the discovery of calcium sparks. While early work focussed on ventricular cardiac muscle and skeletal muscle, in 2009 an extensive T-tubule network in atrial cardiac muscle cells was observed. Ongoing research focusses on the regulation of T-tubule structure and how T-tubules are affected by and contribute to cardiovascular diseases.\n\nThe structure of T-tubules can be altered by disease, which in the heart may contribute to weakness of the heart muscle or abnormal heart rhythms. The alterations seen in disease range from a complete loss of T-tubules to more subtle changes in their orientation or branching patterns. T-tubules may be lost or disrupted following a myocardial infarction, and are also disrupted in the ventricles of patients with heart failure, contributing to reduced force of contraction and potentially decreasing the chances of recovery. Heart failure can also cause the near-complete loss of T-tubules from atrial cardiomyocytes, reducing atrial contractility and potentially contributing to atrial fibrillation.\n\nStructural changes in T-tubules can lead to the L-type calcium channels moving away from the ryanodine receptors. This can increase the time taken for calcium levels within the cell to rise leading to weaker contractions and arrhythmias. However, disordered T-tubule structure may not be permanent, as some suggest that T-tubule remodelling might be reversed through the use of interval training.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302088", "title": "Zillertal", "text": "Zillertal\n\nThe Ziller Valley () is a valley in Tyrol, Austria that is drained by the Ziller river. It is the widest valley south of the Inn Valley () and lends its name to the Zillertal Alps, the strongly glaciated section of the Alps in which it lies. The Tux Alps lie to its west, while the lower grass peaks of the Kitzbühel Alps are found to the east. \n\nThe Ziller Valley is one of the valley areas in Tyrol most visited by tourists. Its largest settlement is Mayrhofen.\n\nThe Ziller Valley branches from the Inn trench near Jenbach, about 40 km northeast of Innsbruck, running mostly in a north-south direction. The Ziller Valley proper stretches from the village of to Mayrhofen, where it separates into four smaller valleys, the Tux valley and the sparsely settled, so-called \"Gründe\" – Zamsergrund, Zillergrund and Stilluppgrund. Along the way, two more \"Gründe\" and the Gerlos valley, which leads to the Gerlos Pass and into Salzburg, branch off.\n\nUnlike other side valleys of the Inntal, the Ziller Valley rises constantly, but only marginally, from one end to the other – only about 100 m over 30 km. Permanent settlements cover about 9% of the entire area of the Ziller Valley municipalities.\n\nNear the Tuxer Joch, a pass between the Wipptal and the Tux valley, there have been archeological finds from middle Stone Age. The oldest remains of settlements in the Ziller Valley date back to the Illyrians during the late Bronze and early Iron Ages – a tribe from the Balkan Peninsula who were absorbed by the Bavarians (Baiuvarii).\n\nThe earliest written record of the Ziller Valley dates from 889, when Arnulf of Carinthia granted land to the Archbishop of Salzburg in the \"Cilarestal\". Ownership of the valley was divided along the river Ziller. Even today this division is visible, as churches on the right bank of the river generally have green towers and belong to Salzburg Diocese, while churches on the left bank have red towers and belong to Innsbruck Diocese.\n\nIn 1248, the land west of the Ziller was acquired by the Counts of Tyrol, while the lands east of the Ziller pledged as security to the Counts of Tyrol by the Lords of Rattenberg from 1290 to 1380. In 1504, with both the County of Tyrol and the Archbishopric of Salzburg dominated by the Habsburgs, the Ziller Valley was united under Emperor Maximilian and put under joint Tyrolean/Salzburgian rule.\n\nIn 1805, the Treaty of Pressburg ended the War of the Third Coalition and forced Austria to cede Tyrol to Bavaria. For the purposes of this treaty, the Ziller Valley was considered part of Salzburg and thus remained with Austria. The people of the Ziller Valley nevertheless joined Andreas Hofer's Tyrolean Rebellion of 1809 in the Battle of the Ziller Bridge (14 May). Later that year, the insurrection was defeated and the Ziller Valley briefly became Bavarian until the Congress of Vienna in 1814/1815.\n\nWhile the relatively lenient stance of the archbishops of Salzburg had allowed the creation of small pockets of Protestantism in their lands since the Protestant Reformation, the remaining Protestants were oppressed more harshly during the Habsburg rule of the 19th century. In 1837, 437 Protestant inhabitants of the Ziller Valley left the valley after they were given the choice of renouncing the Augsburg Confession or emigrating to Silesia, where Frederick William III of Prussia offered them lands and housing near Erdmannsdorf (now Mysłakowice in western Poland).\n\nIn 1902, the Ziller Valley Railway was constructed, which still runs between Jenbach and Mayrhofen to this day, opening up the valley, the economy of which had previously relied mostly on agriculture and mining, to commerce and tourism. From 1921 to 1976, magnesium carbonate (and later tungsten) were mined around the Alpine pastures of the Schrofen and Wangl \"Almen\" above the Tuxertal A ropeway conveyor of more than 9 km length was used to transport the ore to the Ziller Valley Railway goods station in the valley below.\n\nThe Ziller Valley was known for its itinerant tradesmen, \"farm doctors\" and singing families. In the second half of the 19th century refuge huts were erected and trails established as climbing became a mass sport. The development of the area for tourism began in 1953/1954 with the construction of the Gerlosstein ski region, today the Zillertal Arena, which was soon followed by other lifts and the opening of the \"Mayrhofner Penkenbahn\" in 1954. The use of water power took off in the 1970s.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, after the end of mining in the valley, tourism became the area's dominant economic activity. In 2003, tourists stayed a total of 6 million nights in the valley, mostly during winter sports holidays. Following a phase of mergers by building connecting lifts during the 1990s and early 2000s, there are now four big ski areas and three smaller satellite areas in the valley, with a combined total of more than 170 lifts and more than 630 km of downhill slopes.\n\nTraditional agriculture – mostly cattle, dairy and some sheep farming on the \"Alm\" pastures – is still widespread and the large sawmill outside the village of Fügen is a sign of the lumber industry that also plays a significant role. The periphery of the area is home to a number of factories. Four large reservoirs in the \"Gründe\" supply water to a total of eight hydroelectric power stations, generating slightly more than 1,200 GWh per year.\n\nThe Ziller Valley is particularly renowned for its musical tradition. For instance, several families of travelling singers and organ builders from the valley have been credited with spreading the Christmas carol \"Silent Night\" across the world during the 19th and early 20th centuries. More recently, the Schürzenjäger band have had tremendous success in German-speaking countries with their crossover mix of \"Volksmusik\" and pop.\n\nThe majority of the population belongs to the Catholic Church, which plays an important role in socio-cultural life.\n\nAfter the Reformation a lively Protestant movement developed in the Ziller Valley. There was animosity from the side of the Catholic Church, culminating in the forced exodus of Ziller Valley Protestants in the year 1837. Today, some smaller Protestant congregations exist in\nMayrhofen, Jenbach and Schwaz.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302089", "title": "Bultaco", "text": "Bultaco\n\nBultaco was a Spanish manufacturer of two-stroke motorcycles from 1958 to 1983. In May 2014, a new Bultaco was announced, and the company will be selling electric-powered street motorcycles from 2015. The R&D department will be based in Madrid while the factory will be located in Barcelona.\n\nThe origin of the Bultaco motorcycle company dates back to May 1958. Francesc \"Paco\" Bultó was a director of the Montesa motorcycle company founded in 1944. After several years of steady growth and road racing success, in 1957 Montesa moved to larger facilities. The move was protracted, disrupting production and was followed by a downturn in the Spanish economy. This slump brought to a head disagreements between Bultó and the other senior director Pere Permanyer. As an economy measure, Permanyer (the majority shareholder) felt that the company should withdraw from racing. Bultó, the driving force behind the racing program and responsible for much of the company’s technical expertise was vehemently opposed. Failing to reach a compromise, Bultó decided to leave Montesa to concentrate on his other business interests. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the majority of Montesa's racing department left shortly afterwards as well.\n\nThe suggestion to form a new company is said to have come a few days later when Sr. Bultó was invited to a meeting by several of the former staff of Montesa's racing department. Keen to return to racing, they persuaded him that their greatest hope lay in forming a new company. Setting up shop in very primitive conditions at an old farm owned by Bultó, things developed quickly. On March 24, 1959, Bultaco held a press day and launched its first bike, the road-going 125cc Bultaco Tralla 101, named after a Spanish word for whip. Just two months later Bultaco entered its first Spanish Grand Prix taking seven of the first ten places.\n\n\"Bultaco\" comes from combining the first four letters of Sr. Bultó's surname with the last three of his nickname \"Paco\". The name was a suggestion of one of Bultaco's premier racers, and close friend of Sr. Bultó, John Grace from Gibraltar. CEMOTO is an acronym for \"Compañia Española de Motores\". The other part of the company logo, the \"Thumbs up\" symbol, came after Sr. Bultó witnessed British motorcycle racer David Whitworth giving the signal to his pit crew to signify that all was well. Sete Gibernau used to have this on the back of his crash helmet when he raced MotoGP.\n\nIn 1998, rights to the Bultaco name were purchased by Marc Tessier, who used it to help launch a range of purpose-built trials motorcycles from his company Sherco Moto S.A.R.L. The bikes were initially named Bultaco Shercos. In 2000, the bikes became 'Sherco by Bultaco', and in 2001 the Bultaco name was dropped altogether. The US trademark is now owned by HDW Enterprises, parent company of a parts and repair specialist for vintage Bultacos.\n\nAs of 2017, Bultaco produces electric motorbikes in Barcelona, Catalonia, also the site of the original 1958 factory.\n\nAlthough they made road and road racing motorcycles, the company had its greatest success with models for off-road competition; the Pursang for motocross, the Matador for enduros, the Sherpa T for observed trials competition, and the Astro for short flat-track.\n\nPerhaps the most famous Bultaco model is the Sherpa T, a trials bike, which revolutionised the sport in the 1960s. At that time trials was almost exclusively a British sport using big heavy four-stroke machines. Irish trials ace Sammy Miller teamed with Bultó to produce a lightweight two-stroke machine which, overnight, rendered the heavy four-strokes obsolete. Miller won the gruelling Scottish Six Days Trial in 1965, and then repeated the feat with wins in 1967 and 1968. He also claimed the European Trials Championship in 1968 and 1970. This coincided with and, perhaps, stimulated the growth in the popularity of trials in Europe and later the USA, which provided a lucrative market for Bultaco in the years to come. Bultaco dominated the World Trials Championship in the 1970s, winning the title eight times, and winning the Scottish Six Days Trial four times.\n\nBultaco's premier model in the USA, the Pursang, was an excellent handling and powerful 250 cc competition model that was competitive in virtually any type of speed-based off-road competition. The Pursang range was later expanded to 125 cc, 360cc and 370 cc.\n\nThe Bultaco Astro was a very popular short-track racer in the United States, and was used by many AMA Grand National riders in the US in pursuit of their championships, including Mike Kidd, Terry Poovey, Bubba Rush, and hundreds of other top-class competitors. The Astro had a superb power-band, perfectly suited for short-tracks, and some half-miles as well.\n\nBultaco motorcycles were mainly powered by single-cylinder, air cooled, two-stroke engines, but they also made water cooled powerplants. The rider was required to mix the oil and gasoline manually. Built in Barcelona, Spain, Bultaco motorcycles were exported throughout the world, but their largest market ultimately became the USA, allowing aspiring racers to purchase legitimately competitive motorcycles without modification. The Bultaco engine & transmission were universally interchangeable between models and engine capacities; one could replace the cylinder from a 175 cc engine with a 200 cc, 250 cc, 350 cc or even 360 cc capacity Bultaco cylinder. As Bultaco produced the cylinders, pistons, rings & cylinder heads for all engine capacities, no aftermarket parts were required, as with other brands.\n\nDue to industrial unrest and market pressures, Bultaco production closed in 1979. The factory reopened in 1980, but closed again in 1983. A new series of electric Bultacos was announced mid-2014, and it began sales in 2015.\n\nFormer MotoGP star, Sete Gibernau, is the grandson of the founder of Bultaco, Paco Bultó.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302091", "title": "Via Nomentana", "text": "Via Nomentana\n\nVia Nomentana is an ancient road of Italy, leading North-East from Rome to Nomentum (modern Mentana), a distance of . It originally bore the name \"Via Ficulensis\", from the old Latin village of Ficulea, about from Rome. It was subsequently extended to Nomentum, but never became an important high road, and merged in the Via Salaria a few kilometers beyond Nomentum. It is followed as far as Nomentum by the modern state road, but some traces of its pavement still exist.\n\nOriginally starting from now-destroyed Porta Collina in the Servian Walls, in the third century emperor Aurelian build the Porta Nomentana in his new set of walls. Pope Pius IV decided to move the first stretch of the road and built the Porta Pia for this purpose.\n\nThere are the remains of at least one Roman bridge along the road, which is the Ponte Nomentano.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302094", "title": "Salcedo, Ecuador", "text": "Salcedo, Ecuador\n\nSan Miguel de Salcedo (better known as Salcedo) is a city in Cotopaxi Province, Ecuador. It is the capital of Salcedo Canton.\n"}
{"id": "2302106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302106", "title": "Speech delay", "text": "Speech delay\n\nSpeech delay, also known as alalia, refers to a delay in the development or use of the mechanisms that produce speech. Speech – as distinct from language – is the actual process of making sounds, using such organs and structures as the lungs, vocal cords, mouth, tongue, teeth, etc. Language delay refers to a delay in the development or use of the knowledge of language.\n\nBecause language and speech are two independent stages, they may be individually delayed. For example, a child may be delayed in speech (i.e., unable to produce intelligible speech sounds), but not delayed in language. In this case, the child would be attempting to produce an age appropriate amount of language, but that language would be difficult or impossible to understand. Conversely, since a child with a language delay typically has not yet had the opportunity to produce speech sounds, it is likely to have a delay in speech as well.\n\nThe warning signs of early speech delay are categorized into age-related milestones, beginning at the age of 12 months and continuing through early adolescence.\n\nAt the age of 12 months, there is cause for concern if the child is not able to do the following:\n\n\nBetween the ages of 15 and 18 months children are at a higher risk for speech delay if they are displaying the following:\n\n\nAdditional signs of speech delay after the age of 2 years and up to the age of 4 include the following:\n\n\nStudies show that children diagnosed with speech delay are more likely to present with behavioral and social emotional problems both in childhood and as adults. Decreased receptive language, reading, and learning skills are common side effects for children that suffer from a speech delay and do not receive adequate intervention. Similar studies suggest that children with speech delays are more likely to have a difficult time communicating and bonding with peers, which could have negative effects on their psychosocial health later in life.\n\nAt times, speech delay and impairment is caused by a physical disruption in the mouth such as a deformed frenulum, lips, or palate. If the motion or ability to form words and appropriate sounds is disrupted, the child may be slow to pick up words and lack the ability to shape their mouth and tongue in the formation of words.\n\nOther more serious concerns are those that can be caused by oral-motor issues. Oral-motor dysfunction refers to a lack or delay in the area of the brain that speech is formed and created and communicated to the mouth and tongue. While speech may be the only concern, this disorder can be highlighted with feeding issues as well.\n\nChildren that are having speech delay disorders could have the following characteristics (Shriberg 1982): \n\nThe many other causes of speech delay include bilingual children with phonological disorders, autism spectrum conditions, childhood apraxia, auditory processing disorder, prematurity, cognitive impairment and hearing loss. In addition, when children are addicted to screens, they aren’t stimulated to be involved in conversations, causing speech delays. Broomfield and Dodd's (2004a) found out after survey that 6.4% of children who are perfectly normal showed speech difficulty while they lacked these disorders will often show early signs and are at times identified as \"at risk\" when the speech delay is diagnosed.\n\nAfter the initial diagnosis of speech delay, a hearing test will be administered to ensure that hearing loss or deafness is not an underlying cause of the delay. If a child has successfully completed the hearing test, the therapy or therapies used will be determined. There are many therapies available for children that have been diagnosed with a speech delay, and for every child, the treatment and therapies needed vary with the degree, severity, and cause of the delay. While speech therapy is the most common form of intervention, many children may benefit from additional help from occupational and physical therapies as well. Physical and occupational therapies can be used for a child that is suffering from speech delay due to physical malformations and children that have also been diagnosed with a developmental delay such as autism or a language processing delay. Music therapy has effective results in the fundamentals of speech development, including phonological memory, sentence understanding, sentence memory, and morphological rule generation. Children that have been identified with hearing loss can be taught simple sign language to build and improve their vocabulary in addition to attending speech therapy.\n\nThe parents of a delayed child are the first and most important tool in helping overcome the speech delay. The parent or caregiver of the child can provide the following activities at home, in addition to the techniques suggested by a speech therapist, to positively influence the growth of speech and vocabulary:\n\n\nFor children that are suffering from physical disorder that is causing difficulty forming and pronouncing words, parents and caregivers suggest using and introducing different food textures to exercise and build jaw muscles while promoting new movements of the jaw while chewing. Another less studied technique used to combat and treat speech delay is a form of therapy using music to promote and facilitate speech and language development. It is important to understand that music therapy is in its infancy and has yet to be thoroughly studied and practiced on children suffering from speech delays and impediments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302107", "title": "Walkinstown", "text": "Walkinstown\n\nWalkinstown () is a suburb of Dublin, Ireland, situated on the Southside of the city, approximately 6 kilometres south-west of Dublin city centre. The suburb borders Crumlin to the east, Drimnagh to the north, Greenhills to the south and Ballymount, Bluebell and Clondalkin to the west. Its postal code is Dublin 12.\n\nWalkinstown is a suburb consisting primarily of privately owned residential housing with some social housing remaining in the Dublin City Council area between the Walkinstown and Long Mile Roads and Ballymount Lower. It was built as an estate of starter homes after World War 2 with the council housing being developed as social rented homes later in the early to mid fifties.\n\nLight industry, warehousing, car dealerships and commercial outlet stores are concentrated along the Long Mile Road in the western sector of the suburb. The Central Statistics Office census of 2016 recorded a populated of 6819 for the area. The area is very well served with a library, residents' association, sports ground, community centre, schools, pubs, church and retail facilities.\n\nThe name of the area is a corruption of Wilkinstown - named after Wilkins, a tenant farmer who lived in the area in the 15th century. The Irish name for the area is 'Baile Bhailcín'.\n\nWalkinstown as a suburb is a 20th-century creation. The area was a dairy farm until house building began in the 1930s. Building ended in the area in the 1970s when most of the available land was built upon. The 1950s saw the building of the local Catholic church as well as primary and second schools for boys and girl.\n\nThere is some ambiguity as to the full extent of the suburb, with some claiming Walkinstown includes Greenhills, as well as one of three parts of Ballymount.\n\nGreenhills was previously linked to Walkinstown in the Catholic Church structure to make up the Parish of Walkinstown and Greenhills, at a time when Greenhills did not have its own local church. This combined parish ceased to exist when Greenhills acquired its own parish church in 1971. Greenhills is generally regarded now as a separate and distinct suburb, with its own identity and full range of services.\n\nThe distinction between Ballymount and Walkinstown is not so well defined. Given that Ballymount has a less clear identity, many consider it to form part of Walkinstown. The area itself is primarily given over to light industry with much less residential housing than its nearest neighbour, Walkinstown. Most residential housing which exists directly borders on the Ballymount Road which itself is often listed as Walkinstown. Residents of Ballymount do not have their own services and so rely on Walkinstown for schools, church and commercial centres.\n\nThere is a branch of Dublin City Public Libraries and Archive - the Walkinstown Public Library - on Percy French Road. The local An Post post office is in SuperValu on the Walkinstown Road. The local branch of the Irish League of Credit Unions, Walkinstown Credit Union, is located on Walkinstown Green.\n\nThe local Catholic Church, Our Lady of the Assumption, is one of the largest buildings in the suburb and is situated on Kilnamanagh Road, near the Long Mile Road. It forms part of a major concentration of religious and educational services, with a girls school (Our Lady of the Assumption) adjacent to the Church, whilst a boys school, Drimnagh Castle CBS, is situated opposite the girls school on the other side of the Long Mile Road. Both these schools provide primary and secondary education.\n\nWalkinstown Park is a Dublin City Council run park, on the Walkinstown Avenue opposite Lidl. The park has three football pitches and two GAA pitches. It also has a tennis court and a stream that runs at the rear of the park.\nThe premises of the Walkinstown Association, which provides services to people with intellectual disabilities, is situated on the Long Mile Road, adjacent to the Halfway House public house.\n\nThe 94th Dublin Scout Den is situated on Bunting Road.\n\nWalkinstown is served by six pubs, located in two hubs. The first hub is located at the intersection of the Drimnagh, Walkinstown and Long Mile roads, while the second is situated at the Walkinstown Roundabout. The six pubs are the Halfway House, the Long Mile Inn, The Black Forge, The Eleanora, the Cherrytree and the Kestrel House. Previously, Walkinstow was referred to as being served by six \"and a half\" pubs. The \"half a pub\" refers to The Submarine Bar, which although almost entirely located in Crumlin had its main entrance on Cromwellsfort Road in Walkinstown.\n\nThere is no local Garda station. The area is served equally by neighbouring Crumlin's two Garda stations - the Crumlin Village and Sundrive Road stations. The three hospitals which primarily serve the local community are Tallaght Hospital, Our Lady's Children's Hospital, Crumlin and St. James' Hospital.\n\nThere is a large SuperValu on the Walkinstown Road. The Ashleaf Shopping Centre, located on Cromwellsfort Road, is the nearest shopping centre and has as anchor tenant Dunnes Stores, providing both supermarket and clothing retail services. Lidl is located on Walkinstown Avenue opposite Walkinstown Park. Aldi is located on the Long Mile Road.\n\nSmall commercial enterprises such as newsagents, pharmacies and fast food outlets as well as local branches of the major banks are concentrated in a similar fashion to the area's pubs, at the intersection of the Drimnagh, Walkinstown and Long Mile roads as well as around the Walkinstown Roundabout. There is also a Subway, Eddie Rockets and a Polish food store located at the rear of LIDL on Walkinstown Avenue. \n\nWalkinstown Roundabout is one of the busiest in the city. Its construction was held up for many years due to protracted negotiations to purchase a small white washed cottage on the then Walkinstown Cross (scene of many bad motor crashes). The resident was eventually rehoused in a new bungalow at the top of Walkinstown Avenue. This cottage was formerly in the centre of the new roundabout.\n\nThere are a few local historic landmarks within the area of Walkinstown. One of the oldest buildings in the immediate vicinity is Drimnagh Castle, located on the northern side of the Long Mile Road. This castle dates from 1216 and is the only castle in Ireland with a flooded moat. The Halfway House pub is the oldest public house in the area, predating all of the housing developments that went to make up the suburb. This pub, which used to be a Coachhouse, situated halfway between Dublin and Tallaght, retains the outward appearance of the country pub, although the interior was recently modernised. The most distinctive buildings of the Walkinstown area are that of the local Catholic church and schools, built in a sturdy style of the 1950s with red brick and green copper roofing and impressive stained glass windows, made by local craftsmen.\n\nThe layout of the suburb is such that \"nests\" of smaller roads run off the main roads, usually with green open spaces as focal points. The dominant style of the area is that of a mid-20th century Dublin housing development. One of the key features of the area is the Walkinstown Roundabout, also known as Walkinstown Cross, one of the largest, and most accident-prone roundabouts in the Dublin area. This major junction serves seven major local roads - Walkinstown Road towards Drimnagh, Bunting Road towards Crumlin, Cromwellsfort Road towards Kimmage and Crumlin, and St Peter's Road towards Greenhills and Templeogue, Greenhills Road towards Tallaght, Ballymount Road towards Ballymount and the M50 and Walkinstown Avenue towards Ballyfermot,\n\nAn area of Walkinstown north of Cromwellsfort Road is known as the \"Musical Roads\". Roads in this area are named after prominent figures of Irish music - examples include the tenor Count John McCormack and composers Michael William Balfe, Percy French and Edward Bunting.\n\nThe SuperValu supermarket on Walkinstown Road was once the site of Walkinstown House, a distinctive country house and the family home of the Flanagan family, including the infamous \"The Bird Flanagan\", a well-known Dublin \"character\" and infamous practical joker of the early 20th century. It is said that The Long Mile Road was named after a mile long horse race along this route won by the Bird Flanagan. However it was later argued that it was a long mile.\n\nWalkinstown is in the extreme south-west of the Dublin City Council area and in local government elections is part of the Ballyfermot-Drimnagh Ward. Since the last local elections in 2014, the local elected representatives on Dublin City Council are:\n\nWalkinstown is part of the Dublin South-Central Dáil constituency. The elected TD's for the current 32nd Dáil Éireann are:\n\nThe first local GAA club was set up in the 1950s in part to help give the new suburb of Walkinstown an identity, in addition to providing a sports outlet for the newly arrived residents. That club has since morphed, changed name and amalgamated with others to form the current St James' Gaels GAA club which is still charged with the promotion of Gaelic Games in the Walkinstown area.\n\nWalkinstown Athletic FC is the local soccer team. W.S.A.F. - Walkinstown Sports and Athletic Association - meet at Moeran Community Hall on Summerville Drive. Mooney's Field, the local name given to the largest green open space in the Walkinstown area (situated on Bunting Road), is used for many field sports. The nearest municipal swimming pool is located in Crumlin village.\n\nWalkinstown United Football Club is the leading football team based in Walkinstown, Dublin 12. The home ground is Walkinstown Park, which is located in the heart of Walkinstown. Established in 1978, the club has had much success with honours such as league promotion and league cup wins.\n\nWalkinstown is well served by Dublin Bus both in terms of number of routes and frequency.\n\nRoute numbers 18, 27, 77A, 56A, 123 and 151 all pass by, or very near to, the Halfway House pub. The 9, 17 & 150 pass the Ashleaf Shopping Centre/Submarine Bar while the 122 has its terminus at Our Lady's Hospital (Crumlin), approximately 5 minutes walk east of the Halfway House pub. Typical bus journey time to the city centre is 25 minutes, and a little longer than this during peak periods.\n\nThe Dublin Bus Nitelink 77N service provides a one-way link from Dublin city centre to Walkinstown until late at night after regular bus services finish at 23:30. This route departs from a bus stop on College Green opposite Doyle's pub in the city centre.\n\nAlthough the Luas does not serve Walkinstown, the route of the Red Line takes it to within walking distance of the suburb. The nearest stops are Bluebell and Kylemore, approximately 10 minutes north of the intersection of the Walkinstown and Drimnagh roads.\n\nThere used to be a DHL Express depot in Walkinstown, which closed in 2008 and since 2018 is now the primary depot for Go-Ahead Ireland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302119", "title": "U.S. Route 27 in Michigan", "text": "U.S. Route 27 in Michigan\n\nUS Highway 27 (US 27) is a part of the US Highway System that now runs from Miami, Florida, to Fort Wayne, Indiana. In the US state of Michigan, it was a north–south state trunkline highway that entered the state south of Kinderhook and ended south of Grayling. Its route consisted of a freeway concurrency with Interstate 69 (I-69) from the state line north to the Lansing area before it followed its own freeway facility northward to St. Johns. From there north to Ithaca, US 27 was an expressway before continuing as a freeway to a terminus south of Grayling.\n\nCreated with the rest of the US Highway System on November 11, 1926, US 27 replaced a pair of state highways between the state line and the Cheboygan area. For a time, US 27 even extended from Cheboygan to St. Ignace over the Mackinac Bridge. The highway was converted into a series of freeways starting in the late 1950s. The northernmost section between Grayling and Mackinaw City, bypassing Cheboygan, became part of I-75, and US 27 was truncated to Grayling. Starting in the 1960s, the southern sections were included in I-69. The last section of Interstate in Michigan was completed in 1992 when I-69/US 27 opened southwest of Lansing. In the 1990s, a bypass of St. Johns north of Lansing was built, the last freeway segment of US 27 to open under that designation. On April 16, 1999, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) approved the removal of the US 27 designation from the state of Michigan; this change was put into place when the highway number was removed from signage in 2002. Former segments of US 27 from its pre-freeway configuration are still state highways in the form of M-27 between Indian River and Cheboygan or the various business routes in the state that previously bore Business US 27 (Bus. US 27) designations.\n\nI-69/US 27 in Michigan began at the Indiana state line southeast of Kinderhook, just north of an interchange with the Indiana Toll Road (I-80/I-90). From there, I-69/US 27 ran northward through a mixture of Southern Michigan farmland and woodland in Branch County. A few miles north of the state line, the freeway passes Coldwater Lake State Park and its namesake body of water; north of the lake, there is a welcome center for the northbound lanes. I-69/US 27 curved around the east side of Coldwater, connecting to the city's business loop on the south of town. The freeway intersects the northern end of the business loop immediately east of downtown at an interchange that also features US 12 (Chicago Road). A third interchange, some further north, features a distribution center for Walmart stores in the region. Further north, the freeway curves around to the northwest into Calhoun County and crosses over the St. Joseph River. I-69/US 27 turned back northward and bypassed Tekonsha to the town's west, intersecting M-60 in the process.\n\nCurving around Nottawa Lake, I-69/US 27 continued northward through southern Calhoun County. It passed through an interchange that marked the southern terminus of M-227, a highway that runs northward into Marshall. The freeway crosses the Kalamazoo River and through an interchange with M-96 west of downtown Marshall. From that interchange northward, the BL I-94 designation was overlaid on I-69/US 27; the business loop ends at the cloverleaf interchange with I-94 northwest of Marshall. North of I-94, I-69/US 27 had one more interchange before crossing into Eaton County.\nIn southern Eaton County, the freeway parallels the Battle Creek River north of the junction with M-78. Near Olivet, I-69/US 27 began to turn in a northeasterly direction. As it continued in that direction, it ran to the north side of Olivet. On the south side of Charlotte, I-69/US 27 turned northward, traversing an area to the east of downtown and crossing the former routing of US 27, which is now part of the business loop for the city. Further north, the freeway has a junction with M-50, a bridge over the Battle Creek River, and an interchange with the northern end of the business loop next to Fitch H. Beach Airport. North of the airport, I-69/US 27 turned northeasterly again and paralleled Lansing Road, the former route of US 27/M-78. The freeway meets the southern end of M-100 near Potterville and continues onto the Lansing–East Lansing metropolitan area. Southwest of the state's capital city, I-69/US 27 crossed over Lansing Road near Lansing Delta Township Assembly, a factory for General Motors; northeast of the complex, I-69/US 27 merged into I-96. The combined I-96/I-69/US 27 ran northward through the suburban edges of the Lansing area, intersecting the western ends of I-496 and the BL I-69 for Lansing. The freeway enters Clinton County, and just north of a crossing of the Grand River, I-69/US 27 turned eastward to separate from I-96. As a part of the larger interchange with I-96, I-69/US 27 crossed BL I-96 (Grand River Avenue) without any connections.\n\nAfter leaving the I-96 concurrency, I-69 changes cardinal orientation and is signed as east–west from that point on. The freeway continues parallel to the Looking Glass River through suburban areas north of Capital Region International Airport. North of East Lansing, I-69/US 27 met US 127 at a cloverleaf interchange, and US 27 turned northward to separate from I-69. The US 27 freeway ran through farmland and crossed the Looking Glass River. At Price Road, US 27 met its southernmost business loop, the Bus. US 27 for St. Johns. The freeway continues due north and intersects M-21 east of town before it turns northwesterly to round the northern side of St. Johns. North of downtown, US 27 met the northern end of the business loop and the freeway ends. Continuing northward as an expressway, the highway has four lanes divided by a median with at-grade intersections at the cross roads.\n\nIn Gratiot County, US 27 was named Bagley Road. North of Wilson Road, the expressway crosses the Maple River on a causeway through a wetland area in the Maple River State Game Area. North of the river, the expressway crosses a branch line of the Great Lakes Central Railroad, then has an interchange with M-57. About further north, US 27 turned to the northwest, separating from Bagley Road. The expressway transitions back to a full freeway as the trunkline turns north and curves around the east side of Ithaca, meeting the southern end of Ithaca's business loop at Center Road, and the opposite end north of town.\n\nFurther north, US 27 angled northwesterly between Alma and St. Louis. Each city has its own business loop, accessible on the south side through a pair of partial interchanges at Lincoln and State roads. The freeway crosses the Pine River before intersecting M-46 and the two business loops at another pair of interchanges north of downtown Alma. After US 27 crossed into Isabella County, it turned northwesterly near Shepherd. After a few miles, a short freeway spur carrying the Bus. US 27 for Mount Pleasant splits off and the main freeway turns back to the north. The two highways continue in parallel through town before turning to converge north of Mount Pleasant by the airport. After the freeway stub at the northern end of the business loop merges in, the main freeway crosses the Chippewa River.\n\nUS 27 continued through northern Isabella County to pass east of Rosebush. South of the Clare County line in Clare, US 27 met the southern end of Clare's Bus. US 27. The freeway turns northeasterly, crosses Bus. US 10 and the county line before merging with US 10. US 27/US 10 curved around Lake Shamrock on the northern end of town before meeting the northern end of Bus. US 27/Bus. US 10. The freeway continues north, past a welcome center in the median, and US 10 splits off to the west.\n\nNorth of Clare, US 27 ran through forest, where it passed to the east of Harrison. On the east side of that town, the freeway crosses between Little Long and Sutherland lakes before meeting the northern end of the Harrison business loop. The freeway then crosses into Roscommon County. East of the community of Houghton Lake Heights and the city of Houghton Lake, US 27 intersected M-55. North of that interchange, the freeway parallels the western shore of Houghton Lake and crosses the Muskegon River. The freeway then turns a bit northeasterly toward Higgins Lake and follows that lake's western shore before crossing into Crawford County. Once across the county line, US 27 curved around to the northeast for about before terminating at I-75 south of Grayling.\n\nThe first major overland transportation corridors in the future state of Michigan were the Indian trails. Only one of these followed part of the path of US 27; the Mackinac Trail roughy paralleled the route of US 27 from Grayling north.\n\nThe State Trunkline Highway System was created on May 13, 1913, by an act of the Michigan Legislature; at the time, no one of the system's divisions corresponded to US 27. Division 3 followed a course from Lansing northward to an intersection with Division 2. Combined with the northernmost sections of Division 2 to the Straits of Mackinac, these highways roughly described the future route of US 27. In 1919, the Michigan State Highway Department (MSHD) signposted the highway system for the first time, and two different highways followed sections of the future US 27 corridor. The original M-29 ran from the Indiana state line north to Lansing. The second highway was M-14 from Lansing north to Cheboygan.\n\nOn November 11, 1926, the United States Numbered Highway System was approved by the American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO), and the new US 27 replaced M-29 from the state line northward to Lansing; from Lansing northward, US 27 replaced M-14 to Cheboygan. By the end of the next year, M-78 was extended from Charlotte along US 27 to run north and east of Lansing to a junction with M-47 near Pittsburg. In 1929, the route of US 27/M-18 was realigned south of Roscommon on the east side of Higgins Lake. The same year, another realignment moved US 27 to run due north from the Clinton–Gratiot county line to M-43 at Ithaca, and a third change rounded a corner near Shepherd in Isabella County.\n\nWhen a new roadway was built in the St. Louis area in 1930, the former routing into Alma was redesignated US 27A; another US 27A was created in Shepherd around the same time. By the middle of 1936, the US 27/M-78 routing through Lansing was split into two. The mainline was restricted to cars only and moved to run along Capitol Avenue. The former routing was restricted to trucks only and designated as a truck route. By the end of the year, another realignment straightened out a series of turns from the county line northward to Wolverine in Cheboygan County. The following year, US 27 was extended to follow US 23 between Cheboygan and Mackinaw City. That year, the last section of the highway was also paved southwest of Houghton Lake. In 1938, the route of US 27 on the north side of downtown Lansing was realigned on an extended Larch Street. The US 27A loop into Shepherd was removed the next year.\n\nIn the latter half of 1940, US 23 was rerouted to follow the Lake Huron shoreline northwest of Alpena; after this change was completed, US 27's concurrency with US 23 was shortened to start in downtown Cheboygan instead of south of town.\nLater in the decade, US 27 was rerouted to run to the west of Houghton and Higgins lakes in 1949. The next year, the truck route designation in Lansing was decommissioned when the mainline was rerouted to replace it. In the early 1950s, the highway was rerouted to the south of St. Johns, and by early 1952 a business loop was created for the city; this four-lane divided highway extended as far south as the DeWitt area. By the end of 1952, a four-lane divided highway segment opened southwest of Lansing to bypass Millett.\n\nThe first planning maps from 1947 for what later became the Interstate Highway System did not include a highway along US 27's route; instead a highway further west connecting South Bend, Indiana, with Kalamazoo was included. This alternative highway was maintained on the 1955 plan for the \"National System of Interstate and Defense Highways\", and numbered I-67 in August 1957. By June 1958, this freeway had been shifted further east and renumbered I-69, connecting Indianapolis, Indiana, with Marshall; no connections north and east to Lansing were planned as part of the Interstate Highway System.\n\nThe Mackinac Bridge was opened to traffic on November 1, 1957; a new section of freeway and an interchange connected US 2 to the bridge on the northern end, and a new approach road connected to U.S. Route 31 in Michigan and US 27 in Mackinaw City on the southern end. The US 27 designation was initially extended across the bridge from Mackinaw City to St. Ignace. In November 1960, sections of I-75 freeway opened from Indian River north to the southern Mackinac Bridge approaches in Mackinaw City, and US 27 was removed from the bridge.\n\nIn 1961, the MSHD had proposed that the section of US 27 south of Lansing be built as an electronic highway under a bid through General Motors; the testing for such a roadway was ultimately done at Ohio State University instead. That August, the section of I-75 between Gaylord and Vanderbilt was completed, and in October 1961, the first segment of I-75 near Grayling opened, connecting M-18 with the city. By the end of the year, the former segment of US 27 between Grayling and Gaylord was turned back to local control, and the section of highway between Indian River and Cheboygan was redesignated M-27. After this individual segment of freeway was completed, there was a gap between Gaylord and Indian River that was designated \"TO I-75\" on maps along the former segment of US 27, and US 27 was truncated to about south of Grayling. Also by the end of the same year, the highway was shifted to follow a new freeway routing from the southwest of Ithaca to Grayling, bypassing Ithaca, St. Louis, Mount Pleasant, Clare and Harrison. The old route was turned over to local control except through the aforementioned cities where it was reused for business loops. The US 27A through Alma was also bypassed by the new freeway, and it was redesignated Bus. US 27 as well. Another non-freeway bypass was built around Charlotte, and the former route was redesignated Bus. US 27.\n\nOn December 12, 1962, I-96 was completed around the Lansing area, and M-78 was rerouted to follow it. The route of US 27/M-78 through downtown Lansing became US 27/Bus. M-78. On October 11, 1967, the first segment of I-69/US 27 was scheduled to open between the Indiana state line and Tekonsha. By the end of the year, the freeway was extended north to Marshall. The former route of US 27 in Coldwater was redesignated as a Business Loop I-69 (BL I-69) as well.\n\nThe MSHD requested additional Interstate Highway mileage in 1968 under the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968 including an extension of I-69 from Marshall to Port Huron; this extension was approved as far as I-75/US 23 in Flint on December 13, 1968. This extension encompassed the US 27 corridor between Marshall and Lansing.\n\nIn 1970, the I-69/US 27 freeway was extended from Marshall to just south of Olivet. The next year, the freeway was extended north to, and incorporated, the previous Charlotte bypass. Bus. US 27 through Charlotte remains unchanged. In 1973, the M-78 concurrency from Olivet northeasterly along US 27 was removed, and the connection along US 27 northeast of the existing I-69 freeway was designated TEMP I-69. The following year, Bus. US 27 in Charlotte was renumbered as a BL I-69. In the middle of 1974, Indiana and Michigan petitioned AASHTO to decommission the US 27 designation north of Fort Wayne, Indiana, including the entire length in Michigan; this request was denied.\n\nA northern freeway bypass of the Lansing area opened in 1984. MDOT rerouted US 27 to follow I-96 around the west side of the city and over the new freeway to reconnect with the exiting routing north of Lansing. The former US 27 through downtown Lansing was redesignated Bus. US 27 at that time. Three years later in January 1987, MDOT dropped a proposal to reroute US 27 south of Lansing to the Jackson area, and from there west along M-60 to reconnect with I-69/US 27 at Tekonsha. Another segment of freeway opened later that year in Clinton County between US 127 near DeWitt and TEMP I-69 near Bath.\n\nIn 1991, MDOT and the Indiana Department of Transportation petitioned AASHTO to remove the US 27 designation from its concurrency with I-69 in the two states; this request was denied by the association's Special Committee on U.S. Route Numbering at its October 11, 1991, meeting because it would have resulted in a section of US 27 north of Lansing disconnected from the remainder of the highway south of Fort Wayne. The final segment of I-69/US 27 to be completed was located southwest of Lansing. It opened on October 17, 1992, when the ribbon was cut by Governor John Engler. This Interstate Highway segment was the last in the state and completed Michigan's portion of the Interstate Highway System. At the time it was complete, I-69 was concurrent with US 27 from the state line north to the DeWitt area (exit 87) and then concurrent with US 127 to exit 89.\n\nA few years later, the statutory definition of the I-73 corridor was amended in 1995 to have a branch that would encompass the section of US 27 north of Lansing. This new Interstate was to follow US 223 and US 127 between Toledo, Ohio, and Lansing before continuing north to I-75 near Grayling. From Grayling northward, the I-73 corridor was defined to follow I-75 to Sault Ste. Marie.\n\nThe St. Johns Bypass on US 27 opened on August 31, 1998; US 27 was extended along I-69 about to connect to the bypass, and US 127 was removed from its short concurrency with I-69. After this opening, US 27 was a full freeway in Michigan from the state line north to St. Johns and from Ithaca to the Grayling area. The last signalized intersection on US 27 in the state was removed in 2000 when the junction with M-57 was converted to an interchange in southern Gratiot County.\n\nThe previous year, MDOT petitioned AASHTO to decommission the US 27 designation in the state; the change was approved by AASHTO on April 16, 1999. The department considered three options to build the southern segments of I-73 in 2000; MDOT abandoned further study of these southern alignments after June 12, 2001, diverting remaining funding to safety improvement projects along the corridor. The department stated there was a \"lack of need\" for sections of the proposed freeway, and the project website was closed down in 2002.\n\nThe approved removal of US 27 was finally done in the middle of 2002. MDOT's stated reason for the modification was to \"reduce confusion along the US 27/US 127 corridor\". After US 27's signage was removed, the highway north of the Lansing area was renumbered US 127, and the US 27 designation was removed from I-69. All of the business loops were updated to reflect their new parent highway.\n\nOn August 19, 2010, the Michigan House of Representatives passed a resolution recognizing \"Old US 27\" as a historic road in the state. According to press reports in 2011, a group advocating on behalf of I-73 is working to revive the freeway project in Michigan. According to an MDOT spokesman, \"to my knowledge, we’re not taking that issue up again.\"\n\nAt the time the US 27 designation was decommissioned in Michigan, only the interchanges along the section concurrent with I-69 used exit numbers.\n\nOver its history, US 27 had several business loops associated with it. Since the conversion of the highway into a freeway starting in the 1950s, these business loops served Marshall, Charlotte, Lansing, St. Johns, Ithaca, Alma, St. Louis, Mount Pleasant, Clare and Harrison. The business loops north of Lansing were redesignated as business loops of US 127 in 2002 while the Charlotte loop had been reassigned BL I-69 with the completion of I-69 through the area. In addition, Michigan had a US 27A designation through Alma and a Truck US 27 in Lansing.\n\nBusiness US Highway 27 (Bus.. US 27) was a business route running through downtown Marshall. The designation ran concurrently with BL I-94 from I-69/US 27 on Michigan Avenue easterly from that freeway into downtown. At the intersection with Kalamazoo Avenue, Bus. US 27 turned northward, separating from BL I-94. The business route ended north of downtown at an interchange with I-94 after running for about .\n\nIn 1967, the first segment of I-69 opened in Michigan, bypassing Marshall to the east. The state shifted US 27 out of downtown Marshall to follow the new freeway. From the temporary end of I-69 at I-94, US 27 followed I-94 back to its existing routing north of Marshall. The former route of US 27 through downtown Marshall was then redesignated Bus. US 27, using BL I-94 to connect to the new freeway carrying US 27 west of downtown. This arrangement lasted until 1972 when the Bus. US 27 designation was decommissioned and the section of highway between BL I-94 and I-94 turned over to local control.\n\nMajor intersections\n\nTruck US 27 was a former truck route through the city of Lansing. It started at the corner of Capitol Avenue and Main Street and ran along Main Street to Grand Avenue. There, it turned north on Grand Avenue to Kalamazoo Street and turned east on Kalamazoo over the Grand River. At Larch Street, Truck US 27 continued north to rejoin the mainline at the corner of Larch and Saginaw streets.\n\nBy the middle of 1936, the US 27/M-78 routing through Lansing was split into two. The mainline was restricted to cars only and moved to run along Capitol Avenue. The former routing was restricted to trucks only and designated as a truck route. In 1950, the bridge for Main Street over the Grand River was completed and mainline US 27/M-78 was rerouted to use it to connect to Larch Street. From there north, US 27/M-78 followed Larch Street supplanting the truck route, which was decommissioned at that time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302129", "title": "2003 Finnish parliamentary election", "text": "2003 Finnish parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Finland on 16 March 2003. The Centre Party led by Anneli Jäätteenmäki overtook the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to become the largest party in the Eduskunta. This was credited mainly to Jäätteenmäki's powerful leadership and modernization of the party still often viewed as agrarian and conservative by many. However, the SDP actually won some seats and increased its share of the vote, losing in the number of total popular votes only by a few thousand.\n\nThe Green League achieved its best results ever, but the Swedish People's Party suffered losses. The Christian Democrats gained votes but lost seats. This was partly because in 1999 and before Christian Democrats had been in an election coalition with Centre Party and benefited from this, while the Centre Party had lost seats due to the arrangement, and thus discontinued it starting from 2003. The Left Alliance continued its slow decline, while the small populist Finns Party did not do as well as some had expected.\n\nThe election was held under the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation, where the electoral district voted directly for the individual candidate, but each vote also benefitted the candidate's party.\n\nThe country was divided into fifteen electoral districts, with the boundaries corresponding to those of administrative regions (in some cases several regions have been grouped into a single constituency), with the exception that the city of Helsinki serves as its own constituency, instead of being part of the Uusimaa region in this case. Each constituency elected a number of representatives to the Eduskunta based on its population. The autonomous region of Åland had a special status with one representative even if its population was not large enough.\n\nCandidates for the parliamentary election were allowed to be set by political parties and electoral associations. Any Finnish citizen over the age of 18 was eligible for candidacy, apart from incapacitated persons and professional soldiers. Each party or electoral union was allowed to set a maximum of 14 candidates per electoral district, or, in the case the district elected more than 14 members of parliament, an amount equal to that of the representatives elected.\n\nEach Finnish citizen aged 18 or over on the election day had the right to vote in the election, no matter where they lived. The electorate consisted of a total of 4,220,951 people, 4,015,552 of whom were resident in Finland and 205,399 abroad.\n\nThe Council of State, or the Finnish cabinet, was formed after the parliamentary election by the Centre Party, with its leader Anneli Jäätteenmäki as Prime Minister. A coalition government was formed, composing of the two largest parties of the \"Eduskunta\", the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the Centre Party, and a minor coalition partner, the Swedish People's Party, who has a history of being a partner in government since 1976. The new cabinet had eight ministers from both the SDP and the Centre Party, and two ministers from the Swedish People's Party.\n\nHowever, this proved to be one of the shortest-lived cabinets in Finnish history, lasting only 69 days, after the Iraq leak scandal led to the government falling on 24 June 2003. A new cabinet was formed by the Centre Party's Matti Vanhanen, with largely the same composition as the previous cabinet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302130", "title": "Bonnie Bedelia", "text": "Bonnie Bedelia\n\nBonnie Bedelia Culkin (born March 25, 1948) is an American actress. After beginning her career in theatre, she starred in the CBS daytime soap opera \"Love of Life\" (1961–1967) before making her movie debut in \"The Gypsy Moths\" (1969). Bedelia was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for her performance in the 1983 film \"Heart Like a Wheel\", and for an Independent Spirit Award for \"The Prince of Pennsylvania\" (1988). She is best known for her role as Holly Gennero McClane in the action films \"Die Hard\" (1988) and \"Die Hard 2\" (1990), and for her work in the movies \"They Shoot Horses, Don't They?\" (1969), \"Lovers and Other Strangers\" (1970), \"Bonanza\" (1969, 1972 appearing opposite Michael Landon), \"Presumed Innocent\" (1990), and \"Needful Things\" (1993). Bedelia has also had many other leading and supporting film roles.\n\nFor her television work, Bedelia has earned two Emmy Awards nominations. From 2001 to 2004, Bedelia played the lead role in the Lifetime television drama series \"The Division\". She later starred as family matriarch Camille Braverman in the NBC drama series \"Parenthood\" (2010–2015).\n\nBedelia was born in the Manhattan borough of New York City, the daughter of Marian Ethel (née Wagner), a writer and editor, and Philip Harley Culkin, who was in public relations and 50 years old at the time. She was born in a difficult financial period when her father's firm went bankrupt, and they lived in \"a cold-water tenement flat\". Her mother died when she was 14 and her father, \"who had always had ulcers\", died shortly afterward. She has two brothers, one of whom is actor Kit Culkin, and a sister, Candice Culkin. She is the aunt of actors Macaulay, Kieran, and Rory Culkin. \n\nBedelia studied dance in her youth, at School of American Ballet. She received her acting training at HB Studio.\n\nBefore becoming an actress, Bedelia studied ballet and appeared in a few productions with the New York City Ballet, including \"The Nutcracker\". Her only dancing role onscreen was that of Clara in the \"Playhouse 90\" television production of the George Balanchine \"Nutcracker\" (1958). From 1961 to 1967, Bedelia was a regular on the CBS soap opera \"Love of Life\", portraying Sandy Porter. She also worked on Broadway, where she debuted supporting Patty Duke in 1962, in \"Isle of Children\", and won a Theatre World Award for playing the lead of in \"My Sweet Charlie\", in 1966.\n\nBedelia made her film debut in \"The Gypsy Moths\", and later in 1969 she attracted attention as the pregnant marathon dancer in \"They Shoot Horses, Don't They?\". In following years, she starred in the comedy \"Lovers and Other Strangers\" (1970), had dramatic roles in \"The Strange Vengeance of Rosalie\" (1972) and \"Between Friends\" (1973), and appeared opposite Richard Dreyfuss in the comedy\"The Big Fix\" (1978). On television she played the leading role in the short-lived ABC drama series, \"The New Land\".\n\nIn 1984, Bedelia received critical acclaim and was nominated for a Golden Globe for her starring role in \"Heart Like a Wheel\" (1983), as drag racer Shirley Muldowney. Other well-known performances include her portrayals of Holly Gennero McClane, the wife of Bruce Willis's character John McClane in \"Die Hard\" (1988) and \"Die Hard 2\" (1990), and of Barbara Sabich, the wife of Harrison Ford's character in \"Presumed Innocent\" (1990).\n\nBedelia appeared in two Stephen King screen adaptations: \"Salem's Lot\" (1979) and \"Needful Things\" (1993). She was nominated for an Emmy Award for performances in the Showtime anthology series, \"Fallen Angels\" in 1993 and for the leading role in the made-for-television movie \"Locked in Silence\" (1999). She played a number of leading roles in television films and miniseries, such as \"Switched at Birth\", \"\", \"Her Costly Affair\", and \"Picnic\". From 2001 to 2004, Bedelia starred as Capt. Kate McCafferty in the Lifetime television drama series \"The Division\". She later guest-starred in \"Big Love\" and \"\", and starred opposite Rue McClanahan and Olivia Newton-John in the 2008 sitcom \"\".\n\nIn 2010, Bedelia began starring in the NBC drama series, \"Parenthood\", as the family matriarch, Camille Braverman. The series aired for six seasons through 2015.\n\nIn 2017, she appeared in season 2 of the TV series \"Designated Survivor\", and in two Hallmark movies. In 2019, she guest starred on the Netflix series \"What/If.\"\n\nBedelia married scriptwriter Ken Luber on April 24, 1969. Before divorcing in 1980, the couple had two sons, Uri (b. 1970) and Jonah (b. 1976). She was also married briefly to musician and screenwriter Jay Telfer and then wed actor Michael MacRae in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302132", "title": "Barthélemy Faujas de Saint-Fond", "text": "Barthélemy Faujas de Saint-Fond\n\nBarthélemy Faujas de Saint-Fond (17 May 174118 July 1819) was a French geologist and traveller.\n\nHe was born at Montélimar. He was educated at the Jesuit's College at Lyon and afterwards at Grenoble where he studied law and was admitted as an advocate to the parlement.\n\nHe rose to be president of the seneschal's court in Montélimar (1765), where he acquitted himself with distinction. However, he became disenchanted with law and wished to pursue his love of nature that had begun earlier in his life. His favourite pastime was visiting the mountain regions in the Alps and Massif Central. There he began to study the forms, structure, composition and superposition of rocks.\n\nIn 1775 in the Velay he discovered a rich deposit of pozzuolana, that was eventually mined by the government. In 1776 he established a relationship with Buffon, who recognised the value of his scientific efforts immediately. Invited by Buffon to Paris, Faujas ceased his legal work and was appointed assistant naturalist to the natural history museum by Louis XVI. Later, he was appointed royal commissioner for mines.\nOne of his most important works was \"Recherches sur les volcans éteints du Vivarais et du Velay\", which appeared in 1778. This publication documented his astute observations allowing Faujas to develop a theory about the origin of volcanoes. In his capacity of commissioner for mines Faujas travelled to most European countries where he closely observed the natural environment and the rock formations. In Britain he met William and Caroline Herschel. He however was determined to visit Staffa and he set out with the American polymath William Thornton and the Italian balloonist Count Andreani.\n\nFaujas was the first to recognize the volcanic nature of the basaltic columns of Fingal's Cave, on Staffa. The island was visited earlier in 1772 by Sir Joseph Banks, who remarked that the stone was a coarse kind of basalt, very much resembling the Giant's Causeway in Ireland as noted in (Pennant's \"Tour in Scotland and Voyage to the Hebrides\"). Faujas' \"Voyage en Angleterre, en Écosse et aux Îles Hébrides\" (1797) contains anecdotes about Sir Joseph Banks, William and Caroline Herschel and Dr. John Whitehurst, including an amusing account of \"The Dinner of an Academic Club\" (the Royal Society). It was shortly translated into English (2 vols., 1799).\n\nIn 1785, Faujas was named king's commissioner to factories, armories, and royal forests. This brought a salary of 4,000 livres, and 2,000 livres for travelling expenses, in addition to his 6,000 livres for the assistant naturalist post.\n\nFaujas was appointed the first professor of geology at the Jardin des Plantes in 1793, a post he held until he was nearly eighty years of age. In 1794 he secured the skull of \"Mosasaurus\", when Maastricht was captured, and moved it to Paris. He retired in 1818 to the estate of Saint-Fond in Dauphiné.\n\nFaujas had a keen interest in the balloon experiments of the Montgolfier brothers, and published the very complete 2 volume work, \"Description des expériences de la machine aérostatique de MM. Montgolfier, &c.\" (1783, 1784). He also contributed many scientific memoirs to the \"Annales\" and the \"Mémoires\" of the museum of natural history. Among his other works are: \"Histoire naturelle de la province de Dauphiné\" (1787, 1782), \"Minéralogie des volcans\" (1784), and \"Essai de géologie\" (1803–1809).\nThe mineral faujasite is named after him\n\n"}
{"id": "2302133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302133", "title": "Van Darkholme", "text": "Van Darkholme\n\nVan Darkholme (born October 24, 1972) is a Vietnamese-American dungeon master, performance artist and film director, as well as a photographer. In 2008 Darkholme created Kinkmen.com for Peter Acworth who is the owner of Kink.com. \n\nDarkholme is among the few Asian American men working in Western gay porn as a director and actor. He is of Vietnamese descent. Darkholme's book of bondage photography, \"Male Bondage\", was published by Bruno Gmünder in June 2006. Darkholme identifies as gay.\n\nIn 2017, he performed main role in Deep Dark Fantasies visual novel. Also in 2017, a \"Deep Dark Fantasy\" video game has been created based on his character.\n\nAs of 2020, Van has begun regularly streaming on Twitch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302136", "title": "Fick Observatory", "text": "Fick Observatory\n\nThe Fick Observatory was an astronomical observatory owned and operated by Iowa State University. Located southwest of Boone, Iowa it was named after Davenport, Iowa amateur astronomer Erwin W. Fick. The observatory closed in 2015.\n\nIowa State University’s original telescope and observatory, located northwest of Ames, was donated by the family of Milo Mather of Clarksville, Iowa, following his death in 1960. Mather was an accomplished amateur astronomer and mechanical engineering graduate (1907) of Iowa State. In 1970, the mirror from his telescope was reconditioned and used in a newly reconfigured telescope, also named after Mather, and installed in the Erwin W. Fick Observatory.\n\nIowa State built the Fick Observatory southwest of Boone, Iowa, in 1970. The facility was named after Erwin W. Fick (1897–1975), an amateur astronomer and retired member of the U.S. Corps of Engineers from Davenport, Iowa. Though Fick had never been to Ames, let alone graduated from Iowa State, he set up a trust through the ISU Foundation to help support Iowa State’s observatory. New imaging devices, such as the CCD (charge-coupled device) camera installed in 1990, and the short focal length of the telescope allowed researchers to obtain wide-field views of the sky to very faint limits. Measurements gathered by the Mather telescope could be used to complement data obtained by larger observatories, which often sacrifice wide views for fine detail. Over the years, Iowa State researchers used the Fick Observatory for a wide variety of studies, including stellar radial velocity observations, studies of ring galaxy collisions, and lunar occultation studies.\n\nIn 2015, the Erwin W. Fick Observatory closed. It was the last astronomical research observatory operated by a college or university at a dark-sky site in the state of Iowa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302137", "title": "Civic Center Mall", "text": "Civic Center Mall\n\nThe Civic Center Mall, located in downtown Hartford, was a three level, enclosed shopping mall and office complex built in 1974 as part of a large downtown urban redevelopment project. It was previously the commercial portion of a four block square megastructure-type development, The Hartford Civic Center complex, which also contains a multi-purpose coliseum, an exhibition and trade show center, structured parking and a 330-room Sheraton (now Hilton) hotel.\n\nThe mall featured approximately fifty small shops and restaurants and was initially anchored by a new specialty department store, Luettgen's Ltd, created and operated by William Luettgen, who was previously the president of local department store chain, G. Fox & Co.. This anchor space was later split.\n\nThe mall contained a number of unique and national specialty shops such as a Hartford Whalers Team Store, Al Franklin's Musical World, B. Dalton Bookseller, Ann Taylor and Koenig Art Emporium. A third level contained about of office space, overlooking both the mall interior and the adjacent streets.\n\nArchitecturally, the mall reflected the brutalist and insular character of many early 1970s megastructure-type projects. The exterior of the L-shaped mall was constructed of prefabricated concrete panels and was surrounded by overscaled concrete landscape planter beds that cut off any facade to the sidewalk.\n\nBuilt and operated by the Hartford-based insurance company Aetna, and called \"the bunker\" by its critics, the mall was, moderately successful in its early years, and was an economic catalyst that for a time stabilized the decline of the downtown retail district in Hartford. Its construction was also partially credited with kicking off the office building boom that began in the late 1970s and would eventually add nearly five million square feet of new office space in the area over the following decade.\n\nOn January 18, 1978, the roof of the 10,000 sq foot Civic Center collapsed. \n\nThe roof of the Civic Center embodied this optimism. Designed and tested with a complex computer program, the unique structure consisted of unusual pyramidal trusses and was supported by just four columns in order to provide an unobstructed view for every spectator. The “space truss” roof was assembled on the ground and lifted into place in 1973, another innovative and cost-saving technique. Overall the cutting-edge design saved the city half a million dollars. It collapsed five years later.\n\nThe roof did not fail due to the heavy snow that fell on that January night. According to the official City investigation, the roof began progressive failure as soon as it had been installed. Contributing factors included design errors, an underestimation of the weight of the roof, and differences between the design and the actual built structure. By the late 1980s and early 1990s, the mall faced competition from the nearby newly constructed Westfarms (which opened the same year as Civic Center Mall) and The Shops at Buckland Hills malls. Given its limited size, the accelerating decline in the downtown retail district and the severe recession in the regional economy by the early 1990s, many of the mall's tenants left or ceased operations and the mall fell into severe decline. By 1998 the project's viability was in doubt, and Aetna was stating that it had lost more than $56 million on the project since its opening. (Ben Gammell is Coordinator of Interpretive and Education Projects at the Connecticut Historical Society.© Connecticut Public Broadcasting Network and Connecticut Historical Society. All rights reserved. This article originally appeared on Your Public Media.).(\n\nIn 2004 Investment Corporation, the State of Connecticut, the City of Hartford, and Aetna began working to redevelop the former Civic Center Mall complex. The project, called Hartford 21, replaced the aging retail, office and restaurant mall portion of the Hartford Civic Center Coliseum with a new, contemporary-styled residential, retail and entertainment complex. The portion of original mall at the corner of Trumbull and Asylum Streets, which had originally contained the anchor stores and food court, was demolished and redevelopment starting in 2004 and reaching substantial completion in the summer of 2006.\n\nThe project included a new 36-story residential tower with 262 luxury apartments, of sidewalk-oriented retail space and of office space, at the corner of Trumbull and Asylum Streets. The portion of the mall fronting Asylum Street, was converted into street-level retail on the ground floor, with the upper levels converted into a parking deck for the residential tower. The original below-grade parking garage occupying the basement levels of the mall remains in use for public and coliseum event parking. The portion fronting Trumbull street, including the atrium for the coliseum, remains largely intact, although the facade has been rebuilt in modern theme, providing access to retail spaces from the street. The food court had occupied the basement level of the demolished portion of the mall.\n"}
{"id": "2302142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302142", "title": "Groupama–FDJ", "text": "Groupama–FDJ\n\nGroupama–FDJ () is a French cycling team at UCI WorldTeam level. The team is managed by Marc Madiot, a former road bicycle racer and winner of the Paris–Roubaix classic in 1985 and 1991. The team is predominantly French.\n\nThe team was founded on the initiative of Marc Madiot after he retired from racing in 1994 following a leg-breaking crash in that year's edition of Paris–Roubaix. After a period in the mid-1990s when the professional cycling scene in France was contracting - resulting in the 1996 French National Road Race Championships elite race being held on a pro–am basis due to the reduced number of professional riders - by the time of the team's launch in 1997 they faced competition for riders in France from fellow newcomers as well as the expanding team and the already established outfit. The team's initial lineup included younger French riders such as teenagers Nicolas Vogondy and Damien Nazon as well as more experienced foreign racers like Davide Rebellin, Mauro Gianetti, Max Sciandri and Andrea Peron. The inaugural squad also included the reigning French national champions in road racing, time trialling and cyclo-cross - Stéphane Heulot, Eddy Seigneur and Christophe Mengin respectively.\n\nIn their first season the team only took a total of 13 wins and won the UCI Road World Cup - however these included several high profile victories such as Frédéric Guesdon's triumph at Paris–Roubaix, a stage win for Mengin at the Tour de France and victories for Rebellin at the Clásica de San Sebastián and Züri-Metzgete. \n\nIn the 2003 edition of Tour de France, Australian individual time trial specialist Bradley McGee won the prologue stage to wear the yellow jersey for a few days. McGee was also able to win the prologue of the following year's Giro d'Italia, wore the pink jersey for three days and finished the race in the top ten (finishing eighth). Sprinter Baden Cooke won the green jersey for the points competition.\n\nOn 31 October 2012, it emerged that BigMat would no longer sponsor the team, with the team choosing to focus on finding another co-sponsor for the 2014 season.\n\nThe team has been sponsored by Française des Jeux (lottery) since its founding in 1997. Française des Jeux, the French national lottery, owns a majority of shares in the team, and the team is based in a warehouse owned by Française des Jeux on the outskirts of Paris: according to Madiot the team and the sponsor have a close working relationship. The team was named FDJeux.com in 2003 and 2004, then renamed Française des Jeux, supposedly to avoid bad luck, until July 2010, when the name was simplified to its initials. Prior to the 2012 season, French building merchants BigMat joined the team as co-sponsors, becoming FDJ–BigMat, contributing €2 million to the team. Following the departure of BigMat, the team renamed itself FDJ.fr. At the end of 2017, the team announced that they secured a sponsorship deal with French insurance group Groupama for the 2018 season, becoming Groupama–FDJ, contributing investment that increased the team’s budget from €16 million to €20 million for next season.\n\nIn February 2019, Austrian newspaper \"Kronen Zeitung\" broke news that a number of professional cyclists had been implicated in the doping scandal uncovered at the 2019 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships. Georg Preidler confessed to having his blood extracted for a possible transfusion. On 3 March, Preidler confessed to Austrian police, whilst also terminating his contract with the team via email. Preidler was due to race during the previous weekend, later admitting to having his blood drawn on two occasions late in 2018. The team then contacted the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI), the French Anti-Doping Agency () and the Mouvement pour un cyclisme crédible (MPCC; ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302143", "title": "C.C.C.P. (band)", "text": "C.C.C.P. (band)\n\nC.C.C.P. is a German synthpop act led by Rasputin Stoy. They were best known for the 1986 songs \"American-Soviets I\" and \"American-Soviets II\", released by Clockwork Germany. This six-minute song themed on the Cold War became a hit on the US \"Billboard\" charts, the German Top 75 and other European charts. Their follow-up singles (\"Made in Russia\" and \"Orient Express\") hit the number one and number two spots on official music charts in the same week (Hong Kong, Benelux, France and Spain). Their 1990 song \"Don't Kill the Rainforest\" was also a minor alternative radio hit. Their band name C.C.C.P. is a Romanization of the Cyrillic abbreviation \"СССР\", which actually translates to \"SSSR\", short for Союз Советских Социалистических Республик (Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik), the Russian name for the USSR.\n\nC.C.C.P. released their seventh album, \"Quantic Shamanism Through Digital Western\" featuring Meyhiel, in January 2008 on the art label MillePlateauxMedia.\n\nThe group now only consists of the original band leader Rasputin Stoy a.k.a Rai Streubel, and Frank Schendler (ex-Beat-A-Max).\n\nIn 2018, they released the album \"Decadance Club\" on the label Saal 600. In 2020, they will be back on stage with a new lineup.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302148", "title": "Kalpana (supercomputer)", "text": "Kalpana (supercomputer)\n\nKalpana was a supercomputer at NASA Ames Research Center operated by the NASA Advanced Supercomputing (NAS) Division and named in honor of astronaut Kalpana Chawla, who was killed in the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster and had worked as an engineer at Ames Research Center prior to joining the Space Shuttle program. It was built in late 2003 and dedicated on May 12, 2004.\n\nKalpana was the world's first single-system image (SSI) Linux supercomputer, based on SGI's Altix 3000 architecture and 512 Intel processors. It was originally built in a joint effort by the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Ames Research Center (AMC), and Goddard Space Flight Center to perform high-res ocean analysis with the ECCO (Estimating the Circulation and Climate of the Ocean) Consortium model. The supercomputer was \"used to develop substantially more capable simulation models to better assess the evolution and behavior of the Earth's climate system,\" said NASA's Deputy Associate Administrator for Earth Science, Ghassem Asrar in 2004.\n\nIt served as one of several testbed systems NASA purchased to determine what architecture to proceed with for new supercomputing projects and lead to the purchase and construction of the Columbia supercomputer, named in honor of the STS-107 crew lost in 2003. In July 2004 the Kalpana system was integrated, as the first node, into the 20-node supercomputer.\n"}
{"id": "2302152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302152", "title": "Joseph Jean Baptiste Xavier Fournet", "text": "Joseph Jean Baptiste Xavier Fournet\n\nJoseph Jean Baptiste Xavier Fournet (May 15, 1801 – January 8, 1869), French geologist and metallurgist, was born at Strasbourg.\n\nHe was educated at the \"École des Mines\" in Paris, and after considerable experience as a mining engineer he was in 1834 appointed professor of geology at Lyon.\n\nHe was a man of wide knowledge and extensive research, and wrote memoirs on chemical and mineralogical subjects, on eruptive rocks, on the structure of the Jura, the metamorphism of the Western Alps, on the formation of oolitic limestones, on kaolinization and on metalliferous veins. On metallurgical subjects he also was an acknowledged authority; and he published observations on the order of sulphurability of metals (\"loi de Fournet\").\n\nHe died in Lyon. His chief publications were: \"Études sur les dépôts métallifères\" (Paris, 1834); \"Histoire de la dolomie\" (Lyon, 1847); \"De l'extension des terrains houillers\" (1855); and \"Géologie lyonnaise\" (Lyon, 1861).\n\n"}
{"id": "2302154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302154", "title": "Pusch Ridge", "text": "Pusch Ridge\n\nPusch Ridge is the most prominent feature in the Pusch Ridge Wilderness Area of the Santa Catalina Mountains, managed by the Coronado National Forest north of Tucson, Arizona, in the United States.\n\nPusch Ridge was named after pioneer George Pusch (1847–1921), who came to Arizona from Germany in the 1870s, and established the Steam Pump Ranch on the Cañada del Oro near the base of the ridge in 1874 in what is now the town of Oro Valley. Steam Pump Ranch was one of the largest cattle ranches in the Territory of Arizona. George Pusch also served as a state legislator and one of the delegates to the original Arizona Constitutional Convention in 1910.\n\nPusch Ridge is primarily made up of three distinct peaks, including (from southwest to northeast in orientation) Pusch Peak, Bighorn Mountain, and Table Mountain. Pusch Peak is the westernmost point in the Santa Catalina Mountains, and rises in elevation over to a peak elevation of . Bighorn Mountain rises to an elevation about at the summit. Table Mountain rises in elevation to . A minor peak, known as The Cleaver, is located between Pusch Peak and Bighorn Mountain, rising to a summit of about .\n\nPusch Ridge was home to one of the last populations of Desert Bighorn Sheep in Arizona, none have been observed since 2005. In a controversial effort to re-establish the Bighorn Sheep population, on November 18, 2013 thirty-one Bighorns were released by Arizona Game and Fish officers near Pusch Ridge, the first in a series of three planned releases totaling about 100 animals over the next two years. Pusch Ridge is noted for dramatic ridges, deep canyons, and extensive biodiversity in elevation changes. Pusch Ridge also provides sweeping views of Oro Valley to the west, and Tucson to the south.\n\nThe Pusch Ridge Trailhead is located within the town of Oro Valley, accessed from East Linda Vista Boulevard just east of North Oracle Road (State Route 77) (formerly U.S. 89), six miles north of Tucson. Restrictions on hiking Pusch Ridge apply during certain times due to the potential impact on the breeding activities of the Bighorn Sheep in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302156", "title": "55th Grey Cup", "text": "55th Grey Cup\n\nThe 55th Grey Cup was played between the Hamilton Tiger-Cats and the Saskatchewan Roughriders on December 2, 1967, at Lansdowne Park in Ottawa, before 31,358 fans and was won by the Tiger-Cats by a score of 24 to 1.\n\nFirst Quarter\n\nHamilton – TD – Joe Zuger 3 yard run (Tommy Joe Coffey convert)\nSaskatchewan – Rouge – Alan Ford 87 yard punt\n\nSecond Quarter\n\nHamilton – TD – Ted Watkins 72 yard pass from Joe Zuger (Tommy Joe Coffey convert)\nHamilton - Rouge - Tommy Joe Coffey 42 yard missed field goal\nHamilton - Rouge - Joe Zuger punt\nHamilton - Rouge - Joe Zuger punt\n\nFourth Quarter\n\nHamilton - Rouge - Joe Zuger punt\nHamilton – TD – Billy Ray Locklin 43 yard fumble return (convert missed)\n\nJoe Zuger, Hamilton's quarterback, was named the game's Grey Cup Most Valuable Player.\n\nThe game marked the sixth consecutive game in the season that the Ticats held their opponents without a touchdown.\n\nAlan Ford's 87 yard punt, on a quick kick, is the longest in Grey Cup history.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302168", "title": "Coalition Forces Land Component Command", "text": "Coalition Forces Land Component Command\n\nCoalition Forces Land Component Command, or CFLCC, is a command directing all land forces of different allied countries on behalf of a combatant commander or JTF commander. \n\nIn U.S. military terminology, Unified Combatant Commands or Joint Task Forces can have components from all services and components – Army ~ Land, Air, Naval, Marine, and Special Operations. Thus a Land Component Command is a command directing all land forces on behalf of a combatant commander or JTF commander. \n\nCoalition, or sometimes 'Combined', means armed services of different countries are involved. Thus a Coalition Forces Land Component Command is a multinational land force, usually operating as part of a U.S. combatant command, though it could theoretically be applied by other Western and U.S. allied nations.\n\nA Coalition Forces Land Component Command was established under Commander U.S. Army Forces Central Command, Lieutenant General David McKiernan, to direct the two corps-sized formations involved in the initial invasion of Iraq in March 2003, I Marine Expeditionary Force and U.S. V Corps. \nThe units to brigade level involved in CFLCC's initial invasion of Iraq were:\n\n\nFrom March until June 2003, CFLCC was joined by 1st Armored Division, 4th Infantry Division, and 2nd and 3rd Armoured Cavalry Regiments. 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment formed Task Force Rifles to control the Al-Anbar area during its tour in Iraq which ended in September 2003.\n\nCFLCC was replaced by Combined Joint Task Force 7 on 14 June 2003. \n\nAfter its replacement by CJTF-7 as the operational headquarters for all ground units in the CENTCOM theater, CFLCC became the primary logistics hub for the theater. CFLCC still remained in charge of logistics for all land forces in theater, and remained the headquarters for U.S. Army Central Command, managing Army service component issues in the CENTCOM theatre. It is also Third US Army, the same unit that George S. Patton commanded during World War II. It is now at Camp Arifjan, Kuwait, with primary Third Army/ARCENT headquarters at Shaw Air Force Base in Sumter, South Carolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302178", "title": "Todd Spitzer", "text": "Todd Spitzer\n\nTodd Spitzer (born November 26, 1960) is the District Attorney of Orange County, California. Spitzer successfully ran for Orange County District Attorney in 2018, against incumbent Tony Rackauckas. Spitzer had previously served as an deputy district attorney from 1990 to 1996 and, under Rackauckas, as assistant district attorney from 2008 to 2010. On November 6, 2018, Spitzer defeated Rackauckas in an election to become District Attorney of Orange County. \n\nSpitzer was previously an Orange County Supervisor from 1997 to 2002 and again from 2012 to 2018. He was also a member of the California State Assembly from 2002 to 2006, serving three terms representing California's 71st assembly district. As an assemblyman, he co-wrote California's Marsy's Law, an amendment to the state's constitution to expand the legal rights of victims of crime. He also served as spokesman and campaign manager for the successful campaign to pass Marsy's Law in a 2008 initiative.\n\nTodd Spitzer was born on November 26, 1960, in Whittier, California, to Phyllis Ann () and Leonard Spitzer. He has a sister, Susan, who also went on to be an attorney. Todd played leading roles in the Schurr High School department of performance arts' productions of the musicals \"Hello, Dolly!\" (1975) and \"Li'l Abner\" (1976).\n\nSpitzer attended the University of California, Los Angeles, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1982. He then completed a fellowship at the California State Senate. In 1984–85, Spitzer worked as an English teacher at Theodore Roosevelt High School in the Los Angeles Unified School District.\nHe graduated in 1989 with a master's degree in public policy from the University of California, Berkeley, and a Juris Doctor from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law. While at Hastings, Spitzer was awarded the George Moscone Fellowship, given to law students dedicating their career to public service.\n\nSpitzer joined the Orange County District Attorney's office in 1990 as deputy district attorney. He has prosecuted felonies including attempted murder, attempted rape, kidnapping, robbery, extortion, and reckless driving causing serious bodily injury. Spitzer has tried about 100 jury trials to verdict. He served in the position until 1996.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2000, Spitzer also served as a volunteer reserve police officer in the Los Angeles Police Department. Spitzer's first elected office was as a trustee to the Brea Olinda School Board in 1992. Serving in the position until 1996, he investigated a grading scandal at Brea Olinda High School involving a former registrar changing students' grades to enhance their chances of getting into college.\n\nIn 1996, Spitzer ran against Assemblyman Mickey Conroy in a heated election for the 3rd supervisorial district seat on the Orange County Board of Supervisors. Described by \"Los Angeles Times\" as \"a decided underdog\", Spitzer came in second in the March 1996 primary among seven candidates, leading to a general election between him and Conroy. Spitzer won the general election and was sworn-in in January 1997. \n\nWhile serving on the board, he successfully opposed the conversion of the Marine Corps Air Station El Toro into an international airport and instead advocated for a \"Millennium Plan\" for a mixed-use commercial and residential development for the property. Spitzer also advocated for the immediate release of a map of registered sex offenders living in Orange County.\n\nIn 2002, Spitzer ran for a seat in the California State Assembly to represent the 71st assembly district. He was challenged by the Democratic candidate Bea Foster, a teacher from Santa Ana. After defeating Foster in the election, Spitzer was sworn into the State Assembly on December 2, 2002.\n\nAs an assemblyman, Spitzer served on the judiciary and public safety committees and was a proponent for stronger legislation against sex offenders. In April 2004, he supported Megan's Law for tougher penalties for people convicted of sex offenses and co-wrote legislation to publish the registered sex offenders database on the Internet. The same year, Spitzer co-wrote California's Marsy's Law, an amendment to the state's constitution to expand the legal rights of victims of crime. He also served as spokesperson and campaign manager for the initiative to pass the amendment.\n\nSpitzer was re-elected to the State Assembly in November 2004, defeating Bea Foster again with a vote margin of 69.1% to 30.9%. In 2006, Spitzer served as co-chair of the High Risk Sex Offender Task Force, formed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to review the law vcs governing the monitoring of high risk sex offenders living in California. He also advocated for the passage of Proposition 83, a law against sexual predators based on Jessica's Law. Marsy's Law was passed in 2008, and Spitzer became legal affairs director of Marsy's Law for All, an organization representing victims of crime.\n\nA June 2004 \"Los Angeles Times\" article described a \"long-simmering feud between Orange County [District Attorney] Tony Rackauckas and [...] Spitzer.\" In October 2004, Spitzer accused Rackauckas of \"[poisoning] trust in local law enforcement\". According to \"OC Weekly\", in 2004, Spitzer was not only running for re-election to the State Assembly, he was privately seeking advice, support, and building a campaign to challenge Rackauckas in 2006. Spitzer eventually decided not to run and instead reached an agreement with Rackauckas to become a prosecutor and run in the 2014 election with Rackauckas's blessing.\n\nIn 2008, Rackauckas appointed Spitzer as assistant district attorney. As a prosecutor in Orange County, Spitzer handled criminal matters and supervised line prosecutors. He was fired two years later in 2010. Rackauckas said that he fired Spitzer for inappropriate behavior in the workplace and intimidating other workers. Spitzer was inquiring for information from the Orange County Public Administrator and Public Guardian, John Williams, at the behest of a domestic violence victim. According to the news website Voice of OC, the fact that Rackauckas's fiancée, Peggy Buff, was Williams's deputy further fueled the controversy. By this point, Spitzer had also indicated his intention to run in the 2014 District Attorney election but Rackauckas announced that he planned \"to run for another term in 2014 to stop [him]\". Spitzer returned to private practice and prepared to run for a Board of Supervisors seat in 2012.\n\nIn June 2012, Spitzer beat Deborah Pauly, a fellow Republican, to again become a member of the Orange County Board of Supervisors, serving the same 3rd supervisorial district he had represented from 1997 to 2002.\n\nBy early 2015, Spitzer had become Chairman of the Orange County Board of Supervisors. In April 2015, Spitzer, a former reserve police officer, handcuffed a man who he felt was behaving aggressively towards him, then called 911 at the Wahoo's Fish Taco restaurant in Foothill Ranch, California. The man was questioned about the incident, but was released by Orange County Sheriff's Department deputies. At the time, Spitzer had with him a bag containing his handgun and a valid permit to carry a concealed weapon. When news of the incident was reported in the press in September 2015, Orange County Sheriff Sandra Hutchens said that she did not \"think [Spitzer] did anything wrong … He perceived a threat. He acted upon that … It was resolved; nobody got injured, and it was over.\" In August 2017, as the result of a Superior Court lawsuit, Orange County was required to cover the legal fees that Voice of OC spent in order to get the county to release emails and other documents.\n\nIn September 2017, Christine Richters, a former aide to Spitzer, also sued the county alleging that Spitzer had a \"raging temper\" and that she was wrongful terminated. The county reached to an agreement with Richters for a $150,000 settlement approved by a unanimous vote of the Board of Supervisors including Spitzer.\n\nSpitzer challenged Rackauckas in the 2018 Orange County District Attorney election. The first round was held in June 2018 with Spitzer earning 35% of the vote to Rackauckas's 38%, leading to a second round. On November 6, 2018, Spitzer earned 53.2% of the vote to win against the incumbent. Replacing Rackauckas who had held the position since 1999, Spitzer became the county's first new district attorney in 20 years when he was sworn-in on January 7, 2019.\n\nAs District Attorney, Spitzer has criticized the moratorium on the death penalty in California, ordered by Governor Gavin Newsom in March 2019. Spitzer has put public pressure on Newsom to rescind the order, holding press conferences with the families of murder victims whose convicted murderers are serving time on death row.\n\nIn mid 2009, Spitzer, whose mother had died the year before from colon cancer, was himself diagnosed with laryngeal cancer. He underwent successful radiation therapy treatment at the UC Irvine Medical Center and has said that he \"never missed a day of work.\"\n\nSpitzer is married to Jamie Morris Spitzer who serves as the presiding judge on the Workers' Compensation Appeals Board. They have a son and a daughter.\n\nAs deputy district attorney of Orange County, Spitzer developed an interest in victims' rights. Spitzer was voted Outstanding Prosecutor by the Orange County District Attorney's office in 1994 and the local chapter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving honored him with its Outstanding Prosecutor Award in 1996.\n\nSpitzer serves as an Honorary Board Member of the Doris Tate Crime Victims Bureau (renamed Crime Victims Action Alliance) and as a Board Member of Crime Survivors, Inc., and the Orange County's Trauma Intervention Program (TIP). He also served as a member of the Orange County Bar Association Administration of Justice Committee. He is on the Advisory Board for the Orange County Council along with Ca. Assemblyman James Silva, and former State Senator Van Tran Boy Scouts of America. In 2003, he received that organization's Visionary Award, given annually to a person who exemplifies the attributes of the Scout Oath and Law, and who has demonstrated leadership and philanthropy in the Hispanic and Latino communities.\n\nIn 2007, Spitzer was inducted into the Schurr High School Hall of Fame. \n\n"}
{"id": "2302182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302182", "title": "Mount Hopeless", "text": "Mount Hopeless\n\nMount Hopeless is the name of several mountains:\n"}
{"id": "2302184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302184", "title": "Yi Won", "text": "Yi Won\n\nYi Won () (born Yi Sang-Hyeob as 23 September 1962) is a great-grandson of the Gojong of Korea and one of several who claim to be current head of the House of Yi. He worked as a general manager of Hyundai Home Shopping, a Hyundai Department Store Group company, until Prince Yi Gu died on 16 July 2005. He was born as the eldest son of Prince Gap of Korea, the 9th son of Prince Yi Kang by his wife at Hyehwa-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul and adopted to Prince Yi Gu, the twenty-ninth head of the Imperial house, after his death. Current South Korean law does not recognize posthumous adoption, therefore the legality of this adoption is contested.\n\nPrince Won attended the Sangmun High School during 1979–1981 and completed studies in broadcasting at the New York Institute of Technology, United States. He and his wife have had two children, the eldest son, Yi Kwon (이권), born in 1998; the other son, Yi Yeong (이영), born in 1999.\n\nHe currently lives in an apartment in Wondang, Goyang, Gyeonggi province, Korea with his family.\n\nOn 16 July 2005, following the death of Prince Gu, Association of Jeonju Lee Clan appointed him as the next Head of Korean Imperial Household and they also made his title the Hereditary Prince Imperial (\"Hwangsason\") in the meaning of inherited a title of Prince Gu. His claim is contested by his half-aunt, Princess Yi Haewon of Korea, who was crowned Empress of South Korea by 12 of her relatives. In spite of this, he is annually called on to take the place of the Sovereign at the Jongmyo jerye ceremonies performing sacrifices to his royal ancestors.\n\nThose who dispute the legitimacy of the adoption point out that consent for the adoption of Prince Won was not given by other members of Imperial House, including Prince Yi Seok, the younger half-brother of Prince Gap, and Princess Yi Hae-won, the eldest member of the house before her death in 2020. Also, according to present Korean law, the traditional adoption after death of a foster parent to continue the line has been outlawed by legislation as of 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302186", "title": "Ghadames", "text": "Ghadames\n\nGhadames or Ghadamis (Berber: \"ʕademis\"; , Libyan vernacular: \"ɣdāməs\", Latin: \"Cidamus, Cydamus\", ) is an oasis Berber town in the Nalut District of the Tripolitania region in northwestern Libya.\n\nThe indigenous language of Ghadames is Ghadamès, a Berber language. \n\nGhadamès, known as 'the pearl of the desert', stands in an oasis. It is one of the oldest pre-Saharan cities and an outstanding example of a traditional settlement. Its domestic architecture is characterized by a vertical division of functions: the ground floor used to store supplies; then another floor for the family, overhanging covered alleys that create what is almost an underground network of passageways; and, at the top, open-air terraces reserved for the women.\n\nGhadames lies roughly to the southwest of Tripoli, near the borders with Algeria and Tunisia. Ghadames borders Illizi Province, Algeria and Tataouine Governorate, Tunisia.\n\nThe oasis has a population of around 10,000, mainly Berbers. The old part of the town, which is surrounded by a city wall, has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage site. Each of the seven clans that used to live in this part of the town had its own district, of which each had a public place where festivals could be held.\n\nGhadames has a hot desert climate (Köppen climate classification \"BWh\") with long, extremely hot summers as average high temperature is around 41 °C (105.8 °F) in July, the hottest month of the year as well as short, warm winters. The town receives little precipitation throughout the year as average annual precipitation is only 33.1 mm (1.30 in).\n\nIt has been suggested, based on archaeological evidence, that this area has been settled since the 4th millennium B.C., and is one of the oldest pre-Saharan settlements. Its situation near a water source in the middle of a desert would have made it an important spot for anyone seeking to settle in the area.\n\nThe first written records about Ghadames date from the Roman period when the settlement was known as Cydamus, from which modern Ghadames derives its name. In the 1st century BC, the Roman proconsul Lucius Cornelius Balbus invaded Cydamus during the reign of emperor Augustus. A permanent Roman garrison was established during the reign of Septimius Severus, and the emperor may have visited the settlement around AD 202. However, the Romans withdrew from the area a few decades later during the Crisis of the Third Century.\n\nDuring the 6th century, a Bishop lived in the oasis, after the population had been converted to Christianity by Byzantine missionaries. It became a stronghold of the Donatist heresy until its conquest by Muslim Arabs. \n\nDuring the late 7th century, Ghadames was ruled by the Muslim Arabs. The population quickly converted to Islam and Ghadames played an important role as base for the Trans-Saharan trade until the 19th century.\n\nThe etymology of the name Ghadames is very closely linked with its history. It is believed that the name Ghadames is originally connected to the name of the ancient Berber tribe of Tidamensi, a tribe from Fezzan. It is also believed that the name Tidamensi was corrupted by the invading Romans to form the name Cydamus, which in turn gave way to the name Ghadames.\n\nIn October 1911, shortly after the Italo-Turkish War broke out, Ghadames was occupied by Italian soldiers marching from Tripoli. However, Italy's hold on the city was interrupted several times until June 1915, when a general rising throughout Libya caused the Italian garrison to retreat from Ghadames to the stronghold of Tripoli. Effective control over the city was restored in December 1918, but rebellion throughout Fezzan kept Ghadames in a state of emergency until 1923.\n\nIn 1943, Free French forces occupied Ghadames and its surrounding area in the southern part of the former Italian colony of Libya, forming the Military Territory of Fezzan-Ghadames until Libyan independence in 1951. Ghadames was made the territory's capital during this time.\n\nIn the 1970s, the government built new houses outside of the old part of the town. However, many inhabitants return to the old part of the town during the summer, as its architecture provides better protection against the heat.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War, National Transitional Council forces entered the town on 30 August 2011, which had been under siege by NTC forces since the beginning of the conflict. Until 2011, the city was under control by independent Tuareg troops. After being captured by the Libyan National Army, the entire Tuareg community was forced to flee in an act of ethnic cleansing.\n\nThe old town, inscribed in 1986 as a UNESCO World Heritage site, was de-populated of its inhabitants throughout the 1990s, leaving the old buildings at risk of collapse due to a lack of maintenance. It has been listed on the List of World Heritage in Danger since 2016 among four other sites in Libya, because of damage caused by the Libyan Civil War affecting the country and the threat of further damage it poses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302187", "title": "Yi Gang", "text": "Yi Gang\n\nYi Gang () (born 1958) is the Governor of the People's Bank of China since 2018. He is also the former Director of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange.\n\nYi Gang was born in Beijing, March 5th, 1958. He studied at Beijing University, Hamline University in Saint Paul, Minnesota and obtained his Ph.D in Economics from the University of Illinois, with a dissertation on statistical model selection methods. He became an Associate Professor with tenure at Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) and then joined the faculty of Peking University as professor, deputy director of the Center for Economics Research, and Ph.D advisor in Economics. He went to the People's Bank of China in 1997 and then successively served as Deputy Secretary-General and Secretary-General of the Monetary Policy Committee, Deputy Director-General and Director-General of the Monetary Policy Department, and Assistant Governor, as well as President of the Operations Office from September 2006 to October 2007. In December 2007, he was appointed Deputy Governor of the People's Bank of China. From 2009, he served as Director of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) until January 12, 2016.\n\nYi has published more than 40 articles in Chinese and 20 academic papers in English that have appeared in economics journals such as the Journal of Econometrics, the China Economic Review, and Comparative Economic Studies. Yi is the author of ten books, and he served as a consultant for the Scandinavian Journal of Statistics, the Journal of Econometrics, China Economic Review, Comparative Economic Studies, Economic Theory, Contemporary Policy Issues, and the Journal of Asian Economics. He also serves on the editorial board of the China Economic Review and the Journal of Asian Economics.\n\nIn October, 2016, Yi helped represent China at the semi-annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank in Washington, D.C., including on a panel with Bank of England governor Mark Carney. The meetings came as the yuan was for the first time being included in the IMF’s international basket of currencies known as special drawing rights. Questions about Chinese debt levels, steel production and housing production were among those addressed in the meetings.\n\nIn March 2018, Yi was appointed as the Governor of the People's Bank of China. In July 2018, he was named Vice Chair of the Financial Stability and Development Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302197", "title": "9012Live: The Solos", "text": "9012Live: The Solos\n\n9012Live: The Solos is the third live album by English rock band Yes, released as a mini-LP on 7 November 1985 by Atco Records. Recorded during their 1984 world tour in support of their eleventh studio album, \"90125\" (1983), the album features a selection of solo tracks performed by each of the five band members, plus live versions of two songs from \"90125\". The album was an accompany release to the band's 1985 concert film, \"9012Live\". In 2009, the album was reissued in Japan by Isao Kikuchi for Warner Music Japan, with two bonus tracks.\n\nNote: \"Si\", \"Solly's Beard\", and \"Soon\" were recorded on 24 June 1984 at Westfalenhalle in Dortmund, Germany. All other tracks were recorded on 28 September 1984 at Northlands Coliseum in Edmonton, Alberta. \"Hold On\", \"Changes\", \"City of Love\", and \"It Can Happen\" are part of the soundtrack to the movie \"9012Live\".\n\n\"Hold On\" and \"Changes\" are live versions of tracks from \"90125\", while \"Soon\" is a new arrangement of the final ballad segment from 1974's \"The Gates of Delirium\". The instrumental \"Whitefish\" was written by Chris \"Fish\" Squire and Alan White (hence the track title) and is based on a medley of elements from three previous Squire-written Yes tracks: his 1972 bass showcase \"The Fish\", the bassline from 1980's \"Tempus Fugit\" and a portion of 1974's \"Sound Chaser\". Both \"Si\" and \"Solly's Beard\" were original pieces new to this release: the first a Tony Kaye synthesizer and organ piece (at one point quoting Bach's \"Toccata & Fugue in D minor\") and the latter a fast-picked Trevor Rabin acoustic guitar solo, named after his dog and written/performed in the vein of 1970s jazz fusion guitarists such as Al di Meola and John McLaughlin. Versions of \"Soon\", \"Solly's Beard\" and \"Whitefish\" would be variously performed on subsequent Yes tours in the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nThe album reached No. 44 in on the UK Albums Chart and No. 81 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" 200 during a chart stay of eleven weeks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302199", "title": "Ampelmännchen", "text": "Ampelmännchen\n\nAmpelmännchen (; literally \"little traffic light man\", diminutive of Ampelmann ) is the symbol shown on pedestrian signals in Germany. Prior to German reunification in 1989, the two German states had different forms for the Ampelmännchen, with a generic human figure in West Germany, and a generally \"male\" figure wearing a hat in the East.\n\nThe Ampelmännchen is a beloved symbol in Eastern Germany, \"enjoy[ing] the privileged status of being one of the few features of communist East Germany to have survived the end of the Iron Curtain with his popularity unscathed.\" After the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Ampelmännchen acquired cult status and became a popular souvenir item in the tourism business.\n\nThe first traffic lights at pedestrian crossings were erected in the 1950s, and many countries developed different designs (which were eventually standardised). At that time, traffic lights were the same for cars, bicycles and pedestrians. The East Berlin Ampelmännchen was created in 1961 by traffic psychologist Karl Peglau (1927–2009) as part of a proposal for a new traffic lights layout. Peglau criticised the fact that the standard colours of the traffic lights (red, yellow, green) did not provide for road users who were unable to differentiate between colours (10 percent of the total population); and that the lights themselves were too small and too weak when competing against luminous advertising and sunlight. Peglau proposed retaining the three colours while introducing intuitive shapes for each coloured light. This idea received strong support from many sides, but Peglau's plans were doomed by the high costs involved in replacing existing traffic light infrastructure.\n\nUnlike motor traffic, pedestrian traffic has no constraints for age or health (physical or mental), and therefore must allow for children, elderly people and the handicapped. Peglau therefore resorted to the realistic-concrete scheme of a little man that is comprehensible for everyone and appeals to archetypical shapes. The thick outstretched arms of the frontal-standing red man is associated with the function of a blocking barricade to signal \"stop\", while the side-facing green man with his wide-paced legs is associated with a dynamic arrow, signalling the permission to \"go ahead\". The yellow light was abandoned because of generally unhurried pedestrian traffic.\n\nPeglau's secretary Anneliese Wegner drew the Ampelmännchen per his suggestions. The initial concept envisioned the Ampelmännchen to have fingers, but this idea was dropped for technical reasons of illumination. However, the man's \"perky\", \"cheerful\" and potentially \"petit bourgeois\" hat – inspired by a summer photo of Erich Honecker in a straw hat – was retained, to Peglau's surprise. The prototypes of the Ampelmännchen traffic lights were built at the VEB-Leuchtenbau Berlin.\n\nThe Ampelmännchen was officially introduced on 13 October 1961 in Berlin, at which time the media attention and public interest focused on the new traffic lights, not the symbols. The first Ampelmännchen were produced as cheap decal pictures. Beginning in 1973, the Ampelmännchen traffic lights were produced at VEB Signaltechnik Wildenfels and privately owned artisan shops.\n\nDecades later, Daniel Meuren of the weekly German newsmagazine, \"Der Spiegel,\" described the Ampelmännchen as uniting \"beauty with efficiency, charm with utility, [and] sociability with fulfilment of duties\". The Ampelmännchen reminded others of a childlike figure with big head and short legs, or a religious leader.\n\nThe Ampelmännchen proved so popular that parents and teachers initiated the symbol to become part of road safety education for children in the early 1980s. The East German Ministry of the Interior had the idea to bring the two traffic light figures to life and turn them into advisors. Die Ampelmännchen were introduced with much media publicity. They appeared in strip cartoons, also in situations without traffic lights. The red Ampelmännchen appeared in potentially dangerous environments, and the green Ampelmännchen was an advisor. Together with the \"Junge Welt\" publishing company, games with the Ampelmännchen were developed. Ampelmännchen stories were developed for radio broadcasts. Partly animated Ampelmännchen stories with the name \"Stiefelchen und Kompaßkalle\" were broadcast once a month as part of the East German children's bedtime television programme \"Sandmännchen\", which had one of the largest viewing audiences in East Germany. The animated \"Ampelmännchen\" stories raised international interest, and the Czech festival for road safety education films awarded \"Stiefelchen und Kompaßkalle\" the \"Special Award by the Jury\" and the \"Main Prize for Overall Accomplishments\" in 1984.\n\nFollowing the German unification in 1990, there were attempts to standardise all traffic signs to the West German forms. East German street signs and traffic signs were dismantled and replaced because of differing fonts in the former two German countries. The East German education programmes featuring the Ampelmännchen vanished. This led to calls to save the East German Ampelmännchen as a part of the East German culture. The first solidarity campaigns for the Ampelmännchen took place in Berlin in early 1995.\n\nMarkus Heckhausen, a graphic designer from the West German city of Tübingen and founder of Ampelmann GmbH in Berlin, had first noticed the Ampelmännchen during his visits to East Berlin in the 1980s. When he was looking for new design possibilities in 1995, he had the idea to collect dismantled Ampelmännchen and build lamps. But he had difficulty finding old Ampelmännchen and eventually contacted the former VEB Signaltechnik (now Signaltechnik Roßberg GmbH) regarding their excess stock. The company was still producing Ampelmännchen, and liked Heckhausen's marketing ideas. The public embraced Heckhausen's first six lamp models. Local newspapers published full-page articles, followed by articles in national newspapers and designer magazines. The successful German daily Soap opera \"Gute Zeiten, schlechte Zeiten\" used the Ampelmännchen lamp in their coffeehouse set. Designer Karl Peglau explained the public reaction in 1997:\n\"It is presumably their special, almost indescribable aura of human snugness and warmth, when humans are comfortably touched by this traffic symbol figure and find a piece of honest historical identification, giving the Ampelmännchen the right to represent a positive aspect of a failed social order.\"\n\nThe Ampelmännchen became a virtual mascot for the East German nostalgia movement, known as \"Ostalgie\". The protests were successful, and the Ampelmännchen returned to pedestrian crossings. They can now also be seen in some western districts of Berlin. Some western German cities such as Saarbrücken and Heidelberg have since adopted the design for some intersections. Peter Becker, marshal of Saarbrücken, explained that lights of the East German Ampelmännchen have greater signal strength than West German traffic lights, and \"in our experience people react better to the East German Ampelmännchen than the West German ones.\" In Heidelberg, however, a government department asked the city to stop the installation of more East German Ampelmännchen, citing standards in road traffic regulations.\n\nHeckhausen continued to incorporate the Ampelmännchen design into products and had an assortment of over forty Ampelmännchen souvenir products in 2004, reportedly earning €2 million yearly. In the meantime, Joachim Rossberg claimed to make €50,000 per year from merchandise. Heckhausen appealed to a Leipzig court in 2005 over the marketing rights, suing Rossberg for failing at making full use of his marketing rights; German legislature rules state that if no use of marketing rights is made for five years, the rights can be cancelled. The court ruled in 2006 that Rossberg's right to use the Ampelmännchen as a marketing brand had largely lapsed and had passed back into the public domain. Rossberg only retained the right to use the symbol to market liqueur, and may no longer use the logo on beer and T-shirts. The court case was later seen by some as part of the cultural and political struggle between residents of the two parts of the reunified country, in which the underdog East generally lost.\n\nBerlin started to modernize its traffic lights from using regular light bulbs to LED technology in early 2006, which promised better visibility and lower maintenance costs.\n\nThere are three Ampelmännchen variations in modern-day Germany – the old East German version, the old West German version, and the pan-German Ampelmännchen introduced in 1992. Each German state holds the right to determine the version used. East Germans have changed the look of Ampelmännchen traffic lights as a joke since the early 1980s; this turned into media-effective efforts to call attention to the vanishing East German Ampelmännchen in the 1990s. The Ampelmännchen on several traffic lights in Erfurt were changed through manipulation of the template, showing Ampelmännchen carrying backpacks or cameras. In 2004, Joachim Rossberg invented the female counterpart to the Ampelmännchen, the \"Ampelfrau\", which was installed on some traffic lights in Zwickau, Dresden and Fürstenwalde.\n\nRoman Tic (a pseudonym playing with \"romantic\") of the art collective Ztohoven (\"(The way) Out of shit\") changed some pedestrian traffic lights in the daylight hours of 8 April 2007 in five hours work, with a ladder and wearing red overalls. He used different motifs, including men and women (e.g. drinking, urinating).\n\nOn 11 May 2015, before the Life Ball and the Eurovision Song Contest in Vienna (Austria) the city changed some traffic lights to \"Ampelpärchen\", these are designs with homo- and heterosexual couples, hugging or holding hands. In June 2015, Salzburg (at Staatsbrücke) and Linz (at Mozartkreuzung) followed suit with the same designs. However, in December 2015 a city traffic minister of the party FPÖ dismounted the privately sponsored faceplates, deeming them unnecessary.\n\nOn 13 October 2017, Google celebrated the 56th anniversary of the Traffic Light Man with a Google Doodle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302200", "title": "Dingleberry Haze", "text": "Dingleberry Haze\n\nDingleberry Haze is the first EP released by American alternative rock band The Bloodhound Gang on Cheese Factory Records in November 1994.\n\nThough there are not too many differences between this EP and their next release, \"Use Your Fingers\", there are a few. The major difference is in the track \"Coo Coo Ca Choo\" which uses a sample from Cream's \"Sunshine of Your Love\", rather than the heavy guitar riff-laden version that appears on \"Use Your Fingers\".\n\nThis CD was written by Jimmy Pop and Daddy Long Legs who is now in the group Wolfpac.\n\nAll songs written by Daddy Long Legs and Jimmy Pop.\n\n\nThe group was planning on putting more tracks on this EP, but it has been said that they decided against it due to time constraints. Some of these tracks have been released on the band's first album, Use Your Fingers, although they were re-recorded.\n\nAlternative versions of a few of the songs on this EP are also circulating among fans.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302203", "title": "Television Critics Association", "text": "Television Critics Association\n\nThe Television Critics Association (TCA) is a group of approximately 200 United States and Canadian television critics, journalists and columnists who cover television programming for newspapers, magazines and web publications. The TCA accepts applications and selects members twice per year in March and September. Once selected, all members meet at The Langham Huntington Hotel and Spa in Pasadena, California in January for the winter press tour, and at the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills in July for the summer press tour. Winter press tour usually covers network midseason replacements, programs from streaming services and cable series which start in January, while the summer tour covers the new fall season for broadcast, streaming, and cable programming.\n\nThe tour allows the major television networks, cable networks, online streaming services and PBS to present their slate of upcoming programs to a large group of press writers from different outlets all at once through panels and interviews, along with 'state of the network' speeches and presentations; for instance, FX executive John Landgraf uses his network's winter session to present data and analytical information from his network's research department, including the number of series carried across all American networks and streaming services in a year to compare with FX's slate of original programming. This is also the only time the general television media has rare access \"en masse\" to network executives. These biannual conferences involve registered TCA members staying at a chosen Los Angeles venue for two to three weeks, and each network is assigned a series of days to showcase their programming.\n\nIn the past, these interviews with program casts and creative staff (usually the show's primary showrunner, producers, and writers) were mainly used to compile stories over a six-month period which could be posted over that period as columns, Q&A responses to reader mail questions timed to a program/film/special's release, or within their weekly television listings supplements, mainly in newspapers or magazines for critics and columnists outside of large metropolitan areas. However, with the rise of the Internet and social media, these sessions now function to build buzz for programming within an immediate period, and only a few columnists for smaller publications and listing supplements maintain the former format of story release.\n\nThe January 2008 tour was canceled in December 2007 because of the 2007-08 Writers Guild of America strike and the uncertainty of its settlement. At the start of May 2020, the organization cancelled their summer 2020 tour and delayed the TCA Awards to a time to be determined in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic making any large gathering over two weeks impossible, along with the uncertainty over the 2020-21 television season, including the conversion of network upfront presentations to videotelephony platforms and the ability to produce programming.\n\nThe organization sponsors the TCA Awards, honoring television excellence in 11 categories, which are presented at the end of the summer press tour. The Awards began in 1985 at the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles, California. The 2017 Awards were hosted by Kristin Chenoweth. The awards given in 2017 included; Program of the Year, Best New Program, Best Drama Series, Individual Achievement in Drama, Best Comedy Series,Individual Achievement in Comedy, Best Reality Programming, Best Youth Programming, & Best News and Information. In addition to these awards, each year the TCA grants the \nHeritage Award, given to a long-standing program that has culturally influenced society.\n\nIn 2018, the 34th TCA Awards were hosted by Robin Thede. \n\n"}
{"id": "2302207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302207", "title": "Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality", "text": "Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality\n\nThe Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS, or \"quad-S\"), formed in 1957, is a non-profit, international professional membership organization, based in the United States, that says it is \"the oldest professional society dedicated to the advancement of knowledge about sexuality.\" It reports to have more than 1,000 members and has a quarterly newsletter, \"Sexual Science\". It produces two other publications:\n\nAccording to its website, SSSS was established in 1957 by psychologist Albert Ellis to encourage the rigorous, systematic study of sexuality.\n\nIn 1980, organizer Robert Francoeur invited Philadelphia biologist Timothy Perper to join the society. Perper had recently finished charting the mating behavior of five-hundred couples in bars in the U.S. and Canada. That year he presented the early results of his findings to the society. His book, detailing findings, is called \"Sex Signals – the Biology of Love\" and was published in 1985.\n\nToday, SSSS includes members of the following disciplines: anthropologists, biologists, educators, historians, nurses, physicians, psychologists, sociologists, theologians, therapists, and many other disciplines.\n\nSSSS boasts a strong commitment to its student members, with a \"vigorous\" student membership program and student awards, in addition to the other awards for professional members.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302217", "title": "AmTran", "text": "AmTran\n\nAmerican Transportation Corporation (better known as AmTran) was an American manufacturer of school bus bodies. Founded in 1980, the company traces its roots back to Ward Body Works, established in 1933. Following the 1979 bankruptcy filing of Ward Body Works, AmTran was formed; in 1991, the company was acquired by Navistar International, a move that would begin a series of alignment between school bus body manufacturers and chassis suppliers. The AmTran corporate headquarters and manufacturing facilities were located in Conway, Arkansas.\n\nIn 2000, the company was rebranded as International Truck and Bus (some vehicles continued with AmTran branding). In 2002, the name was changed again to IC Corporation, and today is known as IC Bus.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, the school bus manufacturing industry was in relative turmoil. From the early 1950s, the segment was dependent on student population growth related to the baby-boom generation. By the beginning of the 1980s, the last of the generation had completed their secondary education, leading to a decrease in student population growth across the United States.\n\nAt the time, Ward Body Works was among \"the Big Six\" full-line school bus manufacturers (alongside Blue Bird, Carpenter, Superior, Thomas, and Wayne). The declining economy of the late 1970s also cut into the profitability of all school bus manufacturers. Of the \"Big Six\", Superior and Ward were the hardest hit. Following the 1975 closure of its secondary manufacturing facility in Pennsylvania, Ward amassed over $20 million in debt by 1979.\n\nIn July 1980, Ward Industries filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. In the filing, the family-owned company declared $21.5 million in liabilities. As Ward Industries was a significant manufacturer in the central Arkansas region, the Wards sought for a way to keep the doors of the company open.\n\nWith company president Charles Ward selling off his stake in the company, Ward Industries was acquired by an investment group (assisted by then-Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton) named MBH, Inc. MBH was an acronym for the first letters of the last names of each of the 4 investors: Thomas E \"Mack\" McLarty, J.W. \"Buddy\" Benafield and two Kansas City brothers, R.L. \"Dick\" Harmon and Robert Harmon. McLarty and Benafield each held ⅓ ownership; the Harmon brothers together held the remaining ⅓ ownership. MBH reopened Ward Industries as American Transportation Corporation (AmTran). As Ward Industries continued to hold significant market share in the school bus segment, AmTran chose to retain the Ward brand name for school buses although non-school bus products adopted the AmTran brand in 1981.\n\nFollowing the acquisition, the Ward family held no stake in AmTran; however, Steve Ward remained in the new company for vehicle distribution and marketing, having the exclusive rights to sell Ward/AmTran products in Arkansas, based in a dealership from Conway.\n\nDuring the 1980s, AmTran would make several product introductions that would advance school bus design in several market segments. Although among the last large bus manufacturers to introduce a Type A school bus, AmTran was the first manufacturer to introduce a higher-capacity version, with five rows of seating instead of four seen at the time. For 1986, AmTran introduced the first large semi-forward control conventional with the introduction of the Ward/AmTran Patriot. Using a shortened version of the Chevrolet/GMC B-Series, the Patriot allowed for a shorter wheelbase and nose angle for improved forward visibility. Although not a success overall, the Patriot would go on to become a major influence on the later Thomas Vista.\n\nIn 1987, the structure of the Ward/AmTran body was received an exterior update, distinguished by a rubrail mounted below the window line. Much of this body structure is still used on IC Bus CE-Series and RE-Series product lines (as of 2017).\n\nIn 1991, Navistar International acquired one-third of the stock of American Transportation Corporation; the purchase was initiated by Jerry Williams, the CEO of AmTran at the time. As part of the purchase, Navistar acquired an option to buy the rest of AmTran, which was completed in April 1995. Following the Navistar acquisition of AmTran, during the late 1990s, several school bus body manufacturers would become acquired with chassis manufacturers and suppliers.\n\nAlthough the AmTran brand had been in use since 1981 on non-school buses, following the Navistar acquisition, the company began to rebrand its school buses. During 1992, the Ward Senator front-engine bus was replaced by the AmTran Genesis (with a \"Genesis by AmTran\" roof emblem). At the end of 1992, the AmTran brand replaced the Ward name on the rest of the school bus product lines. Navistar ownership would affect production of the Volunteer conventional; after 1991, the Volunteer was produced nearly exclusively on an International 3800 chassis (though Ford chassis remained a rarely ordered option to 1998).\n\nFor 1996, the AmTran line saw the introduction of the AmTran RE, the first rear-engine bus produced by AmTran/Ward in over 20 years. In contrast to other manufacturers, AmTran did not derive the body design for the rear-engine AmTran RE from its front-engine Genesis Type D bus.\n\nFor 1997, the Vanguard cutaway bus was discontinued along with the long-running Volunteer. AmTran chose to focus production exclusively on full-size buses, while the Volunteer was updated and replaced by the \"AmTran CS.\" Featuring an all-new drivers' compartment with updated controls, the CS was distinguished by an upright 4-piece windshield, further improving forward visibility.\n\nIn 1998, the AmTran Genesis was updated with a new grille and drivers compartment; to bring it in line with the AmTran RE, it was renamed the AmTran FE. Following the discontinuation of the Ford B700/B800 in 1998, the International 3800 became the sole chassis for the AmTran CS (as the Freightliner FS-65 chassis was produced by the parent company of competitor Thomas Built Buses).\n\nIn 1999, AmTran announced plans to build a facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Dedicated to production of conventional-chassis school buses, the Tulsa factory was planned to employ nearly 1200 people as the factory opened in 2000.\n\nWith the opening of the second factory, production of the Conway, Arkansas factory was dedicated towards the lower-volume AmTran FE and RE-series product lines.\n\nFollowing the introduction of Tulsa-produced buses, the AmTran CS was re-christened as the International IC. Branded as a fully integrated conventional, the IC dropped the AmTran name in favor of International. Along with a slightly redesigned windshield and updated drivers' compartment, the IC saw the first hood redesign for the International 3800 since 1989 (with a vertical grille).\n\nDuring 2001, AmTran effectively ceased to exist, as Navistar legally changed the name of its bus manufacturing subsidiary to \"International Truck and Bus\" (although \"American Transportation Corporation\" lettering remained on vehicles into 2002 production). For the AmTran FE and RE, AmTran roof emblems were replaced by \"International\" roof badging (with or without the International diamond emblem).\n\nFor 2003, Navistar renamed its bus manufacturing subsidiary a second time in two years. To better separate bus manufacturing from its truck manufacturing division, International Truck and Bus was renamed Integrated Coach Corporation (named IC Corporation, IC Bus since 2008).\n\nAmTran buses were produced in the former Ward factory in Conway, Arkansas. In 1999, the company expanded production capacity as it began construction on a second plant in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Coinciding with the introduction of the IC conventional bus, the Tulsa facility would take over production of all conventional bus bodies; the Conway factory remained in production for transit-style buses. Following the discontinuation of the FE-Series transit-style bus in 2010, full-scale bus production ended in Conway in January 2010, but successor company IC Bus utilizes the factory for parts fabrication and production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302229", "title": "Gaston, Marquis de Galliffet", "text": "Gaston, Marquis de Galliffet\n\nGaston Alexandre Auguste, Marquis de Galliffet, Prince de Martigues (Paris, 23 January 1830 – 8 July 1909), was a French general, best known for having taken part in the repression of the 1871 Paris Commune. He was Minister of War in Waldeck-Rousseau's cabinet at the turn of the century, which caused a controversy in the socialist movement, since independent socialist Alexandre Millerand also took part in the same government, and was thus side by side with the \"Fusilleur de la Commune\" (the \"Commune's executioner\").\n\nGaston Galliffet entered the army in 1848 and was commissioned as a sub-lieutenant in 1853. He served with distinction at the Siege of Sevastopol in 1855, in the Austro-Sardinian War of 1859, and in Algeria in 1860, after which for a time he served on the personal staff of the emperor, Napoleon III.\n\nDuring Napoleon III's intervention in Mexico, Galliffet displayed great gallantry in 1863 as a captain at the siege and storming of Puebla, when he was severely wounded. When he returned to France to recover from his wounds, he was entrusted with the task of presenting the captured standards and colours to the emperor, and was promoted \"chef d'escadron\". He returned to Algeria in 1864, took part in expeditions against the Arabs, returned to Mexico as a lieutenant-colonel and, after winning further distinction, became in 1867 colonel of the 3rd \"Chasseurs d'Afrique\".\n\nIn the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–71, he commanded this regiment in the Army of the Rhine, until promoted to General de Brigade on 30 August. At the Battle of Sedan, which marked the defeat of Napoleon III and the subsequent dissolving of the Second Empire, he led the brigade of Chasseurs d'Afrique in the heroic charge of General Margueritte's cavalry division, which earned him the admiration of the old king of Prussia. Made prisoner of war at the capitulation, he returned to France during the siege of Paris by the French Army of Versailles, and commanded a brigade during the repression of the 1871 Paris Commune. He was henceforth one of the most criticised figures in French public life, along with Adolphe Thiers who had directed the assault.\n\nIn the suppression of the Paris Commune, he did his duty, as he saw it, rigorously and inflexibly, and earned a reputation for severity, which, throughout his later career, made him the object of unceasing attacks in the press and the chamber of deputies. In 1872, he took command of the Batna subdivision of Algeria, and commanded an expedition against El Golea, surmounting great difficulties in a rapid march across the desert, and inflicting severe defeats on the revolting tribes.\n\nOn the general reorganisation of the army, he commanded the 31st infantry brigade. Promoted General de Division in 1875, he successively commanded the 15th infantry division at Dijon, the IX army corps at Tours, and in 1882 the XII army corps at Limoges. In 1885, he became a member of the \"Conseil Supérieur de la Guerre\". He conducted the cavalry manoeuvres in successive years, and attained a Europe-wide reputation on all cavalry questions and, indeed, as an army commander.\n\nDecorated Grand Officer of the Légion d'Honneur in 1880 by Léon Gambetta, he was appointed governor of Paris. In 1887, he was also decorated with the Grand Cross of the Légion d'Honneur. He then received the Military Medal for his able conduct of the autumn manoeuvres in 1891. After again commanding at the manoeuvres of 1894, he retired from the active list.\n\nLater, he took an important part in French politics, as war minister (22 June 1899 to 29 May 1900) in Waldeck-Rousseau's cabinet, and distinguished himself by the firmness with which he dealt with cases of unrest in the army in the midst of the Dreyfus Affair. Galliffet then retired into private life, and died on 8 July 1909, aged 79.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302232", "title": "Lobamba", "text": "Lobamba\n\nLobamba is the traditional, spiritual, and legislative capital city of Eswatini, seat of the Parliament, and residence of the Ntombi, the Queen Mother. Mswati III lives about away at the Lozitha Palace. The King and Queen Mother participate in annual December and January Incwala ceremonies and August and September Reed Dancees at the Royal Kraal.\n\nKey attractions are the Parliament, National Museum of Eswatini, Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary, and the King Sobhuza II Memorial Park. The Embo State Palace, not open to visitors, was built by the British government for the polygamous King Sobhuza II, whose family included 600 children. He led the movement for Eswatini's independence from the United Kingdom and was its first prime minister.\n\nIt is located in the western part of the country in the woodland \"Valley of Heaven\", or Ezulwini Valley. It is from Mbabane, in the district of Hhohho and has a subtropical climate with wet summers and dry winters.\n\nIn 1997 its population was 3,625. Its population in 2006 was 11,000. Across the country, 84.3% of its people are Swazi and 9.9% are Zulu. The remainder are Tsonga (2.5%), Indian (1.6%) and others (1.7%). Its official languages are Swazi and English.\n\nTwo areas have been called Lobamba, the first now called \"Old Lobamba\" was established in 1750 in southern Eswatini. The subject of this article is a settlement that was created by Sobhuza II in the northwest section of the country.\n\nIn 1903, following the Boer Wars, the British government took control of Eswatini and it was then ruled by a regent. In 1921 King Sobhuza II became leader of Eswatini, which was still under the British government's control. Eswatini became independent of the British government on September 6, 1968, which was announced at a cattle byre in Lobamba by Prince Makhosini. He was the country's first prime minister and the great-grandson of Sobhuza I. With its independence, Eswatini was a member in its own right of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), British Commonwealth, and the United Nations. It was made a constitutional monarchy under Sobhuza II, who lived in the royal residence, or kraal, in Lobamba.\n\nLobamba is the legislative seat of the Eswatini government.\n\nIt was made a branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association on January 1, 1965 and its date of independence was January 1, 1968. The constitution was signed by King Mswati III on July 26, 2005. The king appoints the prime minister and the council. There are two chambers: the Senate and the House of Assembly. The parliament building is sometimes open to visitors.\n\nThe royal Embo State Palace was built by the British to house the polygamous Sobhuza II and his family, including 600 children. It is not open to visitors and photographs are not allowed.\n\nKing Mswati III lives at the Lozitha Palace, about from the city. He visits the Royal Kraal, or Ludzidzini Royal Residence, during the Umhlanga dance and Incwala ceremonies. The royal village includes the queen mother's Royal Kraal, dwelling clusters, and a parade ground for ceremonies.\n\nLobamba has a police station and is served by The Royal Eswatini Police Service. During the British colonial era Lord Selborn, High Commissioner for South Africa signed a proclamation in 1907 for what became the Eswatini Police Force. After Eswatini's independence in 1968, the force was renamed the Royal Eswatini Police Force. Its name was further changed making it a service, rather than a force.\n\nEducation is free, but is not required. It had low literacy rates, but they are rising. Lobamba National High School is in Lobamba.\n\nThe government provides health facilities to manage endemic disease and malnutrition. Retirement, disability and survivor pensions are available through its welfare system.\n\nMany of the roads in Eswatini are unsurfaced, but there are good roads that connect principal towns, including the MR3 highway and MR103 road. There are small local airstrips and a railroad that operates between Eswatini and Mozambique. The Matsapha Airport is from Lobamba. The next closest domestic and international airport is Maputo International Airport in Mozambique, which is away.\n\nOne of the tour operators in Eswatini is Swazi Trails, which has tours of the Lobamba royal village, nature reserves, game parks, and craft centres. Nabo Bashoa runs minibus tours.\n\nThe National Museum of Eswatini, located in Lobamba next to the Parliament building, was built in 1972 and expanded in 1986 and 1990. The museum was made a non-profit institution in 1974 by the International Council of Museums.\n\nThe museum houses a memorial to the revered King Sobhuza II and Swazi and South African artifacts. It has a collection of photographs that include subjects of the Mbabane and Manzini Regions and British colonial administrators. A 16th-century head of Krishna, discovered nearby, is located in the natural history wing and provides evidence of trade with the east. The natural history wing includes highveld and lowveld dioramas to illustrate the diverse Eswatini ecosystems and feature rarely seen nocturnal animals. Its nature-centric exhibits integrate environmental and cultural impacts.\n\nA recreation of a Swazi homestead is located outside the museum.\n\nAlso located near the Parliament building is the Somhlolo stadium for football and other major events.\n\nJust outside Lobamba is the Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary that has horseback and hiking trails, guided mountain-bike tours, rustic trail camps and camping in caves. Throughout the park are opportunities to observe game, including antelope, giraffe, zebras, and many types of birds.\n\nA memorial park was established in the memory of King Sobhuza II, who was the leader of the country's independence in 1968. The king's life is told through an exhibit of photographs. Three of the king's vintage cars are in the museum and his mausoleum is within the park.\n\nMalkerns Valley is an arts and crafts center located south of Lobamba.\n\nLobamba is famous for two ceremonies that are held there: the Reed Dance, celebrated in August and September in honour of the Queen Mother, and the Incwala, in December and January in honour of the King. These ceremonies include dancing, singing, and celebrations with traditional attire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302233", "title": "USS Sloat (DD-316)", "text": "USS Sloat (DD-316)\n\nThe first USS \"Sloat\" (DD-316) was a \"Clemson\"-class destroyer in the United States Navy following World War I. She was named for John Drake Sloat.\n\n\"Sloat\" was laid down on 18 January 1919 by the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, San Francisco, California; launched on 14 May 1919; sponsored by Mrs. Edwin A. Sherman; and commissioned on 30 December 1920, Lieutenant Commander J. R. Palmer in command.\n\n\"Sloat\" arrived at San Diego, California for shakedown on 24 January 1921 and then was placed in reserve until October. She conducted gunnery exercises during the winter and carried out torpedo trials in April and May 1922. On 27 June, she sailed with the fleet for Puget Sound and operated in that area until returning to San Diego on 19 September. On 6 February 1923, she departed San Diego with the fleet, and conducted exercises off Panama until returning on 11 April. She spent most of the remainder of the year, and much of the next, undergoing repairs at Mare Island before returning to San Diego on 22 December 1924.\n\nOn 3 April 1925, \"Sloat\" sailed from San Diego with the fleet for exercises off Hawaii. On 1 July, the Battle Fleet sailed from Hawaii for a goodwill cruise to the Southwest Pacific, and \"Sloat\" called at Melbourne, Australia; Lyttelton and Wellington, New Zealand; and American Samoa before returning to San Diego on 19 September.\n\nThe destroyer departed San Diego on 1 February 1926 and participated in fleet exercises off Panama from 15 February to 8 March, and then underwent overhaul at Mare Island from 22 March to 4 May. After a summer of reserve training cruises, she again underwent repairs at Mare Island from 30 December 1926 to 3 February 1927.\n\n\"Sloat\" sailed with the Battle Fleet for fleet exercises on 17 February 1927 and transited the Panama Canal on 5 March. The exercises in the Caribbean lasted until 22 April, and the fleet then visited New York and carried out a joint Army and Navy exercise in Narragansett Bay before arriving in Hampton Roads on 29 May for a Presidential review. After getting underway for Panama on 4 June, \"Sloat\" received repairs from a tender in Gatun Lake, Canal Zone, and then was ordered to relieve on patrol off the Nicaraguan coast.\n\nHer mission was to protect lives and property of United States citizens and of other foreign nationals in Nicaragua and to help preserve order. She served two tours off Nicaragua under the Special Service Squadron: from 25 June to 6 July and from 22 July to 8 August 1927. Transiting the canal on 10 August, she returned to San Diego on 23 August and underwent overhaul at Mare Island from 19 February to 31 March 1928.\n\n\"Sloat\" departed San Diego on 9 April 1928 and arrived at Pearl Harbor with the fleet on the 28th, having participated in Fleet Problem VIII en route. She returned to San Diego on 23 June and reached Puget Sound on 9 July for summer exercises. Returning to San Diego on 1 September, she took part in exercises off the Canal Zone from 27 January to 6 February 1929 and then underwent overhaul at Mare Island from 3 March to 13 April. She conducted training off San Diego during the summer; and, after a one-week trip to San Francisco, returned to San Diego on 28 August 1929.\n\n\"Sloat\" was replaced by the recommissioned and decommissioned on 2 June 1930, struck from the Navy list on 28 January 1935, and sunk at sea as a target off San Diego on 26 June 1935.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302235", "title": "George Chisholm (geographer)", "text": "George Chisholm (geographer)\n\nDr George Goudie Chisholm FRSE FRSGS LLD (1 May 1850–9 February 1930) was a Scottish geographer. He authored the first English-language textbook on economic geography: \"Handbook on Commercial Geography\" (1889) and the \"World Gazetteer,\" later to become known as \"The Times Gazetteer.\"\n\nChisolm was born in Edinburgh on 1 May 1850, the son of an actuary. He was educated at the Royal High School in Edinburgh, and then the University of Edinburgh, graduating in 1870.\n\nHe lectured on Geography in London from 1883 to 1908 and then returned to the University of Edinburgh where he lectured until 1923.\n\nHe served as Secretary to the Scottish Geographical Society for 15 years.\n\nIn 1923 he received an honorary doctorate (LLD) from the University, and elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1924.\n\nHe authored the first English-language textbook on economic geography: \"Handbook on Commercial Geography\" (1889). It was later revised by Kenneth Stamp. (). He authored a review of Friedrich Naumann's Pan-German work on Central Europe which appeared in The Scottish Geographical Magazine issue 33, which condemned the aggressively militaristic overtones of Naumann's nationalistic work. His \"World Gazetteer\" of 1895, a huge project, later became commonly known as The Times Gazetteer.\n\nOn Sunday 9 February 1930 he died quietly on a tram in Edinburgh while returning on a tram. He was 79.\n\n\nHe married Florence Jones in 1884.\n\nIn 1917, he was awarded the Charles P. Daly Medal of the American Geographical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302243", "title": "Edgar Pangborn", "text": "Edgar Pangborn\n\nEdgar Pangborn (February 25, 1909 – February 1, 1976) was an American writer of mystery, historical, and science fiction.\n\nEdgar Pangborn was born in New York City on February 25, 1909, to Harry Levi Pangborn, an attorney and dictionary editor, and Georgia Wood Pangborn, a noted writer of supernatural fiction. Along with his older sister Mary, Edgar was homeschooled until 1919 and then educated at Brooklyn Friends School. He began music studies at Harvard University in 1924, when he was still only 15 years old, and left in 1926 without graduating. After that he studied at the New England Conservatory of Music, but did not graduate from that school, either. On leaving he publicly abandoned music, shifting his creative focus to writing. His first novel, a mystery called \"A-100: A Mystery Story\", was published under the pseudonym \"Bruce Harrison\" in 1930. It was not an auspicious or notably successful debut, and showed none of the emotional or stylistic characteristics that became the hallmark of his later work.\n\nOver the next 20 years he wrote numerous stories for the pulp detective and mystery magazines, always under pseudonyms. He also spent three years (1939–1942) farming in rural Maine, and three years (1942–1945) doing his World War II military service in the Pacific with the U.S. Army Medical Corps.\n\nIt was not until the early 1950s that Edgar \"suddenly appeared\" within the science fiction and mystery fields, publishing a string of high-quality, high-profile stories under his own name in prominent magazines like \"Galaxy Science Fiction\", \"The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction\", and \"Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine\". His work helped to firmly establish a new \"humanist\" school of science fiction, and inspired a subsequent generation of writers, including Peter S. Beagle and Ursula K. Le Guin, who has credited Pangborn and Theodore Sturgeon with convincing her that it was possible to write worthwhile, humanly emotional stories within science fiction and fantasy.\n\nIn the 1960s Pangborn also began painting semi-professionally in oils, and exhibited portraits, nudes, and landscape paintings at local and regional art shows.\n\nHe continued to write in all genres until he died in Bearsville, New York on February 1, 1976, twenty-four days away from his 67th birthday.\n\nTwenty-seven years later, in 2003, he was named winner of that year's Cordwainer Smith Rediscovery Award. In 2018, he was named a \"Ghost of Honor\" at WorldCon 76 (San Jose, CA).\n\nPangborn came from a writing family. His mother, Georgia Wood Pangborn, was a noted writer of ghost stories that appeared regularly in such popular mainstream periodicals as \"Scribner's Magazine\", \"Harper's Monthly\", \"Woman's Home Companion\", and others. His father, Harry Levi Pangborn, worked as an editor of \"Webster's Dictionary\". Words and literature were a part of the Pangborn household from the very beginning. As children, Edgar and his sister Mary carried on the tradition by writing an extensive series of fanciful, handwritten storybooks, often collaborating on these with each other and also their mother.\n\nFor the first 20 years of his writing career, which started when he was 21, Pangborn wrote what he referred to as \"literary hackwork\" for the pulp magazines. His serious work began in 1951, with the publication of his first science fiction story, \"Angel's Egg\", in \"Galaxy Science Fiction\". The story of a race of tiny winged beings who come to Earth to help mankind, as told by a kindly biologist, it has been translated into six languages and reprinted more than twenty times. By 1954, Pangborn was well known and his second science fiction novel, \"A Mirror for Observers\" won the International Fantasy Award. This book is told from the point of view of a \"Salvayan\" (Martian) observer on Earth, who struggles with another Martian over the fate of a gifted young man. \"Galaxy\" reviewer Groff Conklin described \"Mirror\" as a \"beautiful and moving book . . . told in little details which make the tragedy all the more impressive.\"\n\nFrom there Pangborn continued writing in science fiction and in other genres as well, including the historical novel \"Wilderness of Spring\" and the contemporary courtroom drama \"The Trial of Callista Blake.\" In 1954 Pangborn wrote '\"The Music Master of Babylon\", a story set in the ruins of post-apocalypse New York and clearly related to Stephen Vincent Benét's 1937 \"By the Waters of Babylon\", already considered a classic.\n\nPangborn's best-known book, the Hugo-nominated \"Davy\" of 1964, is set in a much later part-time of that post-apocalyptic future. It is a picaresque bildungsroman set in a repressive theocratic society which developed out of the ruins of the destroyed old world. This post-apocalyptic world eventually became the backdrop for most of Pangborn's short fiction and his last novel, \"The Company of Glory\" (though not the Hugo-nominated \"Longtooth\",\nnor the 1971 Nebula finalist \"Mount Charity\").\n\nBecause of his educational background and early interests, Pangborn's works often deal with musical themes. Music plays a prominent role both in \"Davy\" and \"A Mirror For Observers\". Pangborn's works are also known for being humane and poignant in a way that nevertheless allows for some dark themes and raunchy humor.\n\nIn his introduction to Pangborn's posthumous story collection \"Still I Persist In Wondering\", Spider Robinson observed: \"[Pangborn] said again and again in his books that love is not a condition or an event or even a state of mind—that love is a country, which we are sometimes privileged to visit.\"\n\nEdgar never discussed his early musical training in detail with anyone in the science fiction, fantasy, or mystery fields. It was known that he studied the piano and violin, but that was all. In 2003, however, a large stack of handwritten music manuscripts were discovered in the attic of the Bearsville house in which Edgar died. These manuscripts included original string quartets, sonatas, nocturnes, and other orchestral forms written by Edgar during his music conservatory days.\n\nThe scores are now being converted to digital notation files that will allow MIDI playback, so they can finally be heard.\n\nThroughout his life, Edgar Pangborn maintained extensive correspondences with other writers, and he became particularly close to the American fantasy author Peter S. Beagle. After Pangborn's death that connection was maintained by his sole heir, his older sister Mary.\n\nDuring the last years of Mary's own life, Peter S. Beagle served as one of her trustees, and when Mary died in February 2003 she bequeathed the entire Pangborn estate to him, including all of Edgar's literary work. Over 50 boxes of manuscripts and papers were moved out to California for sorting, filing, digitizing, and cross-correlating with the papers in the permanent Edgar Pangborn collection held at Boston University.\n\nThe final planned result is a series of definitive hardcover editions aiming to bring all of Pangborn's works back into print in the form he intended; and, in addition, release some long-rumored manuscripts for the first time.\n\nIn 2001, the small press specialty publisher Old Earth Books published an authorized reissue of Pangborn's first science fiction novel, \"West of the Sun\". In 2004, forgetting that their contract had lapsed, Old Earth Books followed that up with unauthorized hardcover releases of \"Davy\" and \"A Mirror for Observers\". This error has since been corrected. When the existing inventory sells out these editions will not be reprinted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302246", "title": "USS Sloat", "text": "USS Sloat\n\nUSS \"Sloat\" may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302248", "title": "Bill Magee", "text": "Bill Magee\n\nWilliam J. Magee (July 6, 1875 in New Brunswick, Canada) was a Major League Baseball pitcher.\n\nA right-handed pitcher for the 1898 Louisville Colonels, Magee had a record of 16–15. He then continued his career with five National League teams in four more seasons. He walked more than twice as many batters as he struck out.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302249", "title": "Catfish Row", "text": "Catfish Row\n\nCatfish Row, originally titled Suite from Porgy and Bess, is an orchestral work by George Gershwin based upon music from his famous opera \"Porgy and Bess\". Gershwin completed the work in 1936 and it premiered at the Academy of Music in Philadelphia on January 21 of that year, with Alexander Smallens conducting the Philadelphia Orchestra. Gershwin played the piano part, including the piano solo in the opening moments. This piece preserves some of the darkest and most complex music Gershwin ever wrote.\n\nIt should not be confused with \"\", scored at the behest of Fritz Reiner by Robert Russell Bennett in 1942, and premiered by the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in 1943.\n\n\n\"Catfish Row\" is scored for two flutes (the second doubling piccolo), two oboes (the second doubling English horn), four clarinets in B-Flat (the fourth doubling bass clarinet in B-Flat), one bassoon, three French horns in F, three trumpets in B-Flat, two trombones, one tuba; a percussion section that includes timpani, drum set, xylophone, cymbals, snare drum, bass drum, tubular bells, tom-tom, wood block, suspended cymbal, glockenspiel and triangle; one piano; one banjo and strings\n\nGershwin conducted all of the ensuing performances before his death in 1937, and many scholars have pronounced it unperformed and virtually forgotten until its March 1958 rediscovery by Ira Gershwin's secretary, Lawrence D. Stewart. It did, however, receive a 14 April 1942 performance by Pierre Monteux and the San Francisco Symphony. Another performance was scheduled and publicized by the Minneapolis Symphony for the very next day (15 April 1942), but couldn't be given because there was then only one set of performance materials (score & parts) for the work (Ferencz, 2011). In 1958, Ira Gershwin decided to re-title the work \"Catfish Row\" to distinguish it from Robert Russell Bennett's medley, though its first (1959) recording, by the Utah Symphony, nonetheless used the original title.\n\nOn September 22, 2013, it was announced that a musicological critical edition of the full orchestral score will be eventually released. The Gershwin family, working in conjunction with the Library of Congress and the University of Michigan, are working to make scores available to the public that represent Gershwin's true intent. The entire Gershwin project may take 30 to 40 years to complete.\n\nSome recordings (such as a January 1990 recording by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and a December 2014 performance by the New York Philharmonic) include extra incidental music from the opera in the third and fifth movements, it is unknown if the critical edition score will include this material.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302257", "title": "1977 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1977 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 11 and 12 September 1977. The Labour Party remained the largest party in the Storting, winning 76 of the 155 seats.\n\n Seven seats were won by joint lists, of which four went to the Christian People's Party, and one each to the Centre Party, the Conservative Party and the Liberal Party.\n"}
{"id": "2302264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302264", "title": "Gross anatomy", "text": "Gross anatomy\n\nGross anatomy is the study of anatomy at the visible or macroscopic level. The counterpart to gross anatomy is the field of histology, which studies microscopic anatomy. Gross anatomy of the human body or other animals seeks to understand the relationship between components of an organism in order to gain a greater appreciation of the roles of those components and their relationships in maintaining the functions of life. The study of gross anatomy can be performed on deceased organisms using dissection or on living organisms using medical imaging. Education in the gross anatomy of humans is included training of most health professionals.\n\nGross anatomy is studied using both invasive and noninvasive methods with the goal of obtaining information of the macroscopic structure and organization of organs and organ systems. Among the most common methods of study is dissection, in which the corpse of an animal or a human cadaver is surgically opened and its organs studied. Endoscopy, in which a video camera-equipped instrument is inserted through a small incision in the subject, may be used to explore the internal organs and other structures of living animals. The anatomy of the circulatory system in a living animal may be studied noninvasively via angiography, a technique in which blood vessels are visualized after being injected with an opaque dye. Other means of study include radiological techniques of imaging, such as X-ray and MRI.\n\nMost health profession schools, such as medical, physician assistant, and dental schools, require that students complete a practical (dissection) course in gross human anatomy. Such courses aim to educate students in basic human anatomy and seek to establish anatomical landmarks that may later be used to aid medical diagnosis. Many schools provide students with cadavers for investigation by dissection, aided by dissection manuals, as well as cadaveric atlases (e.g. Netter's, Rohen's).\n\nWorking intimately with a cadaver during a gross anatomy course has been shown to capture the essence of the patient-provider relationship. However, the expense of maintaining cadaveric dissection facilities has limited the time and resources available for gross anatomy teaching in many medical schools, with some adopting alternative prosection-based or simulated teaching. This, coupled with decreasing time dedicated to gross anatomical courses within the growing greater medical school curriculum, has caused controversy surrounding the sufficiency of anatomical teaching with nearly half of newly qualified doctors believing they received insufficient anatomy teaching.\n\nMedical schools have implemented on-screen anatomical lessons and tutorials to teach students surgical procedures. The use of technological visual aids and gross dissection are more effective together than either approach alone. Recently, online flashcards and quizzes have been used as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302275", "title": "Claude Matthieu, Count Gardane", "text": "Claude Matthieu, Count Gardane\n\nClaude-Matthieu, Comte de Gardane (11 July 1766 in Marseille – 30 January 1818) was a French general and diplomat. He entered the army and rose rapidly during the revolutionary wars, becoming captain in 1793.\n\nIn May 1799 he distinguished himself by saving a division of the French army which was about to be crushed by the Russians at the battle of Bassignana, and was named at once brigadier-general by Moreau. He incurred Napoleon's displeasure for an omission of duty shortly before the battle of Marengo (June, 1800), but in 1805 was appointed to be \"aide-de-camp\" of the emperor. His chief distinction, however, was to be won in the diplomatic sphere.\n\nIn the spring of 1807, when Russia and Prussia were at war with France, and the emperor Alexander I of Russia was also engaged in hostilities with Persia. The court of Tehran sent a mission to the French emperor, then at the Finckenstein Palace in East Prussia, with a view to the conclusion of a Franco-Persian alliance. The Treaty of Finckenstein was signed on 4 May 1807, at that castle; and Napoleon designed Gardane as special envoy for the cementing of that alliance. The secret instructions which he drew up for Gardane, and signed on 30 May, are of interest as showing the strong oriental trend of the emperor's policy.\n\nFrance was to guarantee the integrity of Persia, to recognize that Georgia (then being invaded by the Russians) belonged to the shah, and was to make all possible efforts for restoring that territory to him. He was also to furnish to the shah arms, officers and workmen, in the number and to the amount demanded by him. Napoleon on his side required Persia to declare war against Great Britain to expel all Britons from her territory.\n\nGardane, whose family was well known in the Levant, had a long and dangerous journey overland, but was cordially received at Tehran in December 1807. The conclusion of the Franco-Russian treaty at Tilsit in July 1807 rendered the mission abortive. Persia longed only for help against Russia who had invaded its Caucasian territories and had no desire, when all hope of that was past, to attack India. The shah, however, promised to expel Britons and to grant to France a commercial treaty. For a time French influence completely replaced that of England at Tehran, and the mission of Sir John Malcolm to that court was not allowed to proceed. Finally, however, Gardane saw that nothing much was to be hoped for in the changed situation of European affairs, and abruptly left the country (April 1809). This conduct was not wholly approved by Napoleon, but he named him count and in 1810 attached him to Marshal Massena's army in Portugal. There, during the disastrous retreat from Santarém to Almeida, he suffered a check which brought him into disfavour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302282", "title": "Nonstress test", "text": "Nonstress test\n\nA nonstress test (NST) is a screening test used in pregnancy to assess fetal status by means of the fetal heart rate and its responsiveness. A cardiotocograph is used to monitor the fetal heart rate and presence or absence of uterine contractions. The test is typically termed \"reactive\" (also \"reassuring\") or \"nonreactive\" (also \"nonreassuring\").\n\nThe premise of the NST is that a well-oxygenated, non-acidemic fetus will spontaneously have temporary increases, termed \"accelerations,\" in the fetal heart rate (FHR).\n\nVibroacoustic stimulation can wake the fetus, and is sometimes used to speed up the test or to facilitate further evaluation of a non-reactive nonstress test.\n\nA nonstress test can be classified as normal, atypical, or abnormal. A normal nonstress test will show a baseline fetal heart rate between 110 and 160 beats per minute with moderate variability (5- to 25-interbeat variability) and 2 qualifying accelerations in 20 minutes with no decelerations.\n\n\"Reactive\" is defined as the presence of two or more fetal heart rate accelerations within a 20-minute period. Each acceleration must increase the heart rate 15 beats per minute above the baseline rate, and last for at least 15 seconds when the fetus is above 32 weeks' gestation, or 10 beats per minute over 10 seconds when the fetus is at or below 32 weeks' gestation.\n\n\"Non-reactive\" is defined as fewer than two adequate accelerations during a prolonged period, which may be over an hour.\n\nAn NST may be non-reactive for reasons unrelated to fetal oxygenation status. These include fetal sleep, exposure to central nervous system depressants, exposure to beta-blockers, or chronic smoking during the pregnancy.\n\nIf the nonstress test is reactive, the rate of fetal demise in the following week is approximately 1.9 per 1000. A nonreactive nonstress test has a false positive rate of 75%-90%, and therefore is followed by more definitive testing, which may include a contraction stress test or a biophysical profile. \n\n"}
{"id": "2302285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302285", "title": "McDonogh School", "text": "McDonogh School\n\nMcDonogh School is a private, coeducational, PK-12, college-preparatory school founded in Owings Mills, Maryland, United States in 1873. The school is named after John McDonogh, whose estate originally funded the school. The school now enrolls approximately 1,300 students, between 90 and 100 of whom participate in the Upper School's five-day boarding program. McDonogh employs approximately 177 full-time faculty members, more than 80% of whom hold advanced degrees and 20% of whom live on-campus.\n\nMcDonogh is regarded as one of the Baltimore region's most prestigious preparatory schools and has been called a \"Power School\" by \"Baltimore\" magazine. The school's students frequently matriculate to Ivy League and other top-ranked colleges and universities. McDonogh's athletic programs have also seen widespread success, particularly in lacrosse, soccer, wrestling, and football, where the school's teams have been nationally ranked in recent years.\n\nThe school is a member of the Association of Independent Maryland Schools.\n\nThe school was established outside of Baltimore, Maryland in 1873 and funded by the estate of John McDonogh (1779 - 1850), a former Baltimore resident.\n\nDocuments in the archives of McDonogh School include letters from his former slaves thanking John McDonogh (prior to 1850) for his giving slaves the opportunity to work to buy their freedom and transport to Africa.\n\nMcDonogh was established as an all-white, semi-military school for orphan boys, who worked on the farm in exchange for their tuition, room, and board. Paying students arrived in 1922, and day students in 1927. The first African-American student was admitted in 1959. In 1971, the military traditions of the school were discontinued. The school became coeducational in 1975. Full and partial McDonogh scholarships continue to this day, with $5.4 million in need-based aid awarded in the 2017-2018 school year.\n\nDavid J. Farace, the present headmaster, is the 13th head of school. He assumed the position in 2018, succeeding Charles W. Britton.\n\nThe Upper School offers a college preparatory curriculum that includes courses in English, foreign language, history, mathematics, science, visual and performing arts, and physical education. Honors or Advanced Placement courses are available in all academic departments. Upper School students must also complete a community service requirement. All students perform an academic project independently or in small groups during the final three weeks of their senior year.\n\nAcademic and personal integrity is emphasized in the Upper School's Honor Code, which is enforced by a student-run Honor Council. The Honor Code reads:\nThe academic calendar at McDonogh follows a trimester system.\n\nAt McDonogh, the Roots Farm performs humanitarian work by growing vegetables and then donating them to local charity organizations.\n\nThe farm has so far donated 2,064 pounds of produce to charity organizations, and has benefited from 2,850 student service hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302288", "title": "Edward Ullman", "text": "Edward Ullman\n\nEdward Louis Ullman (1912 – 1976), son of classical scholar Berthold Ullman, was trained as a geographer at University of Chicago where he was influenced by the urban and economic emphasis in social science. He was an urban geographer, transportation researcher and regional development specialist and became the champion of applied geography. His study and dissertation on the economic aspects of Mobile, Ullman began a career of transit studies. He was the Office of Strategic Services transportation specialist in World War II.\n\nAfter the war he served as a lieutenant in the United States Navy Reserve and was an economist for the United States Maritime Commission. He also did research for the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Pentagon and the State Department. In 1951 he began his academic work at the Department of Geography, University of Washington and was a Fulbright research professor at the Sapienza University of Rome in 1956-1957. He did academic work in Germany and Israel. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission and Amtrak utilized his services in their formative years.\n\nHe proposed that trade was an interaction based on three phenomena: \"complementarity\", \"intervening opportunities\", and \"transferability of commodities\".\n\nThe level of interaction can be measured by the \"Gravity model\" of trade:\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302298", "title": "Macabre", "text": "Macabre\n\nIn works of art, the adjective macabre ( or ; ) means \"having the quality of having a grim or ghastly atmosphere\". The macabre works to emphasize the details and symbols of death. The term also refers to works particularly gruesome in nature.\n\nThis quality is not often found in ancient Greek and Latin writers, though there are traces of it in Apuleius and the author of the Satyricon. Outstanding instances in English literature include the works of John Webster, Robert Louis Stevenson, Mervyn Peake, Charles Dickens, Roald Dahl, Thomas Hardy and Cyril Tourneur. In American literature, authors whose work feature this quality include Edgar Allan Poe, H. P. Lovecraft, and Stephen King. The word has gained its significance from its use in French as \"la danse macabre\" for the allegorical representation of the ever-present and universal power of death, known in English as the Dance of Death and in German as \"Totentanz\". The typical form which the allegory takes is that of a series of images in which Death appears, either as a dancing skeleton or as a shrunken shrouded corpse, to people representing every age and condition of life, and leads them all in a dance to the grave. Of the numerous examples painted or sculptured on the walls of cloisters or church yards through medieval Europe, few remain except in woodcuts and engravings.\n\nThe theme continued to inspire artists and musicians long after the medieval period, Schubert's string quartet \"Death and the Maiden\" (1824) being one example, and Camille Saint-Saëns' tone poem Danse macabre, op. 40 (1847).\n<br>In the 20th century, Ingmar Bergman's 1957 film \"The Seventh Seal\" has a personified Death, and could thus count as macabre.\n\nThe origin of this allegory in painting and sculpture is disputed. It occurs as early as the 14th century, and has often been attributed to the overpowering consciousness of the presence of death due to the Black Death and the miseries of the Hundred Years' War. It has also been attributed to a form of the Morality, a dramatic dialogue between Death and his victims in every station of life, ending in a dance off the stage. The origin of the peculiar form the allegory has taken has also been found in the dancing skeletons on late Roman sarcophagi and mural paintings at Cumae or Pompeii, and a false connection has been traced with \"The Triumph of Death\", attributed to Orcagna, in the Campo Santo at Pisa.\n\nThe etymology of the word \"macabre\" is uncertain. According to Gaston Paris it first occurs in the form \"macabre\" in Jean le Fèvre's \"Respit de la mort\" (1376), \"Je fis de Macabré la danse\", and he takes this accented form to be the true one, and traces it in the name of the first painter of the subject. The more usual explanation is based on the Latin name, \"Machabaeorum chorea\" (Dance of Maccabees). The seven tortured brothers, with their mother and Eleazar (2 Maccabees 6 and 7) were prominent figures on this hypothesis in the supposed dramatic dialogues.\nOther connections have been suggested, as for example with St. Macarius, or Macaire, the hermit, who, according to Vasari, is to be identified with the figure pointing to the decaying corpses in the Pisan \"Triumph of Death\", or with an Arabic word \"maqābir\" (مقابر), cemeteries (plural of \"maqbara\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302308", "title": "Greg Hargrove", "text": "Greg Hargrove\n\nGregory James Hargrove (born March 4, 1959) is a former politician in New Brunswick, Canada. He led the New Brunswick Confederation of Regions Party from 1995-1999.\n\nBorn in Fredericton, New Brunswick in 1959, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick in the 1991 election along with seven other members of CoR. He defeated incumbent Liberal Robert Simpson in the riding of York North, who had been elected as the first Liberal in the riding since 1953, in the 1987 Liberal sweep. The CoR party went through numerous leadership disputes, and Hargrove eventually became the leader in July 1995 shortly before that year's election. He was defeated in his bid for re-election in the riding of Mactaquac, placing a strong third place.\n\nThe CoR party failed to win any seats in the legislature in the 1995 election. Hargrove attempted to re-enter the House in a 1997 by-election in Tantramar, but finished a distant fourth of four candidates, getting only 2.5% of the vote, compared to 10% for the CoR candidate two years earlier.\n\nHe continued to the lead the party until after the writs were dropped for the 1999 election, but declined to contest a seat and resigned the leadership. He was replaced as leader by Jim Webb.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302310", "title": "Veturia", "text": "Veturia\n\nVeturia was a Roman matron, the mother of the possibly legendary Roman general Gaius Marcius Coriolanus. According to Plutarch her name was Volumnia.\n\nVeturia came from a patrician family and encouraged her son's involvement in Roman politics. According to Roman historians, Coriolanus was expelled from Rome in the early fifth century BC because he demanded the abolition of the office of Tribune of the Plebs in return for distributing state grain to the starving plebeians. He settled with the Volscians, a people hostile to Rome, while formulating his revenge.\n\nCoriolanus and the Volscians marched upon Rome and laid siege to the city. The Romans sent envoys to Coriolanus, but to no avail. Then Veturia, together with Coriolanus' wife Volumnia, plus other family members and matrons of Rome, successfully entreated Coriolanus to break off his siege.\n\nThe precise versions of the entreaties differ.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, when Veturia came to her son's camp, Coriolanus embraced her and begged her to ally herself with his cause. Veturia refused on behalf of all the Roman citizens and convinced her son to cease his crusade against Rome, throwing herself at his feet and threatening to do harm to herself if he did not retreat. Coriolanus obliged, and marched away from Rome; soon, the angry and frustrated Volscians put him to death.\n\nLivy says that Veturia refused to embrace her son, but ultimately convinced him to desist, and is quoted as having said:\n\n\"\"Before I receive your embrace, let me know whether I have come to an enemy or to a son; whether I am in your camp a captive or a mother? Has length of life and a hapless old age reserved me for this—to behold you an exile, then an enemy? Could you lay waste this land, which gave you birth and nurtured you? Though you had come with an incensed and vengeful mind, did not your resentment subside when you entered its frontiers? When Rome came within view, did it not occur to you, within these walls my house and guardian gods are, my mother, wife, and children? So then, had I not been a mother, Rome would not be besieged: had I not a son, I might have died free in a free country. But I can now suffer nothing that is not more discreditable to you than distressing to me; nor however wretched I may be, shall I be so long. Look to these, whom, if you persist, either an untimely death or lengthened slavery awaits.\"\"\n\nLivy also records that sources differ as to Coriolanus' fate, and whether he lived on after the incident.\n\nThe Romans honored Veturia for her courage, patriotism, and strength in a crisis; she had succeeded where all men before her had failed. She became a model of Roman female virtue. A temple to divine Fortuna was built in honour of her and the other women. She did not ask for any special favors or honors, except that a temple be built as a monument of Female Fortune. Plutarch wrote: \"The senate, much commending their public spirit, caused the temple to be built and a statue set up in it at the public charge; they, however, made up a sum among themselves, for a second image of Fortune, which the Romans say uttered, as it was putting up, words to this effect, “Blessed of the gods, O women, is your gift.”\"\n\nIn Shakespeare's play \"Coriolanus\", the character of Coriolanus' mother performs much the same function as in the Roman story, but her name has been changed to \"Volumnia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302313", "title": "Foot Clan", "text": "Foot Clan\n\nFoot Clan is a fictional ninja clan in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comics and all related media. It is led by the devious Shredder and his second in command Karai. The Foot Clan was originally a parody of the criminal ninja clan The Hand in the \"Daredevil\" comics. In addition to the obvious similarity in their names, both clans originate from Feudal Japan, practice ninjutsu and black magic, and are now powerful global organized crime rings who are familiar with multiple illegal activities such as; drug smuggling, counterfeiting of money, gunrunning, murder, assassination, computer hacking, theft, and terrorism.\n\nIn the universe of Eastman and Laird's \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\", the Foot Clan was founded in Feudal Japan by two men named Sato and Oshi. In Volume 1 Issue 47, the Turtles and Time Mistress Renet traveled to a time prior to the Foot's creation. There, Raphael met Sato and Oshi, and, not realising who they are, he taught them about Ninjutsu. After the Turtles returned to the present, Sato and Oshi decided to follow the ways of the ninja. Oshi declared: \"We must never again mention the strange shelled creatures. In time, others will join us and we will become a force to be reckoned with. So just as every journey begins with a single step... we shall call ourselves The Foot.\"\n\nThe Foot Clan are the most feared clan of warriors and assassins in Japan. Both Hamato Yoshi and Oroku Nagi were members, until one day, Nagi attacked Yoshi's love Tang Shen and Yoshi killed Nagi. Dishonored, Yoshi and Shen fled to New York City, while Nagi's younger brother Oroku Saki was adopted by the clan and was trained to become a fierce ninja. When he was ready, Saki was sent to America to head the New York branch of the Clan. Under his leadership, it took only a year for it to become a powerful and fearsome group.\n\nSaki also sought vengeance for his brother and, using the persona of \"The Shredder\", he assassinated Yoshi and Shen. Over a decade later, the Ninja Turtles challenged Shredder to a rooftop duel to avenge Yoshi and Shen. Shredder sent his Foot Ninja to fight the Turtles, but they were no match for the Turtles and were eventually defeated. Shredder then fought the Turtles himself, and although he was a more skilled ninja than them, he was killed when he fell off a building carrying a grenade. In the later issues, Shredder was revived to take revenge on the turtles and then revived again as a clone made of worms with mutating as a shark before perishing for good.\n\nAfter Shredder's death, the American Foot fell apart, and the Foot Soldiers began fighting against Shredder's elite guard. Karai, a clan leader from Japan, came here to stop the clan war. She enlisted the Turtles' help in this, in exchange for promising that no Foot shall ever try to avenge the Shredder again. This peace treaty is still in effect in Volume 4 of the comic.\n\nIn Volume 4 the Foot were given a security contract by the Utroms for their base because the Utroms have a no weapons policy and the Foot are skilled at hand-to-hand combat. At some point, mysterious Aztec warriors started to attack the Foot all over the world. Karai informed Leonardo that the New York Branch of the Foot was all that was left.\n\nThe Foot Clan's logo is a drawing of a left foot. Issues 3 and 4 of the new \"Tales of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" feature a Foot mystic with magical abilities, including the power to resurrect the dead.\n\nThe 1987 series and the spin-off \"TMNT Adventures\" comics share a similar continuity, and thus the same version of the Foot Clan. The Foot is an ancient ninjutsu clan, founded in Japan in 1583. The Shredder, followed by the Turtles and Splinter, went back and forth in time to try to kill the creator of the Foot Clan. In 1583, Shredder's ancestor Oroku Sancho led a small group of samurai, and Shredder offered to help him find magical artifacts that would give him power and wealth beyond his wildest dreams. Meanwhile, Splinter's ancestor Hamato Koji had been sent to find the same artifacts and did find them with the help of his descendant and the Turtles. One of the artifacts released a dragon, which headed for nearby villages; Splinter and Koji went to stop it while the Turtles went to fight Shredder. Sancho's men captured the Turtles and were about to execute them when Koji arrived, riding the dragon, which he had tamed. Seeing this, Sancho fled in fear, and Koji offered to lead Sancho's men and teach them the ninjutsu art of Shibana-Sama, founding the Foot Clan, so named for the footprint of the dragon in which he stood as he made his speech. (However, according to \"Blast from the Past\", the Foot was founded by the noble warrior Shibana-Sama).\n\nIn 1960s Japan, both Oroku Saki and Hamato Yoshi were part of the Clan. Saki framed Yoshi for trying to murder a visiting sensei and had him exiled to New York City, thus clearing the way to take over the Foot Clan. He then proceeded to turn the Foot Clan into an army of criminals. Over the years, Saki, who became known as The Shredder, moved to the US, allied himself with the alien warlord Krang, and replaced the human Foot Ninja with robotic Foot Soldiers. However, these robots are no match for the Ninja Turtles, who destroy them at every encounter.\n\nIn the cartoon, The Shredder once considered making more intelligent Foot Soldiers, capable of learning and taking decisions by themselves. However, the idea was quickly abandoned when the first intelligent prototype, named Alpha 1, rebelled against The Shredder.\n\nThe Foot Clan's logo is a drawing of a right foot, and the Foot Soldiers wear purple and black uniforms featuring the logo on their foreheads. The Foot logo can also be seen on the Technodrome.\n\nThe Archie \"TMNT Adventures\" comics features more advanced Foot Soldiers in addition to the basic model. In the comics, The Shredder also built a giant Foot Soldier, who fought against the Warrior Dragon in New York City. The robot was destroyed when it crashed into the Statue of Liberty.\n\nThe Foot robot concept allowed the Turtles to destroy the Foot soldiers without any moral thoughts, allowing Leonardo and Raphael to use their weapons more offensively. Meanwhile, the series could keep its younger audience and remain a \"family show\". This principle also benefited the video games.\n\nIn the IDW Publishing adaption, the Foot Clan existed since the time of feudal Japan where it was founded by a ronin by the name of Takeshi Tatsuo who had been betrayed by his master. The sorceress Kitsune helped Tatsuo, to recover from the severe wounds he had suffered in the assassination attempt. The name of the clan was created by the bloody footprint of Tatsuo whose leg was completely healed by Kitsune ministrations.\n\nWhen Tatsuo was betrayed by his clan are learning that he made a pact with a magician, his mind was born again in the son of his murderer Oroku Saki, the uprooting of the reawakening of his old memories powered over the communities and with Kitsune's counsel the Foot was revived in modern times.\n\nIn more recent times, the clan under the leadership of Oroku Saki (who was now operating as Shredder) tried to expand its supremacy in New York City. Its Foot Ninja were therefore often sent to amass any science that could help the Foot and also to find new test subjects. In this way, it led to the creation of the mutant arctic fox Alopex.\n\nIn this endeavor, the Foot Clan also came into contact with the extradimensional warlord General Krang who also wanted to create a mutant army to meet his objectives. An attack by the Foot Clan in the laboratory of Krang's ally Baxter Stockman led by a combination of circumstances to the creation of the Turtles and their father Splinter (who in a previous life had himself belonged to the Foot Clan).\n\nBesides Shredder, Kitsune, and a substantial number of Foot Ninjas, other members of the Foot Clan include Karai (who was a descendant of Oroku Saki and the daughter of Oroku Yori), Masato, Dr. Miller, Alopex (a mutated Arctic Fox), Rocksteady, Bebop, Koya (Shredder's pet brown falcon who was later mutated), and Bludgeon (a mutant hammerhead shark).\n\nIDW also did a crossover issues with Batman called \"Batman/Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" where the Foot Clan appeared. The first crossover showed the Foot Clan collaborating with the League of Assassins.\n\nIn the first and movies, the Foot Clan is a group of ninja thieves founded by the Shredder in Japan, but later stationed in New York. The Shredder had taken what Foot Soldiers he had from Japan, and began taking kids from the streets upon moving to New York and training them in Ninjutsu himself. His second-in-command is another Ninjutsu master called Tatsu. In the films, the Foot use the kanji , which translates to \"demon\" or \"ogre\", as their symbol, worn in their hachimaki or on their backs. The Foot Ninja were no match for the Turtles individually, however their first major confrontation with the Turtles resulted in Raphael beaten nearly to death and the remaining Turtles forced to retreat; all confrontations after showed the Turtles being able to defeat the Foot easily. After the Shredder's apparent death and massive arrests by the NYPD, the clan was reduced to a fraction of its former size by the second film.\n\nIn the second film, Tatsu tried to take command. He relinquished his claim when the Shredder returned. The clan then kidnapped Professor Jordon Perry of TGRI and forced him to use a mutagen so the Foot Clan could create two mutant warriors named Tokka and Rahzar to fight the Turtles. Although these two mutants were a match for the Turtles in physical strength, the Turtles defeated them by de-mutating them back into normal harmless animals. The Shredder himself apparently died shortly after, while fighting the Turtles.\n\nIn the fourth film, the Foot is now under leadership of Karai, who has taken control after the Shredder's demise. They have grown in numbers and skill, and offer their services as mercenaries in the film. They are hired by Max Winters to track down and bring in the 13 monsters arriving in New York City. Eventually, they later learn of his intention to send the monsters back to their world with a portal, and that his stone generals have betrayed him by substituting Leonardo for the thirteenth monster in order to use the portal to bring in a new army of monsters to take over the Earth. It was then the Stone Generals demand that Karai and the Foot Clan serve them, but they refused, as they want to honor their deal with Winters. Without hesitation, Karai orders the Foot Clan to help April and Casey find the last monster and lure it into the portal while the Turtles fights the Generals as well as Winters and Splinter warding off new more coming from the portal. After the final monster is sent in to the portal along with the Stone Generals, Karai and the Foot Clan peacefully part ways with the Turtles, reminding them of the Shredder's possible return.\n\nIn the 2014 live-action film (which is a reboot of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film series), the Foot Clan are no longer considered an international ninja cult, but rather a modern American terrorist organization. Besides Shredder and Karai, the film also introduced Eric Sacks who is Shredder's student, Dr. O'Neil's former lab partner, and the CEO of Sacks Industries. Instead of black unitard-clad masked ninjitsu warriors, they are portrayed as fully armed men that wear black military-like uniforms and often wore kabuki style masks to conceal one's identity.\n\nIn \"\", the Foot Ninjas make their appearance, under leadership of Baxter Stockman to free Shredder.\n\nIn the 1997-1998 \"\" series, the Foot Clan is a street gang, similar to the movies. After Venus defeated The Shredder, Leonardo told the kids that the Foot is a lie, and the clan was disbanded.\n\nIn the 2003 series, the Foot Clan is more similar to its original comic version. The Foot Clan are a group of warriors and assassins that Shredder created 700 years ago in Japan. The Shredder, who in this series is a long-lived Utrom named Ch'rell, has led the Clan since its creation and has turned it into a fearsome and secret group present across the world. The Foot emblem is a red, trident-like footprint (hence the name of the clan), an inverted version of the \"Three-Toed Sign of the Dragon\", the symbol of the five warriors who had defeated the original demon known as the Shredder in 300 AD. Thanks to Shredder's knowledge of Utrom technology, the Clan has weapons and equipment centuries ahead of human technology. They once created Foot Mechs in \"Rogue in the House\" which were based on Master Splinter, the President, the Prime Minister, and some others.\n\nThe Foot Clan is divided into several branches:\n\n\nTowards the end of the Ninja Turtles magazine published at the same time as the series, the Foot Mystics are killed by Splinter, when he uses the Sword of Tengu on them. He causes the Fire Mystic to melt the Metal Mystic, the Water Mystic to quench the Fire Mystic, the Earth Mystic to swallow the Water Mystic, the Wind Mystic to scatter the Earth Mystic, and the Metal Mystic is killed by Splinter. However, he is drained by the Sword's power (having not used Leonardo's magic glove).\n\nThe Foot Clan itself is under the ultimate command of The Utrom Shredder Ch'rell, and his second in command is his adopted daughter Karai. Prior to Karai's appearance, Hun served as Shredder's second and chief enforcer as well as leading the Purple Dragons. But when Karai appeared, she was quickly shown to be higher in Shredder's favor than Hun. After The Shredder was exiled to the ice asteroid belt of Mor Tal in the episode \"Exodus, Part 2\", Karai assumed command of the Clan and the mantle of the Shredder giving the Foot Ninja and Foot Elite new designs while Hun evolved the Purple Dragons from a street gang to an organized criminal organization.\n\nSomehow after the events of the defeat of the Demon Shredder and the year the Turtles were stuck in the future in \"Fast Forward\", Khan gained control of the Foot, who now dressed in Cyber Foot armor. Under Khan's rule, they were in a gang war against Hun and the Purple Dragons. Once Cyber Shredder appeared, he took control and it was Khan's mission to bring him back into reality. Many believe Khan was once an Elite Foot since his theme is the same theme used whenever the Elite Foot appeared.\n\nKhan must have lost control of the Foot after Cyber Shredder's defeat because Karai was in control of the Foot once more in the movie \"Turtles Forever\". At this point, the Utrom Shredder returned by means of his counterpart, the Shredder of the 1987 series. The Technodrome became the headquarters for the Foot Clan of the 2003 series and the robotic foot soldiers were added to the Foot's fighting force after an upgrade with Utrom technology. Using Krang's mutagen reverse-engineered from the mutagen that affected Hun, they also added mutated some of the Cyber Foot where they were classified as Mutant Foot Soldiers and were not seen coming in contact with whatever they mutated into. While two of these mutants resemble Tokka and Rahzar, the rest of the Mutant Foot Soldiers consist of a sea creature-like mutant, a one-eyed mutant, a tiger-like mutant, a mutant with an octopus-shaped head, an insect-like mutant, a bat-like mutant, and some unspecified mutants. The Utrom Shredder kept the 1987 Shredder and Krang on, as well as Bebop and Rocksteady to help lead the Foot. However the Utrom Shredder turned on his counterpart and Krang later in the movie. The Utrom Shredder was eventually destroyed by the Technodrome's weapons. Karai most likely retook control of the Foot at this point.\n\nIn the 2012 series, the Foot Clan's origins are expanded on in the second season of the series. The clan was founded in 512 A.D. in Japan by a master martial artist named Koga Takuza, who used the swords of his fallen foes to forge a helmet stronger than steel, dubbing it the Kuro Kabuto. The Kabuto helmet is a symbol of the leader of the Foot Clan, passed down to the various rulers in the Foot's history. The Foot Clan would end up in a lengthy war against the Hamato Clan, which reached a boiling point when Oroku Saki was raised alongside Hamato Yoshi. Though the two were raised as brothers, Saki discovered his true heritage as being an orphaned Foot Clan member, and when his love Tang Shen wed Yoshi, he inadvertently killed Shen leaving Yoshi to perish while saving his infant daughter Hamato Miwa. Saki rose in the ranks to become the leader of the Foot Clan, tutoring several worthy pupils such as world-famous martial arts star Chris Bradford (who would later be mutated into Dogpound and later Rahzar) and Brazilian street thug Xever Montes (who would later be mutated into Fishface) and sharing business with business partners such as Russian arms dealer Ivan Steranko, Chinese-American Purple Dragons leader Hun, and Italian mafia boss Don Vizioso. In this series, the Foot Clan is a global ninjutsu clan answering only to the Shredder, though others run the various factions of the Foot Clan across the globe.\n\nShredder commanded the Foot from Japan until he learned that Yoshi was training his own ninjas in New York City, and moved his inner clan there with the objective of finding and killing Yoshi and his students. However, Shredder, Karai (a renamed Miwa), Dogpound, Fishface, and their reluctant new conscript, former TCRI inventor Baxter Stockman, fail time and again to do so. Karai learned of the Kraang, an alien race responsible for the mutations of Splinter and the Turtles, who are secretly plotting to conquer and terraform Earth, but Shredder dismisses them until he captures one himself and learns from it that the Turtles guard April O'Neil, whose half-Kraang genetics were need for their invasion. After another failed attempt to kill the Turtles, Shredder allies the Foot Clan with the Kraang, as they share a mutual enemy in the Hamato Clan.\n\nIn the second season, Shredder left the New York clan under Karai's command, citing urgent business to attend to in Japan. Karai, having been lied to by Shredder to believe that Splinter killed Tang Shen (believing herself to be Saki and Shen's child), uses her new position to aggressively hunt the Hamato Clan until her father's return. Shredder reshuffles the Foot Clan's hierarchy upon his return, installing mutated Japanese mercenary Tiger Claw as his new second-in-command and stripping Karai of the position, though Tiger Claw was briefly trapped in various other dimensions before eventually returning to the fold. Baxter Stockman was later mutated into Stockman-Fly upon his mutagen collar being set off by Shredder for his 74th attempt at making a mutant army for him. However, having been told of her true nature by Splinter and the Turtles, Karai betrayed her father, and when she was brought before him, he admitted that she was Splinter and Tang Shen's biological daughter and imprisons her. The Foot Clan would on one notable occasion be fully mobilized when the Kabuto was stolen by professional thief Anton Zeck on behalf of Steranko. Karai was soon used in a hasty plan to gain vengeance on Splinter by Shredder, resulting in her mutation into a snake-like mutant (though she went back and forth to an additional chemical that Stockman-Fly accidentally added), further strengthening the violent split between the Foot Clan and the Hamato Clan.\n\nAs a result, Shredder opted to aid the Kraang in their invasion of New York and the Earth, dismissing the likelihood that the Kraang will turn on him. In exchange for their aid in taking New York, Kraang Prime promised to cure Karai of her mutation. The invasion was successful, and though Leonardo defeated the majority of his men in battle, Shredder critically wounded him and was able to finally defeat Splinter, having lost to him on several prior occasions.\n\nIn the third season, Shredder reveals that they will betray the Kraang and has the entire clan search for Karai before learning that Splinter had survived but lost his memory. It was returned to him by April when she, the Turtles and Casey Jones came to rescue him and she used her physic Kraang powers to bring Splinter to his senses. Shredder later mutated Anton Zeck into Bebop and Ivan Steranko into Rocksteady for Anton's theft of the Kuro Kabuto and Ivan's hunting of Karai. When the two of them tried to attack Shredder in retaliation, Shredder beat them up and told them to either serve him or fall at hand. Ivan and Anton agreed to Shredder's terms—for now. Following a fight with the Turtles, Rocksteady and Bebop successfully captured Serpent Karai and brought her to the Shredder. After the Kraang were defeated and driven back to their home dimension by the Turtles and the Mighty Mutanimals, the balance of power over the Manhattan underworld is shifted over to the Foot Clan. This was done for Shredder by gaining control over the Purple Dragon and other Asian gangs through Hun (and possibly Tiger Claw), several South American gangs through Fishface, the Russian Mafia through Rocksteady, and the Italian Mafia through Don Vizioso. By using this power, Shredder had these crime groups aid him with collecting various chemicals from a chemical company called Aumen, an abandoned Kraang lab and Vizioso for a mind control serum that he planned to create and use on the Turtles, the Mutanimals and Karai. The Foot were also served on at least two occasions by a trio of mutants created from the Shredder's DNA and that of several crustaceans, but these were later destroyed after being fused into the so-called \"Mega Shredder.\"\n\nThe Foot later formed an unlikely alliance with Splinter and the Turtles to deal with the threat of the Triceraton's Black Hole Generator, only for Shredder to violate the truce and murder Splinter before he could deactivate the device. As a result, the device went off, and all the Foot Clan members were drawn into the black hole along with the entirety of Earth's population-with the exception of April, Casey, and the Turtles-and the planet itself. Due to the Fugitoid using a device on his ship at the start of the fourth season, time was reset to six months before the Triceraton invasion so that the Turtles, April, and Casey could prevent the Triceratons from assembling the Black Hole Generator. The heroes later teamed with their past selves to save the Earth, during which they were able to alert Splinter to Shredder's murderous intent, leading to a duel between Splinter and Shredder. Splinter achieved victory, but Tiger Claw recovered his master and warned that the Foot Clan would return.\n\nKarai started to lead a splintered branch of the Foot Clan with the witch Shinigami which goes into battle against Shredder's branch. Shredder recuperates by taking mutagen which transforms him into Super-Shredder in order to turn the tide against Kara's branch. Super-Shredder managed to kill Splinter. When most of its members are defeated, Super-Shredder is hit by some retro-mutagen which failed to work and is beheaded by Leonardo.\n\nIn the final season, Tiger Claw started to lead the Foot Clan and their new Foot Cultists into summoning the mystical dragonoid Kavaxas from the Netherworld with a special talisman. After gathering Shredder's helmet and heart from Tatsu's branch and Don Vizioso's group, Tiger Claw had Kavaxas revive Shredder as a sentient zombie. Zombie Shredder started to take Kavaxas as his second-in-command. During the fight against the Foot Clan, Fishface left after explaining the Foot Cultists' origin to the Turtles, a revived Rahzar fell into the Netherworld, and Kavaxas was forcefully dragged back into the Netherworld by Zombie Shredder who states that they belong dead. Afterwards, Tiger Claw calls a truce with the Turtles.\n\nThe Foot Clan also has a variation in their soldiers:\n\n\nIn \"Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\", the Foot Clan are hired mercenaries. Its known members are the Foot Lieutenant and the Foot Brute. They can make origami ninjas out of paper and have the power of teleportation through hidden gateways. They serve an unknown sensei and are collecting ancient artifacts for some purpose.\n\nIn the episode \"The Evil League of Mutants,\" the Foot Lieutenant and an origami ninja were shown committing a heist which the Turtles couldn't stop. Later on, the Foot Lieutenant and the Foot Brute teleport Baron Draxum away from the Turtles as both sides see that they have a common enemy in the Turtles.\n\nThe episode \"Shadow of Evil\" reveals that the Shredder is their master and the Foot Clan are trying to collect armor pieces of the Kuroi Yori to revive him. It is also revealed that the Foot Clan uses a shoe store called the Foot Shack as a front for their activities.\n\nIn \"Warren and Hypno, Sitting in a Tree,\" Baron Draxum claims the gauntlet Warren Stone has that turned out to be part of the Kuroi Yoroi for the Foot Clan.\n\nIn \"Operation: Normal,\" the Foot Lieutenant and the Foot Brute target the slime Yōkai Sunita because the boots she was wearing are part of the Kuroi Yoroi. They managed to claim them.\n\nIn \"How to Make Enemies and Bend People to Your Will,\" Baron Draxum and the Foot Recruit find Kuroi Yoroi fragment is at the botanical gardens. They claim it after setting up events where the Foot Lieutenant and the Foot Brute would fail.\n\nIn \"One Man's Junk,\" the next piece of the Kuroi Yuroi was in the possession of Repo Mantis who claimed it from a Yōkai and held in his salvage yard. After trapping the cat/mantis mutant who was owned by Repo Mantis, the Turtles learn from him that two fire-headed guys working as shoe salesmen bought the metal from him. This causes the Turtles to learn that the Foot Lieutenant and the Foot Brute claimed the metal.\n\nIn \"Many Happy Returns,\" Shredder acted like a feral beast. The Foot Lieutenant, Foot Brute, and Foot Recruit retreat to find out what went wrong.\n\nThe Foot Clan appear in the film \"Batman vs. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" (which is based on the IDW crossover). Sato and Oshi (see above) are mentioned as founders of the Foot Clan. The Foot Clan collaborated with the League of Assassins in a plot that involved using a stolen Wayne Enterprises cloud seeder to spread a compound containing a mixture of mutagen and Joker venom on Gotham City. A select number of Foot Ninjas were mutated into mutant animals where two of them were mutated into a mutant pigeon and a mutant Tyrannosaurus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302319", "title": "Matt West", "text": "Matt West\n\nMatt West is a choreographer and actor. He choreographed the first Broadway production of \"Beauty and the Beast\". He won a Drama-Logue Award for his work on that show.\n\nHis acting credits include the role of Bobby in the Broadway musical \"A Chorus Line\". He reprised this role in the 1985 movie version directed by Richard Attenborough.\n\nWest co-produced and choreographed \"Lestat\", a musical based on the \"Vampire Lestat\" stories by Ann Rice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302321", "title": "Louisiana Scholars' College", "text": "Louisiana Scholars' College\n\nThe Louisiana Scholars' College at Northwestern State University, or \"Scholars' College\" as it is known by its students and faculty, is Louisiana's only designated four-year, selective-admissions honors college in the liberal arts and sciences.\nAs Louisiana's designated four-year, selective-admissions honors college in the liberal arts and sciences, Scholars' College receives applications from the very best students from all over Louisiana, the rest of the U.S., and several foreign countries. Established in 1987 to meet the special needs of honors students and provide them with an affordable, quality education that is second to none, the Louisiana Scholars' College has developed a unique, comprehensive, and interdisciplinary curriculum that has proven highly successful in helping such students develop their full potential.\n\nThe Scholars' College experience features:\n\nThe Scholars' College was initially developed as an \"experiment\" in higher education. In contrast to university norms, it is structured around a seminar format and embraces a rigorous liberal arts and sciences core curriculum aimed at giving bright students the skills they need to self-educate. In reviewing the development of Western thought both in science and the humanities, it welcomes students into this progression with the tools needed to excel. Central to this learning method is the seminar format. It allows for a free exchange of ideas between students and professors, and it teaches students how to work together toward understanding, how to present and defend ideas clearly, and how to accept other people’s views and opinions in a professional manner.\n\nThe Scholars' College was established in 1987 by the Louisiana Board of Regents and then-governor Edwin Edwards as the state's only officially designated honors college for the State of Louisiana.\n\nThe Scholars' College curriculum has four distinct components:\n\nThe College seeks to assure each of its students a sustained and coherent experience of the central modes of human thought and expression: mathematics, philosophy, literature, science, history, languages, and the fine and performing arts. All students develop a common core of knowledge in these fields, thereby achieving that sense of shared purpose and reciprocated understanding which is essential to the life of an intellectual community, while at the same time building a strong foundation for later and more specialized work. By completing the Common Curriculum, all students satisfy the requirements for the Certificate of Excellence in undergraduate education awarded by the State Board of Regents.\n\nRead on for a more detailed description of the Common Curriculum.\n\nScholars' students move into the dorm the week before classes begin, and immediately start Orientation. This class starts with a general convocation ceremony, and then moves on to several sessions on academic survival skills, led by upper-class Scholars' students. These Mentors guide the freshmen through the first few days of college life, providing answers to question, offering advice on College life, and encouraging a sense of community in the freshman class.\n\nThis course ensures that each student in the College is familiar with the computer resources available to them. Skills taught include familiarity with the College's word processing programs, presentation, and spreadsheet software. In addition, students are assigned an e-mail account and are shown how to access the University's internet packages.\n\nA central vehicle of the College's commitment to multidisciplinary inquiry, the development of critical thinking skills, and the expression of those skills, Texts and Traditions seminars are a major component of the student's course of study in the first two years. Students move chronologically from antiquity through the twentieth century, studying works by such figures as Homer, Plato, Sappho, Sophocles, Dante, Shakespeare, Galileo, Swift, Austen, Marx, Darwin, Dostoevsky, Conrad, Freud, Woolf, Levi-Strauss, and others. The College recognizes that there is no definitive list of Great Books, and so the reading lists for \"T 'n T\" are revised annually.\n\nContinuing the concept of the Texts and Traditions seminars, Democratic Vistas explores essential works from the American cultural tradition. This course includes representative texts by such figures as Franklin, Jefferson, Madison, de Tocqueville, Emerson, Hawthorne, Douglass, Whitman, Dickinson, James, Veblen, Faulkner, Morrison, and others, and includes an examination of music, painting, and photography in addition to literary works. As with \"T 'n T\", the reading list for \"DV\" is revised annually.\n\nThe several courses arrayed under this heading explore essential elements of mathematics and the natural sciences over four semesters, developing skill in quantitative reasoning and experimental procedure, together with an understanding of the main theoretical postulates of modern science. While addressing important areas of knowledge in Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Ecology, and Mathematics, the Paradigms of Nature courses emphasize the relations between and among these disciplines.\n\nThe one credit-hour Science Seminar is a special component of our curriculum in which students read, discuss, and analyze works of general interest concerning science topics.\n\nWriting-intensive seminars are offered to first-year students on various topics. These courses are designed to cultivate each student's powers of analysis, debate, and written argument, while engaging important writers, major thinkers, and significant cultural issues. Offerings have included Music and World Cultures, Selfhood and Community, Writing About Film, Southern Fiction, and Interdisciplinary Approaches to Gender. (** needs to be expanded to include topics preceding and following Fall 1997 offerings **)\n\nThe study of foreign languages is at once an important discipline of mind, a practical necessity in an increasingly interdependent world, and an essential element in the understanding of other cultures. The College offers options in French, German, Spanish, Russian, Greek, and Latin, and requires that students study at least four semesters of the language of their choice.\n\nBack to Top\n\nWhile completing the Common Curriculum, a student may choose to develop a more individualized program in one of the concentrations within the major in Liberal Arts, or may choose to pursue a traditional major. Each student is assisted in this decision making process by an academic advisor within the Scholars' College.\n\nSome students may find that their interests are more broad than those involved in a traditional major, or that the traditional major does not quite suit their educational needs. For these students, Scholars' College offers the Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Arts, along with a Masters of English obtained in only five years, with six areas of concentration. The areas of concentration are:\n\nThe concentration allows the student, with the advice of a faculty member, to develop a cohesive course of study which has a common theme, but which may combine a number of disciplines. These are particularly apt for students who wish to pursue a profession such as a law or medicine, or who plan on attending graduate school.\n\nA student may choose one of sixteen traditional majors which include:\n\nThese majors are offered within the guidelines established by agreements with departments of NSU. Students must complete all requirements, or their equivalent, for this major as detailed in the NSU catalog, in addition to the Scholars' College Common Curriculum. In some cases, the student will be assigned an advisor within the appropriate NSU department in addition to his or her Scholars' College major advisor.\n\nBack to Top\n\nThe Senior Colloquium, which extends over the entire senior year, examines some issue of contemporary concern, chosen collaboratively by the faculty of the College and the junior class. With a common list of important written works serving as points of departure, students in their senior year meet weekly for two hours to attend lectures and presentations by College and University faculty, outside speakers, and students of the class, followed by lively discussion. Topics are chosen on the basis of their significance and contemporary urgency, the disciplinary range they embrace, and the mutual interests of students and faculty. Past topics have included:\n\n\nAfter school year 2011–2012, Senior Colloquium was replaced by the one-credit course Liberal Arts in Practice.\n\nExtending over the whole of the senior year, the thesis is the culmination of each student's work in his or her area of study. Though the thesis may vary in length and scope, each is to be a substantial work of scholarship, criticism, scientific research, or artistic execution. The student works with one or more faculty members and demonstrates his or her familiarity with the existing work in his or her field as well as their ability to carry out an extended research project. The thesis is presented to the College at the end of the senior year, and a bound copy is kept in the College's thesis room.\n\nBack to Top\n\nAll students complete electives depending on the hours remaining after completing either a major or the concentration. The College recommends that students select electives at the 3000-4000 level, either from the unique offerings of the College, or from other departments in the University.\n\nBack to Top\n\nThe Louisiana Scholars’ College Forum Council, the student-led \"governing\" body (much like SGA), hosts many food fairs throughout the year; these events invite students and teachers to cook in a shared potluck (very often, the food fairs are themed and have included vegetarian, international food, Halloween, and Christmas food fairs). Scholars' College students are also active in various NSU organizations, including Student Government Association, Student Activities Board, and many sororities and fraternities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302328", "title": "Kalpana (company)", "text": "Kalpana (company)\n\nKalpana, a computer-networking equipment manufacturer located in Silicon Valley, operated during the 1980s and 1990s. Its co-founders, Vinod Bhardwaj, an entrepreneur of Indian origin, and Larry Blair named the company after Bhardwaj's wife, Kalpana, whose name means \"imagination\" in Sanskrit. Charles Giancarlo was Kalpana's vice president of products and corporate development, became its General Manager, and went on to roles at Cisco Systems and Silver Lake Partners.\n\nIn 1989 and 1990, Kalpana introduced the first multiport Ethernet switch, its seven-port EtherSwitch. The invention of Ethernet switching made Ethernet networks faster, cheaper, and easier to manage. Multi-port network switches became common, gradually replacing Ethernet hubs for almost all applications, and enabled an easy transition to 100-megabit Fast Ethernet and later Gigabit Ethernet. Kalpana also invented EtherChannel, which provides higher inter-switch bandwidth by running several links in parallel. This innovation, more generally called link aggregation, was also widely adopted throughout the industry. Kalpana also invented the Virtual LAN concept as closed broadcast domains, which was later replaced by 802.1Q.\n\nCisco Systems acquired Kalpana in 1994.\n\nKalpana produced two models of Ethernet switch, the EPS-700 and the EPS-1500.\n"}
{"id": "2302341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302341", "title": "Old South Church", "text": "Old South Church\n\nOld South Church in Boston, Massachusetts, (also known as New Old South Church or Third Church) is a historic United Church of Christ congregation first organized in 1669. Its present building was designed in the Gothic Revival style by Charles Amos Cummings and Willard T. Sears, completed in 1873, and amplified by the architects Allen & Collens between 1935–1937. The church, which was built on newly filled land in the Back Bay section of Boston, is located at 645 Boylston Street on Copley Square. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1970 for its architectural significance as one of the finest High Victorian Gothic churches in New England. It is home to one of the older religious communities in the United States.\n\nEstablished in 1669, Old South Church is one of the older religious communities in the United States. It was organized by Congregationalist dissenters from Boston's First Church and was known as the Third Church (to distinguish it from the First and Second Congregational Churches in the city). The Third Church's congregation met first in their Cedar Meeting House (1670), then at the Old South Meeting House (1729) at the corner of Washington and Milk Streets in Boston.\n\nMembers of the congregation have included Samuel Adams, William Dawes, Benjamin Franklin, Samuel Sewall, and Phillis Wheatley. In 1773, Samuel Adams gave the signals from the Old South Meeting House for the \"war whoops\" that started the Boston Tea Party.\n\nDuring the Unitarian Movement of the early 19th century, Old South was the sole Congregational Church in Boston to adhere to the doctrine of Trinitarianism. In 1816 Old South Church joined with Park Street Church to form the City Mission Society, a social justice society to serve Boston's urban poor. During the American Civil War, Old South became a recruiting center for the Union Army under minister Jacob Manning. Though the congregation was not entirely abolitionist, it strongly supported the Union cause. The conclusion of the Civil War was followed by an expansive time of increased inclusion for the congregation. Under minister George Angier Gordon the congregation moved from its meeting house at Washington Street to its Back Bay location in 1875, occupying the present church constructed on newly filled land.\n\nOld South's commitment to urban ministry and care continued on into the 20th century becoming a segue for the inclusion of new members increasingly diverse by race, class, and sexual orientation. The congregation has formally adopted a platform of equality, social justice, and peace.\n\nThe church building was designed between 1870 and 1872 by the Boston architectural firm of Cummings and Sears in the Venetian Gothic style. The style follows the precepts of the British cultural theorist and architectural critic John Ruskin (1819–1900) as outlined in his treatise \"The Stones of Venice.\" Old South Church in Boston remains one of the most significant examples of Ruskin's influence on American architecture. The architects, Charles Amos Cummings and Willard T. Sears, also designed the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum. The exterior of the church is primarily built of Roxbury Conglomerate commonly called puddingstone. Many arches, and several walls of stone are striped with alternating courses of yellow-beige and deep red sandstone. The porticos and large open arches in the campanile are decorated with simple plate tracery. The upper arches of the porticos are decorated with screens of ornate wrought iron. The building is roofed in alternating bands of red and dark gray slate and the roofline finished with ornamental iron cresting.\n\nA tall tower, or \"campanile\" is the trademark feature of Old South and is visible from several Boston neighborhoods. The tower, on the western end of the church, rises to a height of 246' and houses the church's 2020 pound bell. This is the second campanile built on the same site, designed by Allen & Collens it is similar to the 1875 design in its use of Moorish arches. The first tower, completed in 1875 along with the present Narthex and sanctuary, had begun to list by the late 1920s. The cause was determined to be the faulty footings and piles anchored in the soft former swampland. They were insufficient for the load of the tower. The congregation engaged the architectural firm of Allen & Collens to design a replacement campanile and a new chapel to be named in memory of the Reverend George Angier Gordon. The tower was dismantled, and early 1930s technology of steam shovel and steel pilings provided a lasting solution. Today, the pitch and height of the tower are tested annually and records attest to its enduring stability. The bell wheel, which by motion of a heavy rope swings the large bell, had deteriorated by the late 20th century requiring that the bell be rung by an external hammer. A faithful reconstruction of the original 1931 bell wheel, installed in early fall 2006, returned Old South's bell to \"full swing.\"\n\nCentered above the Sanctuary on the east side of the church is a copper clad cupola surrounded by twelve ornate gothic arched windows. This feature is reminiscent of the cupolas of the Basilica of St. Mark in Venice. While the lantern provides a striking visual presence it was also built with function in mind. In the days before mechanical fans and air conditioning a series of mechanically operated louvers allowed for window panels to be opened to help cool the sanctuary inside.\n\nThe interior of Old South is exuberant yet quietly modulates the mix of rich materials: highly carved Italian cherry woodwork, limestone, stenciled plaster, and stained glass. The sanctuary is entered from the narthex through a screen carved in the Venetian Gothic style from French \"Caen limestone\". Hidden among the carved foliage that decorates the screen can be found a squirrel, lizard, owl, and snail. A similar theme of animals is also found in the carving of the building's exterior. The interior of the chancel at the east end of the church, behind the choir, is faced by a running screen of wooden arches with \"quatrefoil\" lunettes adapted from the upper arcade of the Doge's Palace in Venice. The stained glass windows are by the English stained glass manufacturers Clayton and Bell and were produced in the style of 15th-century English glass.\n\nWhen Old South's church opened in 1875 it looked very much as it does today, based upon the design of Cummings and Sears. The walls were decorated in polychrome stenciling in shades of complex tertiary colors: a rose madder background with overlays of ochre, bay leaf green, warm gray, and persimmon, and highlights of metallic gold. Most of the interior structure, except for the carved wood frieze along the balconies, was already in place by 1875. High above the crossing of the transepts and nave is the lantern, or cupola. The ceiling of the lantern was painted a deep Prussian blue with a pattern of gilded stars to represent the firmament of God. The limestone tracery of the west wall of the sanctuary, with its foliage and animals, combined with the highly carved foliated woodwork and the overhead representation of the nighttime sky was intended to echo God's creation. Above the doors on the east chancel walls are glass mosaics of the tree of life by Antonio Salviati. A third mosaic by Salviati originally hung in the tympanum above the tower's front doors. That mosaic was relocated to the vestibule when the tower was rebuilt 1922-1937. The combined effect was extremely rich; at once a spiritual and sensuous experience, and in great contrast to the chaste interior of Old South Meeting House on Washington Street. Stylistically the 1875 interior was in harmony with the Ruskinian Gothic exterior, and expressed Ruskin's ideal that it is \"in art that the heart, the head, and the hand of a man come together.\"\n\nIn 1905 the congregation engaged Louis Comfort Tiffany to redecorate the sanctuary. Tiffany headed a group of artisans called the Associated Artists who worked largely in a style now described as the Aesthetic Movement. Tiffany was a part of an emerging American view of design in the United States, increasingly taking fewer cues from Europe. Tiffany had decorated Mark Twain's home in Hartford, Connecticut, the state rooms at the White House, and several Back Bay homes. In some ways Tiffany was an expected choice to redecorate Old South. He followed many of the ideas of John Ruskin; he believed in the dignity and importance of the human hand and eye in the decorative arts. Yet Tiffany arrived at Old South at a time when his gilded age style had begun a decline. A new wave of neoclassicism called Beaux-Arts, and the Colonial Revival style were replacing Victorian ornament with a simpler classicism. Theodore Roosevelt's 1902 White House renovation removed all of the Tiffany influence. In Tiffany's redecoration, Old South's stained glass windows were covered by insets of translucent tinted purple glass. The original polychrome stenciled plaster walls were painted purple, then stenciled in a series of geometric patterns with metallic silver paint intended to appear as mother of pearl inlay. Similar to Tiffany's work at Mark Twain's Hartford, Connecticut home, or his design for the White House's Red Room. The resulting work at Old South was a highly ornamented visual experience, unified by a limited color palette.\n\nIn the early 1950s, possibly influenced by the minimalism of the International Style, a second renovation of the Sanctuary took place. The mid-20th-century renovation largely ignored the architectural history of the church. Louis Comfort Tiffany's paint and stenciling was obscured by a coat of light gray paint, and the purple Tiffany glass installed over the stained glass was removed. The oculus of the cupola was closed up. In some ways the removal of decoration recalled the congregation's Puritan roots.\n\nOld South Church's building was designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark in 1970.\n\nIn 1984 a research-driven restoration was begun. The period of the building's construction was adopted, using old photographs and engravings as sources, and paint analysis to replicate original colors, the interior spaces were returned closely to their 1875 appearance. Walls were repainted rose madder and the original Cummings and Sears' stencil patterns were recreated. The cupola was reopened, once more admitting light to the Sanctuary below. Polychrome stenciling repeated the original palette of ochre, bay leaf green, warm gray, and persimmon with metallic gold.\n\nThe church's present organ, \"Opus 308,\" was built in 1921 by E. M. Skinner & Company of Boston for the Municipal Auditorium Theater in St. Paul, Minnesota, and brought to the church in 1985 when that building was demolished. Originally 82 ranks and 5,728 pipes, it now has 115 ranks and 7,625 pipes ranging from to in length.\n\nThe organ console is located behind the pulpit and is on a hydraulic platform so that it may be raised for concerts and recessed for worship services. The organ's pipes are located behind and to the right and left of the chancel and also at the back of the rear balcony above the entrance to the Sanctuary (32' and chamade). Ten ornately painted wooden pipes are mounted at the front of each side balcony.\n\nIn December 2008, construction at the adjacent MBTA Copley station created a crack in the church's exterior and damage in the sanctuary. Out of fear that its use might cause further damage, the organ was not used from then until just before Easter in 2009.\n\nOld South Church is the owner of one of eleven remaining first-edition copies of the Bay Psalm Book. The Bay Psalm Book, printed in 1640 by Stephen Daye, \"was the first book printed in the what became the United States.\" Until 2013, when one copy was sold at auction to David Rubenstein, Old South Church owned two of the eleven first-edition copies. Old South Church's copy of the Bay Psalm Book is currently housed in the Rare Books Department of the Boston Public Library.\n\nTo date twenty ministers have served Old South's congregation as Senior Minister; they are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302348", "title": "1973 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1973 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 9 and 10 September 1973. The Labour Party remained the largest party, winning 62 of the 155 seats in the Storting.\n\n The joint list of the Centre Party and the Liberal Party won seven seats, six taken by the Centre Party and one by the Liberal Party.\n"}
{"id": "2302349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302349", "title": "Vedanga", "text": "Vedanga\n\nThe Vedanga ( \", \"limbs of the Veda\") are six auxiliary disciplines of Hinduism that developed in ancient times, and have been connected with the study of the Vedas. These are:\n\n\nThe character of Vedangas has roots in ancient times, and the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad mentions it as an integral part of the Brahmanas layer of the Vedic texts.\nThese auxiliary disciplines of study arise with the codification of the Vedas in Iron Age India.\nIt is unclear when the list of six Vedangas were first conceptualized.\nThe Vedangas likely developed towards the end of the Vedic period, around or after the middle of the 1st millennium BCE. \nAn early text of the genre is the \"Nighantu\" by Yaska, dated to roughly the 5th century BCE.\nThese auxiliary fields of Vedic studies emerged because the language of the Vedic texts composed centuries earlier grew too archaic to the people of that time. \n\nVedangas developed as ancillary studies for the Vedas, but its insights into meters, structure of sound and language, grammar, linguistic analysis and other subjects influenced post-Vedic studies, arts, culture and various schools of Hindu philosophy. The Kalpa Vedanga studies, for example, gave rise to the Dharma-sutras, which later expanded into Dharma-shastras.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302361", "title": "Closing argument", "text": "Closing argument\n\nA closing argument, summation, or summing up is the concluding statement of each party's counsel reiterating the important arguments for the trier of fact, often the jury, in a court case. A closing argument occurs after the presentation of evidence. A closing argument may not contain any new information and may only use evidence introduced at trial. It is not customary to raise objections during closing arguments, except for egregious behavior. However, such objections, when made, can prove critical later in order to preserve appellate issues.\n\nIn the United States, the plaintiff is generally entitled to open the argument. The defendant usually goes second. The plaintiff or prosecution is usually then permitted a final rebuttal argument. In some jurisdictions, however, this form is condensed, and the prosecution or plaintiff goes second, after the defense, with no rebuttals. Either party may waive their opportunity to present a closing argument.\n\nDuring closing arguments, counsel may not (among other restrictions) vouch for the credibility of witnesses, indicate their personal opinions of the case, comment on the absence of evidence that they themselves have caused to be excluded, or attempt to exhort the jury to irrational, emotional behavior.\n\nIn some countries (e.g. France or Germany), in criminal cases, the defendant's counsel always makes his closing argument last, after the public prosecutor or any other party. Sometimes the defendant is allowed to address the court directly after his or her counsel's closing argument.\n\nIn a criminal law case, the prosecution will restate all the evidence which helps prove each element of the offence. In the United States, there are often several limits as to what the prosecution may or may not say, including precluding the prosecution from using a defendant's exercise of his Fifth Amendment right to silence as evidence of guilt. One of the most important restrictions on prosecutors, however, is against shifting the burden of proof, or implying that the defense must put on evidence or somehow prove the innocence of the defendant.\n\nIn some cases, a judge's presentation of the jury instruction is also known as summing up. In this case, the judge is merely articulating the law and questions of fact upon which the jury is asked to deliberate.\n\nThe purposes and techniques of closing argument are taught in courses on Trial Advocacy. The closing is often planned early in the trial planning process. The attorneys will integrate the closing with the overall case strategy through either a theme and theory or, with more advanced strategies, a line of effort. The prosecution should also state the main points and be sure to give their side of the argument and to be emotional.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302362", "title": "Remington Model 11-87", "text": "Remington Model 11-87\n\nThe Remington 11-87 is a semi-automatic shotgun manufactured by Remington Arms. It is based on the Remington 1100 and was first announced in 1987.\n\nThe 11-87 is a gas operated semi-automatic (autoloading) shotgun, meaning that some of the high-pressure gases from the burning gunpowder are diverted through two small holes in the underside of the barrel. The gases force a piston (and the bolt) toward the rear of the shotgun, which in turn ejects the spent shell. A spring then forces the bolt forward, sending a new shell from the magazine into the chamber. This gas operation has the effect of reducing the recoil felt by the shooter, since the total recoil energy is spread out over a longer period of time than would be the case with fixed breech shotguns.\n\nThe 11-87 incorporates a self-compensating gas system design, which allows the gun to operate with every type of load, from light 2 ¾\" to 3\" Magnum shells without any shooter adjustments. It is manufactured in two different gauges: 20 and 12, and both will cycle 2 ¾\" and 3\" shells.\n\nSome 11-87 shotguns, especially those with barrels shorter than 26\", or Magnum models, may have issues cycling light target and birdshot loads consistently. The 12 gauge 3-1/2\" SuperMag and 20 gauge Magnum models come with an extra component on the magazine tube called a \"barrel seal activator\" that helps cycle lighter loads. Failure to remove the barrel seal activator before firing 2 3/4\" magnum, 3\", and 3 1/2\" loads may bring pressure to dangerous levels which could damage the gun.\n\nRecently, a Super Magnum version has been introduced to operate with the newer 3 ½\" 12 gauge shells. Some 11-87s have interchangeable screw-in chokes, although barrels are available with fixed chokes. Most barrels are not interchangeable between 1100 and 11-87 models. Barrel lengths range from the police to .\n\nThe weapon found widespread notoriety when a sound-suppressed version of it was used by the main antagonist in the Coen brothers' film \"No Country for Old Men\", based on the Cormac McCarthy novel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302365", "title": "Shaykh Ahmad", "text": "Shaykh Ahmad\n\nShaykh Ahmad ibn Zayn al-Dín ibn Ibráhím al-Ahsá'í () (1753–1826), commonly known as Shaykh Ahmad or al-Ahsá'í, was a prominent 19th-century Muslim theologian and jurist who founded the influential Shaykhí school of Twelver Shiism, which attracted followers from throughout the Persian and Ottoman Empires.\n\nHe was a native of the Al-Ahsa region (Eastern Arabian Peninsula), educated in Bahrain and the theological centers of Najaf and Karbala in Iraq. Spending the last twenty years of his life in Iran, he received the protection and patronage of princes of the Qajar dynasty.\n\nShaykh Ahmad's teachings diverged from the Usuli school on key issues related to eschatology, the role of the ulama, and the proper interpretation of the mystical hadith of the Twelve Imams. These divergences resulted in accusations of heresy from orthodox members of the Shia ulama, and instances of persecution against Ahsá'í and his followers occurred during and after his lifetime.\n\nToday, Shaykhí populations retain a minority following in Iran and Iraq. After the death of Shaykh Ahmad's successor, Kazim Rashti, many Shaykhís converted to Bábism and the Baháʼí Faith; the two Shaykhí leaders continue to be highly regarded by Baháʼís, being seen as spiritual forerunners to that religion.\n\nLittle is documented about the early life of Shaykh Ahmad, except that he was born in al-Ahsa, in the northeast of the Arabian peninsula, to a Shiʻi family of Sunni origin in either the year 1166 AH (1753 CE), or 1157 AH (1744 CE). Nabíl's Narrative, a Baha'i history, describes his spiritual awakening as follows:\nWhile it is unclear how much of Nabil's interpretation is consistent with Shaykh Ahmad's true feelings, the underlying motivations for reform, and ultimately for messianic expectation, become somewhat clearer.\n\nShaykh Ahmad, at about age forty (1784 or 1794 - circa), began to study in earnest in the Shiʻi centres of religious scholarship such as Karbala and Najaf. He attained sufficient recognition in such circles to be declared a mujtahid, an interpreter of Islamic Law. He contended with Sufi and Neo-Platonist scholars, and attained a positive reputation among their detractors. He declared that all knowledge and sciences were contained (in essential form) within the Quran, and that to excel in the sciences, all knowledge must be gleaned from the Quran. To this end he developed systems of interpretation of the Quran and sought to inform himself of all the sciences current in the Muslim world.\n\nHe also evinced a veneration of the Imams, even beyond the extent of his pious contemporaries and espoused heterodox views on the afterlife, the resurrection and end-times, as well as medicine and cosmology. His views on the soul posited a \"subtle body\" separate from, and associated with the physical body. It was this body that ascended into Heaven, he posited, when Muhammad was said to have bodily ascended, and this also altered his views on the occultation of the Imam Muhammad al-Mahdi. His views resulted in his denunciation by several learned clerics, and he engaged in many debates before moving on to Persia where he settled for a time in the province of Yazd. It was in Yazd that much of his books and letters were written.\n\nJuan Cole summarizes the situation at the advent of the Shaykhi School, and the questions that were unfolding as his views crystallized and he acquired an early following:\nMoojan Momen in his \"Introduction to Shiʻi Islam\" (George Ronald, Oxford, 1985) states that many mujtahids were afraid that the Shaykh's preference for intuitive knowledge, which he claimed to obtain directly by inspiration from the Imams, would seriously undermine the authority of their position. Momen has some interesting and useful commentary on Shaykh Ahmad's doctrines and his succession during which the conflict with Shiʻi orthodoxy intensified.\n\nShaykh Ahmad appointed Kazim Rashti as his successor, who led the Shaykhí movement until his death. He taught his students how to recognize the \"Mahdi\" and the \"Masih\" (the returned Jesus). After his death in 1843, many of his students spread out around Iraq and Iran to search for a new leader.\n\nShaykh Ahmad was a prolific writer, he is known to have completed 71 published works during his career, of which 354 contemporary manuscripts are known to be still extant. Writing primarily in Arabic, his work spanned a wide array of literary forms. The largest number of his works consist of correspondence with other members of the ulama or his students, usually intended to expand upon a teaching advanced in another work, or provide answers to vexing questions of theology or jurisprudence. Treatises and lessons composed independently by al-Ahsáʼí make up a smaller number of his works, but tend to be longer than his correspondence and more commonly studied and reprinted. In keeping with Islamic and Persian literary and academic tradition, a large number of his works take the form of commentaries on Surahs from the Qurʼan,  important Hadiths of Muhammad or the Imams, or writing by earlier mystical or theological writers. The most comprehensive bibliography of Ahmad's known works identifies twelve wide subject areas addressed by individual works:\n\n•  \"Sharh al-Fawa'id\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tabriz: 1856).\n\n•  \"Jawami' al-Kalim\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tabriz: 1856-59).\n\n•  \"Sharh al-Masha'ir\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tehran: 1861).\n\n•  \"Sharh al-'Arshiyya\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tehran: 1861).\n\n•  \"Sharh al-Ziyara al-Jami'a al-Kabira\". \"Chapkhaneh Sa'adat\" (Kirman: 1972), 4 Volumes.\n\n•  \"Rasa'il al-Hikma\". \"Al-Da'ira al-'Alamiyya\" (Beirut: 1993).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302370", "title": "Nowell Codex", "text": "Nowell Codex\n\nThe Nowell Codex is the second of two manuscripts comprising the bound volume Cotton MS Vitellius A XV, one of the four major Anglo-Saxon poetic manuscripts. It is most famous as the manuscript containing the unique copy of the epic poem \"Beowulf\". In addition to this, it contains first a fragment of \"The Life of Saint Christopher\", then the more complete texts \"Wonders of the East\" and \"Letters of Alexander to Aristotle,\" and, after \"Beowulf\", a poetic translation of \"Judith\". Due to the fame of \"Beowulf\", the Nowell codex is also sometimes known simply as the \"Beowulf\" manuscript. The manuscript is located within the British Library with the rest of the Cotton collection.\n\nThe current codex is a composite of at least two manuscripts. The main division is into two totally distinct books which were apparently not bound together until the 17th century. The first of these, originally owned by Southwick Priory in Hampshire, dates from the 12th century and contains four works of prose.\n\nIt is the second, older manuscript that is more famous. This second manuscript is known as the Nowell codex, after the antiquarian Laurence Nowell, whose name is inscribed on its first page; he was apparently its owner in the mid-16th century. At some point it was combined with the first codex. It was then acquired by Sir Robert Cotton. In his library, it was placed on the first shelf (A) as the 15th manuscript (XV) of the bookcase that had a bust of the Emperor Vitellius, giving the collection its name. The Nowell codex is generally dated around the turn of the first millennium. Recent editions have specified a probable date in the decade after 1000.\n\nThe Nowell Codex was written in two hands. The first extends from the beginning of the manuscript (fol. 94a) as far as the word \"scyran\" in line 1939 of \"Beowulf\"; the second hand continues from \"moste\" in that same line to the end of \"Judith\". Elliott Van Kirk Dobbie notes that although the scribes behind the two hands are contemporary, they differ markedly in appearance, the second hand appearing \"to belong to an older school of insular writing than its companion hand.\"\n\nThe volume was heavily damaged in 1731 when a fire partially destroyed the Cotton library. While the volume itself survived, the edges of the pages were badly scorched; no serious attempt at restoration was made until the 19th century, by which time the margins had crumbled irreparably, and the edges of many pages are now illegible. Three pages, fol. 182a, fol. 182b and fol. 201b are in notably bad shape, showing more damage than can be explained by the Cottonian fire, with many words faded or illegible, some of which are far from the edges of the leaf. Van Kirk Dobbie suggests the damage to the third of these pages was due to \"Beowulf\" being separated from \"Judith\" prior to the 17th century, and fol. 201b was on the outside of the manuscript with no binding to protect it. But he offers no explanation for the condition of the first two pages.\n\nThe damage to the Nowell Codex can be overcome to different degrees. The three pages in bad shape mentioned above have been studied under ultraviolet light, and the resulting information has been published. Three modern transcriptions of parts of this portion of this manuscript are known. Two of these transcriptions, known as A and B, were made under the direction of the first editor of \"Beowulf\", Grimur Jonsson Thorkelin in the years 1786-1787 after the Cottonian fire yet before the manuscript had deteriorated as far as it presently has. Transcript A was made by an unidentified professional copyist, while B was made by Thorkelin himself. The third transcript (MS Junius 105, currently in the Bodleian Library) is of the \"Judith\" poem and was made by Franciscus Junius between 1621 and 1651. A careful copy of the poem with only occasional errors, Junius' transcription preserves the text of the poem before it suffered fire damage.\n\nThe first codex contains four works of Old English prose: a copy of Alfred's translation of Augustine's \"Soliloquies\", a translation of the Gospel of Nicodemus, the prose Solomon and Saturn, and a fragment of a life of Saint Quentin.\n\nThe second codex begins with three prose works: a life of Saint Christopher, \"Wonders of the East\" (a description of various far-off lands and their fantastic inhabitants), and a translation of a \"Letter of Alexander to Aristotle\".\n\nThese are followed by \"Beowulf\", which takes up the bulk of the volume, and Judith, a poetic retelling of part of the book of Judith. Great wear on the final page of Beowulf and other manuscript factors such as wormhole patterns indicate Judith was not originally the last part of the manuscript, though it is in the same hand as the later parts of \"Beowulf\".\n\nThe somewhat eclectic contents of this codex have led to much critical debate over why these particular works were chosen for inclusion. One theory which has gained considerable currency is that the compiler(s) saw a thematic link: all five works deal to some extent with monsters or monstrous behaviour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302374", "title": "Liu E", "text": "Liu E\n\nLiu E (; also spelled Liu O; 18 October 1857 – 23 August 1909), courtesy name Tieyun (), was a Chinese writer, archaeologist and politician of the late Qing Dynasty.\n\nLiu was a native of Dantu (modern day Zhenjiang). In the government he worked with flood control, famine relief, and railroads. He became disillusioned with official ideas of reform and became a proponent of private economic development modeled after western systems. During the Boxer Uprising he speculated in government rice, distributing it to the poor. He was cashiered for these efforts, but shrewd investments had left him wealthy enough to follow his pioneering archaeological studies and to write fiction.\n\nThe language in Liu E's novels borrowed illusions and images from classical Chinese literature and Liu E used symbolism in his novels. Therefore, his works appealed to readers who had a classical education and were considered sophisticated in their society.\n\nOne of Liu's best known works is \"The Travels of Lao Can\".\n\nIn 1903 Liu published the first collection of 1,058 oracle bone rubbings entitled \"Tieyun Zanggui\" (鐵雲藏龜,Tie Yun's [i.e., Liu E] Repository of Turtles) that helped launch the study of oracle bone inscriptions as a distinct branch of Chinese epigraphy.\n\nLiu was framed for malfeasance related to his work during the Boxer Rebellion and was exiled in 1908, dying within the next year in Dihua of the Xinjiang Province (today known as Ürümqi).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302380", "title": "Orange County Astronomers", "text": "Orange County Astronomers\n\nThe Orange County Astronomers (OCA) is a non-profit, civilian-led astronomy organization in Orange County, southern California. It was formed in 1967 and currently operates with around 800 concurrent members; they offer beginner courses in astronomy, and have meetings on the second Friday of every month at Chapman University. Currently, the OCA offers a dark-sky site to viewers, which includes a 22-inch Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope and public-use observation areas. In addition, the OCA has been registered as an affiliate of the Astronomers Without Borders program since March of 2012.\n\nIn September of 1984, a 22-inch Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope along with an observatory were opened in the namesake of William Kuhn. This telescope is operated at the OCA Observatory, located at a dark-sky site that is a two hour drive from Orange County. Today there are several different areas on the site for observing pads, as well as several small observatory sites for individual members. The club holds a star party there every month, during which a certified telescope operator guides the 22-inch Cassegrain telescope around the night sky. 'Star Members' are the only personnel who are allowed to operate the telescope, at the cost of $150 to become a certified member. The site includes a mobile home outfitted with a kitchen and bathroom, and is used as a location to defrost in the winter, or cool off in the summer.\n\nOCA has a myriad of activities for those interested in delving deeper into astronomy, astronomy software, astrophotography, and astrophysics. These are special interest groups that meet on a regular basis, ranging from beginner telescope classes all the way to astrophotography courses, astrophysics lessons, the GoTo telescope-specific group, and 'Outreach.'\n\nOCA has an extensive library of video, DVDs and books that members can sign out. There are several courses there from the Teaching Company, including Alex Filippenko’s award winning DVD Astronomy course.\n\nA telescope loaning program is also ongoing, for those members who either have not purchased a telescope and want to “test drive” a type before putting down money, or for a new member just getting started in the hobby.\n\nAsteroid 6525 Ocastron, discovered by Jack B. Child and Greg Fisch in 1992, was named in recognition and appreciation of the Orange County Astronomers. The official was published by the Minor Planet Center on 1 June 1996 ().\n"}
{"id": "2302383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302383", "title": "Common periwinkle", "text": "Common periwinkle\n\nThe common periwinkle or winkle (\"Littorina littorea\") is a species of small edible whelk or sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusc that has gills and an operculum, and is classified within the family Littorinidae, the periwinkles.\n\nThis is a robust intertidal species with a dark and sometimes banded shell. It is native to the rocky shores of the northeastern, and introduced to the northwestern, Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThere is another snail known as the small periwinkle or \"Melarhaphe neritoides\" that looks similar, but is smaller.\n\nThe shell is broadly ovate, thick, and sharply pointed except when eroded. The shell contains six to seven whorls with some fine threads and wrinkles. The color varies from grayish to gray-brown, often with dark spiral bands. The base of the columella is white. The shell lacks an umbilicus. The white outer lip is sometimes checkered with brown patches. The inside of the shell is chocolate brown.\n\nThe width of the shell ranges from 10 to 12 mm at maturity, with an average length of 16–38 mm. Shell height can reach up to 30 mm, 43 mm or 52 mm. The length is measured from the end of the aperture to the apex. The height is measured by placing the shell with the aperture flat on a surface and measuring vertically.\n\n\"Littorina littorea\" can be highly variable in phenotype, with several different morphs known. Its phenotypic variations may be indicative of speciation, as opposed to phenotypic plasticity. This is of particular importance to evolutionary biology, as it may represent an opportunity to observe a transitional phase in the evolution of an organism.\n\nCommon periwinkles are native to the northeastern coasts of the Atlantic Ocean, including northern Spain, France, England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, Scandinavia, and Russia.\n\nThere have been more than 14,000 observations made available as a dataset at the Global Biodiversity Information Facility - Littorina littorea, which can be explored. More distribution information can also be found at Ocean Biographic Information System - Littorina littorea. The NBN Gateway - Littorina littorea has a distribution map over the UK and Ireland. These datasets may overlap.\n\nCommon periwinkles have been introduced to the Atlantic coast of North America, possibly by rock ballast in the mid-19th century. This species is also found on the west coast of the United States, from Washington to California. The first recorded sighting in the East was in 1840 in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It is now abundant on rocky shores from New Jersey northward to Newfoundland. In Canada, its range includes New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Quebec, Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\n\"L. littorea\" is now the most common marine snail along the North Atlantic coast. It has changed North Atlantic intertidal ecosystems via grazing activities, altering the distribution and abundance of algae on rocky shores and converting soft-sediment habitats to hard substrates, as well as competitively displacing native species.\n\nThe common periwinkle is mainly found on rocky shores in the higher and middle intertidal zone. It sometimes lives in small tide pools. It may also be found in muddy habitats such as estuaries and can reach depths of 180 feet. When exposed to either extreme cold or heat while climbing, a periwinkle will withdraw into its shell and start rolling, which may allow it to fall to the water.\n\nMovement both horizontally and vertically in response to light and dark as well as temperatures have been observed, but over a short timespan the movement seems to be random.\n\nExperiments seem to indicate that the snail responds to light and current, and moves accordingly.\n\n\"L. littorea\" is an omnivorous, grazing intertidal gastropod. It is primarily an algae grazer, but it will feed on small invertebrates such as barnacle larvae. It uses its radula to scrape algae from rocks and, in the salt marsh community, pick up algae from cord grass or from the biofilm that covers the surface of mud in estuaries or bays. Macroalgae that are readily consumed include \"Ulva lactuca\" and \"Ulva intestinalis\"; if provided, blue mussel also seems to be eaten.\n\nThe radula is taenioglossate, consisting of seven teeth per row: one middle tooth, flanked on each side by one lateral and two marginal teeth. The radula is used to scrape algae and detritus.\n\nPhlorotannins in the brown algae \"Fucus vesiculosus\" and \"Ascophyllum nodosum\" act as chemical defenses against \"L. littorea\".\n\n\"L. littorea\" is oviparous, reproducing annually with internal fertilization of egg capsules that are then shed directly into the sea, leading to a planktotrophic larval development time of four to seven weeks. Females lay 10,000 to 100,000 eggs contained in a corneous capsule from which pelagic larvae escape and eventually settle to the bottom. This species can breed year round depending on the local climate. Benson suggests that it reaches maturity at 10 mm and normally lives five to ten years. while Moore suggests that maturity is reached in 18 months.\nSome specimens have lived 20 years.\n\nFemale specimens have been observed to be ripe from February until end of May, when most are spawning. Male specimens are mainly ripe from January until the end of May and lose weight after copulation. The young seem to settle primarily from the end of May to the end of June, although other sources indicate earlier settlement.\n\nA study in Plymouth Sound suggests an initial growth reaching up to 14 mm in height December the first year, and 17.4 mm by the end of the second year. Females seem to grow more rapidly than males, and in specimens above 25 mm in height, females seem to dominate.\nAnother study undertaken in Blackwater Estuary, Essex shows growth reaching up to 8 mm the first winter.\n\nThe common periwinkle can act as a host for various parasites, including \"Renicola roscovita\", \"Cryptocotyle lingua\", \"Microphallus pygmaeus\" and \"Himasthla sp.\". More studies are needed before any conclusions regarding the effect of parasites on growth can be reached. It seems that growth rate is primarily affected on available food and time available for feeding, rather than parasites.\n\n\"Polydora ciliata\" has also been found to excavate burrows in the shell of the common periwinkle when the snail is mature (above 10 mm long). The reason why this happens only to mature snails is not yet known, but one hypothesis is that a mature snail will excrete a signal substance which attracts the \"P. ciliata\" larvae. Another hypothesis is that a mature snail has a change in the shell surface that makes it suitable for \"P. ciliata\" larvae to settle. The infection by this parasite does not seem to alter the growth and proportions of the snail shell.\n\nA mortality rate of up to 94% per annum has been observed for the first two months, followed by up to 60% per annum for the rest of the first year. Older individuals above 15 months old seem to have a mortality of only 23% per annum. \"Cercaria emasculans\" is known to be fatal to the snail, but this does not account for the observed mortality.\n\nThis species appears in prehistoric shellfish middens throughout Europe, and is believed to have been an important source of food since at least 7500 B.C.E. in Scotland. It is still collected in quantity in Scotland, mostly for export to the Continent and also for local consumption. The official landings figures for Scotland indicate over 2,000 tonnes of winkles are exported annually. This makes winkles the sixth most important shellfish harvested in Scotland in terms of tonnage, and seventh most important in terms of value. However, since actual harvests are probably twice reported levels, the species may actually be the fourth and sixth most important, respectively.\n\nPeriwinkles are usually picked off the rocks by hand or caught in a drag from a boat. They are mostly eaten in the coastal areas of Scotland, England, Wales and Ireland, where they are commonly referred to as winkles or in some areas buckies, willicks, or wilks. In Belgium, they are called \"kreukels\" or \"caracoles\". \n\nThey are commonly sold in paper bags near beaches in Ireland and Scotland, boiled in their local seawater, with a pin attached to the bag to enable the extraction of the soft parts from the shell.\n\nPeriwinkles are considered a delicacy in African and Asian cuisines. The meat is high in protein, omega-3 fatty acids and low in fat; according to the USDA National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference, raw snails in general are about 80% water, 15% protein, and 1.4% fat.\n\nPeriwinkles are also used as bait for catching small fish. The shell is usually crushed and the soft parts extracted and put on a hook.\n\nIn accordance with their history as an ancient food source in Atlantic Europe, they are harvested and consumed in the Azores Islands by the Portuguese people, where they are usually called \"búzios\", the generic name for sea snails.\n\nThe record for the farthest a human has spat a winkle was 10.4 metres by Alain Jourden (France) in 2006.\n\nAs for seafood supply chains in general, the supply chain consists of a collector, processor, distributor and finally the retailer. The true nature of the supply chain is usually more complex and opaque, with the potential for records of harvesting areas and date of catch to be falsified.\nCommonly harvested in buckets by workers walking in the intertidal zone on low tide; other methods have been tried.\n\nIn Maine, the snails are commonly collected by a dredge towed from a vessel.\n\nIn Norway, snorkeling has also been used.\n\nA report on the state of the periwinkle industry in Ireland suggests a maximum catch size in order to preserve the population.\n\nThe processor buys in bulk from the collector, involving a possibly long transport route by land in a refrigerator truck or airplane, taking care to avoid temperatures below 0° Celsius.\n\nIf fresh seawater is readily available, the periwinkles are first graded if possible, using a machine custom built for the purpose. The method used for grading differs, but two proven methods include a Trommel screen with horizontal bars instead of a mesh, and a circle-throw vibrating machine also using bars. The price to purchase a complete sorting machine can be €10,000 or more.\n\nPeriwinkles are graded by number of snails per kilogram. The following table displays some common grades in France. The actual value is depending upon supply and demand, with seasonal variations. The actual ranges may also differ from each establishment.\n\nAfter grading, the periwinkles are \"climbed\" close to the consumer, which involves checking whether they are still alive. This can take anywhere from a few hours to several days, depending on how healthy the periwinkles are and the temperature of the water they climb in. Any periwinkles left immobile at the bottom are considered dead and are discarded. It is not uncommon to have up to 8% waste in a shipment.\n\nHereafter, the winkles are commonly packed in smaller quantities before being distributed to customers. Mesh bags from 3 to 10 kg are common.\n\nTo sell large quantities, distributors are commonly used to move the periwinkles to the retailer. These have networks of transport available both internationally, regionally and locally inside a city. Several distributors are usually involved in the complete journal, each focusing on its own part of the transport network.\n\nThe common periwinkle is sold by fishmongers at seafood markets in large cities around the world, and is also commonly found in seafood restaurants as an appetizer or as a part of a seafood platter. In some countries, pubs may serve periwinkles as a snack.\n\nMost of the volume fished, is consumed by France, Belgium, Spain and the Netherlands.\n\nOngrowing has been investigated as a potential way of increasing commercial value, but no documented pilot facilities have been established. By harvesting the periwinkle during the summer and storing them with feed until December, not only should the grade have been increased, but the market value should be higher since supply is lower in the cold winter months.\n\nRaising the common periwinkle has not been a focus due to its abundance in nature and relatively low price; however, there are potential benefits from aquaculture of this species, including a more controlled environment, easier harvesting, less damages from predators, as well as saving the natural population from commercial harvesting.\n\nCommonly packed in 3 kg boxes by the processor, the box is usually polystyrene foam or thin wood, depending on the market demands. Holes in the box ensures that any water lost by the snails, drains out, so that they remain in better shape for longer. A label indicates the fishing zone, packaging date and any other information required by law.\n\nIn fridge, the common periwinkle can usually be stored for up to a week, but this may vary depending on how long they have been stored prior to sale, and how they have been kept since the moment they are fished. As long as they are kept moist and cold, they can survive well for longer time. It is not recommended to store at temperatures below 0 degree Celsius, even if research have shown a Median Lower Lethal Temperature of -13.0 degree Celsius. Even if the common periwinkle survives when put back into seawater, they seem to be unable to move and climb.\n\nThis article incorporates a public domain text (a public domain work of the United States Government) from references and CC-BY-2.5 text from the reference \n\n"}
{"id": "2302384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302384", "title": "Romulus Mitchell Saunders", "text": "Romulus Mitchell Saunders\n\nRomulus Mitchell Saunders (March 3, 1791 – April 21, 1867) was an American politician from North Carolina.\n\nSaunders was born near Milton, Caswell County, North Carolina, the son of William and Hannah Mitchell Saunders. His mother died when Romulus was an infant, and his father subsequently moved him to Sumner County, Tennessee. Following his father's death in 1803, uncle James Saunders became legal guardian and brought Romulus back to Caswell County to attend Hyco and Caswell Academies.\nIn 1809, Saunders enrolled at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He was expelled in March 1810 for firing a pistol on campus and throwing \"a stone at the Faculty\". Nine years later, Saunders would be elected to the university's board of trustees, where he served for forty-five years.\n\nAfter his expulsion, Saunders moved to Tennessee and read law under future Senator Hugh Lawson White. He was admitted to the bar in Nashville in 1812, and returned to Caswell County the same year. In 1815, he was elected to the North Carolina House of Commons and soon after the North Carolina Senate. In 1818 he returned to the House, and served as Speaker of the House from 1819 to 1820.\n\nSaunders was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1820. As congressman, Saunders was known for his unabashed pro-states' rights opinions. Saunders was such a staunch support of William H. Crawford's presidential campaign in the 1824 election that the eventual winner John Quincy Adams referred to the congressman as the most \"cankered or venomous reptile in the country\".\nAs an admirer of Nathaniel Macon, Saunders was a fiscal conservative, believing that \"men in power are apt to think the peoples' money is intended to be expended in such way as their distempered fancy may support\". Despite this, Saunders supported internal improvements such as roads and railroads projects.\n\nIn 1828, Saunders left Congress to become North Carolina Attorney General. He left the post in 1834 after receiving a presidential appointment on the French spoliations claims commission.\nThe state legislature appointed Saunders to the North Carolina Superior Court in 1835 - an office he held until 1840 when he became the Democratic nominee for Governor of North Carolina. After a contentious campaign, Saunders was defeated by Whig nominee John Motley Morehead.\nDuring his time in state government, the North Carolina Democratic Party split into two factions. Saunders led the states' rights faction, which believed in the ideas of John C. Calhoun. The more moderate wing was led by Bedford Brown, a fellow Caswell native and political enemy to Saunders. When Democrats gained control of the state legislature in 1842, both Brown and Saunders ran for the U.S. Senate seat. Neither man received a majority of votes, and the seat went to William Henry Haywood Jr..\n\nSaunders returned to Congress following his election in 1840, where he became an outspoken opponent of Martin Van Buren and his allies who opposed the annexation of Texas. At the 1844 Democratic National Convention, Saunders sponsored a resolution requiring a two-thirds vote for the selection of a presidential candidate. This paved the way for the nomination of James K. Polk.\n\nPerhaps as an act of appreciation for helping him win the Democratic presidential nomination, President Polk appointed Saunders as minister plenipotentiary to Spain in 1846. As minister, Saunders negotiated a secret agreement in which Spain offered to sell Cuba to the United States. The media leaked this agreement, causing negotiations to falter. Saunders resigned from his post in 1849.\n\nSaunders moved to Raleigh, North Carolina, and in 1850 was elected to represent Wake County in the House of Commons. As representative, Saunders became a supporter of constructing the North Carolina Railroad.\nSaunders again attempted to be appointed to the U.S. Senate in 1852. The legislature could not agree on whom to appoint, and the seat remained open until the appointment of David Settle Reid in 1854. The legislature did, however, reappoint Saunders to the Superior Court.\n\nSaunders married Rebecca Peine Carter on December 27, 1812. The marriage produced five children: James, Franklin, Camillus, Anne Peine, and Rebecca. Rebecca later died, and Saunders married Anne Heyes Johnson (the daughter of William Johnson) on May 26, 1823. The couple had at least four children: William Johnson, Margaret Madeline, Jane Claudia, and Julia A.\nAround 1831, the Saunders family purchased the Elmwood estate in Raleigh – the former home of John Louis Taylor. Saunders died there on April 21, 1867, and was buried in the Old City Cemetery.\n\nSamuel A. Ashe, ed., \"Biographical History of North Carolina\", vol. 3 (1905).\n\"Biog. Dir. Am. Cong.\" (1961).<br>Joseph Blount Cheshire, \"Nonnulla: Memories, Stories, Traditions, More or Less Authentic\" (1930).<br>\"DAB\", vol. 8 (1935).<br>A. R. Newsome, ed., \"Letters of Romulus M. Saunders to Bartlett Yancey, 1821-1828,\" \"North Carolina Historical Review\" 8 (1931).<br>William S. Powell, \"When the Past Refused to Die: A History of Caswell County, North Carolina, 1777-1977\" (1977).<br>James Edmonds Saunders, \"Early Settlers of Alabama\" (1899).\n\n"}
{"id": "2302385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302385", "title": "List of highest-grossing films in the Soviet Union", "text": "List of highest-grossing films in the Soviet Union\n\nThis is the list of highest-grossing films in the Soviet Union, in terms of box office admissions (ticket sales). It includes the highest-grossing films in the Soviet Union (USSR), the highest-grossing domestic Soviet films, the domestic films with the greatest number of ticket sales by year, and the highest-grossing foreign films in the Soviet Union. Note that, in line with the definition above, this list does not include any Soviet television series or television movies, which were not shown in cinemas of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe annual list includes sales during each year only, which often means that the total number of tickets sold was bigger. As an example, according to the list below the film \"The Red Snowball Tree\", the top seller of the year 1974, sold 62.5 million tickets during that year. But the total number of sold tickets during all years was bigger (Boris Pavlenok, former deputy director of the USSR GosKino, estimated 140 million). This figure is comparable to some of the United States' all-time highest ticket sellers, such as \"The Sound of Music\", \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", and \"Titanic\", in fact exceeding the latter's estimated ticket sales of 135.5 million.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, the Soviet Union sold 4billion tickets and grossed 1billion руб annually. At the 1960s exchange rate of 0.9руб per US dollar, this was $1.11 billion (equivalent to adjusted for inflation). Soviet ticket prices were generally lower than American ticket prices, due to lower living costs in the Soviet Union, with average ticket prices ranging from 25kopecks in the mid-1960s to 50kopecks in the early 1980s.\n\nBoth domestic Soviet films and foreign films were shown, the latter having a limited quota and thus drawing higher average ticket sales than domestic productions. Indian films had the strongest presence in the foreign blockbuster charts for four decades, followed by American films. Foreign imports included 300 Indian films (most of which were Bollywood films), 41 American films (Hollywood), and 38 French films.\n\nThis is a list of foreign films that sold the most tickets at the Soviet box office. Among the foreign films that sold more than 20 million tickets in the Soviet Union, 50 were Indian films (Bollywood), the highest from any nation, followed by 41 American films (Hollywood) and 38 French films. The Indian film \"Awaara\", for example, drew a total of about 100million box office admissions in the Soviet Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302386", "title": "G. C. Edmondson", "text": "G. C. Edmondson\n\nG. C. Edmondson was the working name of science fiction author Garry Edmonson (full name \"José Mario Garry Ordoñez Edmondson y Cotton\") (October 11, 1922 in Washington state – December 14, 1995 in San Diego, California). According to the obituary published in Locus Magazine, Edmondson was born in Rachauchitlán, Tabasco, Mexico. During World War II he served as a U. S. Marine.\n\nAlthough generally called a science fiction writer, he wrote Westerns using the names Kelly P. Gast, J. B. Masterson, and Jack Logan. As he could also speak six languages he did translating work as well. His science fiction career began during 1955 with a story in the magazine \"Astounding\". He later produced several novels which gained some note for their interest in time travel and Latin America. Several writers, including Gardner Dozois, tend to consider him as a neglected author.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302395", "title": "Sentinel Peak (Arizona)", "text": "Sentinel Peak (Arizona)\n\nSentinel Peak is a 2,897 ft (883 m) peak in the Tucson Mountains southwest of downtown Tucson, Arizona. The valley's first inhabitants grew crops at the mountain's base, along the Santa Cruz River. The name \"Tucson\" is derived from the O'odham \"Cuk Ṣon\" , meaning \"[at the] base of the black [hill]\". In the 1910s, University of Arizona students used local basalt rock to construct a 160-ft-tall (49 m) block \"A\" on the mountain's east face, near its summit, giving the peak its other name, \"A\" Mountain. The peak is part of a 272-acre (110 hectares) park, the largest natural resource park in the City of Tucson.\n\nThe fertile land at the base of Sentinel Peak was used for agriculture from circa 2000 BCE until the 1930s. Bedrock mortars found on the sides of the peak are believed to have been used to grind corn and mesquite beans into flour. In the 1690s, the O'odham people living in the area were visited by Father Eusebio Francisco Kino, who established the nearby Mission San Xavier del Bac. After Presidio San Augustin del Tucson was constructed in 1775, sentinels were stationed on the peak to watch for raiding Apaches.\n\nSentinel Peak is made up of several layers of igneous rock representing various types of volcanic activity, though the mountain itself is not a volcano. It is one of a cluster of outcroppings at the eastern edge of the Tucson Mountains that are primarily the remnants of 20-30 million-year-old (Ma) lava flows that once extended west towards the Tucson Mountains and east into the Tucson Basin, where the city is now. Erosion and faulting are responsible for the peak's conical shape.\n\nThe layer of rock at the peak of the hill is a basaltic andesite dating to 23-24 Ma. This caps a 30-36 meter-thick layer of tuff (compacted volcanic ash) above another layer of basaltic andesite, both dating to 26-28 Ma. Tuffs and andesite exposed at the base of the hill, on the south side, date to approximately 60 Ma.\n\nVolcanic ash and breccia, along with ancient lava beds, or \"lahars,\" can also be found on the mountain, further evidence of a once active volcanic field that formed the Tucson Mountain range.\n\nOn October 3, 2016, in the \"Arizona Daily Star\" newspaper, historian David Leighton explained the origin of the name Sentinel Peak:\n\nHe wrote that in the very early days of Tucson, an Indian fortification was constructed at the top of a small mountain that would come to be called Sentinel Peak---also sometimes referred to as Picket Post Butte. This Indian fortification in time became known as the sentinel station because a sentinel or guard was posted there to watch for approaching enemies, likely Apache Indians. During the U.S. Civil War, armed guards or soldiers were posted at the sentinel station and a canvas was stretched across the stone fortification, to keep the sun from hitting directly on the men posted there.\n\nBy 1883, remains of the fortification are what existed at that point. The remains included, \"A circular wall, about 3 feet thick and made of boulders, [that] enclosed an area about 8 feet in diameter. North of the circular structure was a small wall, roughly two feet high and about 10 feet long. To the east were traces of another, smaller circular wall.\"\n\nIn 1925, the remains of the fortifications still existed at the top of what by then was being called \"A\" Mountain although it is unknown what exactly was left at that point.\n\nThe origin of the name Sentinel Peak, according to Mr. Leighton, \"comes from the sentinel station and the sentinel stationed there.\" \n\nAfter Arizona football's 7–6 victory over Pomona in 1914, a civil engineering student on the team convinced one of his professors to make a class project of the survey and design for a huge block \"A\" on Sentinel Peak. Students carried the project to completion on March 4, 1916, when the 70 ft (21 m) wide, 160 ft (48 m) tall \"A\" was whitewashed on the east side of the peak. The basalt rock used in the construction of the \"A\" was hauled from a quarry at the mountain's base which supplied stone for many foundations and walls throughout Tucson, including the wall surrounding the University of Arizona campus.\n\nThe \"A\" has traditionally been painted white. On March 23, 2003, four days after the start of the Iraq War, it was painted black in protest. Two weeks later, following much public debate, the Tucson City Council resolved to have the \"A\" painted red, white, and blue in honor of American troops. A decade later the council decided to restore it to its traditional white. The \"A\" has on occasion been painted green for St. Patrick's Day.\nArizona State University has a more recently created \"A\" Mountain (Tempe Butte) near the school's football stadium. During the week of the Arizona-ASU Territorial Cup game, rival fans and students have tried and at times succeeded in painting the \"A\" of the opposing school with their own school colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302400", "title": "Asepsis", "text": "Asepsis\n\nAsepsis is the state of being free from disease-causing micro-organisms (such as pathogenic bacteria, viruses, pathogenic fungi, and parasites). There are two categories of asepsis: medical and surgical. The modern day notion of asepsis is derived from the older antiseptic techniques, a shift initiated by different individuals in the 19th century who introduced practices such as the sterilizing of surgical tools and the wearing of surgical gloves during operations. The goal of asepsis is to eliminate infection, not to achieve sterility. Ideally, a surgical field is sterile, meaning it is free of all biological contaminants (e.g. fungi, bacteria, viruses), not just those that can cause disease, putrefaction, or fermentation. Even in an aseptic state, a condition of sterile inflammation may develop.The term often refers to those practices used to promote or induce asepsis in an operative field of surgery or medicine to prevent infection.\n\nThe modern concept of asepsis evolved in the 19th century through multiple individuals. Ignaz Semmelweis showed that hand washing prior to delivery reduced puerperal fever. Despite this, many hospitals continued to practice surgery in unsanitary conditions, with some surgeons taking pride in their bloodstained operating gowns. It was not until after reading of the findings by Louis Pasteur that Joseph Lister introduced the use of carbolic acid as an antiseptic, and in doing so, reduced surgical infection rates. Lawson Tait shifted the movement then from antisepsis to asepsis, instilling practices such as a strict no-talking policy within his operating room and drastically limiting the number of people to come in contact with a patient's wound. Ernst von Bergmann also introduced the autoclave, a device used for the practice of the sterilization of surgical instruments.\n\nBut, everything from operating room uniforms to gloves was pioneered by William Halsted. Preceding modern-day scrubs attire, Halsted implemented a no street clothes policy in his operating room, opting to wear a completely white, sterile uniform consisting of a duck suit, tennis shoes, and skullcap. This helped to prevent the introduction of infections into open wounds. Additionally, Halsted would sterilize the operation site with alcohol, iodine and other disinfectants and use drapes to cover all areas except for the site. In his department at Johns Hopkins Hospital, he enforced an extreme hand washing ritual consisting of soaking in harmfully strong chemicals like permanganate and mercury bichloride solution as well as scrubbing with stiff brushes. The damage to a surgical nurse's hands compelled him to create the earliest form of the surgical gloves with the Goodyear Rubber Company. These gloves became a part of the aseptic surgery standard when Dr. Joseph Colt Bloodgood and several others began wearing them for that particular purpose.\n\nThe line between antisepsis and asepsis is interpreted differently, depending on context and time. In the past, antiseptic operations occurred in people's homes or in operating theaters before a large crowd. Procedures for implementing antisepsis varied among physicians and experienced constant changes. Until the late 19th century, physicians rejected the connection between Louis Pasteur's germ theory that bacteria caused diseases and antiseptic techniques. At the end of the 19th century, Joseph Lister and his followers expanded the term \"antisepsis\" and coined \"asepsis,\" with the justification that Lister had initially \"suggested excluding septic agents from the wound from the start.\" Generally, however, asepsis is seen as a continuation of antisepsis since many of the values are the same, such as a \"germ-free environment around the wound or patient,\" and techniques pioneered under both names are used in conjunction today. \n\nAsepsis refers to any procedure that is performed under sterile conditions. This includes medical and laboratory techniques (such as with bacterial cultures). There are two types of asepsis – medical and surgical. Medical or clean asepsis reduces the number of organisms and prevents their spread; surgical or sterile asepsis includes procedures to eliminate micro-organisms from an area and is practiced by surgical technologists and nurses. Ultimately, though, successful usage of aseptic operations depends on a combination of preparatory actions. For example, sterile equipment and fluids are used during invasive medical and nursing procedures. The largest manifestation of such aseptic techniques is in hospital operating theaters, where the aim is to keep patients free from hospital micro-organisms.\n\nWhile all members of the surgical team should demonstrate good aseptic technique, it is the role of the scrub nurse or surgical technologist to set up and maintain the sterile field. To prevent cross-contamination of patients, instruments are sterilized through autoclaving or by using disposable equipment; suture material or xenografts also need to be sterilized beforehand. Basic aseptic procedures includes hand washing, donning protective gloves, masks and gowns, and sterilizing equipment and linens. Medical aseptic techniques also includes curbing the spread of infectious diseases through quarantine, specifically isolation procedures based on the mode of disease transmission. Within contact, droplet and airborne isolation methods, two different procedures emerge: strict isolation vs. reverse isolation. Strict isolation quarantines patients to prevent them from infecting others, while reverse isolation prevents vulnerable patients from becoming infected.\n\nIn aseptic conditions, a \"chronic low-level inflammation\" known as sterile inflammation may develop as a result of trauma, stress, or environmental factors. As in infections caused by pathogens or microbes, the immune response is regulated by host receptors. Tissue damage resulting from non-infectious means are caused by DAMPs molecules released after injury or cell death has occurred, which are able to stimulate inflammation response. Diseases associated with sterile inflammation include Alzheimer's disease, atherosclerosis, as well as cancer tumor growth due to \"immune cell infiltration.\" Additionally, aseptic tissue damage may arise from corticosteroid injections, which are drugs used to treat musculoskeletal conditions such as carpal tunnel and osteoarthritis, though this tends to result from improper aseptic technique.\n\nDespite efforts to preserve asepsis during surgery, there still persists a 1-3% chance of a surgical site infection (SSI). Infections are categorized as superficial incisional, deep incisional, or organ; the first type are confined to the skin, the second to muscles and nearby tissues, and the third to organs not anatomically close to the operation site. The exact modes of infection depend on the types of surgery, but the most common bacteria that are responsible for SSIs are Staphylococcus aureus, coagulase-negative staphylococci, Escherichia coli, and Enterococcus spp. The CDC emphasizes the importance of both antiseptic and aseptic approaches in avoiding SSIs, especially since Staphylococcus aureus, among other bacteria, are able to evolve drug-resistant strains that can be difficult to treat. In 2017, nearly 20,000 patients in the United States died from Staphylococcus aureus in comparison to the 16,350 from diagnosed HIV.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302405", "title": "Vallombrosa Abbey", "text": "Vallombrosa Abbey\n\nVallombrosa is a Benedictine abbey in the \"comune\" of Reggello (Tuscany, Italy), about 30 km south-east of Florence, in the Apennines, surrounded by forests of beech and firs. It was founded by Giovanni Gualberto, a Florentine noble, in 1038 and became the mother house of the Vallumbrosan Order.\n\nIt was extended around 1450, reaching its current aspect at the end of the 15th century. In 1529, after the looting of Charles V, the east tower was built, in the 17th century followed the wall and in the 18th century the fishing ponds. Today, the monastery is open for tourists and is selling local produce.\n\nOn 7 October 1096, Pope Urban II addressed the congregation of Vallombrosa, imploring the religious amongst them to support the cause for a crusade to the Holy Land. In particular in this sermon, he cited the need for knights, who could \"restore the Christians to their former freedom\".\n\nLargely because of his poetic reference to the \"autumnal leaves that strow the brooks, in Vallombrosa\" in \"Paradise Lost\", John Milton is supposed to have visited the monastery and, according to a plaque erected during the Fascist era, actually stayed there. Though this is unlikely, the notion that he did so encouraged many later travelers to visit the place, including William Beckford, J. R. Cozens, William Wordsworth, Crabb Robinson, Frances Trollope, Mary Shelley, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and Friederich Nietzsche. The Anglo-Italian monk, Enrico Hugford, became Abbot of Vallombrosa in 1743 and fellow Catholic, John Talman, seems to have visited even earlier.\n\nDerek Walcott also mentions Vallombrosa in chapter 33 section 2 of his \"Omeros\". Derek Walcott has allusions to several historical moments and other literary works throughout the \"Omeros\", and Shmoop suggests that this reference was inspired by John Milton.\n\nPartly thanks to the influence of the pioneering American ecologist and author of the 1864 \"Man and Nature\", George Perkins Marsh, the Istituto Superiore Forestale Nazionale was founded in the secularized monastery in 1867.\n\nThe exterior retains the 12th century belltower and a 15th-century tower. It maintains a sobriety appropriate for a monastery. It is a walled precinct, accessed through an 18th-century gate. The facade was designed (1637) by Gherardo Silvani who completed designs by Alfonso Parigi; Silvani also completed the facade of the church (1644).\n\nThe interior of the church was frescoed (1779–1781) by G. A. Fabbrini. The main altar has an \"Assumption\" by the Volterrano, The altar of the left transept has a \"Trinity\" by Lorenzo Lippi; other altarpieces are by Agostino Veracini, Antonio Puglieschi, Niccolò Lapi. In the Baptistery (once chapel of the Converted) is a \"Conversion of Saul\" by Cesare Dandini and in the chapel of San Giovanni Gualberto, a fresco by Alessandro Gherardini, the scagliola altar was Ignazio Hugford, a canvas by Antonio Franchi. Offertories before this altar were made by members of the Forest Service who have San Giovanni Gualberto as their patron saint.\n\nThe wooden choir to the right of the main altar was fashioned by Francesco da Poggibonsi (1444–1446); the reliquary has the arm of the saint who founded the Vallombrosan order by Paolo Sogliano (1500). The sacristy has an altarpiece by Raffaellino del Garbo depicting San Giovanni Gualberto and other saints (1508), and a great terracotta altarpiece from the studio of Andrea della Robbia; the refectory has a series of canvases by Ignazio Hugford (1745); the antirefectory has a large painting by Santi Buglioni and a cycle of paintings (three tryptichs) by Mario Francesconi.\n\nArboreti di Vallombrosa\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302406", "title": "Tucson Mountains", "text": "Tucson Mountains\n\nThe Tucson Mountains (O'odham: Cuk Doʼag) are a minor mountain range west of Tucson, Arizona. The Tucson Mountains, including Wasson Peak, are one of four notable mountain ranges surrounding the Tucson Basin. The Santa Catalina Mountains lie to the northeast, the Rincon Mountains are to the east of Tucson, and the Santa Rita Mountains lie to the south. Additionally the Sierrita Mountains lie due south, the Roskruge Mountains lie to the west across Avra Valley, the Silver Bell Mountains lie to the northwest, and the Tortolita Mountains lie to the north across the Santa Cruz Valley.\n\nThe Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum is located on the west flank of the Tucson Mountains. Much of the range is protected by Saguaro National Park and Tucson Mountain County Park. Old Tucson Studios are located just west of the Tucson Mountains.\n\nTucson Mountain Park was established April 1929. The Pima County Parks Commission, with C. B. Brown as its chairman, was established to oversee the park. At approximately , the park is one of the largest natural resource areas owned and managed by a local government in the U.S. The park has approximately of non-motorized shared-use trails. The area is popular with hikers, mountain bikers, and equestrians.\n\nSaguaro National Park was created as a National Monument in 1933 and later designated a national park in 1994. The Tucson Mountain District of Saguaro National Park ranges from an elevation of 2,180 ft to 4,687 ft and contains 2 biotic communities, desert scrub, and desert grassland. Average annual precipitation is approximately 10.27 in. Common wildlife include the coyote, Gambel's quail, and desert tortoise.\n\nAccording to historian David Leighton, Brown Mountain in Tucson Mountain Park, is named in honor of park founder, C.B. Brown, Kinney Road the main thoroughfare in the park, is named for Pima County Supervisor, Jack C. Kinney who worked with Brown in the creation of the park and McCain Loop was named for J.C. McCain, the first park ranger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302410", "title": "Acanthiza", "text": "Acanthiza\n\nAcanthiza is a genus of passeriform birds, most endemic to Australia, but with two species (\"A. murina\" and \"A. cinerea\") restricted to New Guinea. These birds are commonly known as thornbills. They are not closely related to species in the hummingbird genera \"Chalcostigma\" and \"Ramphomicron\", which are also called thornbills.\n\nThey are found primarily in Australia and have a thin long beak. Colloquially the thornbill is sometimes referred to as a “tit” by locals, but in reality the Australian continent lacks any true tits, albeit \"Acanthiza\" species do show some similarities with tits in their behavior. They have a similar role as small insect-eating birds with titmice and kinglets. Like tits, Thornbills live in small groups foraging amidst trees and shrubs, and feed in a similar manner. Cooperative breeding is recorded from most species except the brown and Tasmanian thornbills.\n\nThe habitat preferences of the group vary from dense forest to open saltbush and bluebush plains.\n\n\"Acanthiza\" follow a very characteristic undulating path when flying. Their diet is formed essentially of little insects and plant lice that these birds glean from foliage. They are also exceptional acrobats that are easily able to stay head downward like tits do.\n\nThe nest of the \"Acanthiza\" is a large dome-shaped construction, completely enclosed except for a side hole, just like that of the long-tailed tit; however \"Acanthiza\" adds to it an additional room whose function is unknown. It is somewhat similar to the Aegithalidae in combining long incubation periods with highly synchronous hatching. This combination, normally impossible due to intense competition for food, occurs because parents and (usually) helpers can organise food supply in such a manner that sibling competition for food is virtually absent.\n\nThe number of eggs usually ranges from two to four, and the incubation period is around twenty days with laying intervals of two days. The length of an adult bird is .\n\nThe genus contains 14 species:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302411", "title": "Today Tonight", "text": "Today Tonight\n\nToday Tonight was an Australian current affairs television program produced by the Seven Network. It aired from January 1995 to November 2019 in Adelaide and Perth. Editions in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne were previously produced before being cancelled in February 2014.\n\nFollowing the cancellation of \"Real Life\", presented by Stan Grant late in 1994, \"Today Tonight\" was launched in January 1995 to replace it, with separate editions for each main metropolitan market (Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth).\n\nOver summer, it was usual for \"Today Tonight\" to present a single edition broadcast across the entire east coast of Australia (that is, combining Sydney, Melbourne, and Brisbane).\n\nThe South Australian edition was anchored by Rosanna Mangiarelli.\n\nSince the program's inception in South Australia in 1995 until 2007, Leigh McClusky fronted the South Australian edition of the program, only taking leave over summer and to give birth to her son in 2002 (John Riddell filled in) and to have a daughter in 2006 (Rosanna Mangiarelli filled in). When the program first started, it rated 100,000 behind its competitor, \"A Current Affair\", although ratings steadily increased. In 2001, \"Today Tonight\" began outrating \"A Current Affair\" in what became a 4-year winning streak.\n\nMcClusky announced on 6 February 2007, she would leave the programme to have twins, and would not return. She presented her last show on 17 August 2007. Rosanna Mangiarelli began as presenter on 20 August 2007 after several years as substitute presenter.\n\nOn 1 October 2007, the South Australian edition of the program began airing in regional South Australia, after WIN Television changed their affiliation in the state from the Nine Network to the Seven Network.\n\nMangiarelli was away on maternity leave from January 2009 till March 2009, and Paul Makin presented during this period.\n\nThe South Australian edition does not air on the Seven Network's affiliated station, Southern Cross Television, in the Spencer Gulf or Broken Hill, which uses its 6:30pm timeslot for its local bulletin in the area.\n\nThe Adelaide edition of \"Today Tonight\" achieved the longest winning streak for a television program since the introduction of the current OzTAM ratings system in 2001, reaching 700 consecutive weeks of winning its timeslot between March 2001 and September 2018.\n\nOn 26 November 2019, it was announced that Seven had axed the remaining Adelaide and Perth editions of the show, to be replaced with a one-hour bulletin of Seven News. The final Adelaide bulletin was aired on 28 November 2019.\n\nThe Western Australian edition was anchored by Monika Kos.\n\nThe show was originally presented by Yvette Mooney. In 1997, Mooney resigned and was replaced by Kos, who continued right up until the show's cancellation in November 2019.\n\nThe fill-ins for the Western Australian edition were Tina Altieri or Andrea Burns.\n\nThe final Perth bulletin aired on 29 November 2019.\n\nThe New South Wales edition was originally hosted by a myriad of hosts from 1995 until 2001. Neil Mercer initially hosted the Sydney edition, later succeeded by Helen Wellings (1996).\n\nJill Singer originally hosted the Victorian edition, she remained as host until January 1997 when she was replaced by Naomi Robson and Peter Luck (1997–1998) following health issues. Stan Grant, ex host of \"Today Tonight\"-predecessor \"Real Life\", returned in 1999 following the departure of Luck. Grant was sacked in 2000 after it was exposed he was having an affair with another then Seven Network personality, Tracey Holmes, and was subsequently replaced by Melissa Doyle. When Doyle went on maternity leave in 2001, the Victorian edition hosted by Robson began to be broadcast into Sydney. This was intended to last only 12 weeks, but the Victorian version rated higher in Sydney than the local version. This led to Seven Network executives axing the New South Wales edition in favour of an east coast edition. Doyle returned at the end of 2002 to host the summer edition.\n\nRobson continued to host \"Today Tonight\" until she resigned in late 2006, presenting her last show on 1 December that year. Anna Coren was appointed Robson's permanent replacement after six weeks of filling in as the show's summer host. With Coren taking the chair, production of \"Today Tonight\" shifted from Seven's Melbourne studios to the Martin Place studio in Sydney.\n\nOn 28 September 2008, Coren resigned to pursue a career at CNN in Hong Kong. It was originally planned that Coren would continue as host until December 2008, but she was sacked by Seven and hosted her last show on 10 October 2008, to be replaced by new host Matt White. White hosted the show until November 2012.\n\nOn 11 February 2013, Helen Kapalos commenced as anchor, and production was moved back to Melbourne where Kapalos was based. In January 2014, Helen Kapalos resigned as host to join \"Sunday Night\" as a senior correspondent. Kylie Gillies and Nick Etchells were the fill-in hosts for the show, until it was announced on 3 February 2014 that the east coast edition of \"Today Tonight\" would be axed in favour of a one-hour \"Seven News\" bulletin.\n\nThe Queensland edition, while unrelated to an earlier series of the same name which aired on QTQ from 1979 to 1985, was fronted by three different presenters in the course of its 7–8-year run, with Lexy Hamilton-Smith and Michelle Reiken presenting after Tucker. On 9 December 2002, Michelle Reiken went on maternity leave over the summer non-ratings period. During this time, the Melbourne/Sydney edition was broadcast into Brisbane. When the 2003 ratings period commenced, Seven Brisbane continued to air the Melbourne/Sydney edition instead of returning to a local version. Although the Seven Network announced a local edition would return when Reiken returned from maternity leave, this never happened. In May 2003, Seven Brisbane officially axed its local version.\n\nIn 2013, the Queensland edition was relaunched, with Sharyn Ghidella as anchor. On 3 February 2014, however, the Seven Network announced the Queensland edition would be axed again, in favour of a one-hour \"Seven News\" bulletin.\n\n\"Today Tonight\" nationally was the last program to win the Logie for Most Popular Public Affairs Program before that award was discontinued.\n\n\"Today Tonight\" is notorious for its sensationalist reporting, and is an example of tabloid television where stories rotate around community issues i.e. diet fads, miracle cures, welfare cheats, shonky builders, negligent doctors, poorly run businesses and corrupt government officials. For this reason the program is constantly ridiculed and criticised, perhaps most famously by ABC TV's \"Media Watch\" and the satirical group The Chaser. The show has also been found multiple times to be in breach of the Australian Communications and Media Authority's policies with regard to invasions of privacy and not presenting factual material accurately.\n\nIn November 1996, \"Media Watch\" revealed that \"Today Tonight\" had fabricated much of a report about disgraced Australian businessman Christopher Skase. \"Today Tonight\" sent producer Chris Adams and reporter David 'Sluggo' Richardson, along with a camera crew, to pursue Skase, who was claiming his health prevented him from being tried. Richardson alleged that because the crew's videotapes showed Skase was in good health, Skase used his connections to the Majorcan authorities in order to establish police roadblocks to seize the tapes. The only support for this claim was a video of Richardson driving past police, exclaiming \"Roadblocks! Let's get out of here!\" \"Media Watch\" proved, through examination the \"Today Tonight\" footage, that it was in fact shot in Barcelona, not Majorca. The \"police\" Richardson was passing were in fact the Guàrdia Urbana de Barcelona setting up roadblocks to control traffic flow in the city centre.\n\nOn 4 February 2002, both \"Today Tonight\" and \"A Current Affair\" broadcast stories about a so-called \"Dole Army\" operating from Melbourne's subterranean stormwater drains, and recruiting for an organised effort to defraud the Australian government of unemployment benefits. The next day, an anarchist group claimed they had pretended to be the Dole Army as a hoax, and due to lack of research and a desire to vilify the unemployed, both networks fell for the elaborate prank.\n\nIn 2004, \"Today Tonight\" picked up on a story published in Melbourne's \"Sunday Herald Sun\" about a boy allegedly \"divorcing\" his mother. The story was subsequently discussed on Seven's breakfast television program \"Sunrise\". The following year, journalists, editors and producers from all three media outlets were taken to the Sydney Magistrates' Court for breaching the Children and Young Persons Act 1989 for naming the child in question. Naomi Robson was found not guilty of contempt of court, as the magistrate found she did not have editorial control over the story, but producers of the show were fined.\n\nOn 18 July 2005, \"Today Tonight\" screened a report by Richardson about \"Australia's Serial Single Mum,\" claiming that a single mother named \"Mary-Anne\", a private citizen in suburban Sydney, \"had five children to five different men and pocketed tens of thousands in welfare\" from Centrelink. It was later revealed by \"Media Watch\" that Mary-Anne was working full-time and had the children to four fathers, not five. \"Media Watch\" described the exchange between Richardson and Mary-Anne as an \"appalling attack\", and \"another offensive beat up from Dave 'Sluggo' Richardson\".\n\nOn 13 September 2006, Robson and a \"Today Tonight\" crew were detained by Indonesian authorities in Papua for working as journalists despite entering the country on tourist visas. Seven claimed its team was sent to the region to do a story on Wa-Wa, a young boy who was apparently in danger of being ritually killed by his tribe, the Korowai. Seven also claimed their rivals at Nine, who had previously aired a story about Wa-Wa on \"60 Minutes\", sabotaged the story and the mission to \"rescue\" Wa-Wa by informing Indonesian authorities of their visa arrangements. Nine refuted Seven's claims and threatened legal action. Seven alleged a Nine reporter offered about $100,000 to a guide not to help Seven with their story. Peter Meakin, Seven's director of news and current affairs, said, \"There is evidence to support the claims that, in particular, this man Cornelius was offered $100,000 not to rescue the boy.\"\n\nOn 2 November 2006, the Supreme Court of New South Wales awarded former \"Gladiator\" and rugby league star Mark McGaw $385,000 for a defamatory story \"Today Tonight\" broadcast in June 2003. The Supreme Court jury found the story conveyed two defamatory imputations: that McGaw was \"a man of dangerous domestic violence\", and that he \"bashed his lover so severely she was hospitalised with horrific injuries\".\n\nOn 20 February 2007, the east coast edition of \"Today Tonight\" led with a story about Shirley Frey, an 84-year-old resident of a nursing home in Willoughby who was fighting attempts to evict her. The story featured footage of her chained in her room. The reporter, Nicolas Boot, said she was \"refusing to budge, chaining herself to her room\". In response to the airing of that story, officials with the Department of Health and Ageing visited the nursing home. According to a spokesman for Minister for Ageing Santo Santoro, the resident told them the chains had been brought by the crew, and the process of chaining her up had been instigated by the program.\nIn response to this incident, presenter Anna Coren was forced to read an apology to viewers on the next night's broadcast, and announced Seven had launched an internal investigation. Earlier that day, Boot was suspended. On 23 February 2007, Seven released a statement indicating Boot had left his employment with the network. However, no announcement was made as to any actions taken against off-camera staff over this incident, which Meakin described as \"one of the more embarrassing\" incidents he had had to deal with.\n\nOn 8 May 2007, \"Today Tonight\" reported about an alleged Vietnamese-Australian welfare cheat named Dat Van Vu; though using the generalized title \"Vietnamese Sting\". This resulted in anger among the Australian Vietnamese community because of the association of ethnicity to criminality, and with the program's usage of the flag of Vietnam rather than the flag of South Vietnam which many Vietnamese Australians identify with.\n\nIn 2007, \"Today Tonight\" ran a story on Mercedes Corby, sister of convicted drug trafficker Schapelle Corby. Mercedes' friend, Jodi Power, claimed Mercedes was a drug trafficker as well. Mercedes sued Seven for defamation, and in May 2008 a NSW Supreme Court jury found the story defamed her, resulting in a settlement the next day of an undisclosed sum. Earlier, on 14 March 2007, Coren admitted in an interview with \"The Daily Telegraph\" that a private investigator hired by Seven lied about being an official to set up Mercedes.\n\nOn 7 May 2009, \"Today Tonight\" broadcast a segment on \"Today\" co-host Karl Stefanovic, alleging he was drunk on air during the post-Logies edition of \"Today\". It reported the rumor Stefanovic was taken off air for more than two days following the incident. Nine said the claims were \"desperate nonsense\" and \"wilfully false\". Nine spokesman David Hurley said Stefanovic was tired, not drunk, that the reason he did not appear on \"Today\" was due to a prior engagement to appear on \"60 Minutes\", and that claims of Stefanovic being taken off air were a \"pure invention of Channel Seven\".\n\nOn 11 March 2013, \"Today Tonight\" aired a longer than usual 8-minute exposé on supposed \"cyber bully\" Tristan Barker, labelling him \"the world's nastiest man.\" The story featured \"victim\" Jasmine Frost, who accused Tristan of cyberbullying, and told reporter David Eccleston she had received \"pictures of penises in the mail\" from Tristan and his followers. Approximately four hours after the story aired, a video was posted on YouTube by 'Facebeef' member \"Nebz Adlay\", revealing Facebeef had constructed the entire story in order to trick \"Today Tonight\". Frost appeared and revealed herself to be a longstanding member of Facebeef and the pair taunted \"Today Tonight\" for not conducting thorough research. The following day, \"Today Tonight\" released a statement admitting they were incorrect and called Jasmine an \"attention seeker\". The stunt received nationwide news coverage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302412", "title": "Waterloo (ABBA song)", "text": "Waterloo (ABBA song)\n\n\"Waterloo\" is the first single from the Swedish pop group ABBA's second album, \"Waterloo\", and their first under the Epic and Atlantic labels. This was also the first single to be credited to the group performing under the name ABBA.\n\nOn 6 April 1974 the song was the winning entry for Sweden in the 1974 Eurovision Song Contest. The victory began ABBA's path to worldwide fame. The Swedish version of the single was a double A-side with \"Honey, Honey\" (Swedish version), while the English version usually featured \"Watch Out\" on the B-side.\n\nThe single became a No. 1 hit in several countries. It reached the U.S. Top 10 and went on to sell nearly six million copies, making it one of the best-selling singles in history.\n\nAt the of the Eurovision Song Contest in 2005, it was chosen as the best song in the competition's history.\n\n\"Waterloo\" was written specifically to be entered into the 1974 Eurovision Song Contest, after the group finished third with \"Ring Ring\" the previous year in the Swedish pre-selection contest, Melodifestivalen 1973.\n\nThe original title of the song was \"Honey Pie\". \"Waterloo\" was originally written with simultaneous rock music and jazz beats (unusual for an ABBA song).\n\nRecording of the song commenced on 17 December 1973, with instrumental backing from Janne Schaffer (who came up with the main guitar and bass parts), Rutger Gunnarsson and Ola Brunkert. The song's production style was influenced by Phil Spector's \"Wall of Sound\": prior to recording \"Ring Ring\", engineer Michael B. Tretow had read Richard Williams' book \"Out of His Head: The Sound of Phil Spector\", which inspired him to layer multiple instrumental overdubs on the band's recordings, becoming an integral part of ABBA's sound. Subsequently, German and French versions were recorded in March and April 1974 respectively: the French version was adapted by Claude-Michel Schönberg, who would later go on to co-write \"Les Misérables\".\n\nThe title, \"Waterloo\", does not refer to Waterloo, London, nor its landmark station, but is about a woman who \"surrenders\" to a man and promises to love him, referencing Napoleon's defeat at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815.\n\nThe band considered submitting another song to Eurovision, \"Hasta Mañana\", but decided on \"Waterloo\" since it gave equal weight to both lead vocalists Agnetha Fältskog and Anni-Frid Lyngstad, while \"Hasta Mañana\" was sung only by Fältskog.\n\nABBA performed the song at Melodifestivalen 1974 in February, singing it in Swedish. The song won, and therefore advanced to Eurovision.\n\nThe song differed from the standard \"dramatic ballad\" tradition of the Eurovision Song Contest by its flavour and rhythm, as well as by its performance. ABBA gave the audience something that had rarely been seen before in Eurovision: flashy costumes (including silver platform boots), plus a catchy uptempo song and even simple choreography. The group also broke from convention by being the first winning entry in a language other than that of their home country; prior to 1973 all Eurovision singers had been required to sing in their country's native tongue, a restriction that was lifted briefly for the contests between 1973 and 1976 (thus allowing \"Waterloo\" to be sung in English), then reinstated before ultimately being removed again in 1999. Compared to later ABBA releases, the singers' Swedish accents are decidedly more pronounced in \"Waterloo\".\n\nThe song scored 24 points to win the Eurovision Song Contest 1974 final on 6 April, beating runner-up Gigliola Cinquetti of Italy's entry \"Sì\" by six points.\n\nThe song shot to No. 1 in the UK and stayed there for two weeks, becoming the first of the band's nine UK No. 1's, and the 16th biggest selling single of the year in the UK.\nIt also topped the charts in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, West Germany, Ireland, Norway, South Africa, and Switzerland, while reaching the Top 3 in Austria, France, the Netherlands, Spain, and ABBA's native Sweden. (The song was immensely popular in Sweden, but did not reach No. 1 there due to Sweden having a combined Album and Singles Chart at the time: at the peak of the song's popularity, its Swedish and English versions reached No. 2 and No. 3, respectively, while the No. 1 spot was held by the album \"Waterloo\".) The song also spent 11 weeks on Svensktoppen (24 March – 2 June 1974), including 7 weeks at No. 1.\n\nUnlike other Eurovision-winning tunes, the song's appeal transcended Europe: \"Waterloo\" also reached the Top 10 in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Rhodesia, and the United States (peaking at No. 6, their third highest-charting U.S. hit after No. 1 \"Dancing Queen\" and No. 3 \"Take a Chance on Me\"). The \"Waterloo\" album performed similarly well in Europe, although in the US it failed to match the success of the single.\n\nABBA had originally cited the song \"See My Baby Jive\", by English glam rock band Wizzard, as a major influence; in the wake of their Eurovision victory, they were quoted as saying that it would not surprise them if artists such as Wizzard would consider entering the Eurovision in the future.\n\n\"Waterloo\" was re-released in 2004 (with the same B-side), to celebrate the 30th anniversary of ABBA's Eurovision win, reaching No. 20 on the UK charts.\n\nOn 22 October 2005, at the 50th anniversary celebration of the Eurovision Song Contest, \"Waterloo\" was chosen as the best song in the competition's history.\n\nHarry Witchel, physiologist and music expert at the University of Bristol, named \"Waterloo\" the quintessential Eurovision song.\n\na. \"Waterloo\" (Swedish version) – 2:45 b. \"Honey Honey\" (Swedish version) – 2:55\n\na. \"Waterloo\" (English version) – 2:46b. \"Watch Out\" – 3:46\n\n\n\"Waterloo\" was released on 1 June 2018 as the second single from the \"Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again\" soundtrack, by Capitol and Polydor Records. The song is performed by Hugh Skinner (Young Harry) and Lily James (Young Donna) and was produced by Benny Andersson.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302414", "title": "First Horizon National Corporation", "text": "First Horizon National Corporation\n\nFirst Horizon National Corporation is a bank holding company based in Memphis, Tennessee. Its banking subsidiary, First Horizon (formerly First Tennessee), is the largest bank in Tennessee and the fourth largest regional banking company in the Southeast. Founded in 1864, it is the fourteenth oldest United States bank on the list of oldest banks in continuous operation. The company provides financial services including banking, wealth management, insurance, and trading services.\n\nFrank S. Davis founded First National Bank, the first nationally chartered bank in Memphis after passage of the National Banking Act of 1863. The charter was received on March 25, 1864, during the American Civil War.\n\nThe yellow fever epidemics in Memphis from 1867 through 1878 halted growth. The bank acquired German Bank in 1895. In 1914, the bank participated in the organization of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. The bank merged with Central-State National Bank in 1926. In 1942, the bank opened its first suburban branch and by 1952, it operated 7 branches. In 1964, the bank moved into a new 23-story headquarters in downtown Memphis. By 1967, the bank was the largest bank in the Mid-South, when it was reorganized as the First National Holding Company. In 1971, the First Tennessee National Corporation was formed to allow the company to acquire other Tennessee banks.\n\nAllen B. Morgan was named president in 1960, chief executive in 1967, and chairman in 1969.\n\nIn 1981, the company founded First Express, a check clearing business.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the company also expanded into mortgage brokerage, mortgage loan origination, and insurance. \n\nIn 1993, the bank acquired MNC Mortgage.\n\nIn 1994, the bank acquired Peoples Commercial Services Corporation.\n\nIn 1999, to reflect its diversification, the bank adopted the slogan, \"All Things Financial\".\n\nIn 2004, the company changed its name to First Horizon National Corporation to reflect its interstate growth.\n\nIn May 2007, the company acquired Republic Mortgage, based in Las Vegas.\n\nIn September 2007, the company sold 34 branches outside of Tennessee, including 13 branches to M&T Bank, 10 branches to Sterling Bank, 9 branches to Fifth Third, and 2 branches to FMCB Holdings.\n\nIn June 2008, the company sold its residential-mortgage origination and servicing business to Metlife.\n\nIn November 2008, the United States Department of the Treasury invested $866 million in the company as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program and in December 2010, the company repurchased the investment from the Treasury.\n\nOn June 7, 2013, the bank acquired Mountain National Bank, which suffered from bank failure.\n\nIn October 2015, the company acquired TrustAtlantic Bank.\n\nIn December 2017, the company acquired Capital Bank Financial for $2.2 billion. Capital Bank later announced it would lease two floors of the 10-story One Glenwood in Raleigh. The lease included a sign on the building.\n\nFirst Horizon announced on June 11, 2019, that in fall of 2019 it would have the same name in all of its markets. The change encompassing First Tennessee Bank, Capital Bank, FTB Advisors and FTN Financial became effective at the close of business on October 25, 2019, with signage changes expected to be complete throughout those holdings by early 2020. Shortly after the rebranding, the company announced plans for a merger with IberiaBank of Lafayette, Louisiana, with the combined company's headquarters to be in Memphis under the First Horizon name.\n"}
{"id": "2302417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302417", "title": "Rincon Mountains", "text": "Rincon Mountains\n\nThe Rincon Mountains (O'odham: Cew Doʼag) are a significant mountain range east of Tucson, Pima County, Arizona, in the United States. The Rincon Mountains are one of five mountain ranges surrounding the Tucson valley. The other ranges include the most prominent, the Santa Catalina Mountains to the north, the Santa Rita Mountains to the south, the Tucson Mountains to the west, and the Tortolita Mountains to the northwest. Redington Pass separates the Rincon Mountains from the Santa Catalina Mountains. The Rincon Mountains are generally less rugged than the Santa Catalina Mountains and Santa Rita Mountains. The Rincon Mountains are also included in the Madrean sky island mountain ranges of southeast Arizona, extreme southwest New Mexico, and northern Sonora Mexico.\n\n\"Rincón\" is Spanish for \"corner\", denoting the primary shape of the mountain range. Mica Mountain (8,664 feet), the high-point of the Rincons forms the apex, with Rincon Peak (8,482 feet) forming the southern point, and Tanque Verde Peak (7,049 feet) forming the western point of the corner. The interior of the corner is Rincon Valley (south and west of Mica Mountain), primarily former ranchland currently being converted to tract housing. Colossal Cave county park, a limestone cave and popular destination, is located on the east end of the Rincon Valley, north of the community of Vail.\n\nEast of the Rincons are the Little Rincon Mountains. Between these two ranges is Happy Valley, a popular destination for locals for camping, hunting, and off-roading. Farther east is the San Pedro River of the San Pedro Valley, a holocene paleontology region.\n\nSouth of the Rincon Mountains, beyond Rincon Valley is the Cienega Creek and Interstate 10.\n\nMost of the Rincon Mountains are within Saguaro National Park, or in the Rincon Mountain Wilderness, , of the Coronado National Forest.\n\nThe majority of the range is off-limits to motorized & bicycle travel. The mountains can be accessed on foot or horseback by the following routes:\n\nThe Arizona Trail passes through the Rincons, entering from the north by the Italian Ranch trail, and southeast by the Miller Creek Trail\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302437", "title": "1969 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1969 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 7 and 8 September 1969. Although the Labour Party remained the largest party, winning 74 of the 150 seats, the coalition of right-of-centre parties won 76 seats and retained power. The closeness of the result and fears of the two blocs winning an equal number of seats led to the number of seats being increased to an odd number for the next elections.\n\n The joint list of the Conservative Party and the Christian People's Party won two seats, with the parties taking one each.\n"}
{"id": "2302440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302440", "title": "Ping flood", "text": "Ping flood\n\nA ping flood is a simple denial-of-service attack where the attacker overwhelms the victim with ICMP \"echo request\" (ping) packets. This is most effective by using the flood option of ping which sends ICMP packets as fast as possible without waiting for replies. Most implementations of ping require the user to be privileged in order to specify the flood option. It is most successful if the attacker has more bandwidth than the victim (for instance an attacker with a DSL line and the victim on a dial-up modem). The attacker hopes that the victim will respond with ICMP \"echo reply\" packets, thus consuming both outgoing bandwidth as well as incoming bandwidth. If the target system is slow enough, it is possible to consume enough of its CPU cycles for a user to notice a significant slowdown.\n\nA flood ping can also be used as a diagnostic for network packet loss and throughput issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302444", "title": "Coin problem", "text": "Coin problem\n\nThe coin problem (also referred to as the Frobenius coin problem or Frobenius problem, after the mathematician Ferdinand Frobenius) is a mathematical problem that asks for the largest monetary amount that cannot be obtained using only coins of specified denominations. For example, the largest amount that cannot be obtained using only coins of 3 and 5 units is 7 units. The solution to this problem for a given set of coin denominations is called the Frobenius number of the set. The Frobenius number exists as long as the set of coin denominations has no common divisor greater than 1.\n\nThere is an explicit formula for the Frobenius number when there are only two different coin denominations, \"x\" and \"y\" : \"xy\" − \"x\" − \"y\". If the number of coin denominations is three or more, no explicit formula is known; but, for any fixed number of coin denominations, there is an algorithm computing the Frobenius number in polynomial time (in the logarithms of the coin denominations forming an input). No known algorithm is polynomial time in the \"number\" of coin denominations, and the general problem, where the number of coin denominations may be as large as desired, is NP-hard.\n\nIn mathematical terms the problem can be stated:\n\nThis largest integer is called the Frobenius number of the set { \"a\", \"a\", …, \"a\" }, and is usually denoted by \"g\"(\"a\", \"a\", …, \"a\").\n\nThe requirement that the greatest common divisor (GCD) equal 1 is necessary in order for the Frobenius number to exist. If the GCD were not 1, then starting at some number \"m\" the only sums possible are multiples of the GCD; every number past \"m\" that is not divisible by the GCD cannot be represented by any linear combination of numbers from the set. For example, if you had two types of coins valued at 6 cents and 14 cents, the GCD would equal 2, and there would be no way to combine any number of such coins to produce a sum which was an odd number; additionally, even numbers 2, 4, 8, 10, 16 and 22 (less than \"m=24\") could not be formed, either. On the other hand, whenever the GCD equals 1, the set of integers that cannot be expressed as a conical combination of { \"a\", \"a\", …, \"a\" } is bounded according to Schur's theorem, and therefore the Frobenius number exists.\n\nA closed-form solution exists for the coin problem only where \"n\" = 1 or 2. No closed-form solution is known for \"n\" > 2.\n\nIf \"n\" = 1, then \"a\" = 1 so that all natural numbers can be formed. Hence no Frobenius number in one variable exists.\n\nIf \"n\" = 2, the Frobenius number can be found from the formula formula_1. This formula was discovered by James Joseph Sylvester in 1882, although the original source is sometimes incorrectly cited as, in which the author put his theorem as a recreational problem (and did not explicitly state the formula for the Frobenius number).\nSylvester also demonstrated for this case that there are a total of formula_2 non-representable (positive) integers.\n\nAnother form of the equation for formula_3 is given by Skupień in this proposition: If formula_4 and formula_5 then, for each formula_6, there is exactly one pair of nonnegative integers formula_7 and formula_8 such that formula_9 and formula_10.\n\nThe formula is proved as follows. Suppose we wish to construct the number formula_11. Note that, since formula_5, all of the integers formula_13 for formula_14 are mutually distinct modulo formula_15. Hence there is a unique value of formula_16, say formula_17, and a nonnegative integer formula_7, such that formula_19: Indeed, formula_20 because formula_21.\n\nFormulae and fast algorithms are known for three numbers though the calculations can be very tedious if done by hand.\n\nSimpler lower and upper bounds for Frobenius numbers for \"n\" = 3 have been also determined. The asymptotic lower bound due to Davison\nis relatively sharp.. (formula_23 here is the modified Frobenius number which is the greatest integer not representable by positive integer linear combinations of formula_24.) Comparison with the actual limit (defined by the parametric relationship, formula_25 where formula_26) shows that the approximation is only 1 less than the true value as formula_27. It is conjectured that a similar parametric upper bound (for values of formula_24 that are pairwise-coprime and no element is representable by the others) is formula_29 where formula_30.\n\nThe asymptotic average behaviour of formula_23 for three variables is also known:\n\nA simple formula exists for the Frobenius number of a set of integers in an arithmetic sequence. Given integers \"a\", \"d\", \"w\" with gcd(\"a\", \"d\") = 1:\n\nThe formula_34 case above may be expressed as a special case of this formula.\n\nIn the event that formula_35, we can omit any subset of the elements formula_36 from our arithmetic sequence and the formula for the Frobenius number remains the same.\n\nThere also exists a closed form solution for the Frobenius number of a set in a geometric sequence. Given integers \"m\", \"n\", \"k\" with gcd(\"m\", \"n\") = 1:\n\nOne special case of the coin problem is sometimes also referred to as the McNugget numbers. The McNuggets version of the coin problem was introduced by Henri Picciotto, who included it in his algebra textbook co-authored with Anita Wah. Picciotto thought of the application in the 1980s while dining with his son at McDonald's, working the problem out on a napkin. A McNugget number is the total number of McDonald's Chicken McNuggets in any number of boxes. In the United Kingdom, the original boxes (prior to the introduction of the Happy Meal-sized nugget boxes) were of 6, 9, and 20 nuggets.\n\nAccording to Schur's theorem, since 6, 9, and 20 are relatively prime, any sufficiently large integer can be expressed as a (non-negative, integer) linear combination of these three. Therefore, there exists a largest non-McNugget number, and all integers larger than it are McNugget numbers. Namely, every positive integer is a McNugget number, with the finite number of exceptions:\n\nThus the largest non-McNugget number is 43. The fact that any integer larger than 43 is a McNugget number can be seen by considering the following integer partitions\nAny larger integer can be obtained by adding some number of 6s to the appropriate partition above.\n\nAlternatively, since formula_50 and formula_51, the solution can also be obtained by applying a formula presented for formula_52 earlier:\n\nFurthermore, a straightforward check demonstrates that 43 McNuggets can indeed \"not\" be purchased, as:\n\nSince the introduction of the 4-piece Happy Meal-sized nugget boxes, the largest non-McNugget number is 11. In countries where the 9-piece size is replaced with the 10-piece size, there is no largest non-McNugget number, as any odd number cannot be made.\n\nIn rugby union, there are four types of scores: penalty goal (3 points), drop goal (3 points), try (5 points) and converted try (7 points). By combining these any points total is possible except 1, 2, or 4. In rugby sevens, although all four types of scores are permitted, attempts at penalty goals are rare and drop goals almost unknown. This means that team scores almost always consist of multiples of try (5 points) and converted try (7 points). The following scores (in addition to 1, 2, and 4) cannot be made from multiples of 5 and 7 and so are almost never seen in sevens: 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 13, 16, 18 and 23. By way of example, none of these scores was recorded in any game in the 2014-15 Sevens World Series.\n\nSimilarly, in National Football League, the only way for a team to score exactly one point is if a safety is awarded against the opposing team when they attempt to convert after a touchdown. As 2 points are awarded for safeties from regular play, and 3 points are awarded for field goals, all scores other than 1–0, 1–1, 2–1, 3–1, 4–1, 5–1 and 7–1 are possible.\n\nThe Shellsort algorithm is an sorting algorithm whose time complexity is currently an open problem. The worst case complexity has an upper bound which can be given in terms of the Frobenius number of a given sequence of positive integers.\n\nPetri nets are useful for modeling problems in distributed computing. For specific kinds of Petri nets, namely conservative weighted circuits, one would like to know what possible \"states\" or \"markings\" with a given weight are \"live.\" The problem of determining the least live weight is equivalent to the Frobenius problem.\n\nWhen a univariate polynomial is raised to some power, one may treat the exponents of the polynomial as a set of integers. The expanded polynomial will contain powers of formula_54 greater than the Frobenius number for some exponent (when GCD=1), e.g. for formula_55 the set is \"{6, 7}\" which has a Frobenius number of 29, so a term with formula_56 will never appear for any value of formula_57 but some value of formula_57 will give terms having any power of formula_54 greater than 29. When the GCD of the exponents is not 1 then powers larger than some value will only appear if they are a multiple of the GCD, e.g. for formula_60, powers of 24, 27, ... will appear for some value(s) of formula_57 but never values larger than 24 that are not multiples of 3 (nor the smaller values, 1-8, 10-14, 16, 17, 19-23).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302445", "title": "Tortolita Mountains", "text": "Tortolita Mountains\n\nThe Tortolita Mountains are a modest mountain range northwest of Tucson, Arizona, USA, at the northern boundaries of Oro Valley and Marana, two suburbs of Tucson. Peak elevation is 4,696 feet (1,431 m). Much of the mountain range is protected within the Tortolita Mountain Park, established in 1986 by Pima County, which plans to expand its territory. \n\nThe Tortolita Mountains include extensive cultural resources. The Native American people known as the Hohokam occupied this area for approximately 700 years beginning around AD 500. In the eastern foothills of the Tortolita Mountains are ruins of Honeybee Village, a former Hohokam pueblo preserved and maintained by the Town of Oro Valley. \n\nNearby is Honeybee Canyon, a riparian area with one of Pima County's few perennial streams , Honeybee Creek. Residential and related development near this area has been a source of conflict between environmentalists and real estate developers, beginning in the 1990s. Resorts, golf courses, and upscale homes have been developed near the canyon, generating significant controversy because of their threat to its cultural and environmental resources. . Honeybee Canyon Park is a small developed area with restrooms, and is the trailhead for the popular Honeybee Canyon trail.\n\nOther mountain ranges surrounding the Tucson Valley include the Santa Catalina Mountains (the area's most prominent), the Rincon Mountains, the Santa Rita Mountains, and the Tucson Mountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302448", "title": "Campus Confidential", "text": "Campus Confidential\n\nCampus Confidential is a television comedy film starring Christy Carlson Romano and Keri Lynn Pratt, and directed by Melanie Mayron.\n\nThe film was written by David Kukoff and Matt Roshkow, and co-produced by Firm Films. It premiered August 21, 2005 on ABC Family. The film also stars Teddy Dunn and Nicole Paggi.\n\nThe film takes place in a small suburb where new student, Violet Jacobs, finds herself dealing with a social hierarchy. When things go bad, she recruits the help of a new friend, and editor of the paper, Cornelia Nixon. Together they create a tabloid called \"THE TATTLER\". It has stories on all the \"A-List\" kids in the school. But things take a turn for the worse when power hungry Cornelia writes a false story about Brandon, Violet's crush. The story ends when the tabloid is crushed by Violet blackmailing Cornelia with evidence of a plastic surgery she had long ago. Then a retraction is published for all the people who got hurt.\n\nThe film is a modern-day interpretation of Animal Farm by George Orwell, but with a different ending, as referenced in one of the final scenes of the movie.\n\n\nThe film is available for download on iTunes.\n"}
{"id": "2302453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302453", "title": "Transit Authority of River City", "text": "Transit Authority of River City\n\nThe Transit Authority of River City (TARC) is the major public transportation provider for the Louisville, Kentucky, United States metro area, which includes parts of Southern Indiana. This includes the Kentucky suburbs of Oldham County and Bullitt County, and the suburbs of Clark County, and Floyd County in Southern Indiana. TARC is publicly funded and absorbed various earlier private mass transit companies in Louisville, the largest of which was the Louisville Transit Company.\n\nTARC operates a fleet of 277 accessible buses, including numerous hybrids. Starting in 2004, TARC purchased hybrids, and by 2008 started purchasing clean diesel buses for a cleaner, greener fleet. By late Winter 2013, TARC added 16 more clean diesels. Then, by mid-Summer 2013, 11 hybrids were added, bringing TARC's hybrid total to 32. By Fall 2013, TARC added 21 clean diesel commuter buses, then as of Fall 2014 TARC added 12 more clean diesels; some of them are WiFi-enabled and have comfortable seating. TARC has recently put 12 additional updated buses on the road with 13 more due to arrive by late 2016. This brings their clean diesel total to 82 when the other 13 arrive. There will be 96. All-electric buses have been circulating downtown Louisville since early 2015, and eight more will be hitting the road on one local route serving the Iroquois neighborhood, and Iroquois Park. These buses will not be fare-free, will have a 42-passenger capacity, and will share the 8th Street charging station with one of the trolley routes. according to \"The Courier-Journal\". There are also two charging stations in downtown Louisville, one at 3rd and York, the other at 8th and Market. These buses will have a 30-passenger seating capacity, and be able to operate for up to two hours on a single charge. These buses, like the old trolleys, will be fare-free. On November 5, 2019. TARC will celebrate 45 years of service. Since 2016 TARC has added 45 more clean diesels, and one hybrid. As of January 6, 2020 Tarc launched the region, and state of Kentucky's first bus rapid transit line. The line runs from downtown Louisville, to Valley Station. The fares are the same as a local bus. TARC provides service 365 days a year. It also operates many specialized routes providing transportation to major local employers, educational institutions and recreational events. It began bus operations in 1974. TARC has explored other forms of public transit, including light rail, but as of 2009 provides only bus service.\n\nThe Transit Authority of River City was created in 1971 after 1970 legislation authorized city, and county governments to operate mass-transit systems using local funding. At the time, public transit was still being provided in Louisville by the private Louisville Transit Company. The Louisville Transit Company had long operated mass transit lines in Louisville, converted from electric trolleys to diesel buses in the late 1940s, and changing its name from the Louisville Railway Company in 1947.\n\nFollowing a trend seen in cities across America, the company had seen annual ridership decline from 84 million in 1920 to 14 million in 1970. The ridership was no longer enough for to cover operating expenses and in 1971 it posted its first-ever loss. In 1972 the company announced it would cease operations on September 1, 1974.\n\nThe local government began subsidizing fares in July 1973, but this was not enough to make Louisville Transit Company profitable. At about the same time, Bridge Transit Co., which provided mass transit between Louisville and Jeffersonville, ceased operations due to lack of revenue, clearly setting the stage for a metropolitan area without any private mass transit companies.\n\nIn 1974, voters approved a controversial referendum allowing for an increased occupational tax to fund mass transit, which was pushed for by then-mayor Harvey Sloane. Combined with a federal grant, this was enough for TARC to purchase the Louisville Transit Company, buy new buses, reduce fares, and extend new service lines. TARC bought up the remaining mass transit companies in the area; Blue Motor Coach Lines, which served outlying areas, in 1976 and the Daisy Line, connecting New Albany and Louisville, in 1983.\n\nIn 1993, TARC experimented with a \"water taxi\" service connecting the Belle of Louisville wharf and Towboat Annie's Restaurant in Jeffersonville. During the 1990s and early 2000s, TARC advocated extensive funding to build and operate light rail system in the Louisville area, but despite wide press coverage, the plans never went past planning stages.\n\nIn February 1994, an audit committee headed by future political candidate Bruce Lunsford revealed TARC had been mismanaging funds and was on pace to deplete its once-large trust fund due to skyrocketing expenses such as door-to-door services for the disabled as well as rates of spending on personal services and fringe benefits for administrators that was much higher than in transit companies for similar sized cities. In the fallout of the audit, TARC's executive director resigned and fares were nearly doubled before year's end.\n\nIn August 2011, TARC's new $4.5 million, 17,700 square-foot, Maintenance and Training building received Gold LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Certification.\n\nTARC purchased Louisville's Union Station for $2 million in 1977, the year after the former train station had ceased rail operations. The trainyard was replaced with a large maintenance facility for TARC buses and the former train station is now TARC's administrative headquarters. In 2003, TARC did a major remodeling of Union Station for the first time since it purchased the facility. The renovation cost $2.1 million.\n\nTARC is administered by an eight-member board. TARC had a budget of $67.8 million for the 2008–09 fiscal year. Fares only cover about 12% of TARC's operating expenses; the rest is paid for by Jefferson County's occupational tax, federal aid and some other minor sources.\n\nSome funding comes from a transportation trust fund kept by TARC. In 1992, the fund contained $28 million, which a local alderman claimed made TARC the \"Cadillac\" of America's bus systems, and unsuccessfully proposed raiding it to fund the Louisville Free Public Library. The fund declined from $34 million in 1989 to $13 million in 1994, prompting severe cutbacks and rate hikes that year.\n\nAs of 2020, TARC has a fleet of 277 buses. 32 are hybrid buses, which combine a traditional diesel engine and an electric motor to reduce emissions and eliminate tailpipe exhaust during acceleration, but cost nearly twice as much as a conventional bus. The hybrids were provided through Federal highway bill earmarks by U.S. Senator Jim Bunning. In 2007, a new TARC bus cost $285,000, while a hybrid bus cost $504,000. Now a New clean diesel costs $405,000 dollars a bus while a hybrid costs $600,000 dollars a bus. Tarc Also operates a fleet of 17 electric buses which cost a lot more than the hybrids. These buses burn cleaner than a diesel bus, and have zero emissions. Which means 11,000lbs less diesel exhaust smoke has been emitted into the air.\n\nIn October 2010, TARC announced that the hybrid bus fleet would grow to 21, with the addition of 9 new buses, with a grant of $3.9 million, from the Federal Transit Authority's Clean Fuels Bus and Bus Facilities Program. A previous grant through the federal stimulus program paid for nine hybrid buses that arrived in July 2010.\n\nAll buses are equipped with \"kneeling\" bus technology that makes them easier to board, and a wheelchair lift. TARC once required disabled riders to use a special service with smaller buses that had to be scheduled in advance, but all regular buses were made accessible following protests in 1986.\n\nTARC operates a series of city buses that serve throughout the Louisville area. TARC claims over 7,000+ bus stops, although only about 200 of them have benches and rain shelters—the rest simply have a sign indicating the location is a bus stop. The stops are served by 33 weekday and weekend routes, 14 express routes with weekday service only, totalling 47 routes. The daily routes are named for the primary road they serve. On the daily routes, there is no more than hour between scheduled buses at any stop, and on weekdays on the busiest routes have even less time between stops. Most of the daily routes have existed under the same name and number for decades, although their routes have almost all been extended to provide access to suburban locations.\n\nTARC operates various circulators providing access to hospitals, Downtown Louisville and art galleries. Since 1999, TARC has operated a shuttle service for the University of Louisville's main campus. It operates two routes shuttling workers to Worldport, the hub of United Parcel Service and one of Louisville's largest employers. In 2007, TARC launched a program called \"Ride to Safety\" which allows domestic abuse victims to board TARC buses to be given transportation to a shelter.\n\nThey also operate a system of diesel-powered rubber-tired buses designed in the style of early 20th century streetcars that act as circulators in the downtown hotel and shopping districts and on certain days are used to provide special shuttle services in other shopping and entertainment areas. The tourist trolleys began operation in November 1987 and their role and fare has varied over the years as funding has allowed. By the end of 2014, 10 new all-electric buses will be in operation. The first of 10 has arrived already, and is slated to begin testing soon.\n\nTARC and its predecessor provided shuttle access to the Kentucky Derby and Kentucky Oaks since the 1950s, but in 2008 new federal rules required the racetrack, Churchill Downs, to negotiate with private companies to provide service. The shuttle operation transported tens of thousands of people each year and provided TARC with over $200,000 of annual revenue. TARC provides service to some other local events, including Thunder over Louisville and the Kentucky State Fair.\n\nThrough a program called \"Bikes on Board\", TARC has bike racks installed on the front of all its full-size buses, each with the capacity to hold two bicycles. The program began in 2001, and by 2004 all buses were equipped. In 2005, TARC reported an average of 6,000 riders a month used the bike racks.\n\nThe standard fare became $1 in 1994, up from $0.85 for peak hours and $0.50 for off-peak hours. On July 1, 2007, it was raised to $1.25. In June 2008 the adult fare was raised to $1.50 to help defray the increased cost of fuel. Since July 1, 2012, the adult fare has been $1.75. Starting in 2018, fareboxes will be updated. The amount for a one-way adult fare will be unchanged. Smartcards will be accepted for payment, with the fare discounted to $1.50, while those without smartcards will have to provide exact change. Discounts are offered to senior citizens and high school students. A \"day tripper\" one-day pass can be purchased for $3.50 while boarding the bus (TARC3 is currently not participating but will be phased in at a later time). Express fares are $2.75, or $1 with a bus pass currently. Children under 6 with a fare-paying rider pay no fare, limited to 3.\n\nAs of January 7, 2019 TARC has started their Automated fare collection system, and added new magnetic fare cards. TARC also launched a new app as well. The fares are as follows $1.75 full cash fare one way. With the new MYTARC fare cards $1.50. Express Fare is $2.75 full cash fare. $2.50 with MYTARC Express Card. MYTARC 24 hr Card. $3.50 local, $5.50 Express. $15 for the 7 day local. $23 for 7 day Express. $50 for 30 day local. $85 for 30 day express.. The new smart card youth summer pass became available late May 2019. For seniors, and persons with disabilities. The Fare is still $.80 cents full cash fare, $.80 cents with smart card. 10 trip cards are available for $8.00. Note:Express fares for seniors, and persons with disabilities is $1.30. Mobile ticketing will be available 01/13/2020. Pricing will be as follows. With smartcard, and reduced smartcard its $.80, and $1.50 for local, and rapid, and $1.30, and $2.50 for express. With the TARC Mobile app launched in the spring of 2019. All fares reduced, or not will be $1.50. Express fare will also cost $1.50. This is per TARC Mgmt, and customer service.\n\nTARC debuted the region, and state of Kentucky's first Bus Rapid Transit line on january 6th, 2020. It has 37 brand new distinctly branded stops, and 9 new distinctly branded silver, and blue buses. Service will be 15–30 minutes 21 hours a day, 7 days a week. 20 minute service will be from 4:00am–5:30am, and 7:00pm–1:00am, with 15 minute service from 5:30am–7:00pm. Monday-Friday. Saturday, and Sunday will be 30 minute service from 4:30-7:00am, \nand 20 minute service from 7:00am–7:00pm 30 minute service from 7:00pm–12:00am Midnight. This route will begin at 2nd and Market, and end at Dixie Gardens. These buses will be chocked full of modern technology, including the ability to control the traffic signals at select cue jump lanes. As well as fuel saving technology, and it will save time on your bus ride. This new route was created as part of the nearly 3 year $35 million dollar New Dixie Highway project. That added medians, and realigned a short portion at the corner of Dixie, and Broadway, and when final paving is done this spring it will make Dixie Highway safer to travel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302454", "title": "Ferenc Joachim", "text": "Ferenc Joachim\n\nFerenc Joachim (May 21, 1882 – September 16, 1964) was a Hungarian painter of portraits and landscapes in oil, watercolors and pastels on canvas, board and paper. He studied and painted in Budapest and Western Europe. As an untitled member of the minor nobility, Joachim was entitled to bear the honorary prefix \"Csejtei\", so prior to the Communist abolition of honorifics in 1947 his name might be found in the form \"Csejtei Joachim Ferenc\" (or \"Cs. Joachim F.\") in Hungarian, or in German \"Franz Joachim von Csejthey\".\n\nJoachim's parents were Ferenc Joachim and Emilia Metz of Szeged, Hungary. He had two brothers, Jozsef and Károly, and four sisters, Gizella, Mariska, Jolán, and Mici. The family was Roman Catholic. Some of his siblings were also artists in their own right: Jozsef was a sculptor and painter while Gizella became a stage actress.\n\nFerenc Joachim was born in Szeged, in what was at that time the Austro-Hungarian Empire. For the first 36 years of his life he lived and worked in Hungary and in various parts of Western Europe.\n\nLittle is known about the first 30 years of Joachim's life. It appears that Joachim was married twice. He married Margit Gráf (1892–1965) around 1912. They had three children: one daughter, Piroska (1913–2007), and two sons, Ferenc Gabriel (1920–1989) and Attila (1923–1947).\n\nJoachim studied painting in Budapest (Hungary), Vienna (Austria), Munich (Germany), and Paris (France). He studied with Hungarian art educator Simon Hollósy at his private school in Munich, and periodically visited Hollósy's Nagybánya Artists Colony in Transylvania.\n\nWhile his principal residences and studios were in his birthplace of Szeged and in Budapest, Joachim also painted in Rome, Venice, Marseilles, and the south of France. During his time in France he went by the name \"François Joachim\". His works were exhibited in Paris, Rome, Venice, Berlin and Munich.\n\nJoachim was a proponent of the late 19th-century concept of leaving the studio and painting in nature. One of his most productive periods was during one of his stays in Marseilles and along the Mediterranean coast, where he painted over a hundred canvases.\n\nIn Szeged he was active in promoting the arts in the region. Articles from \"Művészet\" in both 1910 and 1913 show him with other local artists. A publication from Hódmezővásárhely dated 15 April 1910 reports the annual spring exhibition of artists in Szeged, with Joachim Ferenc cited as the most modern of them, with a first-class sensibility for colors. Joachim's paintings were exhibited at the Salon d'Automne (1911) and Salon des Indepenedents (1913) in Paris, and at the Nemzeti Szalon (National Salon) in Budapest. His paintings were also exhibited at the Szépműveszeti Múzeum or Museum of Fine Arts (Budapest).\n\nAn article documents that in April 1919 Joachim was a member of the committee of the Szeged Museum trying to save and catalogue the museum's collections following the ravages and chaos of World War I (during which Joachim had served in the \"Kaiserlich und königlich\" forces of the Austro-Hungarian Army). Another document, dated January 15, 1928, shows Ferenc Joachim to be a founding member of the \"Alföld Artists Association\" (\"Alföldi Müvészek Egyesülete\") in Szeged.\n\nToday a small collection of his paintings (partly owned and partly on loan) is preserved in the repository of the \"\"Móra Ferenc Múzeum\"\" in Szeged. One painting, \"Kőbánya Albániában\" (Stone Quarry in Albania), is owned by the Hungarian National Gallery. All other paintings are in private hands, occasionally appearing at public art auctions in Hungary and the US.\n\nDuring the years of the Great Depression the family was reduced to poverty; in an interview in 1935 Joachim attributed his daughter's attempted suicide to their financial straits.\n\nDuring the Second World War a number of Joachim's relatives and in-laws were persecuted or murdered. Both of his sisters-in-law (one of whom, Julia Gráf, had sat for a portrait with him in 1938), their husbands and children died in the Budapest holocaust, while the fate of his three brothers-in-law is unknown. Joachim's younger son, Attila, enrolled as a student at the Hungarian Academy of Fine Arts in 1941, and graduated in 1946. His early death, the year after his graduation, was attributed to complications arising from internal injuries received from beatings by Hungarian Fascists and German Nazis, during the Budapest holocaust.\n\nThe final 20 years of Joachim's life, from 1944 to 1964, were spent in Communist Hungary. His two surviving children, Piroska and Ferenc Gabriel, fled the country after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, and found refuge in Canada, both later moving to the United States. Ferenc Gabriel, under the name Frank G. Joachim, became a research biologist and entomologist with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Metabolism and Radiation Laboratory.\n\nIn their old age, Joachim and his wife were moved to separate old age homes: Joachim went to Gyula, where he died and was buried on September 16, 1964, at age 82; Margit went to Szentgotthárd, where she died and was buried at age 73 in 1965.\n"}
{"id": "2302460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302460", "title": "The Brylcreem Boys", "text": "The Brylcreem Boys\n\nThe Brylcreem Boys is a 1998 romantic comedy film set in Ireland during the Second World War. The film, which stars Billy Campbell, Angus Macfadyen, Jean Butler and Gabriel Byrne, was directed and co written by Terence Ryan. The story is set against the extraordinary neutrality arrangements in Ireland during World War II, under the government of Éamon de Valera. \n\nThe title comes from a popular nickname for the RAF personnel during the period.\n\nDuring World War II, all Allied and Axis service personnel that end up in Ireland are to be interned for the duration of the conflict. Two pilots, one from the Royal Canadian Air Force (portrayed by Campbell) and one from the Luftwaffe (portrayed by Macfadyen), both fall in love with a local Irish girl, played by Butler. The relationship is further complicated by Byrne, who plays the unceasingly vigilant internment camp commander.\n\n\nAlthough set in Ireland, the film was made on location in the Isle of Man. It was the first major production to use the island since George Formby's \"No Limit\" in 1935. The film established the \"Isle of Man Film Commission\".\n\nCasting was by Jo Gilbert.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302461", "title": "1965 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1965 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 12 and 13 September 1965. The Labour Party remained the largest party, winning 68 of the 150 seats. However, the four non-socialist parties succeeded in winning a majority between them and forming a government. Per Borten, the leader of the Centre Party, became Prime Minister.\n\n The joint list of the Conservative Party and the Christian People's Party won two seats, with the parties taking one each.\n"}
{"id": "2302463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302463", "title": "William Hawrelak", "text": "William Hawrelak\n\nWilliam Hawrelak (October 3, 1915 – November 7, 1975) was a politician in Alberta, Canada, the longest-serving mayor in Edmonton's history, and a candidate for election to the House of Commons of Canada.\n\nHawrelak was born in Shandro, Alberta to Ukrainian immigrants William and Anastasia Hawrelak (the family's ancestral name was Гавриляк (\"Havryliak\")). He married Pearl Shandro (daughter of Alberta MLA Andrew Shandro, after whom Hawrelak's hometown was named) the pair would have three daughters.\n\nIn 1945, Hawrelak moved to Edmonton and purchased the Prairie Rose Manufacturing Co., which made soft drinks. He served as president of the Alberta Farmer's Union and of the Edmonton Federation of Community Leagues before entering politics.\n\nHawrelak's first attempt at political office took place in the 1948 municipal election, in which he ran for Edmonton City Council and was defeated, finishing seventh of twelve candidates for alderman. He was more successful in the next election, winning the last available aldermanic position by finishing sixth of nine candidates after being backed by the Citizens' Committee, a municipal political party dominated by Anglo-Saxon businessmen.\n\nIn 1951, he took over as mayor on an interim basis when Sidney Parsons had to leave the position for health reasons. In that year's election, he won the position more permanently by winning more than sixty-five percent of the vote and defeating the returned Parsons and one other candidate.\n\nHawrelak initially saw considerable political success: his re-election bids in the 1953 and 1955 elections were unopposed, and in the 1957 election he easily dispatched his two challengers, both former aldermen, winning more than sixty-five percent of the vote.\n\nHawrelak presided over a time of prosperity resulting, in part, from the discovery of oil near Edmonton in 1947. The city was able to provide a variety of new facilities, including a main branch for the Edmonton Public Library, a new city hall, the Riverside Golf Course, the Valley Zoo, Fort Edmonton Park, the Groat Bridge, the Royal Alexandra Hospital, the Queen Elizabeth Planetarium, Borden Park, Coronation Park, Mayfair Park, and the Edmonton portion of the Yellowhead Trail (Highway 16).\n\nIn 1958, Ed Leger - who would later join city council as the longest-serving alderman in Edmonton's history (1959–1986, except for a two year period after an unsuccessful run for mayor in 1961), later surpassed by Ron Hayter - presented a petition to city council that called for an investigation into the city administration. Leger alleged that Hawrelak had used his position to financially benefit himself, his family, and his associates.\n\nAn ensuing inquiry by Justice Marshall Porter found Hawrelak guilty of \"gross misconduct\" - including, in some cases, attempts to influence rezoning of land he owned - in six different land transactions. Hawrelak resigned September 9, 1959, but continued to deny any wrongdoing.\n\nThe city sued Hawrelak, and he ultimately paid $100,000 plus $4,000 in legal fees to settle the lawsuit; this settlement also made him eligible to again seek elected municipal office, which he did in the 1963 election. In an election that has been called the dirtiest in Edmonton's history, he narrowly defeated alderman Stanley A. Milner. His victory was marred by a riot that erupted when a group of students marching to city hall to protest Hawrelak's re-election victory were met by a mob loyal to the mayor, leading the Edmonton Journal - which was regularly critical of Hawrelak - to speculate that the mob was organized by the same people who \"toured meetings during the recent election campaign with the sole purpose of preventing anti-Hawrelak candidates from speaking\".\n\nHawrelak was re-elected in the 1964 election, defeating incumbent alderman and former Member of Parliament George Prudham, but his second stint as mayor would also end prematurely: on March 11, 1965, Chief Justice C.C. McLaurin of the Court of Queen's Bench of Alberta disqualified Hawrelak from his position after ruling that he had violated the City Act through his involvement with Sun Alta Builder's Ltd., of which he owned forty percent and which had bought land from the city while he was in office. Again Hawrelak denied wrongdoing, and appealed the decision up to the Supreme Court of Canada, which upheld it (he did win a partial victory in March 1975 when the same court reversed a ruling of a lower court that ordered that he return $80,117 in profits from the dealings to the city; the Supreme Court of Canada found that there were no profits to be returned).\n\nHawrelak ran for mayor in the 1966 election, but was defeated by Vincent Dantzer, the man city council had chosen to replace him as mayor. This would be the only mayoral defeat Hawrelak would suffer in his career. After this defeat, he declared himself done with city politics. He turned his attention instead to the federal scene.\n\nIn the 1957 federal election, Hawrelak, still mayor and before his political troubles had started, had run as the Liberal Party of Canada candidate in Edmonton East. He had come within three hundred votes of unseating incumbent Social Credit Party of Canada MP Ambrose Holowach, but had not hitherto made any subsequent bids for federal election. This changed with the 1968 federal election. Hawrelak ran in Edmonton Centre. Denied the Liberal nomination, he ran instead as an \"Independent Liberal\". He finished third, behind Progressive Conservative Steve Paproski and official Liberal Donald Gray. He may have had some impact after all, however: the gap between the Conservative Paproski and the Liberal Gray was fewer than two hundred votes, while the independent Liberal Hawrelak won more than seven thousand.\n\nReversing himself, Hawrelak ran for mayor again in the 1974 election against incumbent Ivor Dent, future mayor Cec Purves, alderman David Ward, and three other candidates. Even in this crowded field, Hawrelak won more than forty-nine percent of the vote in his return to office. His last term was marked by a similar style of governance to his previous terms: he was accused of stacking city boards and commissions with his friends, he appointed a disbarred lawyer as his executive assistant, and allowed property taxes into his holdings to fall in arrears (which he characterized as an oversight). However, he also faced new opposition: the council on which he served included a number of urban reformers as well as his old nemesis, alderman Ed Leger. Hawrelak couldn't maintain the tight control to which he was accustomed.\n\nThirteen months after his election, on November 7, 1975, William Hawrelak died of a heart attack. More than ten thousand people came to pay their respects as his body lay in city council chambers.\n\nIn 1982, Mayfair Park was renamed William Hawrelak Park, in honour of Hawrelak and a legacy of his time as mayor, which included the period when Mayfair Park was created.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302464", "title": "Illinois Route 159", "text": "Illinois Route 159\n\nIllinois Route 159 is a north–south state road in southwestern Illinois. Its southern terminus is at Illinois Route 3 and Illinois Route 154 in Red Bud and its northern terminus at Illinois Route 16 in Royal Lakes. This is a distance of .\n\nIllinois 159 is a major north–south artery through the eastern portion of the metropolitan St. Louis, Missouri area. Illinois 159 overlaps Illinois Route 143 in Edwardsville.\n\nWidening of a stretch of Illinois 159 to five lanes took place around 2006; the highway is now five lanes from Fairview Heights to Edwardsville, with the exception of downtown Collinsville, where a similar widening project was completed in 2012.\n\nSBI Route 159 ran from Red Bud to Alton. In 1964, the Edwardsville to Alton segment was changed to Illinois Route 143, and Illinois 159 was run north through Edwardsville to Royal Lakes, replacing \"Illinois Route 112\". This created an unusual 3 way multiplex in downtown Edwardsville where you went north on 157, south on 159, and east on 143 for 2 blocks. This multiplex was not signed, however. In 2003 Illinois 159 was rerouted through Edwardsville, which eliminated that multiplex.\n\nAn Alternate Illinois Route 159 was proposed by Edwardsville on the old Illinois 159 alignment on Troy Road, but was never implemented.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302473", "title": "Parlor guitar", "text": "Parlor guitar\n\nParlor or parlour guitar usually refers to a type of acoustic guitar smaller than a Size No.0 Concert Guitar by C. F. Martin & Company. \"Mottola's Cyclopedic Dictionary of Lutherie Terms\" describes the term as referring to \"any guitar that is narrower than current standards.\"\n\nThe popularity of these guitars peaked from the late 19th century until the 1950s. Many blues and folk musicians have used smaller-bodied guitars, which were often more affordable, mass production models.\n\nParlor guitar has also come to denote a style of American guitar music from the 19th and early 20th centuries. Noted composers include William Foden, Winslow Hayden, William Bateman, Justin Holland, and Wilhelm Bischoff. The music for the guitar includes a variety of dance forms (waltz, schottische, polka), instrumental arrangements of popular songs, guitar arrangements of then popular classical music, operatic arrangements and music from European guitar composers (Sor, Giuliani, Carcassi, Coste and Mertz). The Scruggs style and its banjo rolls are based upon and contemporary with parlor-style guitar.\n\nIn the 2000s, the parlor guitar is enjoying a renaissance among players \"who like their midrangery tone, historic vibe, and easy portability\". Modern luthiers are making parlor guitars in a wide variety of tonewoods. Takamine Guitars produces one made of cedar and koa, with a preamp powered by a 12AU7, the first acoustic guitar with a tube preamp. Fylde Guitars produces the 'Single Malt Ariel' constructed from used whisky casks.\n\n\n (smaller than Size No.0)\n"}
{"id": "2302474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302474", "title": "MBus (SPARC)", "text": "MBus (SPARC)\n\nMBus is a computer bus designed and implemented by Sun Microsystems for communication between high speed computer system components, such as the central processing unit, motherboard and main memory. Contrast this with SBus, used in the same machines to connect add-on cards to the motherboard.\n\nMBus was first used in Sun's first multiprocessor SPARC-based system, the SPARCserver 600MP series (launched in 1991), and later found use in the SPARCstation 10 and SPARCstation 20 workstations. The bus permitted the integration of several microprocessors on a single motherboard, in a multiprocessing configuration with up to eight CPUs packaged in detachable MBus modules. However, in practice, the number of processors per MBus was limited to four. Single processor systems were also sold that used the MBus protocol internally, but with the CPUs permanently attached to the motherboard to lower manufacturing costs.\n\nMBus specified a 64-bit datapath, which used 36-bit physical addressing, giving an address space of 64 GB. The transfer rate is 80 MB/s sustained (320 MB/s peak) at 40 MHz, or 100 MB/s (400 MB/s peak) at 50 MHz. Bus controlling is done by an arbiter. Interrupt, reset, and timeout logic are also specified.\n\nSeveral related buses were also developed:\nXBus is a packet-switched bus used in the SPARCserver 1000, SPARCcenter 2000 and Cray CS6400. This corresponded to the circuit-switched MBus, with identical electrical characteristics and physical form factor but an incompatible signalling protocol.\nKBus is a high-speed interconnection system for linking multiple MBuses, used in Solbourne Series 6 and Series 7 computer systems.\n\nThe MBus standard was cooperatively developed by Sun and Ross Technology and released in 1991.\n\nManufacturers who produced computer systems using the MBus included Sun, Ross Technology, Inc., Hyundai/Axil, Fujitsu, Solbourne Computer, Tatung, GCS, Auspex, ITRI, ICL, Cray, Amdahl, Themis, DTK and Kamstrup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302477", "title": "Charles L. Harness", "text": "Charles L. Harness\n\nCharles Leonard Harness (December 29, 1915 – September 20, 2005) was an American science fiction writer.\n\nHe was born in Colorado City, Texas and grew up just outside it, then later in Fort Worth. He earned degrees in chemistry and law from George Washington University and worked as a patent attorney in Connecticut & Washington, DC from 1947 to 1981. Several of Harness' works draw on his background as a lawyer.\n\nHarness died in 2005, at the age of 89, in North Newton, Kansas.\n\nHarness' first story, \"Time Trap\" (1948), is unusual for a first story in that it shows many of his recurring themes, among them art, time travel, and a hero undergoing a quasi-transcendental experience.\n\nHis first novel was his most famous, \"Flight into Yesterday\". It was first published as a novella in the May 1949 issue of \"Startling Stories\" (pp. 9–79), was expanded as a full-length novel (Bouregy & Curl, 1953), and was renamed \"Paradox Men\" by Donald Wollheim for reprint as the first half of Ace Double #D-118 in 1955. Much later Harness thanked Wollheim for the title that \"turned out to be irresistible\". The \"science-fiction classic\" is both \"a tale dominated by space-opera extravagances\" and \"a severely articulate narrative analysis of the implications of Arnold J. Toynbee's \"A Study of History\".\" Boucher and McComas described it as \"fine swashbuckling adventure ... so infinitely intricate that you may never quite understand what it's about.\" P. Schuyler Miller described it as \"action-entertainment, fast-paced enough that you don't stop to bother with inconsistencies or improbabilities.\"\n\nIn his introduction in the 1967 Four Square paperback reprint of the novel, Brian Aldiss terms it a major example of the \"Widescreen Baroque\" style in science fiction, and John Clute terms it \"the kind of tale which transforms traditional space opera into an arena where a vast array of characters can act their hearts out, where anything can be said with a wink or dead seriously, and any kind of story be told.\" In \"Trillion Year Spree\", Aldiss and Wingrove report the novel \"plays high, wide, and handsome with space and time, buzzes around the solar system like a demented hornet, [and] is witty, profound, and trivial all in one breath.\" \"The Paradox Men\" features the concept of force fields which protect people against high-velocity weapons like guns but not against knives or swords, an idea later used in Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" (1965).\n\nIn 1953, Harness also published his most famous single story, \"The Rose\", which first appeared in the British magazine \"Authentic Science Fiction\", then as the main novella in a UK mass-market paperback collection. The story did not appear in the United States until 1969.\n\nAmong Harness' best known stories are \"The Rose\", \"An Ornament to his Profession\", \"The Alchemist\" and \"Stalemate in Time\". His story \"The New Reality\" has been called \"SF's best Adam & Eve story\" by Brian Stableford. His novel \"Redworld\" is one of the very few science fiction novels in which all characters are aliens.\n\nHarness's ideas influenced numerous writers and he continued to publish until 2001, being nominated for multiple Hugo and Nebula awards. In 2004 he was named Author Emeritus by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302482", "title": "William Short", "text": "William Short\n\nWilliam Short or William Shortt may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302484", "title": "Santa Cruz River (Arizona)", "text": "Santa Cruz River (Arizona)\n\nThe Santa Cruz River ( \"Holy Cross River\") is a tributary river to the Gila River in Southern Arizona and northern Sonora, Mexico. It is approximately long.\n\nThe Santa Cruz has its headwaters in the high intermontane grasslands of the San Rafael Valley to the southeast of Patagonia, Arizona, between the Canelo Hills to the east and the Patagonia Mountains to the west, just north of the international border. It flows southward into Mexico past Santa Cruz, Sonora and turns westward around the south end of the Sierra San Antonio near Miguel Hidalgo (San Lázaro), thence north-northwest to reenter the United States just to the east of Nogales and southwest of Kino Springs. It then continues northward from the international border past the Tumacacori National Historical Park, Tubac, Green Valley, Sahuarita, San Xavier del Bac, Tucson, Marana, and Picacho Peak State Park to the Santa Cruz Flats just to the south of Casa Grande and the Gila River. Between Nogales and Tucson the river valley is flanked by the San Cayetano and Santa Rita Mountains on the east and the Atascosa, Tumacacori, and Sierrita Mountains on the west.\n\nMost of the Santa Cruz River is usually a dry riverbed, unless the area receives significant rainfall. This was not always the case, but a combination of human errors and natural catastrophes in the late nineteenth century led to the decline of the Santa Cruz.\n\nThe city of Nogales, Sonora, has been releasing treated sewage into the Santa Cruz River. This has resulted in the revival of several miles of riverbank within and north of the city of Nogales, Arizona.\n\nThe Juan Bautista de Anza National Historic Trail parallels much of the Santa Cruz. In Marana, there are approximately ten paved miles of multi-use recreational path along the Santa Cruz, located on Tangerine Road and through the Gladden Farms community park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302489", "title": "Len Elmore", "text": "Len Elmore\n\nLeonard J. Elmore (born March 28, 1952) is an American sportscaster, lawyer and former National Basketball Association (NBA) player.\n\nElmore has served as a college basketball analyst for ESPN and Fox Sports and has served in the same capacity for CBS Sports' coverage of the NCAA Tournament and NBA.\n\nElmore attended Power Memorial Academy in New York City, leading its basketball team to the City championship and the \"Number 1 Team in the Nation\" in 1970. He graduated from the University of Maryland College Park in 1974 where he was a three-time All-ACC player and an All-American in 1974. He is still Maryland's all-time leading rebounder, in both total rebounds and rebounding average. In 2002, Elmore was selected to the ACC 50th Anniversary men's basketball team, honoring him as one of the 50 greatest players in ACC history.\n\nElmore is a ten-year veteran of the NBA having played for the Indiana Pacers, Kansas City Kings (currently known as the Sacramento Kings), Milwaukee Bucks, New Jersey Nets (Brooklyn Nets), New York Knicks, and he also played two seasons with the Pacers when they were in the ABA.\n\nIn 1990, Elmore served as the color commentator for CBS' number-two NBA broadcasting team (behind Dick Stockton and Hubie Brown), calling much of the Western Conference Playoff action alongside play-by-play man Verne Lundquist. In 1992, Elmore alongside Lundquist, called the legendary East Regional Final between Duke and Kentucky, which ended with Duke's Christian Laettner's game-winning shot.\n\nElmore posted on his Twitter account that he was one of over 100 employees at ESPN that were laid off in April 2017.\n\nElmore received a J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1987 and began his law career as a prosecutor, serving as an Assistant District Attorney in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nAside from his announcing duties, Elmore also previously served as Senior Counsel with LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae in New York City, where he currently resides and is the president of the National Basketball Retired Players Association. He also is a member of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics.\n\nElmore teaches \"Seminar in Sports Media\" and \"Athlete Activism and Social Justice\" in Columbia University's Master of Science Program in Sports Management.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302500", "title": "Alamo Scouts", "text": "Alamo Scouts\n\nThe Alamo Scouts (U.S. 6th Army Special Reconnaissance Unit) was a reconnaissance unit of the Sixth United States Army in the Pacific Theater of Operations during World War II. The unit is best known for its role in liberating American prisoners of war (POWs) from the Japanese Cabanatuan POW camp near Cabanatuan, Nueva Ecija, Philippines in January 1945.\n\nThe Scouts were organized on Fergusson Island, New Guinea, on 28 November 1943. Their purpose was to conduct reconnaissance and raider work in the Southwest Pacific Theater. The scouts often operated deep behind Japanese lines. They were under the personal command of Lieutenant General Walter Krueger, Commanding General of the U.S. Sixth Army. General Krueger wanted a unit that could provide timely vital intelligence on the enemy's troop numbers, unit types, and locations to the Sixth Army. General Krueger had previously received faulty intelligence reports from other sources outside of Sixth Army.\n\nKrueger sought to create an all volunteer elite unit consisting of small teams which could operate deep behind enemy lines. Their primary mission was to gather intelligence for the Sixth U.S. Army. The unit was so named because of Krueger's association with San Antonio, Texas and because of his admiration for the defenders of the Alamo. The \"Alamo\" nickname also applied to Krueger's Sixth Army, known as the \"Alamo Force\", a name also applied to the shadow command structure that General MacArthur, Supreme Allied Commander of the SouthWest Pacific, created to maintain extra control of that Army while it was part of his multi-army Allied Ground Forces branch, under the command of Australian General Sir Thomas Blamey. The Scouts were an ad hoc unit and had no table of organization & equipment (TO&E).\n\nIn the Scouts' first two years of operation they were credited with liberating 197 Allied prisoners in New Guinea.\n\nDuring the New Guinea Campaign, Alamo Scout missions normally lasted from one to three days and were mostly reconnaissance and intelligence gathering in nature, but as the Allies advanced into the Philippines the unit's mission expanded dramatically, with some missions lasting two months or longer. Furthermore, the unit assumed a central role in organizing large-scale guerrilla operations, establishing road watch stations, attempting to locate and capture or kill Japanese flag officers, and performing direct action missions, such as the Cabanatuan POW Camp liberation. In January 1945 the scouts were teamed with elements of the 6th Ranger Battalion and Filipino guerrilla units to liberate 513 POWs in a daring night attack. The scouts provided reconnaissance and tactical support for the 6th Ranger Battalion during the raid of the Cabanatuan Prison Camp. The Scouts performed advance reconnaissance of the POW camp prior to the 6th Rangers' Raid on the camp. Prior to the raid, two of the scouts dressed themselves as local Filipino rice farm workers. These two scouts then set up a covert observation post inside a shack in the rice fields that surrounded the POW camp. This hidden observation post was located within a few hundred yards of Japanese Army guard posts at the camp's fence line. The scouts were never discovered by the Japanese during this reconnaissance. The Scouts were credited with the capture of 84 Japanese prisoners of war, and only two Scouts were wounded in the mission.\n\nWhile not on missions, Alamo Scout teams were assigned as bodyguards for General Krueger and had specific instructions to kill the general if capture was imminent.\n\nNear the end of the war Alamo Scout teams were preparing for the invasion of Japan, where they were slated to conduct pre-invasion reconnaissance of Kyushu as part of Operation Downfall, but the war ended.\n\nThe Alamo Scouts performed 110 known missions behind enemy lines, mainly in New Guinea and the Philippines, without losing a single man.\n\nThe unit was disbanded at Kyoto, Japan, in November 1945.\n\nIn 1988, the soldiers of the Alamo Scouts were awarded the Special Forces Tab in recognition for their services in World War II, including them in the lineage of the current United States Army Special Forces.\n\nThe Raid at Cabanatuan, carried out by a combined team of Alamo Scouts, Rangers and Filipino guerrillas, has been depicted in feature films. Edward Dmytryk's 1945 film \"Back to Bataan\" opens by retelling the story of the raid on the Cabanatuan POW camp, including real life film of the POW survivors. The 2005 John Dahl film \"The Great Raid\", based on the books \"The Great Raid on Cabanatuan\" and \"Ghost Soldiers\", focused on the raid.\n\nIn 1950, the Philippine Army named their special forces unit the Scout Ranger Regiment in honor of the Alamo Scouts and the US Army Rangers.\n\nFormer Alamo Scout Sergeant Major Kittleson founded the Alamo Scouts, a local Venture Scouting unit, in his hometown area Toeterville, Iowa after his retirement from the military. The organization offers a military style training environment for local youth.\n\nTroop 253 in East Grand Rapids, Michigan has an Alamo Scouts patrol, named in honor of the original unit. Its patrol motto is \"Remember!\" and the patrol patch was adapted from the World War II unit logo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302502", "title": "Tucson Gem &amp; Mineral Show", "text": "Tucson Gem &amp; Mineral Show\n\nThe Tucson Gem, Mineral & Fossil Showcase are gem and mineral shows that take place annually in late January and February at multiple locations across the city of Tucson, Arizona. Most of the shows are open to the public, except for certain trade shows which require registration with a business license. \n\nThe key event of the Gem, Mineral & Fossil Showcase is the Tucson Gem & Mineral Show produced by the Tucson Gem and Mineral Society. This show has been held annually since 1955 and now occupies of the Tucson Convention Center. Many museums and universities, including the Smithsonian Institution and the Sorbonne, have displayed at the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show. \n\nThe first Tucson Gem and Mineral Show was held in an elementary school in 1955 and shortly thereafter moved to a Quonset hut at the Tucson Fair Grounds. In 1973, it moved into the Tucson Community Center, first occupying the North Exhibit Hall, then expanding into the Arena and upper Arena concourse. After the completion of the new facility in 1990, which is now called the Tucson Convention Center, the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show now occupies the Arena, Exhibition Halls A-B-C, Galleria and Ballrooms. Katherine Rambo estimates that between 1996 and 2010 there was an average of about thirteen hundred total dealers from forty-nine states and thirty-two countries in attendance, annually.\n\nThe Tucson Gem, Mineral & Fossil Showcase is one of the single highest revenue-producing events for the Tucson economy. The estimated economic impact in 2018 was $120 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302503", "title": "Wang Guowei", "text": "Wang Guowei\n\nWang Guowei (; 2 December 18772 June 1927), courtesy name Jing'an (靜安) or Boyu (伯隅), was a Chinese historian and poet. A versatile and original scholar, he made important contributions to the studies of ancient history, epigraphy, philology, vernacular literature and literary theory.\n\nA native of Haining, Zhejiang, he went to Shanghai to work as a proofreader for a newspaper, after failing to pass the Imperial Examination in his hometown, at the age of 22. There he studied in the Dongwen Xueshe (東文學社), a Japanese language teaching school, and became a protégé of Luo Zhenyu. Sponsored by Luo, he left for Japan in 1901, studying natural sciences in Tokyo. Back in China one year later, he began to teach in different colleges, and devoted himself to the study of German idealism. He fled to Japan with Luo when the Xinhai Revolution took place in 1911. He returned to China in 1916, but remained loyal to the overthrown Manchu emperor. In 1924, he was appointed professor by the Tsinghua University, where he was known as one of the \"Four Great Tutors,\" along with the prominent Chinese scholars Liang Qichao, Chen Yinke, and Y. R. Chao. \n\nIn 1927, Wang drowned himself in Kunming Lake in the Summer Palace before the National Revolutionary Army entered Beijing during the Northern Expedition.\n\nChen Yinque's epitaph read: \"The suicide of Wang was because he worried about losing the independent spirit and free thought he long cherished in his academic pursuit.\"\n\nWang focused on the studies of Chinese vernacular literature during the early year of his career. When he became convinced that Schopenhauer's metaphysics were not believable, he turned for solace to critical and philological studies of the novel \"Dream of the Red Chamber\", as well as writing a concise history of the theaters of the Song and Yuan dynasties. Although its conclusions are controversial, his article \"On A Dream of the Red Chamber\" has been called \"a monumental development in the history of modern Chinese criticism.\"\nLater he changed his academic direction, focusing on philology and ancient history. His works on ancient history and philology are collected in \"Guantang Jilin\" (觀堂集林). In these areas, Wang is remembered for his contributions to the study of oracle bone script and the history of the Shang dynasty. In 1917, Wang published a scholarly article entitled \"Study of the Ancestral Kings and Nobility Appearing in the Yin Oracular Inscriptions\" (《殷卜辭中所見先公先王考》) in which Wang identified 31 kings and ancestors of the Shang royal lineage as the recipients of sacrifices that were recorded in the Yinxu oracle bone inscriptions. Wang was able to basically confirm the king list compiled by Sima Qian over a millennium later in the \"Basic Annals of Yin\" of the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" (《史記·殷本紀》) while making several corrections to it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302512", "title": "Illinois Route 108", "text": "Illinois Route 108\n\nIllinois Route 108 is an east–west highway in western Illinois. Its western terminus is at Illinois Route 100 in Kampsville, and its eastern terminus is at Interstate 55 in Zanesville Township near Raymond. This is a distance of .\n\nIllinois 108 is a two-lane undivided surface road for its entire length. In Kampsville, the Kampsville ferry operates across the Illinois River and connects the Kampsville segment of Illinois 108 with its remainder. The ferry is free and runs 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It is one of two permanent ferries still operated by the Illinois Department of Transportation; the other is located in Grafton near the intersection of Illinois 100 and Illinois Route 3.\n\nSBI Route 108 was established in 1924. Its routing has not changed since its establishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302514", "title": "Enterprise software", "text": "Enterprise software\n\nEnterprise software, also known as enterprise application software (EAS), is computer software used to satisfy the needs of an organization rather than individual users. Such organizations include businesses, schools, interest-based user groups, clubs, charities, and governments. Enterprise software is an integral part of a (computer-based) information system; a collection of such software is called an enterprise system.\n\nServices provided by enterprise software are typically business-oriented tools, such as online shopping, and online payment processing, interactive product catalogue, automated billing systems, security, Business Process Management, enterprise content management, IT Service Management, customer relationship management, enterprise resource planning, business intelligence, project management, collaboration, human resource management, manufacturing, occupational health and safety, enterprise application integration, and enterprise forms automation.\n\nAs enterprises have similar departments and systems in common, enterprise software is often available as a suite of customizable programs. Generally, the complexity of these tools requires specialist capabilities and specific knowledge. Enterprise computing is the information technology (IT) tools that businesses use for efficient production operations and back-office support. These IT tools cover database management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, business process management and so on.\n\nEnterprise software is a collection of computer programs that have common business applications, tools for modelling how the entire organization works, and development tools for building applications unique to the organization. The software is intended to solve an enterprise-wide problem, rather than a departmental problem. Enterprise level software aims to improve the enterprise's productivity and efficiency by providing business logic support functionality.\n\nAccording to Martin Fowler, \"Enterprise applications are about the display, manipulation, and storage of large amounts of often complex data and the support or automation of business processes with that data.\"\n\nAlthough there is no single, widely accepted list of enterprise software characteristics, they generally include performance, scalability, and robustness. Furthermore, enterprise software typically has interfaces to other enterprise software (for example LDAP to directory services) and is centrally managed (a single admin page, for example).\n\nEnterprise application software performs business functions such as order processing, procurement, production scheduling, customer information management, energy management, and accounting. It is typically hosted on servers and provides simultaneous services to many users, typically over a computer network. This is in contrast to a single-user application that is executed on a user's personal computer and serves only one user at a time.\n\nEnterprise systems (ES) are large-scale enterprise software packages that support business processes, information flows, reporting, and data analytics in complex organizations. While ES are generally packaged enterprise application software (PEAS) systems they can also be bespoke, custom developed systems created to support a specific organization's needs.\n\nTypes of enterprise systems include:\nAlthough data warehousing or business intelligence systems are enterprise-wide packaged application software often sold by ES vendors, since they do not directly support execution of business processes, they are often excluded from the term.\n\nEnterprise systems are built on software platforms, such as SAP's NetWeaver and Oracle's Fusion, and databases.\n\nFrom a hardware perspective, enterprise systems are the servers, storage and associated software that large businesses use as the foundation for their IT infrastructure. These systems are designed to manage large volumes of critical data. These systems are typically designed to provide high levels of transaction performance and data security.\n\nEnterprise software can be categorized by business function. Each type of enterprise application can be considered a \"system\" due to the integration with a firm's business processes. Categories of enterprise software may overlap due to this systemic interpretation. For example, IBM's Business Intelligence platform (Cognos), integrates with a predictive analytics platform (SPSS) and can obtain records from its database packages (Infosphere, DB2). Blurred lines between package functions make delimitation difficult, and in many ways larger software companies define these somewhat arbitrary categories. Nevertheless, certain industry standard product categories have emerged, and these are shown below :\n\n"}
{"id": "2302523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302523", "title": "Unyanyembe", "text": "Unyanyembe\n\nUnyanyembe is a town in Tanzania (formerly German East Africa). It was one of the locations visited by Henry Morton Stanley during his search for Dr Livingstone. The town is located in the Tabora Region. In the 19th-century it was the headquarters of a kingdom that controlled Tabora as well as other areas.\n\nUnyanyembe was a 19th-century kingdom where the main ethnic group was known as the Nyanyembe, although many other ethnic groups were present as well.\n\nIfundikila (reigned 1840-1858) was a king of Unyanyembe who oversaw major cooperation with a large Arab-Swahili commercial class in his kingdom. The two main bases of this population were Tabora and Kwihara. According to descriptions left by Sir Richard Burton this population had large gardens, large numbers of slaves and concubines, and in some cases controlled private armies sometimes numbering up to 300 people. \n\nOne of the most prominent Arabs, Mohammad ibn Juma, married one of Ifundikila's daughters. However it needs to be kept in mind that the Arabs and Swahili's were a foreign commercial class, they did not exercise political control in the kingdom. \n\nThe next king of Unyanyembe was Mnywasela. He was able to come to power in large part due to support of the Swahilis and Arabs. He expelled his main rival for the throne, Mkasiwa from the kingdom. After a few years the people of Unyanyembe tried of Mnywasela's rule, and a faction worked to return Mkasiwa from his exile in the Kingdom of Ulyankhulu. 1860 saw this struggle escalate to the point that Mnywasela was driven from power and Mkasiwa made the new ruler. The next four years saw persistent fighting as Mnywasela tried to regain power, but Mksaiwa was able to retain his power. In 1875 Mkasiwa was succeeded as king by Isike.\n\nFrom 1871-1884 Unyanymbe was involved in a war with Urambo. This was fought because Urambo's ruler, Mirambo, had extended his power to control the main routes of trade between Unyanyembe and the Swahili coast, and both the Arab-Swahili merchants and the Nyanyembe objected to his transit fees. During this war the Barghash the Sultan of Zanzibar sent a force of 3,000 to fight on the side of Unanyembe. Prior to the war he had also appointed a consul of Zanzibar to be based in Tabora.\n\nUnyanyembe also had a large population of Tutsi's in the 19th century. Although they came primarily as herdsmen, nay were recruited into the army for the war against Urambo\n\n"}
{"id": "2302526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302526", "title": "McAlpine Locks and Dam", "text": "McAlpine Locks and Dam\n\nThe McAlpine Locks and Dam are a set of locks and a hydroelectric dam at the Falls of the Ohio River at Louisville, Kentucky. They are located at mile point 606.8 and control a long navigation pool. The locks and their associated canal were the first major engineering project on the Ohio River, completed in 1830 as the Louisville and Portland Canal, designed to allow shipping traffic to navigate through the Falls of the Ohio.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1927, the dam for generating hydroelectric power was added, and the locks were expanded, first by a private company and then by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The hydroelectric plant at the time was the seventh largest hydroelectric plant in the United States.\n\nThe system was renamed the McAlpine Locks and Dam in 1960 in honor of William McAlpine, who was the only civilian to have ever served as district engineer for the Corps of Louisville. At present, the normal pool elevation is above sea level and the drainage area above the dam is 91,170 square miles (236,000 km²). The average daily flow at McAlpine is 118,000 cubic feet per second (3,340 m³/s). The lock chambers are located at the dam on the Kentucky side of the Ohio River and are capable of a normal lift of between the McAlpine pool upstream and the Cannelton pool downstream. The hydroelectric plant consists of eight turbine units with a net power generation capacity of 80,000 kilowatts.\n\nIn October 2003, McAlpine was designated a Historic Civil Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Civil Engineers.\n\nThe McAlpine locks underwent a 10-year, $278 million expansion project scheduled to be completed in 2008, but was completed in early 2009.\n\nThe hydroelectric plant is owned and operated by Louisville Gas & Electric, a subsidiary of PPL Corporation while the locks are operated by the Army Corps of Engineers.\n\n\n\n<?-- locks and canal-->\n"}
{"id": "2302531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302531", "title": "Alrude, Countess of Bertinoro", "text": "Alrude, Countess of Bertinoro\n\nAlrude, Countess of Bertinoro was a 12th-century Italian noblewoman and military leader. In 1172 she commanded the army that ended the imperial siege of Aucona. \"Aucona\" is likely to have been a reference to the city of Ancona, now in the Marche region of Italy. She witnessed the imperial troops flee from Aucona upon their defeat. According to a historical account written some time after the siege, Alrude led an army into battle and dealt a crushing blow to imperial troops under Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor.\n"}
{"id": "2302537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302537", "title": "Unearned increment", "text": "Unearned increment\n\nUnearned increment is an increase in the value of land or any property without expenditure of any kind on the part of the proprietor; it is an early statement of the notion of unearned income. It was coined by John Stuart Mill, who proposed taxing it so that it benefits every member of a society . Mill's concept was refined and developed by nineteenth-century economist Henry George in his book \"Progress and Poverty\" (1879). \n\n"}
{"id": "2302539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302539", "title": "William Short (Alberta politician)", "text": "William Short (Alberta politician)\n\nWilliam Short (January 11, 1866 – January 27, 1926) was a politician in Alberta, Canada and a two time mayor of Edmonton.\n\nShort was born July 11, 1866 near Elora, Ontario and studied law at the University of Toronto before coming to Alberta in 1889. He articled to James Alexander Lougheed from 1891 until 1894, when he was called to the provincial bar. That year, he moved to Edmonton and opened a law practice before partnering with Charles Cross in 1900 to form Short & Cross (which still exists today under the name Duncan Craig LLP). He married Henrietta McMaster on February 7, 1900; the pair would have one son and one daughter.\n\nIn 1899, Short was elected to sit as a public school trustee, which he did until he was acclaimed as mayor during the 1901 election. He faced no opposition to his re-election bid in 1902, and defeated his former school board colleague H. C. Taylor in the 1903 election to retain the title. This allowed him to be mayor when Edmonton's status changed from town to city in 1904, and to author the city charter. He did not seek re-election in the 1904 election. During this first stint as mayor, Short oversaw the extension of the railroad to the north side of the North Saskatchewan River in 1902 (an event which occasioned the proclamation of a civic holiday by Mayor Short).\n\nHe returned to the mayoralty in December 1912 by defeating two candidates, including future mayor Joseph Clarke. His re-election bid in 1913 was foiled by William McNamara, making him the first mayor in Edmonton's history to lose a re-election bid. After this defeat, Short did not return to politics.\n\nWilliam Short was active with the Masons, the Edmonton Board of Trade, and the Conservative Party of Alberta. He was also an enthusiastic motorist and owned one of Edmonton's first automobiles. He died January 27, 1926.\n\nWilliam Short Road in Edmonton is named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302542", "title": "1961 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1961 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 11 September 1961. The result was a victory for the Labour Party, which won 74 of the 150 seats in the Storting. Although it lost the absolute majority it had held since 1945, the Labour Party was able to continue in government.\n\n The joint list of the Centre Party and the Liberal Party won eight seats, three taken by the Liberal Party and five by the Centre Party.\n"}
{"id": "2302543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302543", "title": "Al Milgrom", "text": "Al Milgrom\n\nAllen L. Milgrom (born March 6, 1950) is an American comic book writer, penciller, inker and editor, primarily for Marvel Comics. He is known for his 10-year run as editor of \"Marvel Fanfare\"; his long involvement as writer, penciler, and inker on \"Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man\"; his four-year tenure as \"West Coast Avengers\" penciller; and his long stint as the inker of \"X-Factor\".\n\nAl Milgrom grew up in Detroit, Michigan and graduated from the University of Michigan in 1972. \n\nMilgrom started his comics career in 1972 as an assistant for inker Murphy Anderson. During that period, Milgrom contributed to Charlton Comics' \"Many Ghosts of Doctor Graves\", \"Star*Reach\", and comics published by Warren Publishing and Atlas/Seaboard, before joining with Marvel. Milgrom also worked as a \"Crusty Bunker\" for Neal Adams' Continuity Associates in 1977.\n\nAt one point Milgrom lived in the same Queens apartment building as artists Walter Simonson, Howard Chaykin, and Bernie Wrightson. Simonson recalls, \"We'd get together at 3 a.m. They'd come up and we'd have popcorn and sit around and talk about whatever a 26, 27 and 20-year-old guys talk about. Our art, TV, you name it. I pretty much knew at the time, 'These are the good ole days.'\"\n\nMilgrom came to prominence as a penciller on \"Captain Marvel\" from 1975 to 1977. He penciled the Guardians of the Galaxy feature in \"Marvel Presents\", which was written by Steve Gerber and Roger Stern. Milgrom worked as editor at DC Comics from 1977 to 1978. While at DC, he co-created Ronnie Raymond, the original Firestorm, with writer Gerry Conway.\n\nMilgrom was an editor for Marvel Comics beginning in 1979, and editing \"Marvel Fanfare\" for its full ten-year run (#1–60, March 1982–January 1992). As editor of \"The Incredible Hulk\", he designed the costumes of the U-Foes. He drew \"The Avengers\" (1983–85), \"The West Coast Avengers\" (1985–88), \"Kitty Pryde and Wolverine\" (1984–85), \"Secret Wars II\" (1985–86) and wrote the \"Mephisto\" limited series (1987).\n\nMilgrom wrote and drew \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\" #90–100 (1984–85), and \"The Incredible Hulk\" (1986–87). In 1991, he wrote a story arc for \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" and collaborated with Danny Fingeroth on \"The Deadly Foes of Spider-Man\" limited series.\n\nMilgrom has been a prolific inker, working on most of Marvel's line. He served an eight-year stint as the inker of \"X-Factor\" in 1989–1997. He inked Ron Frenz on \"Thor\" in 1991–1993 and \"Thunderstrike\" from 1994 to 1995. Other series he has worked on include \"Captain America\", \"Generation X\", \"The Micronauts\", and the \"Uncanny X-Men\". Milgrom inked the limited series \"A-Next\", \"J2\", \"\", and \"Thanos\". Beginning in 1996, Milgrom completed his artistic journey on \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\" by inking the title until its cancellation in 1998.\n\nIn 2009, his \"Cleburne: A Graphic Novel\", with Justin S. Murphy, was nominated for the Independent Book Publishers Association's Benjamin Franklin Awards. In 2016, Milgrom was nominated and tied for runner-up for the Inkwell Awards Special Recognition Award. In 2017, he was awarded an Inkwell Awards Special Recognition Award.\n\nMilgrom married Judy Lewin (also from Detroit) in early 1979. They have a daughter, Rachel, and two sons, Ben and Josh.\n\nIn the film \"Ant-Man\", Scott Lang and his crew stay at the Milgrom Hotel, an homage to Al Milgrom.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302549", "title": "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge", "text": "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge\n\nIntroducing Dorothy Dandridge is a television film directed by Martha Coolidge. Filmed over a span of a few weeks in early 1998, the film was aired in the United States on August 21, 1999. The teleplay is drawn exclusively from the biography of Dorothy Dandridge by Earl Mills. The original music score was composed by Elmer Bernstein, who had known Dandridge and Otto Preminger. The film is marketed with the tagline: \"Right woman. Right place. Wrong time.\"\n\n\nRCA Victor released a soundtrack album on August 10, 1999.\n\n\n2000 Black Reel Awards\n\n2000 Directors Guild of America\n\n2000 Emmy Awards\n2000 Golden Globes\n\n2000 Image Awards\n\n2000 Screen Actors Guild Awards\n\n"}
{"id": "2302574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302574", "title": "Cape Girardeau Regional Airport", "text": "Cape Girardeau Regional Airport\n\nCape Girardeau Regional Airport is a city owned public use airport in Scott County, Missouri, United States. It is located five nautical miles (6 mi, 9 km) southwest of the central business district of Cape Girardeau, a city in Cape Girardeau County, Missouri. The airport is used for general aviation, and has scheduled service by United Express partner SkyWest with subsidized Essential Air Service program flights to Chicago O’Hare.\n\nIt is included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021, which categorized it as a \"Commercial Service - Nonprimary\" airport based on passenger enplanements (the \"commercial service\" category requires at least 2,500 enplanements per year).\n\nCape Girardeau Regional Airport covers an area of 557 acres (225 ha) at an elevation of 342 feet (104 m) above mean sea level. It has two runways: 10/28 is 6,500 by 150 feet (1,981 x 46 m) with a concrete surface; 2/20 is 3,997 by 100 feet (1,218 x 30 m) with an asphalt/concrete surface.\n\nFor the 12-month period ending September 30, 2018, the airport had 29,106 aircraft operations, an average of 80 per day: 91% general aviation, 5% scheduled commercial, 3% air taxi and 1% military. In January 2019, there were 57 aircraft based at this airport: 48 single-engine, 5 multi-engine, 2 jet and 2 helicopter.\n\nOpened in 1943, the airport was constructed by the United States Army Air Forces. Known as Harris Army Airfield, the airfield was a primary (stage 1) pilot training airfield assigned to AAF Flying Training Command, Southeast Training Center (later Eastern Flying Training Command). It was operated under contract to Cape Institute of Aeronautics, Inc., with the civil instructors under the USAAF 73d Flying Training Detachment. Fairchild PT-19s were the primary trainer at the airfield.\n\nContract flying training was short at the airfield, the school closing during the late summer of 1944 with the draw down of AAFTC's pilot training program. The airfield was turned over to civil control at the end of the war though the War Assets Administration (WAA).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302575", "title": "Enchytraeus", "text": "Enchytraeus\n\nThe genus Enchytraeus includes about 40 species of annelid worms. The term white worm is often used for all of the species in general, but specifically it is \"E. albidus\" which is named the white worm. This species is used as fish food by aquarium enthusiasts. \"E. buchholzi\" is known as the Grindal worm. It was named for the Swedish fish breeder that first raised the worm to feed her fish.\n\nSome species are terrestrial, some semi-aquatic, and others marine. Some can be found in brackish water or on beaches. Several of these species lack sex organs and reproduce by fragmenting, notably \"E. fragmentosus\", which gets its name from this characteristic.\n\nSpecies include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302584", "title": "Danielle Spencer (Australian actress)", "text": "Danielle Spencer (Australian actress)\n\nDanielle Spencer (born 16 May 1969) is an Australian actress, singer and songwriter. \n\nSpencer is the daughter of Australian songwriter, singer and television entertainer Don Spencer and his wife Julie (née Horsfall), a caterer from Yorkshire. She has an older brother, Dean. At age four, she began piano lessons. During her teens she began acting and composing her own tunes. Until the age of twelve, she spent her childhood and youth alternately in Australia and in Yorkshire and Cambridgeshire, England, as her father worked in both countries for the BBC \"Play School\".\n\nSpencer grew up in close contact with the world of showbusiness. Occasionally she accompanied her father on his performances on stage. She took singing and acting lessons and dance classes in classical ballet and modern dance and jazz. From 1989 to 2000 she worked as an actress, especially for Australian television, primarily as an actress in TV series. Subsequently, the focus of her artistic activity shifted to the area of singer / songwriter.\n\nIn 2001 she released her debut musical album, \"White Monkey\". After a family break, in February 2010 she released her second album, \"Calling All Magicians\". Under the direction of her husband, the music videos were made to the title songs and \"Tickle Me\" and \"Wish I'd Been Here\".\n\nIn August 2011 Spencer for the first time gave two live concerts alongside her husband. The pair joined the musicians and actors Alan Doyle, Kevin Durand, Scott Grimes and the group Size2Shoes to present the Crowe / Doyle Songbook Vol III at St John´s, Newfoundland, Canada. Songs from this album relate, among others, to the novel \"Dirt Music\" by the Australian novelist Tim Winton. Spencer gives live concerts on a regular basis. For her live concert tour in October 2011, titled \"Alone and Together\", she joined Australian bass player Steve Balbi.\n\nIn March 2012, Spencer was announced as a contestant for season 12 of \"Dancing with the Stars\" on the Seven Network in which she placed second. Her professional partner was Damian Whitewood.\n\nSpencer is a supporter of the Australian Children’s Music Foundation (ACMF), an educational program for underprivileged and indigenous children in Australia. She´s supporter of women’s cancer programs as the \"Pink Ribbon Breakfast\" for breast cancer and \"The Girls Night\".\nIn 1987 Danielle Spencer starred in \"Rasputin\" as one of the Tsar's daughters and dated Terry Serio who also starred in the same musical as Prince Felix.\n\nSpencer began an on-again, off-again relationship with New Zealand-born Australian actor Russell Crowe in 1989, when they co-starred in the movie \"The Crossing\". The film appeared in Australian cinemas in 1990. Crowe and Spencer married on 7 April 2003 at Crowe's cattle ranch in Nana Glen, New South Wales. They have two sons: one born in 2003 and another in 2006. In October 2012, it was reported that Crowe and Spencer had separated. The divorce was finalized in April 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302585", "title": "Koevoet", "text": "Koevoet\n\nKoevoet (, translates to \"crowbar\", abbreviated Operation K or SWAPOL-COIN) was the counter-insurgency branch of the South West African Police (SWAPOL). Its formations included white South African police officers, usually seconded from the South African Security Branch or Special Task Force, and black volunteers from Ovamboland. Koevoet was patterned after the Selous Scouts, a multiracial Rhodesian military unit which specialised in counter-insurgency operations. Its title was an allusion to the metaphor of \"prying\" insurgents from the civilian population.\n\nKoevoet was active during the South African Border War between 1979 and 1989, during which it carried out hundreds of search and destroy operations against the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN). Koevoet's methods were controversial, and the unit was accused of committing numerous atrocities against civilians. Over the course of the war, it killed or captured 3,225 insurgents and participated in 1,615 individual engagements. Koevoet was disbanded in 1989 as part of the implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 435, which effectively ended the South African Border War and ushered in South West African independence as Namibia.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I, the German Empire was dismantled and its African colonies granted to Allied nations as various League of Nations mandates. The mandate system was formed as a compromise between those who advocated an Allied annexation of former German and Turkish territories, and another proposition put forward by those who wished to grant them to an international trusteeship until they could govern themselves. South Africa received the former German possession of South West Africa and was permitted to administer it until that territory's inhabitants were prepared for political self-determination. However, the South African government interpreted the mandate as a veiled annexation and took steps to integrate South West Africa as a domestic province.\n\nSouth Africa's attempts to absorb South West Africa became a matter of contention during the 1960s as a result of the increasingly widespread decolonisation of the African continent. Over the next decade, low intensity conflicts broke out in many of the remaining European colonies as militant African nationalist movements emerged, often with direct backing from the Soviet Union and revolutionary left-wing governments in the Middle East. The nationalists were often encouraged to take up arms by the success of indigenous anti-colonial guerrilla movements around the world, namely in French Indochina and French Algeria, as well as the rhetoric of contemporary African statesmen such as Ahmed Ben Bella, Gamal Abdel Nasser, and Julius Nyerere.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, new nationalist parties such as the South West African National Union (SWANU) and South West African People's Organisation (SWAPO) made determined attempts to establish indigenous political structures for an independent South West Africa. In 1962, SWAPO formed a militant wing, known as the South West African Liberation Army (SWALA), and began sending recruits to Egypt and the Soviet Union for guerrilla training. In 1966 SWALA initiated an insurgency against the South African government, sparking what would later evolve into a wider regional conflict known as the South African Border War.\n\nAs the war intensified, so did international sympathy for SWAPO's cause. The United Nations declared that South Africa had failed in its obligations to ensure the moral and material well-being of the indigenous inhabitants of South West Africa, and had thus disavowed its own mandate. On 12 June 1968, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution which proclaimed that, in accordance with the desires of its people, South West Africa be renamed \"Namibia\". United Nations Security Council Resolution 269, adopted in August 1969, declared South Africa's continued occupation of Namibia illegal. In recognition of this landmark decision, SWALA was renamed the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN).\n\nFrom the early to late 1970s, the brunt of counter-insurgency operations was borne by the South African Defence Force (SADF). The SADF's primary source of manpower were white national servicemen fulfilling their terms of compulsory military service under the leadership of professional career officers. The initial commitment of South African troops to the South West African theatre in 1974 was about 15,000 men. Beginning the same year, however, there was also increasingly widespread enlistment of local armed auxiliaries and semi-official militias. The most powerful armed group outside the direct command structure of the SADF emerged in Ovamboland, SWAPO's traditional political stronghold and the source of its support base. The Ovamboland civil administration employed a local militia known as the Ovambo Home Guard, established to protect local officials who were often the target of PLAN assassination attempts.\n\nThe Ovambo Home Guard was assembled, as time passed, into larger numbered units or attached to regular SADF battalions. By late 1978 the number of Ovambo Home Guard personnel stood at about 3,000. Their relative effectiveness compared to national servicemen sent out from South Africa, who were unfamiliar with the terrain and environment and had more difficulty adapting to Ovamboland, was noted by the government. This and other developments resulted in a deliberate policy of \"Namibianisation\", a reference to the Vietnamization programme the United States had pursued during the Vietnam War. The war effort became less likely to entail clear-cut confrontations between foreign South African troops and local PLAN insurgents, but significant numbers of Namibians fighting under South African command. The main objectives of Namibianisation were to establish a self-sufficient military infrastructure in South West Africa, reinforce the perception of a domestic civil conflict rather than an independence struggle, and reduce casualty rates among South Africa's national servicemen, to which the government was especially sensitive. Furthermore, the SADF was overstretched and if efficient local forces could be raised to take over the bulk of the defensive and local security tasks, it would be more free to pursue conventional offensive operations.\n\nBoth the SADF and South African Police (SAP) launched parallel initiatives to create Ovambo counter-insurgency units between 1976 and 1980. The SADF's programme resulted in 101 Battalion, while the SAP formed \"Koevoet\". A senior officer with the SAP's Security Branch, Hans Dreyer, was appointed to lead the latter. Dreyer had served with the SAP in Rhodesia during the Rhodesian Bush War and drew heavily on his operational experiences there while shaping Koevoet's mandate and organisational structure. Koevoet was to be patterned directly after the Selous Scouts, a Rhodesian special forces unit which included large numbers of former insurgents. The SAP especially appreciated the small unit tactics of the Selous Scouts, which had demonstrated how a few operators, disguised as insurgents and trained to high levels of subterfuge, could have an effect utterly disproportionate to their size.\n\nKoevoet was established in June 1979, at which time the unit consisted of 6 white South African policemen and 60 of the most skilled trackers from the Ovambo Home Guard. The trackers received three months of additional reconnaissance training from SADF special forces before being deployed into Ovamboland. They were also instructed in criminal investigation techniques and police procedure by the SAP. In May 1979 they captured their first insurgent.\n\nKoevoet was formally known as \"Operation K\" of the SAP Security Branch's special operations division, but that title was almost never used. Its existence remained a closely guarded secret until June 1980, when church newspapers in Ovamboland began circulating rumours of a new special forces group linked to assassination of SWAPO sympathisers. The rumours had their basis in a \"death list\" of prominent Ovambo political figures and businessmen who were covert sympathisers of SWAPO, which was allegedly recovered from the body of a local politician killed in a motor accident. A number of individuals on the list were subsequently assassinated. While South Africa denied the report, officials did name Koevoet and praise it for its efficiency.\n\nKoevoet's initial role was to engage in intelligence gathering for the SADF, but it soon adopted its own counter-insurgency campaign of infiltration and raids. Being a police unit, Koevoet also investigated politically motivated murders and property destruction. The unit rapidly expanded to about 3,000 personnel, about the size of the Ovambo Home Guard. At first the numbers of recruits were modest, due in part to limited training facilities and the time it would take to provide them with officers. This problem was partly solved by training Koevoet recruits at the Police Counter-Insurgency School in Maleoskop, South Africa. There, the recruits received instruction on a unique hybrid syllabus which combined specialist police skills such as anti-riot tactics, road security, and conventional counter-terrorism with basic infantry training resembling that of the SADF and counter-insurgency theory. The disbandment of the Selous Scouts in 1980 provided Koevoet with an influx of Rhodesian officers from that unit who were recruited by the SAP. White Namibians were also recruited in modest numbers as Koevoet officers, although the SAP faced stiff competition in this regard from the SADF. Most white South African policemen were transferred to Koevoet as a result of personal referrals.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of black Koevoet operators were applicants from the Ovambo Home Guard, who wanted regular employment and better pay. The only prerequisite was that they had to speak Afrikaans or English, in order to communicate with their white officers. The SAP occasionally recruited Ovambos from Angola, including unemployed former soldiers of the Portuguese colonial army and insurgents from the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), who met these qualifications. Competition for employment with Koevoet was fierce due to the relatively high pay and benefits, including life insurance, offered by the SAP.\n\nPLAN units operating in Ovamboland were kept supplied by a constant flow of insurgents and war materiel along external infiltration routes through Angola. Koevoet monitored an area adjacent to the Angolan border with screening patrols coordinated between three permanent base strongpoints at Opuwo, Rundu, and Oshakati. It was also permitted to establish its own internment facility for captured PLAN prisoners just north of Windhoek. Patrols were carried out in Casspir mine-protected vehicles and sometimes lasted for weeks on end. Koevoet operators spent most of their time following suspicious tracks in search of insurgents, sometimes for over a hundred kilometres. PLAN was forced to alter its tactics accordingly. Following raids and attacks, PLAN cadres would scatter. Many ceased wearing military boots with readily identifiable sole patterns and walked barefoot or in civilian shoes. They camouflaged their tracks, retraced their steps, and changed footwear to throw off Koevoet trackers. More commonly, the insurgents would withdraw until they had reached appropriate terrain, then ambush the Koevoet response team.\n\nIn April 1980, Administrator-General Gerrit Viljoen announced that transfer of some control over local military and police forces to Namibians would occur once the necessary structures were implemented. This marked a new step in South Africa's Namibianisation campaign, and in 1985 Koevoet was formally integrated with the South West African Police (SWAPOL). At the time, 80% of Koevoet's manpower consisted of locals from Ovamboland, with the remaining 20% being white officers and Ovambos from elsewhere, namely Angola. Off-duty Koevoet operators were prime targets for PLAN assassination attempts; between 1979 and 1982, for example, at least 198 were killed by insurgents at home. By 1982, about 40 Koevoet operators were being killed in targeted assassinations per year. Their families were also subject to intimidation. Thereafter, the South African government permitted Koevoet personnel to retain their weapons at home.\n\nIn 1983, Koevoet attracted considerable controversy when an Angolan citizen serving with the unit, Jonas Paulus, was convicted of murder, attempted rape, and armed robbery by the South West African Supreme Court in Windhoek. Paulus and an accomplice went on a crime spree with a captured PLAN rifle, and had identified themselves as insurgents. The duo killed an elderly farmer and abducted several young girls, after which they were captured by other members of Koevoet and turned over to the civil police. Paulus was sentenced to death and hanged in Windhoek on 4 June 1985. Around the same time, a white Koevoet non-commissioned officer, Norman Abrahams, appeared in court on charges of having murdered a suspected SWAPO sympathiser in his custody. The charges were dropped after the prosecution failed to establish whether Abrahams or one of several other Koevoet personnel present had actually committed the murder; the South African government reached an out of court settlement with the victim's family. These cases were notable because they generated considerable publicity about Koevoet in South Africa itself, and forced the unit to disclose details of its operations previously kept secret. For example, the use of a PLAN weapon by Paulus was explained by the fact that Koevoet possessed an inventory of captured uniforms and arms, which members often used to impersonate insurgents. An Atrocities Liaison Committee was also established in Ovamboland to review excesses committed by members of the security forces while on duty.\n\nThe Paulus and Abrahams trials caused a public outcry, compelling SWAPOL to issue a statement that it would not condone any atrocities committed by Koevoet and would not hesitate to prosecute members of that unit. For the first time SWAPOL's civil police and Criminal Investigation Department (CID) began internal investigations of Koevoet operations.\n\nIn 1977, South West Africa's administrator-general had issued AG Proclamation 9, which empowered any non-commissioned officer of the SAP (and subsequently, SWAPOL) to arrest and detain anybody in designated \"security districts\", including Ovamboland, without a warrant. Koevoet evoked this proclamation to detain suspects for up to thirty days without trial, and simply evoked it again once the thirty days had expired, in effect giving itself the power of indefinite detention. Its transition of jurisdiction to SWAPOL, however, opened the unit to more scrutiny in the local judicial system, and in 1986 the Windhoek Supreme Court ruled that Koevoet could not hold suspects for more than thirty days without legal representation. This was because captured insurgents were not held as prisoners of war, but rather apprehended by a police unit for trial in open courts as common law criminals.\n\nAs a result of the Brazzaville Protocol and subsequent Tripartite Accord, South Africa agreed to grant Namibia independence in exchange for a parallel Cuban withdrawal from Angola and a commitment by the Angolan government to cease all assistance to PLAN. Under the terms of the agreement, both the Cuban withdrawal and the independence process in Namibia would be monitored by two multinational peacekeeping forces known as the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM) and the United Nations Transition Assistance Group (UNTAG), respectively. UNTAG planned to confine both PLAN and the SADF to their respective bases, demobilise all paramilitary forces that belonged to neither the SADF nor to the civil police, and supervise the return of refugees via designated entry points to participate in new elections.\n\nPLAN and the South African security forces began observing an informal truce which went into effect on 10 August 1988. This was scheduled to become a permanent ceasefire on 1 April 1989, at which time UNTAG was supposed to arrive in force and monitor the belligerent parties. However, UNTAG's deployment was beset with delays, and PLAN was able to begin covertly moving its forces in Angola to the border. UN Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar declared that Koevoet was considered a paramilitary force not part of the SADF or the civil police, and should therefore be disbanded. The continued existence of that unit, he claimed, contravened the spirit of the independence process and their use of heavy weapons violated specific provisions concerning what equipment SWAPOL was permitted to carry to maintain basic law and order. South Africa bowed to pressure and effectively deactivated Koevoet in December 1988, although the unit could still be remobilised as needed.\n\nPLAN had consistently maintained that a precondition of any settlement was that it be permitted to establish base camps inside Namibia. The South African government consistently rejected PLAN's demands, likely because it feared the insurgents would interfere with the political process. The strategy of taking advantage of a ceasefire to establish an armed presence inside the country had previously been employed by other militant groups in the region, namely the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA).\n\nPLAN interpreted a general directive by the UN for all Namibian exiles to return home as \"de facto\" approval for it to begin its deployment. The insurgent commanders assured their troops that sympathetic UN personnel would provide them secure passage once inside Namibia. On the morning of 1 April, the first PLAN cadres crossed into Ovamboland, unhindered by UNTAG, which had failed to monitor their activity in Angola due to the delays in its arrival. South Africa accused PLAN of violating the ceasefire. With tensions rising, de Cuéllar immediately contacted SWAPO's delegation at New York and ordered it to rein in PLAN.\n\nAt the end of the day, with no signs of the PLAN advance abating, the UN Special Representative in Namibia, Martti Ahtisaari, lifted all restrictions confining the SADF to its bases. The responsibility of stopping the incursion fell to SWAPOL until six battalions of South African army regulars could be mobilised and deployed to Ovamboland. In light of this situation, Ahtisaari granted the South African government's request to remobilise Koevoet. The decision was made after joint consultations with South African Foreign Minister Pik Botha and UNTAG commander Dewan Prem Chand. The number of Koevoet operators authorised for remobilisation was approximately the size of two battalions.\n\nKoevoet and other SWAPOL units were able to fight off PLAN in a series of chaotic delaying actions until the SADF's arrival. Combined SADF and SWAPOL forces proceeded to drive PLAN back across the border in a counteroffensive known as Operation Merlyn. Koevoet's key role in containing the initial PLAN advance had the effect of persuading many South African officials that it was the only force capable of keeping the peace in Ovamboland during the political transition. Louis Pienaar, the territory's Administrator-General, refused to withdraw Koevoet from Ovamboland after Operation Merlyn was concluded. According to Pienaar, UNTAG's failure to stop the incursion demonstrated it was impotent to ensure PLAN maintained the ceasefire. Koevoet was needed to prevent further infiltration attempts by insurgents in the future. Lieutenant General Dolf Gouws, commissioner of SWAPOL, also released statements in which he declared that \"if Koevoet were removed, the way would be open to lawless government\". As a compromise, the UN permitted Koevoet to continue operating in Ovamboland, albeit in an ostensibly civil role; operators were prohibited from carrying any weapons other than handguns and were restricted to the mundane duties of maintaining public order. In practice, Koevoet disregarded the UN's directives and continued carrying out counter-insurgency patrols with automatic weapons. The fact that the individual operators were allowed to keep their personal weapons at home made efforts to disarm them largely impractical.\n\nKoevoet's continued presence in Ovamboland became a matter of serious contention as UNTAG began supervising the return of Namibian refugees to participate in the territory's upcoming elections, many of whom were SWAPO supporters. Koevoet operators, who continued to perceive SWAPO as their enemy, responded by breaking up political rallies held by the returnees. Within a few weeks of its deployment, UNTAG had received over fifty formal complaints from Ovamboland residents, alleging misconduct on the part of the security forces and Koevoet in particular. Koevoet was accused of assaulting SWAPO supporters and firing into crowds at rallies with live ammunition. Namibian refugees being repatriated from Angola were intimidated by Koevoet's presence due to its controversial reputation among exiles in general and SWAPO supporters in particular.\n\nOn 3 April, de Cuéllar had notified the UN Security Council that Koevoet had been reactivated. The decision to remobilise Koeveot, while not in accord with the agreements which the belligerent parties and the UN had concluded, was credited with defusing a potential crisis. Nevertheless, the Security Council demanded that South Africa disband Koevoet permanently. Pienaar refused to do so, citing the April incursion. De Cuéllar approached SWAPO officials and insisted they refrain from undertaking further military operations, which South Africa could use as a pretext to justify the continued deployment of Koevoet. He also flew to Pretoria to meet with Pik Botha and South African Minister of Law and Order Adriaan Vlok. During the meeting, the South African officials offered to take steps towards demobilising Koevoet in exchange for UNTAG sharing intelligence it possessed on PLAN movements and activities, as well as taking steps to demobilise PLAN. De Cuéllar agreed to work with the Angolan government and SWAPO president Sam Nujoma to ensure PLAN was properly demobilised.\n\nIn late April, UNTAG again lifted all restrictions confining the SADF to its bases, allowing the security forces to remove arms caches from Ovamboland and verify the absence of any remaining insurgents. By the end of May, nearly all the PLAN insurgents were accounted for, and were confined to their bases in Angola above the 16th parallel south under close UNTAG and UNHCR supervision. Likewise, the SADF returned to its bases. UNTAG systematically disarmed the insurgents and repatriated them to Namibia as civilian refugees without differentiating between members of PLAN and SWAPO's political wing. In all, 43,400 SWAPO members were repatriated to Namibia, at least 32,000 of whom were former insurgents.\n\nSWAPOL responded to these overtures by reducing the size of Koevoet to about 1,600 personnel; the remaining operators were reassigned to other divisions. Prior to September 1989 between 1,200 and 2,000 Koevoet operators received new assignments and postings within SWAPOL. UNTAG continued receiving complaints of violence and political intimidation being committed by ex-Koevoet elements in the civil police. UNTAG had initially included a small civil police contingent of 500, but this was increased to 1,000 in May 1989 and subsequently to 1,500 by September. The UNTAG police contingent, known as CIVPOL, was tasked with monitoring SWAPOL's activities and discouraging the further integration of Koevoet operators with the civil police. As part of its mandate, CIVPOL performed joint patrols with Koevoet and other SWAPOL units. This proved nearly impossible because Ovamboland was still inundated with land mines planted by PLAN insurgents and CIVPOL lacked mine-protected vehicles like the Koevoet Casspirs. The CIVPOL vehicles also possessed inferior off-road performance compared to the Casspirs and would often be left behind during the joint patrols. UNTAG initially rejected CIVPOL's requests for its own Casspirs due to the claims touted by PLAN that these vehicles were associated with repression of the Namibian people. This reasoning was later abandoned due to the practical difficulties of the joint patrols, and CIVPOL was finally permitted to acquire several Casspirs from South Africa. Acts of political intimidation witnessed by CIVPOL monitors could be reported to their local headquarters, which in turn lodged complaints with the local SWAPOL precinct.\n\nOn 16 August, South Africa's acting state president F.W. de Klerk ordered Koevoet confined to its bases, and the unit effectively ceased operations. Almost two weeks later, United Nations Security Council Resolution 640 was passed, condemning Koevoet for its apparent \"intimidation and harassment of the civilian population\" and calling for its immediate disbandment, as well as the dismantling of its command structure. In late September, the South African government demobilised 1,200 Koevoet operators. The remaining 400 operators continued to remain on standby until 31 October, when the unit was formally disbanded. SWAPOL also took steps to demobilise ex-Koevoet operators integrated into the civil police, but this proved to be a more gradual process.\n\nDue to concerns that unemployed and poorly educated Koevoet veterans would use their paramilitary skills for criminal purposes, the South African government announced it would permit any discharged member of Koevoet to continue drawing pay indefinitely until Namibian independence. Koevoet officers benefited from a pension fund and pension payment system established for them some years prior to independence. Their pensions were paid by the South African government until 1990, after which the Namibian government assumed responsibility for the pension system. No pension deductions were made from the schemes of constables or non-commissioned officers. The Namibian government also assumed responsibility for severance pay following independence; in 1990 each unemployed Koevoet veteran received lump sums ranging from $500 to $1,500 in Namibian currency. These benefits were only awarded to members of Koevoet who had served with the unit between 1988 and 1990; those with earlier service records were excluded. Most reintegration programmes devoted to Namibian veterans have explicitly excluded ex-Koevoet operators, who became the object of national stigma due to their service with such a controversial unit.\n\nFollowing Namibian independence, all paramilitary elements of the Namibian police were consolidated into a new unit, the Special Field Force. Conventional counter-terrorism became the responsibility of the unrelated Special Reserve Force.\n\nKoevoet's jurisdiction spanned three regions in northern Namibia: Kaokoland, Ovamboland, and Kavangoland. Operations were coordinated by a single headquarters at Oshakati, with two smaller regional headquarters being established in Opuwo and Rundu. Basic training for Koevoet operators was carried out at a training school at Ondangwa, although more specialised instruction could later be provided in South Africa. Koevoet also operated a detention facility just north of Windhoek, where it interned captured PLAN insurgents. Temporary Koevoet encampments and bases were strung along the border, and in some cases the unit shared a partitioned base with the civil police or the SADF.\n\nKoevoet was organised with a disproportionate emphasis on small unit tactics and most of its engagements were fought at the platoon or section level. The unit was structured into 24 platoon-sized fighting groups, which each received the prefix \"Zulu\". The Zulu teams were designated alphabetically from A to Y and an individual team was identified by its letter's corresponding code in the NATO phonetic alphabet (i.e. \"Zulu Alpha\"). A team was usually composed of 40 black Ovambo constables and no more than 4 white officers. The team was led by a warrant officer and further divided into sections led by sergeants, which were capable of operating autonomously. While in the field, the sections were accompanied by a support element which handled logistics and intelligence. Each team had four Casspir mine-protected armoured vehicles, all of which carried ten passengers. Most of the Koevoet operators in a section remained mounted in the vehicles, but others proceeded ahead on foot and watched the ground for insurgent tracks. Operators were paid a bounty (known informally as a \"kopgeld\") for every insurgent they killed or captured. Smaller bounties were also awarded for captured PLAN weapons, based on their condition and lethality. The bounty for a captured insurgent varied anywhere from 2,000 to 20,000 rand.\n\nIn 1985, Koevoet had about 1,000 personnel under arms. Between 700 and 800 of the Koevoet operators serving in 1985 were black Namibians drawn from the local population in Ovamboland. The remainder were black recruits from other regions and white officers, predominantly South Africans. Relatively few local whites were recruited into Koevoet because the SAP and later SWAPOL faced stiff competition from the military for suitable white Namibian officer candidates. A handful of white Rhodesian exiles were recruited as officers during the early 1980s as well as some Angolans of Ovambo origin who joined the enlisted ranks. Koevoet did not have dedicated operational medics, and all of those serving with the unit were from the South African Medical Service, a branch of the SADF.\n\nBy early 1989, Koevoet had almost tripled in size to about 3,000 personnel. Over the course of that year, it was reduced in size to about 1,600 personnel, a figure which remained more or less consistent between April and September 1989. Most of the Koevoet operators removed from the unit were given new assignments or demobilised. At the time of its disbandment in October 1989, Koevoet numbered only about 400 men.\n\nEach Koevoet fighting team adopted stylised shoulder patches and T-shirts depicting a mascot animal. Some of the patches also included an illustration of a broken insurgent AK-47 rifle. While on operations, Koevoet personnel dressed light and informally. Individual operators wore a wide variety of uniforms with little consistency, including SAP camouflage, SWAPOL camouflage, and brown SADF fatigues. Late in the war, Koevoet adopted an olive green uniform and green canvas boots to distinguish itself from other police units and the SADF.\n\nLike the insurgents, Koevoet operators carried their ammunition in chest webbing rigs; this load-carrying tactic was favoured as it was less likely to restrict movement when moving through thick vegetation. The standard issue weapon in the unit was the Vektor R4 and Vektor R5 rifles, although some operators also carried captured PLAN Kalashnikov-pattern rifles. Koevoet sections were also issued support weapons during operations, namely the FN MAG general-purpose machine gun and the M79 grenade launcher. A few sections had access to Milkor MGLs or captured PLAN RPG-7s.\n\nKoevoet initially possessed no vehicles aside from three Hippo armoured personnel carriers, which were designed to be blastproof and mine-resistant. As Koevoet was accustomed to fighting on foot, there was a distinct lack of enthusiasm for vehicle-borne operations. However, in time the unit's leadership opted to modify the Hippos essentially as infantry fighting vehicles and integrate them into Koevoet teams to increase their mobility. Koevoet Hippos were open-topped, as the hull roofs made the vehicles too hot for the extreme temperatures in Ovamboland and degraded situational awareness. Interior water tanks were also fitted, as well as additional rifle racks and turrets for heavy weapons. The Hippos were initially mounted with general-purpose machine guns, such as FN MAGs, captured PLAN PKMs, and Browning M1919s. In time, some were fitted with ZPU-2 anti-aircraft guns and even a French variant of the 20mm MG 151 cannon.\n\nAfter 1980, the Casspir replaced the Hippo in Koevoet service, and weapon mounts became more standardised. Most Koevoet Casspirs were armed with a .50 calibre Browning M2 heavy machine gun on the hull roof, directly behind the driver's compartment. Ten Casspirs were fitted with 20mm cannon in lieu of the heavy machine gun, and a few section commanders replaced the single Browning with a twin mount for two general-purpose machine guns. It was not uncommon for Casspirs, like the Hippos, to be armed with M1919s or captured PKMs as auxiliary support weapons. Very late in the war, the Casspir was complemented in Koevoet service by the WMF Wolf Turbo, a similar vehicle optimised for Namibian conditions. Some Casspirs and Wolf Turbos were equipped with a mount for a 60mm mortar on the hull roof; this was used for suppressing ambushes.\n\nKoevoet's tactics were shaped in response to PLAN efforts to create insecurity in South West Africa's northern districts. An integral part of PLAN's strategy was to organise insurgent cells in the region, which could effectively harass the security forces and politically indoctrinate the population to undermine the South African administration and later, the South African-sponsored government of national unity. The emphasis on politicisation by PLAN insurgents was the result of their training in the Soviet Union and other socialist states, which was not confined to tactical instruction but extended to the procedures for establishing a covert political-military infrastructure within enemy-held areas. Aside from political activities, PLAN sabotaged rural infrastructure, namely power lines. The insurgents also laid land mines along known military patrol routes to hinder South African convoys.\n\nKoevoet's response was twofold: firstly, the unit carried out patrols to intercept PLAN insurgents near the Namibian border before they could get any further into the country itself. Secondly, it carried out what were essentially counter-intelligence operations aimed at compiling intelligence about PLAN activities while breaking up that movement's own intelligence network.\n\nHalf of Koevoet's manpower was on patrol at any given time. The unit's headquarters at Oshakati identified areas where the likelihood of a PLAN presence was the greatest, and dispatched teams to patrol these districts in search of the insurgents. Koevoet operators obtained their intelligence by observing suspicious tracks or interrogating the local population. Each patrol lasted between one and two weeks. The teams either spent the night in SADF and police camps or slept in the bush. It was standard procedure to circle villages in the area and study the tracks to determine if there were any recent signs of unusual activity. After the patrol was over, the team spent a week resting, retraining, and maintaining its equipment in base while another was dispatched to take its place.\n\nTelltale cues in the environment indicating suspicious activity, including tracks and other signs, were known as \"spoor\", an Afrikaans hunting term. Koevoet trackers were trained to scrutinise their environment down to the smallest detail, such as observing where dust had been disturbed on fallen leaves. The trackers walked or ran ahead of the remainder of the team, which followed in the vehicles, a tactic which Koevoet adopted in 1980. Occasionally Koevoet would be able to plot the insurgents' route after following their tracks; a section would then be dispatched ahead in an attempt to cut them off or intimidate them by firing its weapons. The purpose of this tactic was to sow panic among the insurgents, who would leave more obvious tracks and discard equipment as they attempted to outdistance their pursuers. If the spoor was lost, the trackers would be joined by others who dismounted from the vehicles and walked in a staggered line while they attempted to recover the spoor. The trackers frequently shouted clues and instructions to each other as they advanced. When they became exhausted, they were permitted to ride in the vehicles, and a fresh detachment of trackers dismounted to take their place. It was not uncommon for spoor to be followed for days on end. The longest distance a Koevoet team followed a single spoor without interruption was 185 kilometres.\n\nIn many cases, the insurgents would attempt to ambush the team if they became aware of the pursuit. Koevoet trackers were usually able to discern that an ambush was imminent by studying the growing concentration of tracks, and in this event the team would circle the suspected ambush area in its vehicles, laying down suppressive fire. On other occasions, they would attempted to suppress the suspected ambush with mortars.\n\nKoevoet's counter-intelligence activities were equally effective, largely because the unit was more in contact with the civilian population at the local grassroots level, and unlike the intelligence organs of the SADF, was organised specifically with unconventional (i.e. counter-insurgency) warfare in mind. Koevoet was able to wage a successful irregular campaign against PLAN using \"pseudo guerrillas\", operators attired in PLAN uniforms who carried captured Soviet weapons. This helped sow suspicion in the ranks of the real insurgents and leave their informants uncertain as to whether any insurgent was a real PLAN fighter; it thus undermined PLAN's capacity to conduct politicisation programmes within local communities. The \"pseudo guerrilla\" programme was a closely guarded secret until Koevoet was compelled by the Namibian courts to disclose some details during the trial of Jonas Paulus in 1983.\n\nWhile Koevoet had an exceptional combat record in Namibia—during the final decade of the war it killed a little over 2,800 insurgents and captured another 463 while suffering 151 casualties—it also cultivated a reputation for being particularly brutal and ruthless, as well as being indifferent towards the SADF's rules of engagement.\n\nOver the course of the South African Border War, PLAN accused Koevoet of committing numerous human rights violations, especially extrajudicial killings and assassinations. Koevoet was accused of mistreating detainees and prisoners, subjecting them to various forms of torture, including physical assault, electric shocks, and sleep, food, and water deprivation. The unit did operate its own detention facility, where it held some prisoners indefinitely. The detainees included captured insurgents as well as any civilian suspected of possessing vital information related to PLAN activities. In 1986, the Namibian courts ruled that as all the Koevoet's detainees had been arrested by a police unit as common law criminals, they were entitled to legal representation within a period of thirty days. Koevoet later subverted this ruling by evoking the Terrorism Act.\n\nTwo especially contentious issues which emerged with regards to Koevoet was the common practice of displaying corpses of dead insurgents on the unit's Casspirs, and the use of \"pseudo-guerrilla\" forces. During the early 1980s, SWAPOL and the SADF issued vehement denials that the enemy dead were being publicly exhibited, and warned that members of the security forces who indulged in such behaviour would be prosecuted. In December 1986, photographs were leaked to the international press which displayed two dead insurgents draped over the hull of a Koevoet Casspir. Koevoet claimed that the insurgents were not being exhibited, but simply being carried back to base, presumably for the purpose of claiming \"kopgeld\", stating that it was impractical to store the corpses inside the Casspirs due to the vehicles' limited internal stowage space.\n\nPLAN insisted that Koevoet's \"pseudo-guerrilla\" forces were being used to carry out atrocities later attributed to insurgents. The most controversial incident allegedly involving \"pseudo-guerrillas\" was the murder of a family of 8 Ovambo civilians at Oshipanda. The civilians were shot with Kalashnikov rifles, and their home had been burgled. A man who escaped the massacre claimed to have recognised a Koevoet constable among the assailants. Koevoet and the civil police blamed PLAN for the killings.\n\nPerceptions of Koevoet's human rights record among the SADF's general staff were almost universally critical. General Constand Viljoen, who served as Chief of the SADF between 1980 and 1985, claimed that Koevoet operators \"had a cruelty about them that certainly didn't further the hearts and minds of the people...they used cruel, cruel, methods\". His successor, General Johannes Geldenhuys, was no less scathing: \"[Koevoet] would, for example, go into an area, clean it up, then collect the bodies and drag them through town behind their vehicles. Obviously this kind of action upset the local population greatly and we'd find we were suddenly getting no more cooperation from the locals\". General Georg Meiring, who served as chief of the South West African Territorial Force between 1983 and 1987, stated that \"Koevoet was not a law unto itself, Koevoet was just unto itself...I hated working with them.\"\n\nIn 1996, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission was established to investigate human rights abuses committed in South Africa and Namibia under the apartheid system. The commission suggested that Koevoet carried out the Oshipanda murders, based on the account of the surviving eyewitness. It was favourably inclined towards PLAN's claims that Koevoet operators carried out atrocities during \"pseudo-guerrilla\" operations to discredit the insurgent cause. The commission alleged that rape by Koevoet operators \"was common, and women and girls of all ages were victims\", citing a report compiled by the Dutch faith-based organisation \"Kairos\". It held Koevoet responsible for the summary execution of captured PLAN insurgents, including those who were wounded or otherwise incapacitated, and for the maltreatment of detainees at its internment facility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302595", "title": "1957 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1957 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 7 October 1957. The result was a victory for the Labour Party, which won 78 of the 150 seats in the Storting. The Gerhardsen government continued in office.\n\n The joint list of the Centre Party and Conservative Party won four seats, three of which were taken by the Conservative Party and one by the Centre Party, which was taken by the Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "2302598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302598", "title": "Columbia Regional Airport", "text": "Columbia Regional Airport\n\nColumbia Regional Airport is a commercial passenger airport serving Columbia, Missouri. Located about 12 miles southeast of Columbia in Boone County, Missouri, it is the only commercial airport in Mid-Missouri and also serves the state capital of Jefferson City. As of 2019 commercial passenger service is provided by United Airlines and American Airlines. The airport opened in 1968, replacing the Columbia Municipal Airport off of I-70. It is frequently used for charter flights by college athletic teams visiting the University of Missouri and for MU team flights. Airport officials have plan to extend the 6,500 foot runway and build a new terminal. The runway will be extended first, with the terminal reconstruction two years later. The National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2011–2015 categorized the airport as a \"primary commercial service\" airport. Federal Aviation Administration records say the airport had 12,719 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2008, 26,842 in 2009 and 38,293 in 2010. Scheduled passenger service was subsidized by the U.S. Department of Transportation via the Essential Air Service program until 2010, when Pinnacle Airlines dba Delta Connection began providing subsidy-free service.\n\nUntil 2001 Trans World Express (Trans States Airlines) Jetstream 41s flew to St. Louis. After Trans World merged with American, American Connection (Trans States Airlines) Jetstream 41s flew to St. Louis until 2006. US Airways Express (Air Midwest) Beechcraft 1900s replaced American Connection, flying to Kansas City and St. Louis. Service to St. Louis was later dropped in favor of additional frequencies to Kansas City. \n\nIn 2008 Northwest Airlink (Mesaba Airlines) replaced US Airways Express, flying Saab 340s to Memphis. Later that year Northwest Airlines merged with Delta Air Lines. Delta Connection switched service from Mesaba Airlines to Pinnacle Airlines CRJ-200s in 2010. In June 2012 ExpressJet Airlines replaced Pinnacle Airlines as the Delta Connection carrier at Columbia and service to Atlanta began; in October 2012 service to Memphis was dropped. ExpressJet CRJ-200s flew to Atlanta and Memphis. Delta pulled out of Columbia Regional Airport on February 13, 2013. \n\nIn August 2012 Frontier Airlines announced plans for twice weekly flights from Columbia to Orlando. In November 2012, Frontier started twice weekly flights to Orlando using Airbus A319 aircraft. Frontier ended service to Orlando on May 13, 2013. \n\nOn October 22, 2012, it was announced by then-Columbia mayor Bob McDavid that American Airlines and the City of Columbia reached an agreement that was approved by the Columbia City Council for air service from Columbia to Chicago O'Hare and Dallas/Fort Worth and service to those two cities began in February 2013.\n\nThe 2013 Federal sequester resulted in a planned closure of the airport's contract control tower. The plan was postponed and later canceled. \n\nOn February 27, 2017, Columbia and United Airlines officials announced that starting August 1, 2017, there would be one daily flight to Denver and two daily flights to Chicago O'Hare. The new service lines added an additional 150 seats per day for a total 417 seats per day from Columbia. In April 2019, United Airlines added an additional flight to and from Chicago O'Hare for a total of 3 flights each direction. American Airlines followed suit adding two additional flights to Chicago-O'Hare for a total of 4 in each direction. In total, COU now has seven flights a day to and from Chicago-O'Hare (ORD), three a day to and from Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW), and one a day to and from Denver (DEN). All are operated on 50-76 seat regional jets. \n\nOn April 18, 2019, at a coffee round-table discussing the new terminal master plan, future destinations, and parking at the airport, it was revealed the airport hopes to add an additional 200 parking spots as well as have a design for the new terminal by the end of the year. Passengers expressed interest in adding Atlanta, Charlotte, and Las Vegas to the airport's growing list of destinations. As for the new terminal, preliminary sketches uploaded to the airport's website call for adding two more gates (for a total of four) with jet bridges built just to the south of the existing terminal. The new terminal is slated to begin construction in 2020 or 2021 with the grand opening in 2022.\n\nThe airport covers 1,538 acres (622 ha) at an elevation of 889 feet (271 m). It has two runways: 2/20 is 6,501 by 150 feet (1,982 x 46 m) concrete; 13/31 is 5,500 by 100 feet (1,341 x 23 m) asphalt.\n\nIn 2010 the airport had 25,717 aircraft operations, average 70 per day: 79% general aviation, 10% military, 9% airline, and 2% air taxi. 41 aircraft were then based at the airport: 44% single-engine, 24% multi-engine, 27% jet, and 5% helicopter.\n\nIn calendar year 2017, the airport had 88,650 enplanements, a 36.36% increase from 65,014 in 2016 and ranked as #243 out of 555 on the list of FAA airports with the most enplanements. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302611", "title": "1953 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1953 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 12 October 1953. The result was a victory for the Labour Party, which won 77 of the 150 seats in the Storting.\n\nThe joint list of the Farmers' Party and Conservative Party won one seat, which was taken by the Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "2302612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302612", "title": "Side reins", "text": "Side reins\n\nSide reins are equipment used when longeing a horse, running from the bit of the bridle to the saddle or surcingle. As a horse training tool, they encourage flexion and softness in the horse's mouth. For longe line work with a rider up who does not carry ordinary riding reins, they help calm and settle the animal. However, they are a tool best used by experienced handlers; used improperly they may unduly restrict the horse's movement or cause an accident.\n\nSide reins are made of leather or webbing, sometimes with added elastic, and have several rings or holes for buckles along their length. They are easily adjusted. Some designs have adjustable buckles and attach to the bit with a snap, other designs run through the bit ring, then fold back on themselves and snap to their own rings.\n\nSide reins may be completely of solid material, or they may have an elastic or rubber ring insert. Each design has its advantages and disadvantages. Designs with elastic have more \"give\" to them, which is useful for sensitive horses or horses that throw their heads. Elastic inserts must be used with caution, however, as some horses learn to lean on them. Solid side reins are the older, classical design, give the horse a more solid contact to work into and discourage leaning, but must be adjusted with greater care because their lack of give may upset a sensitive horse and, particularly if too tight, may provoke rearing, headshaking and even panic in some animals. Side reins with a rubber donut provide some give, although not as muct as elastic and so discourage leaning. However, they are heavier and are prone to bounce when the horse trots or canters, which does not provide as steady a contact as the solid or elastic-insert side reins.\n\nElasticized side reins are often used with training young horses prior to being ridden. They help accustom a horse to the feel of pressure on the bit, and reward the horse when it gives or flexes to bit pressure. Solid side reins are usually used for more advanced horses. They give the horse something to take contact with, encourage balance and correct head carriage, help a horse develop self-carriage, and help stop a horse from over-bending in the neck.\n\nSide reins may be attached from the bit rings to the surcingle rings, or from the bit to the buckles of the girth of an English saddle or cinch rings of a western saddle. \n\nSide reins are adjusted longer for less-experienced horses, and gradually shortened and raised higher (from point of shoulder up to the point of hip) as a horse becomes better trained. Side reins should never be so short that the horse's head is pulled behind the vertical. For green horses, the side reins should be adjusted so that the horse's head is approximately 4 inches in front of the vertical and the side reins are attached at a point level with the point of the shoulder.\n\nAs the horse becomes more advanced and more physically developed, the side reins may be shortened so the head is nearly vertical to the ground. Side reins should not pull the horse in—they do NOT create collection. Rather, a properly longed horse will collect himself, and the shorter side reins will be the correct length for him to keep a contact with the bit. Short side reins should not be used for long periods of time.\n\nSide reins should usually be adjusted so they are the same length on each side, though in some cases, the inside rein may be slightly shorter, particularly with a horse that has previously been allowed to develop the habit of arcing its body away from the circle. It is considered correct to fasten the outside rein before the inside rein, similarly to the idea that a rider would take up outside contact before inside rein contact. It is best to make sure that both side reins are adjusted before attaching them to the bit, as it can be irritating to the horse to stand with one side rein attached while the handler is adjusting the other.\n\nImproper adjustment of side reins can cause a horse to go behind the bit, spoil the horse's training, and even cause the horse to feel trapped, leading to rearing and the possibility that the horse will flip over.\n\nA horse should always be warmed up and cooled down without the side reins, allowed to stretch long and low. When the side reins are first applied during a workout, they should be adjusted long and gradually shortened as the horse warms up into them.\nSide reins are only for work in the trot and canter. Working a horse in side reins at the walk, other than in brief transitions can spoil the gait by inhibiting forward motion. \n\nSide reins should not be used for jumping, as they restrict the use of the neck too much, and may even cause the horse to fall.\n\nThe sliding side rein gives a bit more freedom to the horse than the standard side rein. It attaches from a lower ring on the surcingle, through the bit ring, and back up to an upper ring on the surcingle. This allows the horse to stretch down and lower his head while still maintaining contact with the bit, and are therefore useful on horses that are tight in the back, carry their head too high, or are learning to stretch forward and down for the bit contact.\n\nLike the side rein, the lauffer rein is adjusted so that the horse has contact with it when his head is at or just in front of the vertical. Green horses should have the lauffer rein attached to a lower and middle surcingle rein, while more advanced horses can have the reins raised to a middle and high ring on the surcingle.\n\nThe sliding side rein was designed to be attached to the outside rings of the surcingle, not between the legs. Running the reins between the legs can encourage a horse to get behind the bit and overflex.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302613", "title": "Joplin Regional Airport", "text": "Joplin Regional Airport\n\nJoplin Regional Airport is a city-owned airport north of Joplin, in Jasper County, Missouri, United States. It has airline service, which was subsidized by the Essential Air Service program until February 2019.\n\nFederal Aviation Administration records say the airport had 26,380 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2014, and 28,302 in 2015. It is included in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2019–2023, in which it is categorized as a non-hub primary commercial service facility.\n\nAmerican Airlines flew to Joplin from the 1940s until 1963; the first jets were Ozark DC-9s in 1968.\n\nIn the 1990s and early to mid-2000s Joplin had flights to St. Louis, Missouri by RegionsAir (\"AmericanConnection\") and to Memphis, Tennessee by Mesaba Airlines and Pinnacle Airlines (\"Northwest Airlink\").\n\nAir Midwest commenced service to Kansas City International Airport on August 1, 2006 (operating as US Airways Express) The airline also started flying to Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on October 5, 2006 (operating as Mesa Airlines).\n\nIn 2007 Great Lakes Airlines began EAS-subsidised service to Kansas City International Airport after the end of commercial service by Mesa Airlines. The airline flew under its own certificate, but flights were code-shares with United Airlines. Air Midwest ended service to Joplin in 2009. Great Lakes Airlines ended service on February 10, 2011, the day before American Eagle Airlines began daily service between Dallas/Fort Worth and Joplin.\n\nOn February 11, 2011, American Airlines, operated by American Eagle as Executive Airlines began service between Joplin and Dallas/Fort Worth.\n\nExecutive Airlines has terminated service to Joplin as American Eagle operated by Envoy Air and Mesa Airlines now operate regional jets to Dallas/Fort Worth.\n\nThe airport covers at an elevation of . It has two asphalt runways: 13/31 is 6,501 by 150 feet (1,982 × 46 m) and 18/36 is 6,500 by 100 feet (1,981 × 30 m).\n\nFor the 12-month period ending December 31, 2017, the airport had 24,600 aircraft operations, an average of 67 per day: 93% general aviation, 6% airline, and <1% military. In January 2019 there were 128 aircraft were then based at the airport: 105 single-engine, 10 multi-engine, 8 jets, 2 helicopters, and 3 ultralights.\n\nThe fixed based operators (FBOs) at Joplin Regional Airport are Mizzou Aviation, located near the General Aviation terminal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302628", "title": "1949 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1949 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 10 October 1949. The result was a victory for the Labour Party, which won 85 of the 150 seats in the Storting.\n\n The joint list of the Farmers' Party, Conservative Party and Liberal Party won four seats, two taken by the Conservative Party and two by the Farmers' Party.\n"}
{"id": "2302635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302635", "title": "WORA-TV", "text": "WORA-TV\n\nWORA-TV, virtual channel 5 (UHF digital channel 29), branded on-air as ABC Puerto Rico, is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Mayagüez, Puerto Rico. The station is owned by Telecinco, Inc. WORA-TV's studios are located at the Guanajibo Building in Mayagüez, and its transmitter is located at Monte del Estado in Maricao.\n\nWRFB (virtual channel 5, UHF digital channel 30) in Carolina operates as a full-time satellite of WORA-TV, serving San Juan and eastern Puerto Rico.\n\nFounded by Alfredo Ramírez de Arellano y Bártoli in 1955, WORA-TV was the first television station on Puerto Rico's west coast and the third station islandwide after WKAQ-TV and WAPA-TV (established one year earlier). The station was named for then-sister station WORA radio (760 AM), which one year later was joined by WORA-FM (97.5 FM, now WIOB), the first FM broadcaster on the west coast. During its early years, the station produced its own programming, but its schedule eventually shifted toward infomercials, possibly due to the lack of interest from local businesses in advertising on television. In 1969, WORA-TV became a repeater station for WRIK-TV, airing their programming on the west coast of the island.\n\nIn 1979, WORA-TV entered into an affiliation agreement with San Juan-based WAPA-TV, ending its run as a locally-run independent station. After that, most television stations on the island's western coast followed suit. By joining with economically stronger stations from the San Juan market, market divisions on the island ended.\n\nIn 1985, WORA-TV changed its affiliation agreement to WKAQ-TV, and on January 1, 1995, it began a new affiliation agreement with WLII.\n\nOn September 19, 2014, it was announced that WORA would become an ABC affiliate on November 1, 2014, replacing low-power station WPRU-LP, carrying the network on a subchannel branded as ABC 5.\n\nOn January 1, 2015, WORA-TV again become a semi-satellite of WKAQ-TV on channel 5.1. Univision programming moved to WOLE-DT channel 12, on the same date. On March 9, 2015, WORA's third digital subchannel added VIVE, which broadcasts series from Televisión Española.\n\nOn June 27, 2019, WORA-TV announced that will end an affiliation agreement with WKAQ-TV by December 31, leaving Telemundo without a western affiliate after more than four years. Later, , the owners of WAPA-TV, announced that Telemundo would air on a subchannel of WNJX-TV by January 1, 2020. On December 18, WORA-TV announced that it will move ABC programming to the station's primary channel on January 1.\n\nOn July 1, 2019, VIVE switched to a simulcast of the 24H news channel from TVE.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nWORA-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 5, on June 12, 2009, the official date when full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 29. Through the use of Program and System Information Protocol (PSIP), digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 5.\n\nWORA-TV can be seen across Puerto Rico on the following stations:\nIn addition to ABC network programming, WORA-TV airs some local shows, mostly on Sunday afternoons.\n\nWORA-TV had a small news division branded as \"WORA-TV Noticias\", which aired during WKAQ-TV's \"Telenoticias\" news broadcasts on WORA-DT1. These 15 to 30 minute news segments focus on events happening in and around Mayagüez and Puerto Rico's west coast. On June 28, 2019, WORA-TV laid off 19 employees. This caused the closing of the entire news department and the newscasts has been canceled.\n\nCurrently, WORA-TV (which is affiliated with ABC), airs a simulcast of WABC-TV's \"Eyewitness News\". The station does not air local newscasts in English. The local programs, \"Punto Final\" (anchored and produced by Carmen Jovet), \"Primetime\" (hosted by Carlos McConnie and Kimberly Santiago) and \"Más con Milly\" (hosted by Milly Méndez) broadcast in the evening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302636", "title": "The American (statue)", "text": "The American (statue)\n\nThe American is a proposed 217 ft (66 m) bronze statue of a Native American, created by sculptor Shan Gray, and currently proposed for construction in Sand Springs, Oklahoma, near Tulsa.\n\nThe statue was originally proposed to be built at Holmes Peak in southeastern Osage County, located about 7 miles (11 km) northwest of downtown Tulsa and the highest point in the immediate region with an altitude of 1030 ft (314 m). The site was within the grounds of Tulsa's Centennial Botanical Garden (now called the Tulsa Botanic Garden).\n\nAccording to the proposal, \"The American\", designed in the image of an American Indian brave with a bald eagle on his shoulder, will rise 60 ft (20 m) taller than the Statue of Liberty, and will be the largest bronze statue in the world with an interior observation deck. The eagle will have an 82 ft (25 m) wingspan.\n\nGray, who is Osage, and has built a career on large-scale sculptures of Oklahoman sports figures such as New York Yankees pitcher Allie \"Superchief\" Reynolds and Heisman trophy winner Billy Vessels, conceived \"The American\" as an entry for a contest to design a statue for the dome of the Oklahoma State Capitol, which was added to the building in 2001. Initially intended for the outskirts of Oklahoma City, the Tulsa location was selected after investor disinterest. The design was enlarged for the landmark Holmes Peak site and for visitor access, and will include a visitor center and other amenities and underground access to the statue, rather than directly at the base, to preserve the natural setting.\n\nAccording to a statement by developers in Spring 2007, the project was anticipated to break ground in late 2007 and be completed in 2011. It was originally intended for the 100th anniversary of Oklahoma's admission as a U.S. state in 1907. However, as of 2016, the project remained unbuilt. In April 2011, the Osage Nation appropriated $2.5 million as a potential contribution toward the project, but the tribe's investment entity then decided not to accept the appropriation.\n\nIn 2012, it was reported that the city of Sand Springs was working with Gray to build the statue, possibly at a different location within the city limits of Sand Springs, and in June 2013, the city council approved funding for an engineering study. \"The Wall Street Journal\" wrote about the project in August 2013 and noted the project would fit in with two existing large scale sculptures in Tulsa: the \"Praying Hands\" on the campus of Oral Roberts University and the Golden Driller at the Tulsa Expo Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302639", "title": "Kirksville Regional Airport", "text": "Kirksville Regional Airport\n\nKirksville Regional Airport is four miles south of Kirksville, on the west side of US highway 63. One airline schedules passenger flights, subsidized by the Essential Air Service program.\n\nFederal Aviation Administration records say the airport had 684 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2008, 926 in 2009 and 2,127 in 2010. The National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2011–2015 categorized it as a \"general aviation\" facility (the \"commercial service\" category requires at least 2,500 enplanements per year).\n\nCape Air is the current airline, averaging 900 to 1,000 passengers per month on three daily round trips to St. Louis Lambert International Airport \nAviation in the Kirksville area began within a few years of the Wright brothers flight. Local resident Nick Sparling is credited as being Adair County's first aviator, in 1909. In 1924, Roy B. \"Cap\" Dodson started the first airport in the area, located on the north edge of Kirksville. However, an airfield at the present location of Kirksville Regional Airport wasn't created until 1930 when the Federal Aviation Administration built a series of emergency landing strips across the nation. With America's entry into World War II, the Kirksville Municipal Airport, as it had been declared in the late 1930s, received a major upgrade from the Civilian Pilots Training Program and the US Army Air Corps War Training Service. In 1942 a paved all-weather landing strip, hangars, a control tower and small restaurant were built; the paved runway was 3870 ft until 1968.\n\nThe post-war boom in commercial aviation reached Kirksville in 1960 when Ozark Air Lines began scheduled flights. The plane was a familiar sight to many World War II veterans, as Ozark used the Douglas DC-3, the civil counterpart of the famed C-47 'Gooney Bird', now in Ozark's white and evergreen instead of Army Air Corps colors. The Ozark route began in Kansas City to Chicago with stops in Kirksville, Ottumwa and Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Moline, Illinois. Airport improvements came after a bond issue was approved by Kirksville voters in 1967. A new six-thousand foot concrete runway was built, as well as a new terminal building and improved hangar facilities. The longer runway was needed for the faster Fairchild prop-jet that began flights to Kirksville in late 1968. Also in the 1960s, Ozark switched Kirksville service from a Kansas City-Chicago route to a Des Moines-to-St. Louis one. With the airport improvements came a new name, Clarence Cannon Memorial Airport—chosen to honor long-time US Congressman Clarence Cannon of Missouri who had done much to help secure air service and funding for the airport.\n\nDespite nearly a million dollars in facility upgrades and a steady flow of passengers in and out of Kirksville, Ozark Airlines found the route to be financially untenable by the mid-1970s, with their final departure coming on April 23, 1976. Fortunately a local pilot and dentist, Dr. Stephen Barber, has established a small commuter air service, Horizon Airways, in 1972. Horizon was able to help fill the void left by Ozarks departure, eventually expanding to five aircraft and service to both Kansas City and St. Louis.\n\nAir Choice One began scheduled flight operations twice daily, to and from Lambert-St. Louis International Airport during July 2009. Scheduled operations are currently subsidized by the Essential Air Service Act. Previously service was operated by Air Midwest (operating as US Airways Express) to Kansas City International Airport and by RegionsAir (operating as American Connection) with flights to Lambert-St. Louis International Airport. In September, 2010 Cape Air replaced Air Choice One.\n\nThe airport covers 476 acres (193 ha) at an elevation of 966 feet (294 m). It has two runways: 18/36 is 6,005 by 100 feet (1,830 x 30 m) concrete; 9/27 is 1,370 by 100 feet (418 x 30 m) turf.\n\nIn the year ending June 30, 2010 the airport had 5,625 aircraft operations, average 15 per day: 62% general aviation, 21% airline, 13% air taxi, 4% military. 35 aircraft were then based at the airport: 83% single-engine, 11% multi-engine, and 6% helicopter.\n\nScheduled passenger service:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302644", "title": "Innisfail (N.W.T. electoral district)", "text": "Innisfail (N.W.T. electoral district)\n\nInnisfail was an electoral district in the Northwest Territories from 1902 to 1905.\n\nThe district was named after the town of Innisfail, Alberta, after Alberta was created in 1905 the district was carried over and existed until 1993.\n"}
{"id": "2302650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302650", "title": "Tunstall, Staffordshire", "text": "Tunstall, Staffordshire\n\nTunstall is a constituent town in the area of Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England. It was one of the original six towns that federated to form the city. Tunstall is the most northern, and fourth largest town of the Potteries. It is situated in the very northwest of the city borough, with its north and west boundaries being the city limit. It stands on a ridge of land between Fowlea Brook to the west and Scotia Brook to the east, surrounded by old tile making and brick making sites, some of which date back to the Middle Ages.\n\nThere is no independent record of Tunstall in the \"Domesday Book\"; it is believed to have formed part of the lands of Richard the forester, centred on Thursfield. However, Tunstall Manor quickly became powerful. Between 1212 and 1273, Tunstall, Bemersley, Burslem, Chatterley, Chell, Oldcott, and Thursfield, Whitfield and Bemersley are mentioned as distinct manors or vills; all but Chell had merged within the manor of Tunstall by the end of the 13th century. From the 16th century, Tunstall Manor covered an area which extended to the Cheshire border and included the following additional townships: Chell, Ravenscliffe, Sneyd, Brieryhurst, Stadmorslow and Wedgwood. Records mention that iron and coal was being mined and processed in the town as far back as 1282.\n\nThe appointment of a market-reeve by the manor court in 1525 is the earliest indication of a market in Tunstall manor. In 1816, a market square of nearly an acre (now Tower Square) was laid out on land called Stony Croft which was leased from the lord of the manor, and small-scale markets began to be held. Today, Tunstall Market is the smallest of the four markets in Stoke-on-Trent (Fenton and Burslem not having markets).\nTunstall remained a linear village until the industrial revolution. Tunstall's main make-up is now of rows of Victorian terraced houses, which were a built during the pottery boom to house workers. There are a number of new estates that have been built in the area. Park Terrace consists of elegant Victorian and Edwardian town houses and is a designated conservation area, as is the housing around Victoria Park.\n\nThe town was granted Urban District Council status in 1894 and quickly set about expanding itself, acquiring amongst others Pitts Hill from Chell civil parish in 1899. On 1 April 1910, the UDC dissolved itself and the town was federated into the county borough of Stoke-on-Trent. By 1925 the borough was granted city status. Tunstall has however, remained distinct and retained its own shopping and business district, adding to Stoke-on-Trent's polycentric nature.\n\nOn 27 November 1916, German Zeppelin LZ 61 (L21) bombed Tunstall during its return leg to Germany, dropping three bombs. However, it was shot down the following day before it could reach the coast at Lowestoft.\n\nThe village of Tunstall was described in 1795 as \"the pleasantest village in the pottery\".\n\n\"Tunstall, including its environs, is the pleasantest village in the pottery. It stands on high ground and commands pleasing prospects. The manufactories in it are respectable and do considerable business. There are a number of brick and tile works here; the clay being of a superior kind for such articles; so that with good management the tiles made from it look as well as moderate slate. The Methodists have a large neat Chapel in this place. which is well attended. They have lately established a Sunday School, supported by voluntary contributions, and the teachers give their labours gratis.\"\nJ. Allbut, \"The Staffordshire Potteries\" (1802)\n\n\"TUNSTALL is a considerable village within the township of Tunstall Court, a liberty in the parish of Woolstanton, four miles from Newcastle, pleasantly situated on an eminence, deriving its name from the Saxon word, tun or ton, a town, and stall, an elevated place, seat or station.\" \"In this township abounds coal, ironstone, marl and fine cannel coal; and the manufactories of earthenware are very extensive here.\"\n1828 journal\n\n\"Tunstall.-- town with ry. sta., Wolstanton par., Staffordshire, on the Grand Trunk Canal, 2½ miles NE. and within the parliamentary limits of Newcastle under Lyme, 690 ac., pop. 14,244; P.O., T.O., 3 Banks. Tunstall shares in the industries of the Potteries. It has rapidly risen from a village to a considerable town, with a fine town hall in the centre of a spacious market-place.\"\nJohn Bartholomew, \"Gazetteer of the British Isles\" (1887)\n\nThere is evidence of small-scale pottery manufacturing in Tunstall from the 14th century. However, Tunstall was one of the last of towns in the Potteries to begin large scale pottery manufacturing, with the main focus being on farming, and to a lesser extent, coal & iron mining and mills. Thus Tunstall was not affected by the 1842 Pottery Riots. However, Tunstall still has a rich industrial heritage. At the start of the 19th century there were 3 pottery works in the town, by the close of the century that number had risen to 13. Famous potters located in the town have been the Adams dynasty of potters founded by William Adams, as well as Alfred Meakin, Booths founded by Enoch Booth and Enoch Wedgwood. Robert Beswick, father of Beswick Pottery founder James Wright Beswick, began making pottery in Tunstall. Jabez Vodrey is a noted emigrant potter, the first English potter west of the Appalachian Mountains. Clarice Cliff (20 January 1899 – 23 October 1972) was an English ceramic industrial artist active from 1922 to 1963. Charles Shaw was a 19th-century potter who's in-depth autobiography has given some of the clearest insights into the Victorian Potteries, and provided Arnold Bennett with inspiration for his Clayhanger novels. Tunstall became widely known for its tiles, regarded to be as good as slate. Decorative ceramic tiles are still made in Tunstall by H and R Johnson-Richards Tiles Ltd.\n\nTunstall's industries were served by the Trent and Mersey Canal, constructed over 11 years from 1766. The canal was designed by James Brindley, resident of Turnhurst Hall in nearby Chell. Just north of Tunstall lies one of Brindley's greatest achievements, the Harecastle Tunnel, which takes the Trent and Mersey Canal underneath Goldenhill. Barges were 'legged' through by men lying on their backs on top of the barges and pushing against the roof with their feet. This was a physically demanding and slow, causing major delays, so in 1827 leading civil engineer Thomas Telford was commissioned to provide a second, and wider, parallel tunnel with a towpath. Today the Harecastle Tunnels are the fourth longest canal tunnels in the UK.\n\nTunstall was served by a railway station, which was opened by the North Staffordshire Railway on 1 December 1873. This closed under the Beeching Axe in 1965 with the removal of the Potteries Loop Line. Today Tunstall lies roughly equidistant between Longport and Kidsgrove railway stations on the Stafford to Manchester Line, a branch of the West Coast Main Line (Network Rail Route 18). There are also direct services to Crewe and Derby. It is also well served by buses provided by: Baker Coaches, Clowes Coaches, D&G Coaches, Wardle Transport and First Potteries, connecting Tunstall to all surrounding settlements.\n\nThe A50 is the main arterial route through Tunstall, running from Warrington to Leicester via Stoke and Derby. Tunstall is linked to the A500 \"D-road\", which passes just west of the town, by the new A527 linkway the town connecting Tunstall and the rest of Stoke-on-Trent to the M6 motorway. Slightly further east the A34 runs north-south, towards Manchester and Newcastle-under-Lyme respectively.\n\nClimate in this area has mild differences between highs and lows, and there is adequate rainfall year-round. The Köppen Climate Classification subtype for this climate is \"\". (Marine West Coast Climate). \nThe outskirts of Tunstall became home to a new public art statue called Golden in 2015. The 69 ft (21 m) steel work of art by Wolfgang Buttress was privately funded with £180,000 Section 106 monies secured during the construction of the Blue Planet eco-warehouse.\n\nThe Phoenix Trust, an independent not-for-profit foundation, is campaigning to turn Tunstall and the wider North Staffordshire Coalfield into a World Heritage Site due to its historic economic significance, leading role in the industrial revolution and status as the birthplace of Primitive Methodism.\n\nTunstall has had a rise in well-known shops in recent years, notably with the construction of Alexandra Retail Park. These developments have, however, been felt to be to the detriment of Tunstall's traditional town centre shops and market. The town's shops got together in 2003-4 to buy a good amount of Christmas décor and now it is traditional to go and watch Tunstall lights have their grand switch on.\n\nA recognisable Tunstall, renamed Turnhill, features in the novels of Arnold Bennett.\n\nThere are a number of Grade II listed buildings in Tunstall, notably: Tunstall Market Hall, Tunstall Town Hall, Christ Church, Church of the Sacred Heart, the world's first Primitive Methodist chapel, the Clock Tower in Tower Square, Tunstall library & public baths, Victoria Park and structures, and the Lodge & canal portals at Harecastle Tunnel. There are also three conservation areas: Tower Square, Park Terrace and Victoria Park & surrounding housing.\n\nBy closing years of the 19th century, most urban areas in the UK were suffering from pollution and poor health. To this end Tunstall Urban district began a series of improvements works shortly after its foundation, including the Victoria Public Baths- opened in 1897. In this year, work commenced on Victoria Park, also known as Tunstall Park. The park was devised by the council's architect Absalom Reade Wood (1851–1922). By 1914 the park had largely taken its present form, covering 21 acres. It is now Grade II listed. Tunstall Victoria Park Trust, a registered charity, was founded in 2009 to engage the public and help decide how the money donated by the Reginald Johnson Foundation for improving the park should be used.\n\nThe Golden Torch, on Hose Street, was a famous Northern Soul club, founded by Christopher Burton, a contemporary of Ivor Abadi (founder of the Twisted Wheel club), and Russ Winstanley of the famous Wigan Casino. It opened on 30 January 1965 with the headline act of Billy J. Kramer and the Dakotas. Initially a mod club, it did not begin regular soul nights until 1969. It played host to DJs such as Peter Stringfellow. Following the closure of Manchester's Twisted Wheel soul club, in 1971 The Torch began putting on its own Soul All-Nighters. However, it became a victim of its own success, with regular police presences, drug taking and over crowding. When the club came to renew its licence on 16 March 1973 Stoke-on-Trent council refused the renewal, without a licence the club simply fizzled out, paving the way for the Wigan Casino.\n\nThe Tunstall Wakes were held on the first Sunday after the feast of St. Margaret (20 July), the saint to whom Wolstanton church is dedicated. The wakes were abolished in 1879, but soon revived by popular demand.\n\nTunstall was home to the independent Frink School of Figurative Sculpture, which occupied a fine old factory (and former Old Court) in Roundwell Street for a number of years until about 2004. The Frink School was named after Elisabeth Frink, British sculptress, and was a small intimate academy with a specific discipline of study closer in spirit to a \"master and apprentice\" structure than an educational institution. This has since moved to nearby Leek.\n\nToday, the area is served by many primary schools, and secondary schools include The Co-operative Academy of Stoke-on-Trent, Ormiston Horizon Academy and St Margaret Ward Catholic Academy.\n\nDransfield created Jasper Square which is occupied by stores including Next, Argos and Matalan. The company later began construction on a project called Alexandra Park adjacent to the previous project. The park contains a Primary Care Centre, Boots, Carphone Warehouse and DW Health and Fitness Club. The final phase of development was completed in February 2014 and added Home Bargains, Iceland and Card Factory. The park contains \"The Shard\", a stainless steel sculpture celebrating the area's historic pottery industry. It was created by Robert Erskine. In 2014, long-term plans for another retail park and Morrisons supermarket were cancelled.\n\nThe landmark HSBC bank on the high street was bought over by digital marketing agency Netinspire and insolvency practitioner Dunion & Co. The 1920s period property was fully refurbished, while retaining the building's original exterior, to house Netinspire and Dunion & Co's modern offices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302651", "title": "Southeast Christian Church (Louisville, Kentucky)", "text": "Southeast Christian Church (Louisville, Kentucky)\n\nThe church's Senior Minister, Dave Stone, assumed leadership of the church in 2006. In September 2018, it was announced that long time Teaching Pastor, Kyle Idleman would assume senior leadership in 2019. Kyle Idleman assumed senior leadership on March 10th, 2019.\n\nThe church was established on July 1, 1962 as 53 members of the \"South Louisville Christian Church\" started a new church in the Hikes Point area. By 1998, the church had relocated to – and outgrown – numerous buildings until reaching its current location at 920 Blankenbaker Parkway in Louisville. Former Senior Minister Bob Russell retired in 2006 after 40 years of service. He was succeeded as senior minister by Dave Stone, the longtime preaching associate at Southeast. \n\nIn February 2007, Southeast Christian officially released an announcement that it would establish a satellite church in Clark County, Indiana. With the establishment of a second location, Southeast became a multi-site church. The breaking of the ground, by I-65 Exit 4 in Jeffersonville, Indiana, took place on August 12, 2007, and the church officially opened on April 12, 2009. On February 8, 2009, the church announced the plans for its third location. The Oldham County Campus, in Crestwood, Kentucky, held its first service in January 2011. In 2009, Southeast also opened up a new youth building called \"The Block\". On the weekend of June 30/July 1, 2012, the church announced that it would develop a fourth campus in southwest Jefferson County, near Dixie Highway (US 31W) and adjacent to the southwestern campus of Christian Academy of Louisville. This site was originally expected to open in fall 2013, but groundbreaking was delayed until February 2013; the new campus opened in time for Easter 2014. The next satellite campus was found in an old movie theatre in LaGrange, Kentucky in January 2017, making this the 5th campus to launch. In 2017, a satellite campus opened in Elizabethtown, Kentucky. The church also opened a campus in Prospect, Kentucky in 2019. \n\nIn September of 2019, the church announced a campus in Shelby County, Kentucky would be built, and in January of 2020, the church announced a campus in Bullitt County, Kentucky would be built. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302653", "title": "No Banners, No Bugles", "text": "No Banners, No Bugles\n\nNo Banners, No Bugles (New York: Dodd, Mead & Company, 1949) is a book by Edward Ellsberg describing his activities as Principal Salvage Officer for Operation Torch during World War II.\n\nLike his book \"Under the Red Sea Sun\" about salvage work in Massawa earlier in the war, this book describes daring adventures and monumental accomplishments. It also describes cases where red tape, incompetence, and cowardice caused valuable ships to be lost.\n"}
{"id": "2302668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302668", "title": "El Tor, Egypt", "text": "El Tor, Egypt\n\nEl Tor ( \" / \" ), also romanized as \"Al-Tur\" and \"At-Tur\" and known as \"Tur Sinai\", formerly Raithu, is a small city and the capital of the South Sinai Governorate of Egypt. The name of the city comes from the Arabic term for the mountain where the prophet Moses received the Tablets of the Law from God; this mountain is designated \"Jabal Al Tor\".\n\nAt-Tur itself appears to have been founded in the 13th century near the site of the ancient Raythou (medieval \"Raya\"). The El Tor strain of cholera was discovered there in 1905. It was a quarantine camp for Muslim pilgrims returning from Hajj (the Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca).\n\nThe Raithu desert is situated around El Tor, between Saint Catherine and the Red Sea. It is part of the Archdiocese of Mount Sinai and Raithu of the Eastern Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem. The \"Martyrs of Raithu\" were 43 anchorites (early Christian hermits) murdered by bedouins (desert dwellers) during the reign of Emperor Diocletian (284-305CE). Christian monks fleeing persecutions had been present since the 3rd century, and the Raithu monastery (or Rutho) was commissioned in the 6th century by Byzantine emperor Justinian. The latter was proposed as a UNESCO World Heritage site on November 1, 1994, in the Cultural category. Theodore of Raithu was champion of neo-Chalcedonism in the early 7th century.\n\nOn route to Suez whit the objective to seek and destroy the Ottoman fleet, a Portuguese Armada was sent in 1541 to Red Sea.\n\nAfter several days sailing , the commander Estevão da Gama gives the order to direct a surprise attack. The troops where able to disimbarq and the defenders came out to the shore but were pushed to the city not managing to close the city doors. The portuguese as the city fell , where ready to loot, but two Priests came to the Commander , and appeal to him avoiding the destruction. Several soldiers where armed Knigts after a mass, and the armada stayed for a few days preparing to sail and attack Suez.\n\nIts climate is classified by Köppen-Geiger system as hot desert (BWh).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302694", "title": "The Division", "text": "The Division\n\nThe Division is an American police procedural drama television series created by Deborah Joy LeVine starring Bonnie Bedelia. The series focuses on a team of women detectives and officers in the San Francisco Police Department. The series premiered on Lifetime on January 7, 2001 and ended on June 28, 2004 after 88 episodes.\n\nThe show focused on the lives of five policewomen in the felony division headed by Captain Kate McCafferty (Bonnie Bedelia). Storylines revolved around the women's personal and professional lives, and their attempts to balance both. The series tackled such topics as alcoholism, drug addiction, homophobia, and sexual abuse.\n\nThe series premiered on January 7, 2001, earning a 3.1 rating and the \"largest audience of any basic cable original series\" that year. After four seasons, the show was canceled on June 28, 2004. It was the network's second \"longest-running scripted series\".\n\nAfter its cancellation, \"The Division\" was rebroadcast on the Lifetime network in various timeslots until 2007. In 2008, reruns aired on Lifetime Real Women. Starting in September 2018, the syndication became available on Start TV.\n\n\n\n\nThe DVD set containing all four seasons including the pilot was released by Visual Entertainment in Region 1 on March 19, 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302699", "title": "Billy Newton-Davis", "text": "Billy Newton-Davis\n\nBilly Newton-Davis (born April 26, 1951 in Cleveland, Ohio, United States) is a Canadian R&B, jazz and gospel singer and songwriter.\n\nNewton-Davis grew up in Shaker Heights, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. He was one of two lead singers in a local soul band called The Illusions. After working as a singer and dancer on Broadway, he moved to Toronto, Ontario in 1980. His debut album, \"Love Is a Contact Sport\", won the Juno Award for best R&B/soul recording in 1986 and included the hits \"Deeper\", \"Right Beside You\" and \"Find My Way Back\".\n\nHis 1989 follow up, \"Spellbound\", included his biggest Canadian chart hit, \"I Can't Take It\", as well as the Celine Dion duet \"Can't Live With You, Can't Live Without You\" and again won the Juno for best R&B/soul recording.\n\nNewton-Davis subsequently joined The Nylons in 1991. Since leaving the Nylons, he has primarily concentrated on songwriting and live jazz and gospel performances. He also performed vocals on a number of deadmau5 tracks, including \"All U Ever Want\", and \"R My Dreams\" from \"At Play Vol. 2\".\n\nIn 2008, Newton-Davis won the Juno Award for \"All You Ever Want\" as Best Dance Album. Openly gay, his \"On A Boy's Life\" (2008) is a \"celebration of all the naughty things men can get up to when left to their own devices.\" Diagnosed HIV-positive in 1986 at the height of his career, he first went public with his status in a documentary by Sylvia Sweeney that aired on Vision TV in 2000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302709", "title": "Shibuichi", "text": "Shibuichi\n\nShibuichi means \"one-fourth\" in Japanese, and indicates the standard formulation of one part silver to three parts copper, though this may be varied considerably according to the desired effect.\nSeveral major variants of the alloy have specific names, as detailed below. In addition, the metal in general, and especially the paler shades, may be named \"rogin\".\n\nAside from the basic 25% silver to 75% copper mix, combinations as divergent as 5% silver to 95% copper are also marketed as \"shibuichi\". A wide range of colours can be achieved using the whole range of alloy compositions, even above 50% silver, e.g. 90% copper and 10% silver for a dark grey and down to 70% copper and 30% silver for lighter greys.\n\nKuro-Shibuichi (Kin-IchibuSashi)\n\nKuro is black in Japanese and kuro-shibuichi is different from other variants in the table, being a mixture of shibuichi (~40%) and shakudō (~60%) with around 1% of gold (proportions could be, for example, 9.9% silver, 87.3% copper, and 2.8% gold). Kuro-shibuichi will develop a black patina which is different from the black patina of shakudo.\n\nIt is a common misconception that both copper and silver oxides form, but in fact a detailed study has shown that only copper oxides are formed on the copper rich regions of the material's microstructure, while the silver rich regions are left largely untouched.\n\nThe first official mention of the material is from the early 18th century, in documents from the State Mint, though it is believed to have existed before that. For most of its history, shibuichi was mostly used to ornament various fittings for Japanese swords until the Meiji reforms, when most swordmakers began to make purely decorative objects instead. The material is often used in mokume-gane combinations. Similar alloys have been used elsewhere but the use of shibuichi to achieve different colored patinas appears to have remained nearly unknown outside Japan, until recent interest from artisans in the West.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302718", "title": "Victoria, Newfoundland and Labrador", "text": "Victoria, Newfoundland and Labrador\n\nVictoria ( NST) is an incorporated town in Conception Bay located approximately midway on the Bay de Verde Peninsula of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.\n\nVictoria, located on Route 70, is often referred to as the \"crossroads to Trinity and Conception Bays.\" Victoria may have been named after the Queen.\n\nDotted around Victoria and surrounding areas are small fishing communities that were established due the proximity of each community to the fishing grounds. Locally, Victoria goes by many nicknames, including \"The Village\" and \"The Savage Hollar\", although the use of these names has decreased in recent years. Among the communities within 15-minutes' driving distance from Victoria are:\n\nThe community of Victoria is believed to have originally begun as a \"winterhouse\" for people from Freshwater and Carbonear. People eventually built permanent dwellings around Beaver Pond, along the road between Carbonear and Heart's Content.\n\nIn the nineteenth century the settlement was named Victoria Village, in honour of Queen Victoria.\n\nAlthough Victoria is an inland community, it is in walking distance of Carbonear, Freshwater and Salmon Cove. Most of the earliest settlers were fishing families (most of the men engaged in the Labrador Fishery). A small amount of farming and livestock raising was also conducted where the produce was sold in Carbonear.\n\nThere was a camp built at Victoria to house prisoners of war during World War II. The Americans felt this was a security risk for their bases in Newfoundland, so this structure was never used and it was taken down in 1943.\n\n\n\nIndustries / Economic Activity\n\nThe climate of the Atlantic Ocean and adjacent land areas is influenced by the temperatures of the surface waters and water currents as well as the winds blowing across the waters. Because of the oceans' great capacity for retaining heat, the climate of Victoria are moderate and free of extreme seasonal variations.\n\nPrecipitation falls on the area both as snow in the wintertime and moderate rainfall in summer.\n\nThe Gulf Stream and Labrador Current converge just off the coast of Newfoundland and provide for very dense fog that can linger in the area for days.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302721", "title": "Guittard Chocolate Company", "text": "Guittard Chocolate Company\n\nThe Guittard Chocolate Company is an American-based chocolate maker which produces \"couverture\" chocolate, using original formulas and traditional French methods. The company is headquartered in Burlingame, California. It is the oldest continuously family-owned chocolate company in the United States,\nhaving been family-owned for more than four generations.\n\nGuittard Chocolate was founded by Etienne \"Eddy\" Guittard (1838–1899), who immigrated to the United States from Lyon, France, in the 1850s during the California Gold Rush. He brought French chocolates with him, which he traded for supplies. After trying without success for three years to strike gold in the Sierra, he returned to San Francisco, where shopkeepers with whom he had earlier traded his chocolate convinced him to become a chocolate maker. He then returned to Paris, saved money to buy the equipment he needed, before returning to San Francisco and opening his business at 405 Sansome Street on the San Francisco waterfront. Initially, he also sold items such as, tea, coffee and spices alongside his chocolate.\n\nHorace C. Guittard, Étienne's son, was in charge when the 1906 San Francisco earthquake destroyed the city. In the aftermath of the quake, a new plant was built on Commercial Street. The company expanded in 1921 and 1936 onto property on Main Street south of Market. In 1954, Guittard sold its property to the city so that Embarcadero Freeway could be built. The company relocated to a facility at the corner of Guittard and Rollins road in Burlingame, California, where it is still located today.\n\nGary Guittard began working full-time at the company in 1975. He replaced Horace A. Guittard (his father) in 1989, becoming president and CEO. \nThe company produces cocoa, chocolate syrup, milk chocolate balls and eggs, baking chips, as well as mints and mint wafers. 85% of Guittard's clients are food industry professionals, while 15% are pastry chefs. Customers include See's Candies, Kellogg's and Baskin-Robbins, Recchiuti Confections, and Garrison Confections, and Williams Sonoma. The company also sells to chef Donald Wressel and has recently developed a variety of chocolate bars specifically designed for amateur bakers.\n\nGary Guittard remains committed to his grandfather's goal of supporting the local community. He provides financial support to educational and charitable organizations, such as the San Francisco Boys and Girls Club, and also spearheads the company's Cultivate Better initiative. The company is also a founding member of the World Cocoa Foundation and is an International Cocoa Initiative Member. Both organizations aim to improve cocoa farm practices around the world through education, training, and development for cocoa farmers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302725", "title": "Tonnage and poundage", "text": "Tonnage and poundage\n\nTonnage and poundage were duties and taxes first levied in Edward II's reign on every tun (cask) of imported wine, which came mostly from Spain and Portugal, and on every pound weight of merchandise exported or imported. Traditionally tonnage and poundage was granted by Parliament to the king for life, but this practice did not continue into the reign of Charles I. Tonnage and poundage were swept away by the Customs and Excise Act 1787.\n\nCharles I's first parliament, known as the Useless Parliament, broke with tradition and granted the king tonnage and poundage for a year rather than life out of concern over the manner in which tonnage and poundage's life grant of 1604 had been used by James to justify impositions, which were additional duties imposed on certain items. This restriction was seen as a provocative step by Parliament as it was one of the King's main sources of revenue, and Parliament intended the one-year limit to curb Charles' autonomy by forcing him to request money from Parliament every year thereafter. Although the House of Commons passed this bill, George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham led a successful effort in the House of Lords to block it. As a result, Parliament granted Charles no tonnage and poundage rights at all, which, combined with Parliament's efforts to impeach the Duke of Buckingham, led to Charles' first parliament being dissolved.\n\nCharles, however, continued to collect unauthorised tonnage and poundage duties, and this action became a chief complaint of Charles' failed parliament of 1629. When Charles moved to adjourn the parliament, members held the speaker, John Finch, in his seat until three resolutions could be read, one of which declared anyone who paid unauthorised tonnage and poundage to be a betrayer and enemy of England.\n\nCharles I's levying of tonnage and poundage without parliamentary sanction continued to be one of the complaints of his Long Parliament. The refusal of and subsequent disputes about tonnage and poundage rights is seen as one of the many events bearing responsibility for the English Civil War.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302730", "title": "1945 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1945 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 8 October 1945, the first following World War II and the end of the German occupation. The result was a victory for the Labour Party, which won 76 of the 150 seats in the Storting, the first time a party had won a majority since the 1915 elections.\n"}
{"id": "2302733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302733", "title": "Master Keaton", "text": "Master Keaton\n\nAn anime adaptation was created by Madhouse, with 24 episodes airing between 1998 and 1999 in Japan on Nippon Television. An additional 15 episodes were created and released as original video animations, bringing the total to 39 episodes. Naoki Urasawa and Takashi Nagasaki created a sequel to the series, titled . Set 20 years after the original series ended, it ran in \"Big Comic Original\" from 2012 to 2014 and was collected into a single volume.\n\nThe anime and OVA series were dubbed into English and released in North America by Pioneer Entertainment. Viz Media began releasing the manga in North America in 2014.\n\nThe story revolves around , the son of Japanese zoologist and well-born Englishwoman Patricia Keaton. Keaton's parents separated when he was five, and young Taichi moved back to England with his mother. As an adult, he studied archeology at Oxford University, in part under the tutelage of Professor Yuri Scott. \n\nAt Oxford, Keaton met and later married his wife, who was a mathematics student at Somerville College. The couple years later divorced, with Keaton leaving his five-year-old daughter in her mother's care. After leaving Oxford, Keaton joined the British Army and became a member of the SAS, holding the post of survival instructor and seeing combat in the Falklands War and as one of the team members that responded to the Iranian Embassy incident. His combat training serves him in good stead as an insurance investigator for the prestigious Lloyd's of London where he is known for his abilities and his unorthodox methods of investigation. \n\nIn addition to his work for Lloyd's, Keaton and his friend Daniel O'Connell operate their own insurance investigation agency headquartered in London. Even though Keaton is extremely successful as an insurance investigator, his dream is to continue his archaeological research into the possible origins of an ancient European civilization in the Danube River basin.\n\n\nThere is controversy over who wrote the stories for \"Master Keaton\". Hokusei Katsushika is a pseudonym of manga story writer Hajime Kimura, who was also a co-writer of \"Golgo 13\". Originally, Kimura created the series' story, while Naoki Urasawa did the artwork. However, after Kimura died of cancer in December 2004, Urasawa claimed in a May 2005 interview with weekly magazine \"Shuukan Bunshun\" that Kimura eventually stopped work as a story writer due to a personal conflict with Urasawa, after which Urasawa alone created both story and art. Because of this, Urasawa demanded that Katsushika's name appear smaller than his on the manga's covers. Manga story writer Kariya Tetsu, who was a close friend of Kimura and an influential figure at Shogakukan, opposed this action vehemently, which resulted in the discontinuation of the further publication of the manga as of July 2005.\n\nIn 2019, Urasawa said that he had the ideas for the characters and \"Master Keaton\" was very much based on that. He was also going to write the manga in addition to illustrating it, but because he was already writing \"Yawara!\", the editorial team was concerned about a young artist being able to create both. They brought in story writers, but the stories they proposed did not match Urasawa's vision. So instead meetings were held to create stories for the manga. But eventually the editors changed, and these \"intimate\" meetings were no longer possible. This is when Urasawa took the lead on writing the stories. He said that for the last two volumes, it is fair to say he came of with the stories alone. \n\n\"Master Keaton\" was serialized in \"Big Comic Original\" from 1988 to 1994. The 144 chapters were collected into 18 \"tankōbon\" volumes by Shogakukan between November 1988 and August 1994. A \"kanzenban\" edition of the series, including color pages, was published in 12 volumes between August 30, 2011 and June 29, 2012. During its initial magazine run and \"tankōbon\" release, Hokusei Katsushika was credited as its writer and Naoki Urasawa as its illustrator. The \"kanzenban\" reissue co-credits Katsushika and Takashi Nagasaki as the writers for the first five volumes, while Katsushika and Urasawa are co-credited as the writers from volumes six on.\n\nNaoki Urasawa and Takashi Nagasaki created a sequel to the series, titled \"Master Keaton Remaster\". Beginning in the March 2012 issue of \"Big Comic Original\" it finished in 2014 and was collected into a single volume on November 28, 2014. A deluxe edition including the full color pages from the magazine run was released the same day.\n\nIn 2014, Viz Media licensed \"Master Keaton\" for release in North America. They began publishing the \"kanzenban\" edition with color pages on December 16, 2014.\n\nAn anime adaptation covering a portion of the manga's select chapters aired between October 5, 1998 and March 29, 1999 in Japan on NTV. The series was produced by Madhouse, Nippon Television, Shogakukan and VAP and directed by Masayuki Kojima, with Tatsuhiko Urahata handling series composition, Kitarō Kōsaka designing the characters and Kuniaki Haishima composing the music. Originally consisting of 24 episodes, an additional 15 episodes were created and released as original video animations, bringing the total to 39 episodes. Each episode is a complete story. The anime is narrated by Keaton Yamada.\n\nThe opening theme \"Railtown\" is by Kuniaki Haishima. The ending theme for episodes 1-13 is \"eternal wind\" by Blüe, by Kneuklid Romance for episodes 14–26, and \"from beginning\" by Kuniaki Haishima for episodes 27–39. New ending themes were used for the anime's 2007 rebroadcast; by Kneuklid Romance for episodes 1-13 and \"EVER\" by Blüe for episodes 14–24.\n\nThe anime and OVAs were licensed in North America by Pioneer Entertainment (later named Geneon), with an English dub produced by The Ocean Group. They released eight DVDs between June 10, 2003 and August 10, 2004. Each DVD had 5 episodes, except the last one, which had 4.\n\nViz Media's release of \"Master Keaton\" was nominated for the \"Best U.S. Edition of International Material—Asia\" category two years in a row at the 2015 and 2016 Eisner Awards. The series was also included on the Young Adult Library Services Association's 2016 list of Great Graphic Novels for Teens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302734", "title": "Blues for Elvis – King Does the King's Things", "text": "Blues for Elvis – King Does the King's Things\n\nBlues for Elvis - King Does the King's Things is the fifth studio album by Albert King.\nThe songs in this album are versions of songs previously recorded by Elvis Presley.\nOn the album sleeve there is a review by Albert Goldman, Music Critic of LIFE Magazine, who says, among other things \"For the first time on record, the King of Blues is meeting the King of Rock.\" and \"...you're gonna love every minute of this musical feast fit for kings.\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302738", "title": "Springfield–Branson National Airport", "text": "Springfield–Branson National Airport\n\nSpringfield–Branson National Airport (formerly Springfield–Greene County Airport, Springfield Municipal Airport, and Springfield–Branson Regional Airport) is a public airport located about five miles (8 km) northwest of Springfield, Missouri, in Greene County. The airport has non-stop service to thirteen U.S. cities.\n\nThe airport opened as the Springfield–Greene County Airport on July 2, 1945, following bond issues of $350,000 in 1942 and $150,000 in 1945 to build the airport. It replaced the Springfield Park and Airport on East Division Street (which now operates as Downtown Airport (Missouri)). Springfield Park was the former McCluer Flying Field, which opened in 1925 and was purchased by the city in 1928 and which had commercial service by American Airlines and Transcontinental and Western. The airlines discontinued service during the Great Depression.\n\nThe airport was shortly renamed the Springfield Municipal Airport after the city and the county disagreed on funding.\n\nIn 1946, American Airlines began first commercial service to the new airport.\n\nIn October 1964, a new terminal opened and was paid for by a 1960 $600,000 bond issue.\n\nIn 1992, the airport was renamed the Springfield–Branson Regional Airport, capitalizing on the sudden rise of the Branson, tourist industry; the airport is northwest of Springfield, and Branson is more than southeast of the airport. In that same year, the community of Lakeview, renamed itself Branson West. \" Branson has not said anything formal about the airport's running.\n\nIn May 2006, ground was broken for a brand new terminal and it was announced the airport would be renamed the Springfield–Branson National Airport. The new Midfield Terminal opened on May 6, 2009, and was designed by Reynolds, Smith & Hills.\n\nThe Branson Airport, which is located in Branson, opened in the spring of 2009 to compete with the municipally owned Springfield airport. Branson Airport, LLC, is reportedly the first privately owned airport in the US having regularly scheduled commercial airline service. The $155 million project was funded by $117 million of municipal bonds and private investors. It is a few miles southeast of Hollister.\n\nMeanwhile, Branson West hopes to open a $15 million airport with a runway on the west side of the community to open in the fall of 2008 on donated by Conco Companies of Springfield (200 acres), Kay Renfro (450 acres) and Martin Eastwood (200 acres). The City had initially proposed building the airport on the east side near Silver Dollar City, but the plan was dropped due to protests. The new airport currently has no plans for commercial traffic.\n\n\nSpringfield–Branson National Airport covers and has two runways: 14/32, asphalt/concrete, 8,000 x 150 ft (2,438 x 46 m); and 2/20, concrete, 7,003 x 150 ft (2,135 x 46 m) .\n\nIn 2017 the airport had 56,585 aircraft operations, average 155 per day: 52% general aviation, 24% air taxi, 7% military and 17% scheduled commercial. 127 aircraft were based at this airport: 64% single-engine, 14% multi-engine, 19% jet, and 3% military.\n\nThere is an Army National Guard unit based at Springfield–Branson, the 35th combat aviation brigade, detachment 3 company 1 of the 185th aviation regiment. \"The 35th Combat Aviation Brigade deploys to an area of responsibility to provide command, control, staff planning and supervision of combat aviation brigade operations. The brigade's units fly a combination of AH-64A Apache attack helicopters, OH-58 Kiowa observation helicopters and UH-60 Blackhawk utility helicopters. It also has a detachment of two C-23 Sherpa cargo airplanes and a C-12 transport airplane.\"\n\nThe strongest area of income for SGF is from non-aeronautical revenue activities including parking and rental cars. This is followed by fuel sales, terminal fees and landing fees. Parking income has been the strongest for the past year and has followed enplanement trends with a drop in revenues in FY 2008, and increasing again in FY 2010, with the highest level to date at more than $2.5 million.\n\nPersonnel is the largest expenditure for the airport: this major operating expense is increasing per year and remains the highest by a very large margin. Additionally, an expense that sticks out is a sharp increase in contractual series between FY 2011 and FY 2012. An assumption can be made that the Airport is beginning preparations regarding the airport issue and alternative discussed in this paper.\n\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302742", "title": "Jeremy Camp", "text": "Jeremy Camp\n\nJeremy Thomas Camp (born January 12, 1978) is an American contemporary Christian music singer and songwriter from Lafayette, Indiana. Camp has released eleven albums, four of them RIAA-certified as Gold, and two live albums. His original music is a mixture of ballads and up-tempo songs with rock influence. Camp has won five GMA Dove Awards, has been nominated for three American Music Awards, and was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Pop/Contemporary Gospel Album in 2010 for his album, \"Speaking Louder Than Before\". \"I Still Believe\", a film based on Camp's first marriage, was released on March 13, 2020.\n\nJeremy Camp was born in Lafayette, Indiana. His father Tom, the pastor at Harvest Chapel (associated with Calvary Chapel in Costa Mesa, California), taught him how to play guitar. After completing high school, Camp attended Calvary Chapel Bible College in Murrieta, California, for two years and earned an associate of theology degree. After one of the worship leaders heard him play in the kitchen of the school, he urged Camp to become a part of the worship team. Soon, he led worship and played all over Southern California.\n\nCamp has scored 32 No. 1 hits on Christian Radio across all formats (Contemporary Hit Radio, Hot AC, Rock, and Inspirational Charts). His album \"Beyond Measure\" contributed six back-to-back No. 1 hits, including the track \"Let It Fade\" which held the No 1. spot for 10 weeks on AC Radio. Camp has spent 175 weeks total at No. 1 across various formats in his career to date. His first single was \"Understand\". He has made ten music videos: \"Understand\", \"Walk By Faith\", \"Take You Back\", \"Tonight\", \"Give You Glory\", \"Let It Fade\", \"I Am Willing\" (a song that was not included on any of his albums), \"Speaking Louder Than Before\", \"The Way\", and \"Reckless\". He also has video devotionals for several songs on YouTube and Godtube. He has also released a DVD, \"In24\", which chronicles a regular day on-tour, and often keeps his fans updated on his touring with Tour Blogs through his YouTube channel. \"Live Unplugged from Franklin, TN\" also includes a DVD of the concert, which was recorded for the live album. He also has scored a musical number, \"This Man\", and his video can be seen on YouTube. This video was made with clips from the film \"The Passion of the Christ\".\n\nCamp scored Christian music top spots for \"Take You Back\" and \"Lay Down My Pride\". He also was voted the Best Male Artist in the 2005 Reader's Choice Music Awards in the \"Christianity Today\" magazine. Camp was also ASCAP 2005 Songwriter of the Year and won the Dove Award for the Male Vocalist of the Year for the second consecutive year. In 2005 he recorded the song \"Open Up Your Eyes\" for the compilation release \"\", a September 2005 album which contained original songs written by various Christian artists for the 2005 film \"\". Camp closed the year with both \"Stay\" and \"Carried Me: the Worship Project\" being RIAA-certified as Gold.\n\nCamp earned the top honors at the Twenty-Eighth Annual ASCAP Music Awards, winning the Songwriter Of The Year award (\"Take You Back\" and \"This Man\"). \"Take You Back\" also earned him the Song Of The Year award. Camp won two 2006 \"CCM\" Reader's Choice Awards, for Favorite Artist and Favorite Male Artist. He took part in the Dove award for Special Event Album of the Year, which went to \"Music Inspired by The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe\". He released a special edition of his hit album, \"Restored\". Four new songs were included on \"Restored: The Deluxe Gold Edition\" as well as a letter to his fans.\n\nCamp went back into the studio to record \"Beyond Measure\" in early 2006 and was released on October 31, 2006. Camp is also credited as producer for his wife's album, \"Don't Wait\", which was released in September 2006. \"Tonight\", the first single from the album \"Beyond Measure\", was released in mid-August, and eventually hit No. 1 on Christian contemporary hit radio. It was the 11th most played single on HR stations in 2007. \"Give Me Jesus,\" the third single off \"Beyond Measure,\" made it into the top 5 on Inspirational radio. The fourth single, \"Give You Glory,\" debuted on Jewish AJ radio at No. 16. His song \"Let It Fade\" was the seventh most played song on HR radio in 2007. That year he also released a two disc (CD and DVD) for his concert tour \"Live Unplugged\" recorded in Franklin, Tennessee\n\nHis song \"No Matter What\" was the 4th most-played song on \"R&R\" magazine's Christian CHR chart for 2008.\nHe also came out with his new studio album \"Speaking Louder Than Before\", containing the hit lead single \"There Will Be a Day\". On November 17, 2009, Camp released another live album: \"Jeremy Camp Live\". This album featured songs from all albums to date. His \"Speaking Louder Than Before\" received his first Grammy nomination.\n\n\"Beyond Measure\" was certified as Gold by the RIAA. The worship album \"We Cry Out\" was released on August 24, 2010. Camp was also a judge for the 10th annual the Independent Music Awards to support independent artists' careers.\n\nOn May 20, 2011, Camp released his first book, \"I Still Believe\". The book is about Camp's life, illuminating his childhood, the death of his first wife, and where he believes God has brought him.\n\nOn March 13, 2012, Camp released a greatest hits collection: \"I Still Believe: The Number Ones Collection\". The album includes 15 number one songs, as well as a never before released song: \"Wait\".\n\n\"Christmas: God With Us\" was released on September 25, 2012. The album was produced by Brown Bannister.\n\n\"Reckless\" was released on February 12, 2013. This is Camp's first studio album since 2008, when he released \"Speaking Louder Than Before\". The first single released from the album was the title track, \"Reckless\". A video accompanied the single in February 2013. \"Reckless\" was followed by his second single \"My God\", which reached number 5 on the Christian Songs Chart. He also released an acoustic video of \"My God\" to his VEVO Channel in 2013.\n\nCamp released his tenth studio album, \"I Will Follow\", on February 3, 2015. The album's lead single, \"He Knows\", was released in September 2014.\n\nCamp released his eleventh studio album, \"The Answer\", on October 6, 2017. The album's lead single, \"Word of Life\", was released in June 2017.\n\nCamp and his first wife, Melissa Lynn Henning-Camp (born October 7, 1979), were married on October 21, 2000. She was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and died on February 5, 2001, when he was 23 and she was 21. Some of his early songs reflect the emotional ordeal of her illness. \"I Still Believe\" was the first song he wrote after her death. \"Walk by Faith\" was written during their honeymoon. A film based on Camp's romance with Melissa, \"I Still Believe\", was released in March 2020.\n\nOn December 15, 2003, he married Adrienne Liesching, former frontwoman for The Benjamin Gate. They have two daughters and one son: Isabella \"Bella\" Rose Camp (born September 25, 2004), Arianne \"Arie\" Mae Camp (born April 5, 2006), and Egan Thomas Camp (born August 17, 2011). In 2009, the couple announced that they were expecting a child, but the pregnancy ended due to a miscarriage after three months. Camp is also an ordained minister.\n\nCamp is not related to fellow Christian musician Steve Camp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302751", "title": "Camp (2003 film)", "text": "Camp (2003 film)\n\nCamp is a 2003 American musical comedy-drama film, written and directed by Todd Graff, about an upstate New York performing arts summer camp. The film is based on Graff's own experiences at a similar camp called Stagedoor Manor, where many scenes of the movie were filmed.\n\nThe film centers on the experiences of several teenagers at Camp Ovation, a summer theatre camp. The campers are a mishmash of youngsters from different backgrounds, dealing with different issues, but all feel most comfortable while performing. School is out, and the campers reunite as they prepare to board the buses to Camp Ovation. Shy, self-conscious Ellen Lucas happily greets her friends, recovering from an embarrassing situation where she desperately tried to land a prom date, and ended up asking her brother. Nerdy Fritzi Wagner attempts to befriend icy diva Jill Simmons, but ends up toting her luggage instead. Returning camper Jenna Malloran laments that her parents forced her to have her jaw wired shut in order to lose weight. Upon arrival to Camp Ovation, the kids settle in. Ellen converses with her friend Michael Flores, a gay teenager who was violently beaten by his classmates after showing up to his junior prom in drag. The campers are struck dumb with the arrival of Vlad Baumann, a handsome new camper who is, as a staff member marvels, \"an honest-to-god straight boy.\"\n\nCamp Ovation puts on a new play or musical every two weeks. Vlad and Ellen bond after rehearsal one day and flirt a bit. However, soon afterward, Vlad is seduced by the conceited Jill, who later makes cruel cracks at Ellen for her weight and her inexperience with boys. Feeling guilty, Vlad comforts Ellen and the two begin to inch toward a relationship. The camp enlists a guest counselor for the summer: composer Bert Hanley, whose play \"\"The Children's Crusade\"\" was a one-hit wonder many years earlier. Frustrated with his lack of recent success, he is now a grumpy alcoholic and shows up two days late at Camp Ovation. He constantly drinks on the camp grounds and is very irritated by Vlad, who idolizes him and attempts to strike up conversation.\n\nJill shares a cabin with Fritzi, who is still catering to her every whim. However, after Fritzi is caught washing Jill's underwear, Jill expresses her disgust with Fritzi and kicks her out of the cabin. The usually meek Fritzi becomes filled with borderline psychotic rage, and sabotages Jill's next performance in \"\"Company\"\" by putting Woolite in her Snapple. As Jill vomits during her performance of \"The Ladies Who Lunch,\" Fritzi shows up in costume and takes her place mid-song. She reveals herself to be a talented and passionate actress.\n\nMichael is rooming with Vlad, on whom he has developed a crush. Vlad convinces Michael to invite his parents to his next play, although his father is incredibly unsupportive of his homosexuality. Though his mother tells him they will come, Michael notices mid-performance that they did not. Crushed, he flees the stage. He is found later by Vlad, who explains that he too has his share of problems. Though Vlad is a seemingly normal, all-American teenager, he reveals to Michael that he suffers from an acute type of OCD, for which he is medicated.\n\nHanley is angered after hearing Vlad play one of his songs, and begins to tell the campers that theater will only make them bitter and lonely, much like himself. Vlad follows a drunken Hanley back to his room and berates him for his cruel speech. After Hanley throws up and passes out, Vlad finds a trove of music that Hanley has written over the years but not released. During a rehearsal for the camp's benefit performance, Vlad and the campers sing \"Century Plant\", one of Hanley's songs. Hanley's heart is lifted and his disposition changes. Shortly before the benefit, Michael sleeps with Dee, Ellen's roommate, out of frustration about Vlad. When Vlad hears of this, he immediately asks Dee if it was true. Vlad and Dee end up making out on Dee's bed, and Ellen walks in on them. She runs off, hurt, and refuses to talk to Vlad.\n\nThe night of the benefit concert arrives, and the campers are starstruck as famed composer Stephen Sondheim is in attendance. The dressing room atmosphere is tense, and gets even more awkward when Vlad's girlfriend Julie shows up to see him. Meanwhile, in another act of revenge, Fritzi sabotages Jill's makeup, causing her to break out in boils. Jill attacks her, injuring her, and both are unfit to go onstage. To replace her, Bert cuts the wires on Jenna's mouth, allowing her to sing a powerful song directed to her parents in the audience, telling them to accept her as she is.\n\nThe benefit is a hit, but Vlad, Michael, and Ellen are still arguing. Vlad and Michael meet up by the lake, where Vlad strips down to gain Michael's attention. After being set straight by Michael, Vlad admits that he is an \"attention junkie\", and attempts to please everyone in order to gain their good favor. He apologizes to Michael for leading him on. Ellen arrives, and Vlad explains that he still cares about her, and that his girlfriend Julie had just broken up with him. After another apology, Ellen forgives him, and the three go swimming.\n\nDuring the end credits, the entire cast does an elaborate rendition of Todd Rundgren's \"Want of a Nail\".\n\n\nThe movie is notable as the film debut of future Academy Award nominee Anna Kendrick, future three-time Tony nominee Robin de Jesús, and future \"The Voice\" contestant Sasha Allen.\n\nThe film was produced by Jersey Films, IFC Films, John Wells Productions, Killer Films, and Laughlin Park Pictures. All production took place in New York.\n\nIn the opening weekend, the film made $54,294. It came in ranking at #45, showing at only 3 theaters in the United States and averaging $18,098. The film's widest release took place in the UK where it showed in 116 theaters. It ran for 12 weeks and closed on October 16, 2003. It has grossed $1,629,862 since 2003. The film also hit several top 100 charts for films in numerous categories. It is number 96 in the genre of gay/lesbian independent films,<ref name=\"Gay/Lesbian\"></ref> 78 for yearly PG-13 movies for 2003, and ranked 198 for the year 2003.\n\n\"Camp\" has received mixed to positive reviews; on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 64% approval rating, based on 107 reviews with an average rating of 5.93/10. The website's critical consensus states: \"Campy comedy that squeaks by on its charms.\" On Metacritic, which uses a weighted average of critics' reviews, the film has a 55/100 rating based on 32 reviews, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nMargaret A. McGurk of \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" says \"Like the prodigies on screen, Camp powers through its imperfections, with irresistible results.\"\nJames Sullivan of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" said in his review titled \"\"Camp\",\" \"There is lots of music and a genuine showstopper when Jenna sings \"Here's Where I Stand\" with such emotion that even her hardheaded dad gets the message.\"\n\n\"Camp\" received nominations for the following awards:\n\nTodd Graff has confirmed a sequel funded through IndieGoGo is in the works and a web site http://www.camp2themovie.com/ has been set up for news about the new film, however the website is not accessible. The sequel will treat the original Camp as a movie filmed at Camp Ovation rather than as the events of a previous year at the camp.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302753", "title": "Arrissoules", "text": "Arrissoules\n\nArrissoules is a village in the district of Yverdon of the Canton of Vaud, Switzerland.\n\nThe village was an independent municipality until it was incorporated into Rovray on January 1, 2005.\n\nThe Arrissoules Tunnel of the A1 motorway is located near the village.\n"}
{"id": "2302755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302755", "title": "Basketball at the 1976 Summer Olympics – Men's team rosters", "text": "Basketball at the 1976 Summer Olympics – Men's team rosters\n\nTwelve men's teams competed in basketball at the 1976 Summer Olympics.\nThe following players represented Australia:\n\nThe following players represented Canada:\n\nThe following players represented Cuba:\n\nThe following players represented Czechoslovakia:\n\nThe following players represented Egypt:\n\nThe following players represented Italy:\n\nThe following players represented Japan:\n\nThe following players represented Mexico:\n\nThe following players represented Puerto Rico:\n\nThe following players represented the Soviet Union:\n\nThe following players represented the United States:\n\nThe following players represented Yugoslavia:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302765", "title": "Cicutoxin", "text": "Cicutoxin\n\nCicutoxin is a naturally-occurring poisonous chemical compound produced by several plants from the family Apiaceae including water hemlock (\"Cicuta\" species) and water dropwort (\"Oenanthe crocata\"). The compound contains polyene, polyyne, and alcohol functional groups and is a structural isomer of oenanthotoxin, also found in water dropwort. Both of these belong to the C-polyacetylenes chemical class.\n\nIt causes death by respiratory paralysis resulting from disruption of the central nervous system. It is a potent, noncompetitive antagonist of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor. In humans, cicutoxin rapidly produces symptoms of nausea, emesis and abdominal pain, typically within 60 minutes of ingestion. This can lead to tremors, seizures, and death. LD(mouse; i.p.) ~9 mg/kg\n\nJohann Jakob Wepfer's book \"Cicutae Aquaticae Historia Et Noxae Commentario Illustrata\" was published in 1679; it contains the earliest published report of toxicity associated with \"Cicuta\" plants. The name cicutoxin was coined by Boehm in 1876 for the toxic compound arising from the plant \"Cicuta virosa\", and he also extracted and named the isomeric toxin oenanthotoxin from \"Oenanthe crocata\". A review published in 1911 examined 27 cases of cicutoxin poisoning, 21 of which had resulted in death – though some of these cases involved deliberate poisoning. This review included a case where a family of five used \"Cicuta\" extracts as a topical treatment for itching, resulting in the deaths of two children, a report that suggests that cicutoxin may be absorbed through the skin. A review from 1962 examined 78 cases, 33 of which resulted in death, and cases of cicutoxin poisoning continue to occur:\n\n\nAll plants from the genus \"Cicuta\" contain cicutoxin, these plants are found in swampy, wet habitats in North America and parts of Europe. The \"Cicuta\" plants are often mistaken for edible roots such as parsnip, wild carrot or wild ginseng. All parts of the \"Cicuta\" plants are poisonous, though the root is the most toxic part of the plant and toxin levels are highest in Spring – ingestion of a 2–3 cm portion of root can be fatal to adults. In one reported incident, 17 boys ingested parts of the plant, with only those who consumed the root experiencing seizures whilst those who consumed only leaves and flowers merely became unwell. The toxicity of the plants depends on various factors, such as seasonal variation, temperature, geographical location and soil conditions. The roots remain toxic even after drying.\n\nCicutoxin is found in five species of water hemlock, all belonging to the family Apiaceae. These include all four species in the genus \"Cicuta\" and one species from the genus \"Oenanthe\": the bulblet-bearing water hemlock, \"C. bulbifera\"; the Douglas water hemlock, \"C. douglasii\"; the spotted water hemlock or spotted cowbane, \"C. maculata\"; Mackenzie's water hemlock, \"C. virosa\"; and, the water dropwort, \"O. crocata\". Cicutoxin is found in all parts of these plants, along with several other C polyactylenes. \"C. virosa\", for example, produces isocicutoxin, a geometric isomer of cicutoxin, while \"O. crocata\" contains the toxin oenanthotoxin, a structural isomer of cicutoxin. \"Cicuta\" plants also produce multiple congeners of cicutoxin, such as such as Virol A and Virol C.\nBuilding on Boehm's work, Jacobsen reported the first isolation of pure cicutoxin as a yellowish oil in 1915. Its chemical structure was not determined until 1953, however, when it was shown that it has a molecular formula of CHO and it is an aliphatic, highly unsaturated alcohol with two triple bonds conjugated with three double bonds, and two hydroxyl groups. The first synthesis of cicutoxin was reported in 1955. Though the overall yield was only 4% and the product was the racemic mixture, the synthesis has been described as \"a significant accomplishment\" given that it was achieved \"without the benefit of modern coupling reactions.\" The absolute configuration of the naturally-occurring form of cicutoxin was reported in 1999 to be (\"R\")-(−)-cicutoxin, systematically named as (8\"E\",10\"E\",12\"E\",14R)-heptadeca-8,10,12-triene-4,6-diyne-1,14-diol. Outside of a plant, cicutoxin breaks down when exposed to air, light, or heat, making it difficult to handle.\n\nCicutoxin has a long carbon structure and few hydrophilic substituents which gives it hydrophobic characteristics. Hydrophobic and/or small molecules can be absorbed through the skin. Research has shown that cicutoxin will pass through the skin of frogs and the experience of the family who used a \"Cicuta\" plant as a topical antipruritic strongly suggests that the compound is able to pass through human skin.\n\nThe first total synthesis of racemic cicutoxin was published in 1955 and reported that this racemate was about twice as active as the naturally-occurring enantiomer. A complete synthesis of the natural product, (\"R\")-(–)-cicutoxin, in four linear steps was reported in 1999, from three key fragments: (\"R\")-(–)-1-hexyn-3-ol (8), 1,4-diiodo-1,3-butadiene (9), and THP-protected 4,6-heptadiyn-1-ol (6). (\"R\")-(–)-1-hexyn-3-ol (8) is a known compound and was obtained by Corey-Bakshi-Shibata reduction of 1-hexyn-3-one. 1,4-diiodo-1,3-butadiene (9) is also a known compound and it is readily available by dimerization of acetylene accompanied by addition of iodine in the presence of platinum (IV) catalyst and sodium iodide. The last keyfragment, THP-protected 4,6-heptadiyn-1-ol (6) is a known compound.\n\nThe first step is the Sonogashira coupling of compound 8 and 9. This step gave dienynol (10) with 63 percent yield. The second step is a palladium -catalyzed coupling reaction. The coupling of compound 6 and 10 leads to the 17-carbon frame (11) with 74 percent yield. Compound 11 already has the stereo center in place and only needs a few structural changes: the third and fourth step. The third step is the reduction of the C5 triple bond in compound 11, this was accomplished by using a compound called Red-Al. The last step is the removal of the THP protection group. When THP is removed and a hydrogen is bound to the oxygen, then (\"R\")-(–)-cicutoxin is formed. These four steps are the full synthesis of cicutoxin and gives an overall yield of 18 percent.\n\nCicutoxin is known to interact with the GABA receptor and it also has been shown to block the potassium channel in T lymphocytes. A similar effect where potassium channels in neurons are blocked could account for the toxic effect on the nervous system. The interactions are explained in Mechanism of action.\n\nThe exact mechanism of action is not known for cicutoxin, even though it is well-known to be a violent toxin. The mechanism is not known because of the chemical instability of cicutoxin, but there have been studies that delivered some evidence for a mechanism of action.\n\nCicutoxin is a noncompetitive gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist in the central nervous system (CNS). GABA normally binds to the beta domain of the GABA receptor and activates the receptor which causes a flow of chloride across the membrane. Cicutoxin binds to the same place as GABA, because of this the receptor is not activated by GABA. The pore of the receptor won't open and chloride can't flow across the membrane. Binding of cicutoxin to the beta domain also blocks the chloride channel. Both effects of cicutoxin on the GABA-receptor cause a constant depolarization. This causes hyperactivity in cells, which leads to seizures.\n\nThere also have been some studies that suggest that cicutoxin increases the duration of the neuronal repolarization in a dose-dependent manner. The toxin could increase the duration of the repolarization up to sixfold at 100 µmol L. The prolonged action potentials may cause higher excitatory activity.\n\nIt has been demonstrated that cicutoxin also blocks potassium channels in T-lymphocytes. The toxin inhibits the proliferation of the lymphocytes . This has made it a substance of interest in research for a medicine against leukemia.\n\nIt is unknown how the body gets rid of cicutoxin. There is evidence that it has a long half-life in the body, because of a patient who was submitted in a hospital after eating a root of a \"Cicuta\" plant. The man was in the hospital for two days and still had a fuzzy feeling in his head two days after leaving the hospital. There is also the case of a sheep (discussed in Effects on animals) where the sheep fully recovered after seven days. This can also be explained by the structure of cicutoxin, it consists of 17 carbons, which is hydrophobic. It also has 3 double bonds, 2 triple bonds and two hydroxyl groups, which make the toxin very reactive and not easy to excrete.\n\nFirst signs of cicutoxin poisoning start 15–60 minutes after ingestion and are vomiting, convulsions, widened pupils, salivation, excess sweating and the patient may go into a coma. Other described symptoms are cyanosis, amnesia, absence of muscle reflexes, metabolic acidosis and cardiovascular changes which may cause heart problems and central nervous system problems which manifest themselves as convulsions and either an overactive or underactive heart. Due to an overactive nervous system respiratory failure occurs which may cause suffocation and accounts for most of the deaths. Dehydration from water loss due to vomiting can also occur. If untreated, the kidneys can also fail, causing death.\n\nThe adverse effects from cicutoxin poisoning are gastrointestinal or cardiac nature. With no antidote known, only symptomatic treatments are available, though supportive treatments do substantially improve survival rates. Treatments used include the administration of activated charcoal within 30 minutes of ingestion to reduce the uptake of poison, maintaining open airways to prevent suffocation, rehydration to address the dehydration caused by vomiting, and administration of benzodiazepines that enhance the effect of GABA on the GABA receptor or barbiturates to reduce seizures.\nThe LD of cicutoxin for mice is 2.8 mg kg (10.8 μmol kg). In comparison, the LD of virol A is 28.0 mg kg (109 μmol kg) and of isocicutoxin is 38.5 mg kg (149 μmol kg).\n\nCattle usually ingest parts of \"Cicuta\" plants in Spring, while grazing on new growth around ditches and rivers where these plants grow. Animals display similar effects of cicutoxin poisoning as do humans, but without vomiting (which can lead to increased lethality) – recorded symptoms include salivation, seizures, frequent urination and defecation, and degeneration of skeletal and cardiac muscles. Seizures are usually short, less than a minute per seizure, and occur at intervals of 15 to 30 minutes for around two hours. Ewes recover more slowly after eating cicutoxin-containing tubers, taking up to seven days to recover fully.\n\nResearch studies on ewes has shown that skeletal and cardiac myodegeneration (damage of muscle tissues) only occur after a dose sufficient to induce symptoms of intoxication is administered. Analysis of the animal's blood showed elevated serum enzymes that indicate muscle damage (LDH, AST and CK values). At necropsy, the ewe's heart had multifocal pale areas and pallor of the long digital extensor muscle groups; by contrast, a ewe given a lethal dose of cicutoxin-containing tubers had only microscopic lesions. The number and duration of seizures had a direct effect on the skeletal and cardiac myodegeneration and amount of serum change.\n\nEwes given up to 2.5 times the lethal dose along with medications to treat symptoms of cicutoxin poisoning recovered, demonstrating that smptomatic treatment can be life-saving. Medications administered included sodium pentobarbital (at 20–77 mg kg intravenously) at the first seizure to control seizure activity, atropine (75–150 mg) to reduce salivary excretion during anesthesia, and Ringer's lactate solution until the ewes recovered.\n\nCicutoxin has been shown to have anti-leukemia properties as it inhibits the proliferation of the lymphocytes. It has also been investigated for antitumor activity, where it was shown that a methanolic extract of \"C. maculata\" demonstrated significant cytotoxicity in the 9 KB (human nasopharyngeal carcinoma) cell structure assay. Cicutoxin is also used as a natural drug against breast cancer, because of its antitumor activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302768", "title": "Morinville", "text": "Morinville\n\nMorinville is a town located within the Edmonton Metropolitan Region. It is located approximately north of the City of Edmonton along Highway 2.\n\nMorinville was settled by Father Morin, an Oblate missionary, who brought many French settlers in the late 1800s, followed by several German pioneers—hence its many French and German families such as Hittinger, Riopel, Boissonnault, Tailleur, Houle, Labonté, St. Laurent, Maisonneuve, Bokenfohr, Krauskopf, Rustemier, and Meyers.\n\nThe monument located in the St. Jean Baptiste Park lists the many names of pioneers and settlers to Morinville. Once situated on the street at 100 Avenue and 100 Street, the monument was moved to its present location in 2000, as it was a safety hazard and very difficult to enjoy with all the traffic at the intersection.\n\nThe first post-office opened in 1894.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church of the St. Jean Baptiste Parish was built in 1907. The church, along with its adjacent but now inoperative convent Morinville Convent, was declared a historical site in 1975. In 2005, the grounds of the church were landscaped with a clock tower, new grass, trees and shrubs, in celebration of Alberta's 100th anniversary as a province.\n\nMorinville has a long history of successful business ventures as one of the first locations in Western Canada to open a Royal Bank of Canada in 1910 and a credit union in 1940. A series of successful international business ventures include Champion Pet Foods that exports around the world.\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, the Town of Morinville recorded a population of 9,848 living in 3,491 of its 3,611 total private dwellings, a change from its 2011 population of 8,569. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nThe population of the Town of Morinville according to its 2016 municipal census is 9,893, a change from its 2014 municipal census population of 9,402.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, the Town of Morinville had a population of 8,569 living in 3,078 of its 3,261 total dwellings, a 26.5% change from its 2006 population of 6,775. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\nAs of 2010, 93% of Morinville's tax base is residential in nature. One of the town's larger businesses, Champion Pet Foods, employs approximately 50 people.\n\nRecreation amenities in Morinville include walking trails, a splash park, a trout pond, a skateboard park, a hockey arena, a curling rink, numerous parks and playgrounds, and outdoor fitness equipment stations along the trail system and at the splash park among other amenities. Other recreation amenities are available in St. Albert and Edmonton to the south.\n\nAdditional recreation amenities are being considered by the town as it grows. One of the amenities being considered is the development of a swimming pool.\n\nThe Sturgeon Public School Division operates 2 schools in Morinville - École Morinville Public (ECE to Grade 4) and Four Winds Public School (Grade 5–9). Greater St. Albert Catholic Regional Division offers faith-based education in three schools – École Notre Dame Elementary, Georges H. Primeau Middle School and Morinville Community High School. Prior to 2011, Morinville had only Catholic schools, and no secular or Protestant schools. This led to non-Catholic parents starting an advocacy campaign to introduce a secular option for education in Morinville. In response, Sturgeon School Division and the Town of Morinville agreed to provide space for a secular education program for grades 1–4 for the 2011–2012 school year. Further, the Government of Alberta committed to conducting a census in Morinville, Legal, St. Albert and a portion of Sturgeon County to determine the minority faith in the area as a precursor to developing a long-term solution to address secular education in Morinville.\n\nMorinville is served by four local weekly newspapers — \"The Free Press\", \"Farm 'n' Friends\", the \"St. Albert Gazette\", and \"The Morinville News\".\n"}
{"id": "2302769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302769", "title": "Ash Crimson", "text": "Ash Crimson\n\nSNK Playmore staff created Ash as an evil main character, in contrast to previous main characters. His moves have been reworked in every game in which he has appeared, gaining new techniques as a result of his actions or modified to balance the character roster. Critical response to Ash has been largely negative due to his androgynous appearance and his technique. In interviews and press releases, video game publisher UTV Ignition Entertainment noted that he was unpopular with Western gamers and his design was better suited to Japanese fans.\n\nIntroduced in \"The King of Fighters 2003\", Ash leads the New Hero Team of Duo Lon and Shen Woo which participates in a new King of Fighters tournament. After the tournament, he ambushes host Chizuru Kagura and steals her powers, telling Iori Yagami he will be his next opponent. In \"The King of Fighters XI\", the character teams up with Oswald and Shen Woo. At the game's end Ash leaves his teammates to fight each other, after disclosing that Oswald's price for joining him was finding a drug he can only obtain after defeating their pharmacist's enemy, their own teammate Shen. He later finds a berserker, Iori, defeats him and steals his powers. When Ash's comrade Elisabeth Blanctorche accuses him of abandoning his original mission and becoming obsessed with power, he leaves after saying that Kyo Kusanagi will be his next victim. Ash also appears as an available fighter in the \"\"'s update \"KOF Maximum Impact Regulation A\" and \"The King of Fighters XII\", games without a storyline.\n\nIn \"The King of Fighters XIII\" Ash is the only character not part of a team, and it is learned that he works for Those From the Past (seen in \"2003\" and \"XI\"). However, he has a conflict with organization leader Saiki at the end of the game. Ash is the final boss in \"The King of Fighters XIII\" as (also known as Evil Ash) with power stolen from Saiki, who is trying to possess him. He ultimately sacrifices himself to destroy Saiki. While Ash's memories start disappearing from almost every people who knew him, he still makes cameos in some endings.\n\nIt is revealed in \"The King of Fighters XIV\" that Ash is trapped in a time vortex, with an entity known as Verse enveloping him. It is later also revealed that Verse, along with an unnamed blue creature, whose half of their power fragments somehow implanted into young Shun'ei, was created from Ash's result on changing his timeline back in the previous tournament, creating timeline interferences and resulting in \"Samurai Shodown\"'s Nakoruru traveling to the present and stuck there, along with a time-displaced Mui Mui of \"Dragon Gal\" and Love Heart of \"Sky Love\". The new tournament participant, Kukri of the Official Invitation Team, is hired by Elisabeth to find Ash's whereabouts. With Verse's defeat as his reality manipulation energy spreads around worldwide, Kukri and Elisabeth finally found Ash alive.\n\nAsh has made appearances in various other \"King of Fighters\" media as well. In the fourth chapter of the anime \"\", he sets fire to a city to lure Kyo into a trap. He is also prominent in the manhua adaptations of \"The King of Fighters 2003\" by Wing Yang and King Tung. In the 2003 tournament, Ash's team is defeated in the final but later helps defeat the demon Mukai. Although he is not part of the recurring tournament in \"The King of Fighters XII\" manhua, he briefly confronts Kyo in an attempt to steal his powers. Ash also appears in the CD drama \"KOF: Mid Summer Struggle\", which has a mock \"King of Fighters\" tournament. Outside \"The King of Fighters\", the character appears in a dating sim part of the \"Days of Memories\" series.\n\nAsh was designed as an \"attractive evil character\", in contrast to previous \"King of Fighters\" heroes. The supervising designer created the character as desired, with few changes since conception. When \"The King of Fighters 2003\" was released and Ash introduced, the staff did not want to disclose information about him, instead telling fans to look forward to his \"exploits.\" His canonical height is 178 cm (5'10\") and he weighs 59 kg (130 lbs). According to a staff member, Falcoon, the goal was to make Ash an ambiguous protagonist who made players \"feel bad\" for cheering for him. Although Falcoon did not design the character, he added details while illustrating him. Due to Ash's late appearance in \"The King of Fighters 2003\", the staff joked that teammate Shen Woo seemed more like the series' main character than Ash did. For \"The King of Fighters XIII\", producer Kei Yamamoto wanted gamers who had played previous titles with Ash to consider the character's motivation and whether they could relate to him. One of three reasons for the title of \"KOF: Maximum Impact 2 Regulation \"A\"\" was Ash's introduction to the spin-off series. Falcoon called the character \"really wild\" because of his role in the series and his personality. Nona (another artist in charge) said that of the original \"King of Fighters\" characters, he liked Ash and looked forward to his development.\n\nIn \"The King of Fighters XII\" Ash was the character the staff worked on the most, reworking his movements and speech to be more consistent with the rest of the cast. \"The King of Fighters XIII\" producer Kei Yamamoto jokingly called him a character players could use to \"show off\". His EX version in the game makes more multiple hits than his regular form, and the \"disgusting\" style of his move is said to fit his character. Since his introduction, Ash has acquired new moves in accordance with his action in the series. After \"The King of Fighters 2003\" Ash gained Chizuru Kagura's , a move allowing him to steal his opponents' special moves. After defeating Iori Yagami, the character acquired the Neo Max move (his strongest attack in \"The King of Fighters XIII\"). During the game's development, the staff considered returning Fructidor's animation style to an earlier version they had tested.\n\nArtist Ogura stated that designing Ash's final form was conceived shortly after he saw early designs of Saiki. Following this, Ogura tried drawing Ash's possessed form from \"The King of Fighters XIII\" where he was careful in showing that while the enemy's body is Ash's, the one fighting is Saiki as represented by his black flames. Despite early pressure about that, once seeing Saiki's similarities with Ash, Ogura managed to draw the Evil Ash easily. The idea behind this character was giving an vibe of a repulsive person.\n\nAsh Crimson's character had a mixed reception in video-game publications. When he was introduced, GameSpy's Christian Nutt called him a \"clone\" of Guile from the \"Street Fighter\" series because of their similar movesets but Ash's team was praised as new characters with new elements in the series. Lucas M. Thomas of IGN wrote that a major fan complaint was the character's strength in the games, which made him one of the strongest opponents despite an apparent lack of effort. According to Thomas, Ash is \"nothing if not strange\" and the writer lamented his many appearances in the \"KOF 2003\" manhua compared with more-popular characters. When playable characters for the arcade version of \"The King of Fighters XIII\" were introduced, Anime News Network's Todd Ciolek speculated about Ash's lack of teammates and wondered if he was alone because \"no one likes Ash now.\" Marissa Meli of UGO Networks ranked Ash sixteenth on a list of \"The Most Androgynous Video Game Characters\", with Meli jokingly attributing his androgynous appearance to a desire by Japanese designers to confuse Western gamers about their sexuality. Although he called Ash's voice one of \"Gaming's Top 10 Deepest Voices\", Dan Howdle of Now Gamer referred to him as a female character and writers for \"Game Informer\" joked about their surprise at the discovery that Ash is a male character. After UTV Ignition Entertainment polled fans to choose an artbox for console versions of \"The King of Fighters XII\", the company announced that Ash's unpopularity reduced the number of potential covers to two (featuring Kyo and Iori). Den of Geek listed Ash as the 23rd best \"The King of Fighters\" with the writer comparing him with Loki based on their antagonistic and tricky behaviour as well as how his heroic traits in \"KOF XIII\" gave fans different thoughts. \"Complex\" listed him as one of gaming's \"douchiest\" characters androgynous look as well as how he steals the powers of Chizuru Kagura and Iori Yagami. GamesRadar found the character's name as one of the worst one ever seen in gaming.\n\nIn an interview with Ignition Entertainment director of business development Shane Bettehausen, Alex Lucard of \"Diehard GameFan\" said that North American SNK fans detested Ash and complained about his inclusion in \"The King of Fighters XII\" without a storyline while popular series characters were overlooked. Bettehausen defended the character, calling him \"nuanced and improved\" and his moves \"incredibly effective\". In June 2009, Stephen Totilo of \"Kotaku\" interviewed Bettehausen, who asked him while Totilo was playing to guess Ash's gender. When Totilo said the character was female, Betehausen called \"KOF\" \"progressive\" in introducing a cross-dressing character and said that fans were apparently \"warming up to him\". On Destructoid, Jonathan Holmes praised Ash's character as \"defying traditional gender roles while kicking some ass\" and called him \"the perfect mascot for the KoF series as a whole.\" Kevin S.from GameRevolution wondered about his removal in \"The King of Fighters XIV\" seeing Ash as a \"fan favorite\" character. Merchandising related to Ash's appearance has also been released.\n"}
{"id": "2302770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302770", "title": "The Idlers", "text": "The Idlers\n\nThe Idlers of the United States Coast Guard Academy (USCGA) are an all-male collegiate a cappella ensemble specializing in the performance of sea shanties and patriotic music.\n\nA relatively exclusive group with a history and traditions similar to many fraternal organizations, the Idlers are the only all-male a cappella vocal group at the U. S. Coast Guard Academy. Membership is attained through annual auditions overseen by the current members and the director. Group size varies based on current requirements, but generally includes between 12 and 20 men. The ideal group includes 3 or 4 members for each part: Tenor 1, Tenor 2, Baritone, and Bass. The group began in 1957 with 14 singers, two of which were freshman (4/c cadets). The Idlers have an elected President, who historically was the \"pitch\" and leads rehearsals in the absence of the director. The Vice President was the \"vice-pitch\", also an elected position.\n\nThe Idlers were formed in 1957 by eight members of the USCGA Class of 1959 on summer cruise. They quickly drew the attention of the Academy's bandmaster Don Janse and began building their repertoire and fame. In the fall of 1957, the Idlers membership was extended to all Academy classes, as reflected in this photo, taken several months thereafter. Within two years the Idlers had recorded three vinyl albums (for both the Design and MGM labels), and had performed for President and Mrs. Eisenhower at the White House and on The Bell Telephone Hour (NBC).\n\nDon Janse went back to school in the early 1960s and John Heffermann briefly directed the Idlers. When Don returned he brought a number of new tunes which would soon become Idlers staples, including arrangements of Banua, The First Time I Ever, and the Coast Guard Hymn.\n\nThe 1970s saw a resurgence of interest in folk music. Patterned after The Kingston Trio, a splinter group known as The New London Trio performed with guitar, upright bass, and banjo. The Idlers sang at the re-interment of Captain Hopley Yeaton, the father of the Coast Guard, on October 19, 1975. The Singing Idlers made an appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\" on February 28, 1976, where Leon Redbone was the musical guest, and the hostess Jill Clayburgh sang \"Sea Cruise\" backed by the group. During the Academy centennial in 1976, several reunion attendees and other Idlers living nearby performed at a black tie dinner held at the Norwich Sheraton - arguably the first reunion of past and present members on the same stage. In January 1977 the Idlers performed at the Smithsonian Air & Space Museum and the American History Museum associated with the Presidential Inauguration of Jimmy Carter.\n\nIn both 1980 and 1982, The Idlers performed at Carnegie Hall during Eve Queler's performance of Wagner's Rienzi opera. In 1984, the Idlers and Icebreakers appeared on a sailing ship float with a Statue of Liberty head (and Robert Vaughn ) in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. The 1980s drew to a close with Don Janse's retirement in 1987. Dr. Robert Newton had been conducting the Idlers sister group, The Icebreakers, and now began directing both groups. Dr. Newton took the Idlers on their first annual tour of Florida in 1989, performing for Magic Music Days at Walt Disney World, and at the Palm Beach International Polo Club, accompanied on the keyboard by then LTjg Mark Dietrich, I'86. The Idlers performed at three Balls during President George H. W. Bush's Inauguration in 1989.\n\nIn 1990, The Idlers supported the Coast Guard's Bicentennial celebration with performances at the Senior Bowl in Mobile, AL, and the military tribute ball in Dallas, TX. With the start of the Gulf War, The Idlers supported dozens of USO functions throughout the country, with notable performances in and around New York City, at Ellis Island, and at Fisher's Island in Miami, FL. The Idlers were in such great demand that several quartets were formed, featuring one vocalist for each of the 4 parts. Singing Valentines, intimate dinner parties, accent performances for Flag Dinners - nothing was too small for an Idlers Quartet. The Idlers marched in the November 22, 1990 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade with Miss America 1991, Marjorie Vincent. The group performed throughout Washington D.C. during President William J. Clinton's Inauguration in 1993. The group sang aboard the Aircraft Carrier USS Intrepid as part of the October 24, 1995 tribute to slain leader Yitzhak Rabin.\n\nThe group traveled to New Orleans for a November 9, 2001 USO concert. The Idlers performed from the Parade of Roses' Abe Lincoln float on New Year's Day, 2004. The city of Fort Worth, Texas declared January 13, 2006 to be USCG Academy day in honor of a performance by The Idlers.- Members of the group performed a patriotic salute and the National Anthem in Browns Stadium to a sold out crowd on September 9, 2007.\n\nThe Idlers started their 6th full decade with a week-long tour of Italy in March 2010. A recording from a cathedral in Italy served as the basis for their latest CD. In 2011 and 2012, the group completed spring break tours of Florida, with numerous public appearances including Disney World.\n\nThe Idlers memorize all their music. The repertoire varies from year to year but typically is heavy on Sea Chanteys and patriotic tunes. The occasional show tune and holiday song round out the mix. The Sea Chanty list is weighted towards capstan songs. Several numbers feature soloists, but a principal concern of all Idlers is the ability to blend well. No individual voice stands out, as they work together to create a smooth and pleasing harmony.\n\n\n\n\nSome performances are augmented by various instruments. An upright bass, banjo, and 12-string guitar are typical - these instruments were the staple of the New London Trio in the mid and late 1970s. Over the years, The Idlers have also performed with a squeezebox (or concertina), the harmonica (or mouth organ), spoons, washboard, tin whistle, and squeeze-bulb klaxon horn.\n\nThe current members of The Idlers are 1/c Quinn Levy, 1/c Daniel Junghans, 2/c Dylan Franks, 2/c Henry Smith, 2/c Matthew Kerst, 2/c Tyler Clemmer, 2/c Thomas Wahlin, 2/c Thomas Klawinski, 2/c Joseph Roth, 3/c Graham McCauley, 3/c Matthew Cottrell, 4/c Joshua Orbe, 4/c Nico Damschen, 4/c Brendan Bowman, 4/c James Bongard, 4/c Turner Linafelter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302773", "title": "Waynesville-St. Robert Regional Airport", "text": "Waynesville-St. Robert Regional Airport\n\nWaynesville-St. Robert Regional Airport , also known as Forney Field, is a public and military use airport located at Fort Leonard Wood in Pulaski County, Missouri, United States. The airport's passenger terminal is operated under the control of the U.S. Army and general aviation is under the direction of a board named by the cities of Waynesville and St. Robert. Formerly known as Waynesville Regional Airport at Forney Field, it is served by one commercial airline with scheduled service subsidized by the Essential Air Service program.\n\nIt is included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021, which categorized it as a \"non-primary commercial service\" airport (between 2,500 and 10,000 enplanements per year).\n\nDuring World War II the airfield was used by the United States Army Air Forces. It was known as Forney Army Airfield until 1998. It was attached to Fort Leonard Wood and was part of the Army Service Forces.\n\nWaynesville-St. Robert Regional Airport covers an area of 237 acres (96 ha) at an elevation of 1,159 feet (353 m) above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 15/33 with an asphalt surface measuring 6,038 by 150 feet (1,840 x 46 m). For the 12-month period ending December 31, 2016, the airport had 25,807 aircraft operations, an average of 71 per day: 50% military, 32% general aviation and 18% scheduled commercial. In November 2018, there were 15 aircraft based at this airport: 8 single-engine, 2 multi-engine and 5 military.\n\nThe following airline offers scheduled passenger service:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302775", "title": "Military camp", "text": "Military camp\n\nA military camp or bivouac is a semi-permanent facility for the lodging of an army. Camps are erected when a military force travels away from a major installation or fort during training or operations, and often have the form of large campsites.\n\nIn the Roman era the military camp had highly stylized parameters and served an entire legion. Archaeological investigations have revealed many details of these Roman camps at sites such as Vindolanda (England) and Raedykes (Scotland).\n\nIn the British Army, Commonwealth armies, the United States Marine Corps, and other military forces, permanent military bases are also called camps, including Tidworth Camp, Bulford Camp, and Prospect Camp of the British Army and Camp Lejeune and Camp Geiger of the United States Marine Corps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302778", "title": "East Calgary (N.W.T. electoral district)", "text": "East Calgary (N.W.T. electoral district)\n\nEast Calgary was an electoral district in the Northwest Territories from 1894 - 1905, which was created when Calgary was split into East and West Calgary.\n\nThe two ridings would later be merged to form the new Calgary Alberta provincial electoral district, when Alberta became a province separate from the Northwest Territories.\n\nNote:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302779", "title": "Olean Lumber", "text": "Olean Lumber\n\nThe Olean Lumber and Supply Corporation, successor of Olean Lumber Co, Inc., was established August 17, 1928\nand is Olean, New York's oldest lumber retailer. \n\nThe business occupies the former site of the Chamberlain Mfg. Company of the late-19th century; the Fobes Lumber Company and the Troy Lumber Co. After the Troy Lumber Company ceased business, businessmen W.H. McKay and A.B. McKane purchased the site and created the original Olean Lumber Company in 1921. However, some sources, such as the \"History of the Counties...\" book by J.H. Beers, point to the Olean Lumber Company being founded in 1854, in stark contrast to a 1935 article in the \"Olean Times Herald\" chronicling the fact that McKay and McKane created the company in 1921.\n\nIn 1921, Alexander J. McMullen came to Olean from Pennsylvania and accepted the position as office manager of the company. When McMullen purchased the company from McKay and McKane in 1928, it was renamed \"The Olean Lumber and Supply Corporation.\" He became president and general manager. Howard Mitchell was named vice president, secretary and shop foreman, according to an \"Olean Times Herald\" article dated 8/17/1935.\n\nUpon A.J. McMullen's passing in 1962, his son, Richard McMullen became company president. It was at this time that he would introduce the Cash and Carry concept.\n\nRichard McMullen died on July 26, 1978, from a stroke caused by arteriosclerosis. This left George E. Baker as president. McMullen's son, Jeffrey McMullen, was named Vice President. George F. Mayer was secretary and Roy S. Crandall was Treasurer. The company opened \"Green Street Custom Kitchen and Bath Center\" in 1985, according to the NYS Department of State.\n\nIn 1988 Jeffrey McMullen was named president.\n\nAccording to the New York Department of State, the company was purchased by Kelly Chaffee in March 2005 and is undergoing renewal.\n\n\nNew York State Department of State (NYS DOS) and Divisions of Corporations Public Entity File(s), Olean Times Herald advertisements (OTH adv.) 1935-2003, public company memorandums (1985, 1988), Olean NY 'Root Book' (1993) sec. 96, p. 226, Rootsweb.com Incorporated, general history courtesy: Olean Lumber website (http://www.geocities.com/oleanlumber), \"From the History of the Counties of McKean, Elk, Cameron, and Potter, Pennsylvania\" by J.H. Beers, (Chicago, 1890) at https://web.archive.org/web/20051226154408/http://www.happeningsinthehills.com/mckean/history/otto.htm and so forth are responsible for specific dates and information detailed within the article.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302782", "title": "Marvel Fanfare", "text": "Marvel Fanfare\n\nMarvel Fanfare was an anthology comic book series published by American company Marvel Comics. It was a showcase title featuring a variety of characters from the Marvel universe.\n\n\"Marvel Fanfare\" featured characters and settings from throughout the Marvel Universe, and included stories of varying lengths by a vast array of different creators. The title was published every two months from March 1982 to December 1991 and ran for 60 issues. It was edited throughout its run by Al Milgrom, who also wrote and drew an illustrated column in most issues, entitled \"Editori-Al\". \"Marvel Fanfare\"s original working title was \"Marvel Universe\", which was later appropriated by Marvel editor-in-chief Jim Shooter for the encyclopedia series \"The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\".\n\nThe series began with a Spider-Man/Angel team-up story by Chris Claremont and Michael Golden. Other Spider-Man appearances in the title included team-ups with the Scarlet Witch in issue #6 (Jan. 1983) and the Hulk in issue #47 (Nov. 1989). Several characters appeared in multiple issues including Doctor Strange, Weirdworld, the Warriors Three, the Black Knight, and Shanna the She-Devil. Writer Roger McKenzie wrote several stories for \"Marvel Fanfare\" including a two-part Iron Man vs. Doctor Octopus tale drawn by Ken Steacy. A Captain America backup story in issue #29 (Nov. 1986) featured early work by artist Norm Breyfogle.\n\n\"Marvel Fanfare\" was envisioned as a showcase of the comics industry's best talent. Each issue featured 36 pages of material with no advertisements and it was printed on magazine-style slick paper. It was more than twice as expensive as standard comic books ($1.25 in 1982 when most titles were 60 cents and $2.25 in 1991 when most were $1).\n\nEditor Milgrom wrote of his experience with the series:\n\nInventory stories which saw publication in \"Marvel Fanfare\" include a comics adaptation of \"The Jungle Book\" in issues #8–11, the Black Widow serial in #10–13, the Hulk story in #29, and the Silver Surfer story by Steve Englehart and John Buscema in #51.\n\n\"Marvel Fanfare\" volume two was published monthly for six issues between September 1996 and February 1997. This version of the title was edited by James Felder.\n\nLike the first volume, the title featured different creative teams in each issue and starred different characters from around the Marvel universe. However, the talent were mostly newcomers, the paper was cheap and it cost half the price of most other comics (99 cents when most comics cost $1.95).\nThe title features the early work of writer Joe Kelly and penciller Scott Kolins.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302787", "title": "Prince Tsunenaga", "text": "Prince Tsunenaga\n\nIn 1336, Tsunenaga was sent along with his brother Takanaga to be escorted by Nitta Yoshisada to Echizen Province where, it was hoped, they could escape the attacks of the Ashikaga. According to the epic \"Taiheiki\", Tsunenaga was secretly made heir-apparent before he left, but no other documents confirm this. In fact, in November of that year, his brother Narinaga was officially named Crown Prince. \n\nFleeing the Ashikaga, Nitta brought the Princes away from Yoshino, where the Southern Court of Go-Daigo was based, towards Tsuruga in Echizen. They eventually made it to the castle of Kanagasaki. In January 1337 the castle came under siege, and by April those inside were reduced to eating horseflesh to survive before the gates were stormed. Tsunenaga escaped from the castle, but was captured and killed soon afterwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302793", "title": "Bowman Field (Kentucky)", "text": "Bowman Field (Kentucky)\n\nBowman Field is a public airport five miles (8 km) southeast of downtown Louisville, in Jefferson County, Kentucky. The airport covers 426 acres (1.7 km²) and has two runways. The FAA calls it a reliever airport for nearby Louisville International Airport.\n\nEstablished in 1919, Bowman Field is Kentucky's first commercial airport and is the oldest continually operating commercial airfield in North America. It was founded by Abram H. Bowman, who was drawn to aviation by the interest generated during World War I.\n\nBowman found an outlet for his enthusiasm after meeting and forming a brief partnership with Louisvillian Robert H. Gast, a pilot and World War I veteran of the Royal Flying Corps. Bowman leased a parcel of land east of Louisville from the U.S. Government in 1919 to operate the airfield, which opened in 1921.\n\nThe first business ventures began with the aerial photography business in 1921, and the 465th Pursuit Squadron (Reserve) began operations at Bowman Field in 1922.\n\nCharles Lindbergh landed the \"Spirit of St. Louis\" at the airport in 1927, viewed by 10,000 spectators.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, Louisvillians would often come to the Art Deco terminal building to watch airplanes depart and land as a form of inexpensive entertainment.\n\nDuring the 1930s Eastern Air Lines and Trans World Airlines (TWA) carried passengers and mail in and out of Bowman Field; in 1947 the airlines moved to Standiford Field.\n\nDuring World War II Bowman Field was one of the nation's most important training bases and the nation's busiest airport. The facility became known as \"Air Base City\" when a bomber squadron moved in and more than 1,600 recruits underwent basic training in a three-month period. The United States Army Air Forces' school for flight surgeons, medical technicians, and flight nurses also called Bowman Field home.\n\nBowman Field was used in the James Bond film Goldfinger as the base for Pussy Galore's Flying Circus; principal photography of hangars, aircraft, etc., were done there in fall of 1963.\n\nIn 1988, three adjacent buildings at the airport were added to the National Register of Historic Places as the \"Bowman Field Historic District\". They are the airport Administration Building (1929; 1936–37), the Curtiss Flying Service Hangar (1929), and the Army Air Corps Hangar (1931–32). Since many urban airports are located in industrial areas, this verdant setting is unusual and contributes to the ambience of the Bowman Field Historic District.\n\nThe buildings of the Bowman Field Historic District are related not only by proximity and historical function, but by their Art Deco/Art Moderne styling and use of masonry materials such as brick, stone and concrete.\n\nThe dominant landmark of Bowman Field is its terminal, known as the Administration Building, styled in aerodynamic Streamline Moderne, and designed by the firm of \"Wischmeyer and Arrasmith.\" As built in 1929, it was a fairly modest two-story structure with one-story wings, housing administrative and communications offices, weather station, and restaurant. During 1936 and 1937, it nearly tripled in size. This was accomplished by demolishing the east wing and retaining the west and central sections as west wings of the new building. The Administration Building faces an elliptical landscaped island surrounded by a driveway and paved parking area. The 1920s Art-Deco style \"Le Relais\" French restaurant has made its home in the airport's historic terminal for more than 25 years.\n\nToday Bowman Field is home to hundreds of privately owned aircraft as well as several commercial operations, including Central American Airways, which opened its doors in 1946, Falcon Aviation (which can trace its roots to the old Louisville Flying Service that began operations in 1932), Aero Club of Louisville, Inc., and Louisville Executive Aviation. Several flight schools operate there as well.\n\nIn the year ending September 23, 2013, the airport averaged 203 aircraft operations per day: 47% local general aviation, 47% transient general aviation 5% air taxi and <1% military. 193 aircraft are based at this airport: 159 single-engine, 33 multi-engine, 3 jet, and 3 helicopter.\n\nKentucky Flying Service is no longer in operation. It was started by Captain Richard C. Mulloy who flew C-46s and C-47s with the Flying Tigers over \"The Hump\" in World War II. He was known by employees and students of Kentucky Flying Service as \"Dick Mulloy,\" and died surrounded by his family in Louisville on Saturday, May 8, 2010, at the age of 89.\n\nBowman Field is operated by the \"Louisville Regional Airport Authority\", which also operates Louisville International Airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302815", "title": "Terence Donovan (actor)", "text": "Terence Donovan (actor)\n\nTerence Donovan (born 28 October 1942), also billed as Terence J. Donovan and Terry Donovan, is an English-Australian actor of stage and television, and the father of fellow actor and singer Jason Donovan (from his marriage to actress and journalist Sue McIntosh). He is best known for his roles as Doug Willis in soap opera \"Neighbours\" and has appeared in TV drama series since its early days, including police drama series \"Division 4\" and \"Cop Shop\", as well as minor parts in numerous serials including \"The Prisoner\", \"Sons and Daughters\", \"A Country Practice\", \"E Street\" and Al Simpson in \"Home and Away\".\n\nDonovan, who was born in Staines, England, has been a staple of Australian television since the early 1960s and has had minor acting roles in episodes of the court-room drama series \"Consider Your Verdict\", several ABC drama plays, and the children's series \"The Magic Boomerang\". Moving back to his native United Kingdom in the mid-1960s saw guest roles in series including \"The Champions\", \"Man in a Suitcase\", and \"The Prisoner\". After returning to Australia and appearing in guest roles in the Crawford Productions series \"Homicide\" and \"Hunter\" in 1968, he was placed on contract, going on to play the role of Detective Mick Peters in Crawford's police series \"Division 4\", from 1969 to 1975. In 1976, he played in a popular mini-series adaptation of the novel \"Power Without Glory\" by Frank Hardy. From 1979 to 1981, he starred as Detective Sergeant Vic Cameron in \"Cop Shop\".\n\nBetween 1981 and 1984, he had minor roles in Australian television programs, and acted in the film \"The Man from Snowy River\" in 1982, playing Henry Craig. In 1985, he had roles in \"Prisoner\" and \"Sons and Daughters\". From 1986 to 1990, he had more minor television roles including the 1989 pilot episode of \"E Street\" as Ken Swanson which was followed by guest roles in \"The Flying Doctors\" and \"G.P\". He was the second actor to play Al Simpson, the father of original character Bobby Simpson in \"Home and Away\", in 1990, a role previously played by George Leppard in 1988, and followed this immediately with the role of Doug Willis in \"Neighbours\", a character he played regularly until 1994, and made a brief appearance in 2005, when he reprised his role for the show's 20th-anniversary special. He returned in that role again in 2014. Donovan appeared in a documentary special celebrating \"Neighbours\" 30th anniversary titled \"\", which aired in Australia and the UK in March 2015. He reprised the role of Doug Willis in episodes of the serial in 2016, culminating in the character's death. In 2003, he appeared in the drama series \"MDA\" in the role of Eric Savage, father of Richard Savage (played by his son Jason Donovan).\n\nHe played the title role of Harry 'Breaker' Morant in the first public performance of Kenneth G. Ross's Australian play \"Breaker Morant: A Play in Two Acts\", presented by the Melbourne Theatre Company at the Athenaeum Theatre, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, on 2 February 1978. (Donovan also appeared in the 1980 film \"Breaker Morant\", but in a subsidiary role, rather than as the title character). In the UK in the mid-1990s Donovan played Captain Hook in a tour of a musical version of \"Peter Pan\" alongside co-stars Nicola Stapleton, famous for her role in \"EastEnders\", and a young Laurence Mark Wythe (who has since become a composer and lyricist in musical theatre). In 2007 Donovan performed the role of Boswell in the Magnormos production of \"Mary Bryant\". He also played the part of the slick, dishonest lawyer, Billy Flynn, in the Sydney Theatre Company production of Kander and Ebb's \"Chicago\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2302817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302817", "title": "Aberdeen Regional Airport", "text": "Aberdeen Regional Airport\n\nAberdeen Regional Airport is a city-owned, public-use airport located two nautical miles (3.7 km) east of the central business district of Aberdeen, a city in Brown County, South Dakota, United States. It is mostly used for general aviation, and is also served by one commercial airline.\n\nThe airport is one of two commercial airports in the state of South Dakota with airline service to only one destination, the other being Pierre Regional Airport. Rapid City serves 14 destinations & Sioux Falls serves 12 destinations, while Watertown serves two destinations.\n\nFedEx Feeder is operated at the field by CSA Air.\nUPS Feeder is operated by Encore Aviation\n\nAberdeen Regional Airport covers an area of at an elevation of 1,302 feet (397 m) above mean sea level. It has two runways: 13/31 is 6,901 by 100 feet (2,103 x 30 m) with a concrete surface; 17/35 is 5,500 by 100 feet (1,676 x 30 m) with an asphalt surface.\n\nFor the 12-month period ending December 31, 2017, the airport had 40,152 aircraft operations, an average of 110 per day: 83% general aviation, 4% scheduled commercial, 13% air taxi and <1% military. At that time there were 55 aircraft based at this airport: 34 single-engine, 15 multi-engine, 5 jet and 1 helicopter.\n\nThe passenger terminal is one of four terminals in South Dakota that boasts a moving jet bridge, the other three being Sioux Falls Regional Airport, Rapid City Regional Airport, and Pierre Regional Airport. The loading bridge allows passengers to board the aircraft from directly inside the terminal and right onto the aircraft without having to walk outside. As of March 2018, Delta Connection is the only commercial airline currently operating out of Aberdeen Regional Airport, providing jet only service on daily flights to Minneapolis/St. Paul on their Canadair Regional Jet 200.\n\nRemarks:\n\nIn 1923, Aberdeen hosted the first fly-in event in South Dakota. During World War II, the airfield was used by the United States Army Air Forces as a contract glider training airfield owned by Anderson & Brennan Flying Service, beginning on 25 May 1942. The mission of the school was to train glider pilot students in proficiency in operation of gliders in various types of towed and soaring flight, both day and night, and in servicing of gliders in the field. They primarily used C-47 Skytrains and Waco CG-4 unpowered Gliders.\n\nOriginally named Aberdeen Municipal Airport, the name was changed to Saunders Field in 1946.\n\nPresident George W. Bush landed here in the early 2000s (decade) to speak at a rally at Northern State University. Reba McEntire also made a stop here on July 22, 2013, when the Phenom 100 jet she was traveling in stopped at the airport to refuel. McEntire was on her way to a concert in Edmonton, Alberta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302822", "title": "Belmont-sur-Yverdon", "text": "Belmont-sur-Yverdon\n\nBelmont-sur-Yverdon is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nBelmont-sur-Yverdon is first mentioned in 1154 as \"castrum Bellimontis\". In 1220 it was mentioned as \"burgum Bellimontis\". The hamlet of Le Villaret is first mentioned in 1164 as \"Villars-Frelon\".\n\nBelmont-sur-Yverdon has an area, , of . Of this area, or 76.2% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 18.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 5.7% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.5% is either rivers or lakes and or 0.2% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.7% and transportation infrastructure made up 4.0%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 66.6% is used for growing crops and 7.9% is pastures, while 1.7% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Belmont-sur-Yverdon became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nIt consists of the village of Belmont-sur-Yverdon and the hamlet of Le Villaret.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Paly Argent and Azure, a castle Gules windowed and lined Sable.\"\n\nBelmont-sur-Yverdon has a population () of . , 7.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 23.1%. It has changed at a rate of 17.3% due to migration and at a rate of 5.3% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (239 or 96.8%) as their first language, with English being second most common (4 or 1.6%) and Portuguese being third (2 or 0.8%). There is 1 person who speaks German, 1 person who speaks Italian.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Belmont-sur-Yverdon is; 24 children or 8.7% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 36 teenagers or 13.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 36 people or 13.0% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 45 people or 16.2% are between 30 and 39, 46 people or 16.6% are between 40 and 49, and 32 people or 11.6% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 27 people or 9.7% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 19 people or 6.9% are between 70 and 79, there are 12 people or 4.3% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 110 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 110 married individuals, 16 widows or widowers and 11 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 97 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 32 households that consist of only one person and 10 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 98 households that answered this question, 32.7% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 16 married couples without children, 40 married couples with children There were 5 single parents with a child or children. There were 3 households that were made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 95 apartments (93.1% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 4 apartments (3.9%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (2.9%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 3.6 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 3.33%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 43.39% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (15.52%), the SP (11.76%) and the Green Party (10.7%). In the federal election, a total of 87 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 45.8%.\n\n, Belmont-sur-Yverdon had an unemployment rate of 3.7%. , there were 34 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 16 businesses involved in this sector. 5 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 5 businesses in this sector. 8 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 5 businesses in this sector. There were 109 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 42.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 9 workers who commuted into the municipality and 65 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 7.2 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 6.4% used public transportation to get to work, and 55% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 23 or 9.3% were Roman Catholic, while 166 or 67.2% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. There was 1 individual who was Jewish, and 1 individual who belonged to another church. 54 (or about 21.86% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 0.81% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Belmont-sur-Yverdon about 94 or (38.1%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 28 or (11.3%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 28 who completed tertiary schooling, 60.7% were Swiss men, 32.1% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 38 students in the Belmont-sur-Yverdon school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 18 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 20 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 29 students in Belmont-sur-Yverdon who came from another municipality, while 39 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302825", "title": "Three Hours' Agony", "text": "Three Hours' Agony\n\nThe Three Hours' Agony (also known as the Tre Ore, The Great Three Hours, or Three Hours' Devotion) is a Christian service held in some Roman Catholic, Lutheran, Anglican and Methodist churches on Good Friday from noon till 3 o'clock to commemorate the three hours of Christ's hanging at the cross.\n\nIt may include meditation on the seven sayings of Jesus on the cross, and usually occurs between noon and 3PM (at which time the Liturgy of the Lord's Passion begins), and sometimes between 6PM and 9PM.\n\nThe Jesuit priest Alphonsus Messia (died 1732) is said to have devised this devotion in Lima, Peru. It was introduced to Rome around 1788 and spread around the world to many Christian denominations. In 1815, Pope Pius VII decreed a plenary indulgence to those who practise this devotion on Good Friday.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302828", "title": "Wednesday Night in San Francisco", "text": "Wednesday Night in San Francisco\n\nWednesday Night in San Francisco is a blues album by Albert King, recorded live in 1968 at the Fillmore Auditorium. This album, together with \"Thursday Night in San Francisco\", contains leftovers recorded live on the same dates as \"Live Wire/Blues Power\". \"Wednesday Night in San Francisco\", released in 1990, contains material recorded on June 26, 1968.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302829", "title": "Jimmie Reese", "text": "Jimmie Reese\n\nJimmie Reese (born James Herman Solomon; October 1, 1901 – July 13, 1994) was an American Major League Baseball (MLB) infielder. He played second base, third base, and then coached at several professional levels.\n\nReese was born James Herman Solomon and was Jewish, born in New York City, and was brought up in Los Angeles where he attended Rolling Hills Prep. In order to avoid the brunt of prejudice against Jewish baseball players, he adopted the name of Jimmie Reese, which he used throughout his baseball career.\n\nMuch of his career was spent in the Pacific Coast League, beginning as a batboy with the Los Angeles Angels from 1919 (at least one source claims 1917) to 1923.\n\nIn 1924 he signed a contract to play second base with the Oakland Oaks.\n\nThe Oaks won the PCL pennant in 1927, with Reese batting .295 in 191 games. He had a league-leading fielding percentage of .984 that year.\n\nIn September 1927 he was traded by Oakland to the New York Yankees with Lyn Lary and US$100,000 (US$ today).\n\nHe was called up to the American League in 1930. Reese played for the Yankees in 1930 and 1931, and was most noted for being the roommate of Babe Ruth.\n\nIn 1930 he batted .346 in 188 at bats, striking out only 8 times. Only Lou Gehrig and Babe Ruth hit for higher averages on the team. He was the primary back-up at second base (48 games) behind Tony Lazzeri (77 games).\n\nIn November, 1931, he was sent by the Yankees to the St. Paul Saints (American Association), to complete an earlier deal made in June, 1931, for Johnny Murphy, Jack Saltzgaver, cash, and 2 players to be named.\n\nReese played the 1932 season with the St. Louis Cardinals, who had selected him off of waivers in June.\n\nThe Los Angeles Angels (PCL) purchased Reese's contract from the Cardinals in February, 1933. He missed most of the season due to injuries and illness, but hit .330 in 104 games. The following year he batted .311 with 12 triples, and had a fielding percentage of .972 (the best among second basemen that season). He continued to play for the Angels in 1935 and 1936.\n\nIn 1937, he was traded to the San Diego Padres (PCL), where he hit .314. The Padres won the Governor's Cup that year.\n\nHe all-but retired as a player after the 1938 season, spending the 1939 season with two Western International League teams and playing just 2 games for the 1940 Angels (in addition to his coaching duties).\n\nReese served in the Army from November 1942 to July 1943 with the 12th Armored Division at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, where he managed the baseball team.\n\nAfter the war, he worked as a scout for the Boston Braves for two years, and coached in San Diego from 1948 until 1960, when he was appointed manager. But he preferred to coach, so he resigned partway through the 1961 season. \"I'm best suited as a liaison man, as a coach\", he said. \"I just am not suited to give a guy hell.\"\n\nFrom 1963 until 1970 he coached at Hawaii, Seattle, and Portland, Oregon; then, he scouted for the Montreal Expos.\n\nHe threw out the ceremonial first pitch at the 1989 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, played at Anaheim Stadium.\n\nReese never married, had no children, and was mostly estranged from his extended family. In 1972, at age 71, he asked the Angels for a job, and was hired as conditioning coach, whose job was to get the players into shape. Reese's main specialty, however, was hitting fungos in practice, using a fungo bat he made himself. Numerous Angels players remarked on his seemingly uncanny ability to place fungos where he wanted. He even occasionally \"pitched\" batting practice with his fungo bat, standing at the pitcher's rubber and consistently hitting line drives over the middle of the plate. He was regularly called \"the nicest man in baseball,” and had a friendship with Nolan Ryan when he was with the team; Ryan would name one of his sons Reese in his honor. He was listed as an Angels coach for 22 years, until his death on July 13, 1994, in Santa Ana, California. He died peacefully of aspiration pneumonia and respiratory failure.\n\nHis uniform #50 was retired by the club in his memory. At his death, Reese was believed to be the oldest person ever to regularly wear a uniform in an official capacity in the history of organized professional baseball in North America. His record was surpassed in 2016 by Red Schoendienst, who served as a special assistant coach for the St. Louis Cardinals, wearing a Cardinals uniform in that role, until his death in 2018 at age 95. Ted Radcliffe and Buck O'Neil made appearances in professional games at older ages, but those were one-off ceremonial events.\n\nHe was inducted into the Pacific Coast League Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\n\nIn the Lee Child novel One Shot (2005), the hero Jack Reacher uses the alias Jimmie Reese. He confirms that whenever he uses an alias, he always uses the name of someone who played second base for the Yankees, such as Jimmie Reese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302830", "title": "Terence Donovan (photographer)", "text": "Terence Donovan (photographer)\n\nTerence Daniel Donovan (14 September 1936 – 22 November 1996) was an English photographer and film director, noted for his fashion photography of the 1960s. A critically acclaimed book of his fashion work, \"Terence Donovan Fashion\", was published by London publisher Art / Books in 2012. He also directed many TV commercials and oversaw the music video to Robert Palmer's \"Addicted to Love\" and \"Simply Irresistible\". \"The Guardian\" labelled “Addicted to Love“ as being “fashion’s favourite video” since it was released.\n\nDonovan was born in Stepney in the East End of London to lorry driver Daniel Donovan and (Lilian) Constance Violet (née Wright), a cook. He took his first photo at the age of 15. He had a fractured education, but between the ages of 11 and 15 studied at the London County Council School of Photoengraving and Lithography. The bomb-damaged industrial landscape of his home town became the backdrop of much of his fashion photography, and he set the trend for positioning fashion models in stark and gritty urban environments. Flats and gasometers were popular settings, and he often had the models adopt adventurous poses. He wedged one model up the side of a building, and photographed another as she posed dangling from a parachute.\n\nAlong with David Bailey and Brian Duffy (nicknamed by Norman Parkinson the 'Black Trinity'), he captured, and in many ways helped create, the \"Swinging London\" of the 1960s: a culture of high fashion and celebrity chic. The trio of photographers socialised with actors, musicians and royalty, and found themselves elevated to celebrity status. Together, they were the first real celebrity photographers. He joined the Royal Photographic Society in 1963, gaining his Associate in 1963 and Fellowship in 1968.\n\nIn the early 1970s Donovan branched out into film production and it was during this period that he moved his studio to 30 Bourdon Street, Mayfair, now marked by a memorial plaque.\n\nDonovan shot for various fashion magazines, including \"Harper's Bazaar\" and \"Vogue,\" as well as directing some 3000 TV commercials, and the rarely seen 1973 cop film, \"Yellow Dog\" starring Jiro Tamiya. He also made documentaries and music videos, and painted.\n\nDonovan was a black belt in judo and co-wrote a popular judo book, \"Fighting Judo\" (1985), with former World Judo Gold medallist Katsuhiko Kashiwazaki.\n\nDonovan committed suicide, after suffering from depression. His last interview appeared in a British photography magazine a few weeks after his death.\n\nDonovan was married twice. His first marriage to Janet Cohen was short-lived, but he remained married to his second wife, Diana Dare, until his death. He was the father of the musician Dan Donovan, the actress Daisy Donovan and Terry Donovan, a co-founder of Rockstar Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302837", "title": "Lehmer sequence", "text": "Lehmer sequence\n\nIn mathematics, a Lehmer sequence is a generalization of a Lucas sequence.\n\nIf a and b are complex numbers with\n\nunder the following conditions:\n\n\nThen, the corresponding Lehmer numbers are:\n\nfor \"n\" odd, and\n\nfor \"n\" even.\n\nTheir companion numbers are:\n\nfor \"n\" odd and\n\nfor \"n\" even.\n\nLehmer numbers form a linear recurrence relation with\n\nwith initial values formula_9. Similarly the companions sequence satisfies\n\nwith initial values formula_11\n"}
{"id": "2302846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302846", "title": "Thorough", "text": "Thorough\n\nIn 17th century England, Thorough was a name given by Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford to a scheme of his to establish absolute monarchy in England. Although \"Thorough\" is largely attributed to Strafford, its implementation can also be accredited to the Archbishop of Canterbury William Laud.\n\nLaud exploited his secular and religious roles to implement the policy of Thorough in England. Laud used his authority as Archbishop of Canterbury to appoint only Arminian clergymen as bishops; this in turn meant that most vicars they appointed would also be Arminian. Arminianism is a sect of Protestant Christianity which believes in the \"Divine Right of Kings\" and the (Catholic reminiscent) \"Beauty of Holiness\". Laud hoped that his new Arminian Church of England would make the English conform to believing in the \"Divine Right\", supporting Charles I's personal rule and setting up a parliament-independent monarchy.\n\nThough English Arminians often supported expansion of royal authority, this did not correlate to support of absolutist monarchies. Arminians challenged Calvinist conception of absolute predestination by introducing an element of free will into Protestant soteriology; that is, they asserted that even the elect (those destined to salvation) could fall totally and finally from saving grace. This idea often translated into acceptance of an increased role of sacraments and the ecclesiastical hierarchy, or the \"Beauty of Holiness\", though this was not necessarily the case. The phrase \"Divine Right of Kings\" has been incorrectly interpreted as equivalent to absolutism.\n\nLaud used his authority over the prerogative courts to humiliate the gentry, who were largely Puritan and Presbyterian. As Puritans and Presbyterians, the gentry were opposed to Laud's beliefs and opposed to the idea of a parliament-independent monarchy. William Laud used his authority over the prerogative courts to punish many people, including Puritan martyr William Prynne. In this era, religious issues were constitutional issues as in the case of Charles I and William Laud's attempt to impose the English Book of Common Prayer on Scotland.\n\nStrafford was Lord Deputy of Ireland, and domiciled in Ireland for much of the personal rule. He left the running of England largely to Laud, although the application of Thorough in Ireland was entirely down to Strafford. The fear that Strafford instilled in the Irish through the policy of \"Thorough\" can be demonstrated when looking at the ease with which Strafford extracted subsidies from the Irish Parliament as the Second Bishops War approached during 1640.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302848", "title": "Like Humans Do", "text": "Like Humans Do\n\n\"Like Humans Do\" is the fourth track from David Byrne's 2001 album \"Look into the Eyeball\" and was also released as a single that year. The radio edit version of the song (which omits the line referring to cannabis) was selected by Microsoft as the sample music for Windows XP to demonstrate the new Windows Media Player. It was also included as a sample track on the Rio Karma media player.\n\nThe song was also featured on Byrne's 2007 live album \"Live from Austin, Texas\" and 2004's \"Live at Union Chapel\". In the latter film, he explains that the song is about trying to love human beings despite their failings, by taking a \"Martian's perspective\" on humanity and trying to accept them for what they are.\n\n\n\nThe song was written by David Byrne and arranged by Thom Bell, with string and horn contracting by Sandra Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302872", "title": "Justin Germano", "text": "Justin Germano\n\nJustin William Germano (born August 6, 1982) is an American former professional baseball pitcher. He has played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Diego Padres, Cincinnati Reds, Cleveland Indians. Boston Red Sox, Chicago Cubs, Toronto Blue Jays and Texas Rangers. He has also played in Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) for the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks and in the KBO League for the Samsung Lions and the KT Wiz.\n\nGermano is from Claremont, California, where he broke Mark McGwire's Claremont Little League record for most home runs in a season. He graduated from Claremont High School in 2000.\n\nHe was drafted in 2000 by the San Diego Padres. Germano made his major league debut with the San Diego Padres on May 22, 2004, getting the win as the starting pitcher against the Philadelphia Phillies. He pitched five innings, allowing five hits, four runs (three of them on a three-run home run by Chase Utley in the third inning), four walks, and five strikeouts. As a hitter, he would have two at-bats and went hitless.\n\nHe was traded along with Travis Chick from the Padres to the Cincinnati Reds on July 23, 2005 for Joe Randa. On July 31, 2006, Germano was traded to the Philadelphia Phillies for Rheal Cormier. On March 19, 2007, Germano was claimed off waivers by the San Diego Padres. He made 23 starts for the Padres in 2007 where he went 7–10 with a 4.46 ERA.\n\nGermano is the first ever MLB pitcher to throw a major league pitch in China, starting for an exhibition game as the Padres starter against the Los Angeles Dodgers. The ball from that first pitch now resides in the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown NY.\n\nJust after the 2008 season ended, the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks signed Germano as a free agent. Despite pitching well in spring training and not giving up a single run, Germano did not win a spot on SoftBank's Opening Day roster, as the Hawks were at the limit of foreign players on the roster (Chris Aguila, Kameron Loe, D.J. Houlton, and Brian Falkenborg). However, with Aguila and Loe failing to play well, Germano's chance came during Interleague play. Germano's first start came against the Hiroshima Carp, Germano was credited with the complete-game victory, giving up only two hits.\n\nHe continued to pitch well throughout the season. Germano finished the season with a 5–4 record and a 4.38 ERA. In September it was revealed that Germano had been pitching with an inflamed Achilles' tendon, and was knocked out for the rest of the season and the playoffs.\n\nThe Hawks stated that they intended to bring Germano back after the offseason started, However, he turned it down, stating he wanted to return to pitch in the States.\n\nOn March 17, 2010, Germano signed a minor league contract with the Cleveland Indians. On July 30, 2010 Germano was called up by the Cleveland Indians to join the bullpen for the Friday night game against the Toronto Blue Jays.\n\nGermano was designated for assignment by the Indians on May 19, 2011 to make room on the active roster for Luis Valbuena.\n\nOn July 26, 2011, Germano threw a perfect game while on assignment with the Indians' Triple-A affiliate, the Columbus Clippers. He threw 60 strikes in 95 pitches to help lead the Clippers to a 3–0 victory over the Syracuse Chiefs. This was the first perfect game in Clippers history, and only the fifth to be thrown in the history of the International League.\n\nGermano was sold to the Samsung Lions of the KBO League on August 5, 2011.\n\nOn January 10, 2012, Germano signed a minor league contract with the Boston Red Sox. He also received an invitation to spring training. On July 3, after he exercised his opt-out clause, Germano was called up to the majors to replace Clayton Mortensen, who was optioned to the minors earlier in the day. In his 2012 debut, Germano pitched 5 and 2/3 scoreless innings of relief in a game against the New York Yankees on July 7. He was designated for assignment on July 13.\n\nGermano was traded to the Chicago Cubs on July 19, for cash considerations. Germano posted a 6.75 ERA in 13 appearances (12 starts) with the Cubs. On October 30, Germano elected free agency after being outrighted the previous week.\n\nGermano signed a minor league deal with a Spring training invitation with the Blue Jays on November 9, 2012. Germano started the 2013 season with the Triple-A Buffalo Bisons. He was called up to the Blue Jays on April 27. He appeared in one game with Toronto before being designated for assignment on May 3 to make room for Ricky Romero on the 25 man roster. On May 4, the Blue Jays announced that Germano had cleared waivers, and been assigned back to the Bisons. He became a free agent on October 1. In 25 games for Buffalo (24 starts), he went 8–9 with 13 quality starts and a 4.47 ERA, striking out 103 in 151 innings.\n\nOn December 18, 2013, Germano signed a minor league contract with the Texas Rangers with an invite to spring training. He was assigned to the Triple-A Round Rock Express. The Rangers selected his contract from Round Rock on May 8. He was designated for assignment on May 14, and assigned outright to Round Rock on May 16.\n\nOn August 15, 2014, he was traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers for future considerations and assigned to the Triple-A Albuquerque Isotopes. He appeared in three games, with two starts, and was 1-1 with a 9.88 ERA with Albuquerque. Germano elected free agency on October 12, 2014.\n\nOn December 5, 2014, he signed a minor league contract with the Seattle Mariners, and was invited to spring training.\n\nOn July 1, 2015, he signed a contract with the KT Wiz of the KBO League.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302874", "title": "Chungmugong Yi Sun-sin-class destroyer", "text": "Chungmugong Yi Sun-sin-class destroyer\n\n\"Chungmugong Yi Sun-sin\" class destroyers (, Hanja: 忠武公李舜臣級驅逐艦) are multipurpose destroyers of the Republic of Korea Navy. The lead ship of this class, ROKS \"Chungmugong Yi Sunsin\", was launched in May 2002 and commissioned in December 2003. \"Chungmugong Yi Sun-sin\"-class destroyers were the second class of ships to be produced in the Republic of Korea Navy's destroyer mass-production program named Korean Destroyer eXperimental, which paved the way for the navy to become a blue-water navy. Six ships were launched by Hyundai Heavy Industries and Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering in four years.\n\nThe ships have a 32-cell strike-length Mk 41 VLS for SM-2 Block IIIA area-air defence missiles, one 21-round RAM inner-layer defence missile launcher, one 30 mm Goalkeeper close-in weapon system, one Mk 45 Mod 4 127 mm gun, eight Harpoon anti-ship missiles and two triple 324 mm anti-submarine torpedo tubes. \n\nThe electronics suite includes one Raytheon AN/SPS-49(V)5 2D long-range radar (LRR), one Thales Nederland MW08 target indication 3D radar (TIR), two Thales Nederland STIR240 fire-control radars with OT-134A Continuous Wave Illumination (CWI) transmitters, an SLQ-200(V)K SONATA electronic warfare system and a KDCOM-II combat management system which is derived from the Royal Navy Type 23 frigate's SSCS combat management system. BAE Systems WDS Mk 14 originally developed for the US Navy's New Threat Upgrade evaluates threats, prioritizes them, and engages them in order with SM-2.\n\nOn the 4th unit, ROKS \"Wang Geon\", the 32-cell Mk 41 VLS is moved to the left and an indigenous VLS named K-VLS is installed on the right. The ship's forward part is spacious enough to take a 64-cell Mk 41 VLS.\n\nThe KDX-II is part of a much larger build up program aimed at turning the ROKN into a blue-water navy. It is said to be the first stealthy major combatant in the ROKN and was designed to significantly increase the ROKN's capabilities.\n\nKDX-IIA is a proposed variant of the KDX-II. It will be armed with the advanced Aegis Combat System and will have enhanced features of KDX-II such as stealth. The ship has been offered to the Indian Navy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302879", "title": "Bob Love", "text": "Bob Love\n\nRobert Earl \"Butterbean\" Love (born December 8, 1942) is an American retired professional basketball player who spent the prime of his career with the National Basketball Association's Chicago Bulls. A versatile forward who could shoot with either his left or right hand, Love now works as the Bulls' Director of Community Affairs.\n\nAfter starring at Morehouse High School (now defunct) in Louisiana, Love played basketball for Southern University, where he also became a brother of Alpha Phi Omega. He earned All-America honors in 1963, and in 1965, the Cincinnati Royals selected the 6’8\" forward in the fourth round of the 1965 NBA draft. Love failed to make the team, and instead spent the 1965–66 NBA season in the Eastern Basketball League. After averaging over 25 points per game, Love earned the EBL Rookie of the Year Award and gained enough confidence to try out for the Royals once more. He made the team on his second attempt and played two seasons for the Royals, largely in a reserve role. Love made his NBA debut on October 18, 1966. In 1968, the Milwaukee Bucks selected him in the NBA Expansion Draft and traded him to the Chicago Bulls in the middle of the 1968–69 season.\n\nLove flourished while playing for Dick Motta's Bulls. In 1969–70, he became a full-time starter, averaging 21 points and 8.7 rebounds. The following two seasons he averaged 25.2 and 25.8 points per game, appeared in his first two NBA All-Star Games, and earned All-NBA Second Team honors both seasons. Love also appeared in the 1973 All-Star Game, and he would average at least 19 points and six rebounds every season until 1976–77. Love was named to the NBA's All-Defense Second Team in 1974 and 1975.\n\nHis #10 jersey was the second jersey number to be retired by the Chicago Bulls. Jerry Sloan's #4 was the first. Love's 1995 wedding ceremony to Rachel Dixon took place at the United Center.\n\nLove ended his NBA career with the Bulls after spending parts of the 1976–77 season in New York and Seattle. He would finish with career totals of 13,895 points, 1,123 assists, and 4,653 rebounds. Love suffered from a severe stuttering problem from childhood, which prevented him from finding meaningful employment after his playing days were over. At one point, Love was a busboy making $4.45 an hour. Eventually, the owner of the restaurant where Love washed dishes offered to pay for speech therapy classes, and in 1993 he returned to the Chicago Bulls as their director of community relations. One of his duties in this position involves regularly speaking to school children. Love has also become a motivational speaker.\n\nHe wrote a book, \"The Bob Love Story: If It's Gonna Be, It's Up to Me\" (), in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302884", "title": "Bioley-Magnoux", "text": "Bioley-Magnoux\n\nBioley-Magnoux is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nBioley-Magnoux is first mentioned in 1228 as \"Biolai\".\n\nThe village is located east of Yverdon and played some historic role in previous times. It is dominated by a medieval castle the origins of which date back to 1105. Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy 1433–1477, last reigning duke of Burgundy (1467–1477), son and successor of Philip the Good, made his quarters at the castle early in June 1476 on his way to Murten where he lost the battle against the confederates. The castle is now home to the Jonas-Foundation.\n\nBioley-Magnoux has an area, , of . Of this area, or 66.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 26.2% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 6.8% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.7% is either rivers or lakes and or 0.2% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.1% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.1%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 2.3% of the area Out of the forested land, 25.1% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.2% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 52.7% is used for growing crops and 13.1% is pastures. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Bioley-Magnoux became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located on the border of the Gros-de-Vaud and the Nord-Vaudois regions. It is situated on a plateau on the hillside above the right bank of the Mentu river. It consists of the linear village of Bioley-Magnoux.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Azure, a wavy chevron Or, around it three birch leaves Argent two over one, pointing to the middle chief.\"\n\nBioley-Magnoux has a population () of . , 4.4% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of -4.5%. It has changed at a rate of -1.1% due to migration and at a rate of -3.4% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (157 or 92.9%) as their first language, with German being second most common (9 or 5.3%) and Portuguese being third (2 or 1.2%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Bioley-Magnoux is; 9 children or 5.4% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 23 teenagers or 13.7% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 20 people or 11.9% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 25 people or 14.9% are between 30 and 39, 23 people or 13.7% are between 40 and 49, and 29 people or 17.3% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 13 people or 7.7% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 14 people or 8.3% are between 70 and 79, there are 12 people or 7.1% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 57 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 100 married individuals, 9 widows or widowers and 3 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 68 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 16 households that consist of only one person and 6 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 69 households that answered this question, 23.2% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 27 married couples without children, 22 married couples with children There were 3 single parents with a child or children.\n\n, a total of 62 apartments (87.3% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 8 apartments (11.3%) were seasonally occupied and one apartment was empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 6 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe village is known for its annual Ascension Day road race which attracts participation from the surrounding region.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 52.19% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (18.81%), the SP (9.95%) and the Other (8.7%). In the federal election, a total of 74 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 58.7%.\n\n, Bioley-Magnoux had an unemployment rate of 2.9%. , there were 22 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 8 businesses involved in this sector. 5 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 3 businesses in this sector. 5 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 1 business in this sector. There were 71 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 39.4% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 48 workers who commuted away from the municipality. Of the working population, 2.8% used public transportation to get to work, and 66.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 13 or 7.7% were Roman Catholic, while 144 or 85.2% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 individual who belongs to another Christian church. There were 1 individual who belonged to another church. 10 (or about 5.92% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist.\n\nIn Bioley-Magnoux about 64 or (37.9%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 16 or (9.5%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 16 who completed tertiary schooling, 75.0% were Swiss men, 12.5% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 16 students in the Bioley-Magnoux school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 5 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 11 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 28 students from Bioley-Magnoux who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302893", "title": "Chamblon", "text": "Chamblon\n\nChamblon is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nChamblon is first mentioned in the 12th Century as \"Chamblon\".\n\nChamblon has an area, , of . Of this area, or 50.0% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 23.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 24.8% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.7% is either rivers or lakes and or 1.7% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 16.8% and transportation infrastructure made up 6.6%. Out of the forested land, 21.0% of the total land area is heavily forested and 2.1% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 24.5% is used for growing crops and 23.8% is pastures, while 1.7% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Chamblon became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located on a former lake surrounded by red limestone hills. It is located on a hill overlooking Yverdon and the Lake of Neuchatel. Notable geographical features are marshy, environmentally protected areas, steep hills, and high exposure to the wind. It also has a view of the Jura Mountains. The nearest major towns are Yverdon () and Lausanne ().\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Or, a deer's head gardant Sable lined Argent, between antlers a grape bunch Gules.\"\n\nChamblon has a population () of . , 12.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 23.2%. It has changed at a rate of 22.1% due to migration and at a rate of 1.3% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (471 or 91.8%) as their first language, with German being second most common (26 or 5.1%) and Italian being third (8 or 1.6%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Chamblon is; 54 children or 9.5% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 77 teenagers or 13.6% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 73 people or 12.9% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 77 people or 13.6% are between 30 and 39, 88 people or 15.5% are between 40 and 49, and 105 people or 18.5% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 54 people or 9.5% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 20 people or 3.5% are between 70 and 79, there are 17 people or 3.0% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 3 people or 0.5% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 235 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 232 married individuals, 23 widows or widowers and 23 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 184 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 56 households that consist of only one person and 21 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 195 households that answered this question, 28.7% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 41 married couples without children, 65 married couples with children There were 18 single parents with a child or children. There were 3 households that were made up of unrelated people and 11 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 154 apartments (75.9% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 42 apartments (20.7%) were seasonally occupied and 7 apartments (3.4%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0.81%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 23.8% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (22.28%), the FDP (13.23%) and the Green Party (12.05%). In the federal election, a total of 176 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 44.6%.\n\n, Chamblon had an unemployment rate of 2.1%. , there were 3 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 2 businesses involved in this sector. 26 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 9 businesses in this sector. 242 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 13 businesses in this sector. There were 274 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 40.9% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 188 workers who commuted into the municipality and 229 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 1.2 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. About 3.2% of the workforce coming into Chamblon are coming from outside Switzerland. Of the working population, 9.1% used public transportation to get to work, and 72.3% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 124 or 24.2% were Roman Catholic, while 269 or 52.4% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 2 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.39% of the population), and there were 13 individuals (or about 2.53% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 individual who was Jewish, and 2 (or about 0.39% of the population) who were Islamic. There was 1 individual who belonged to another church. 80 (or about 15.59% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 26 individuals (or about 5.07% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Chamblon about 205 or (40.0%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 69 or (13.5%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 69 who completed tertiary schooling, 65.2% were Swiss men, 23.2% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 70 students in the Chamblon school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory preschool are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided preschool care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized preschool care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 35 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 35 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 40 students in Chamblon who came from another municipality, while 113 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302895", "title": "Champvent", "text": "Champvent\n\nChampvent is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The municipalities of Essert-sous-Champvent and Villars-sous-Champvent merged on 1 January 2012 into Champvent.\n\nChampvent is first mentioned in 1011 as \"Canvent\". In 1013 it was mentioned as \"Canventum\" and in 1228 as \"Chanvent\".\n\nChampvent has an area, , of . Of this area, or 68.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 25.6% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 4.3% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.1% is either rivers or lakes and or 0.3% is unproductive land. After the merger, the total area was .\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.9% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.2%. Out of the forested land, 24.1% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.4% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 56.8% is used for growing crops and 10.1% is pastures, while 2.0% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Champvent became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located at the foot of the Jura Mountains. It consists of the village of Champvent, the hamlet of Saint-Christophe and the enclave of Mornens.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Paly Argent and Azure with Fess enhanced in Gules surmounting.\"\n\nChampvent has a population () of . , 12.1% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 20.2%. It has changed at a rate of 12.8% due to migration and at a rate of 7.7% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (281 or 94.0%) as their first language, with German being second most common (9 or 3.0%) and Spanish being third (4 or 1.3%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Champvent is; 56 children or 15.7% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 46 teenagers or 12.9% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 39 people or 10.9% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 53 people or 14.8% are between 30 and 39, 47 people or 13.2% are between 40 and 49, and 45 people or 12.6% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 39 people or 10.9% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 15 people or 4.2% are between 70 and 79, there are 16 people or 4.5% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 124 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 155 married individuals, 15 widows or widowers and 5 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 113 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 26 households that consist of only one person and 10 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 115 households that answered this question, 22.6% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 33 married couples without children, 47 married couples with children There were 4 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 2 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 109 apartments (89.3% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 10 apartments (8.2%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (2.5%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 16.8 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 1.42%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nChampvent Castle and the Manoir de Saint-Christophe are listed as Swiss heritage site of national significance. The Champvent village and surrounding region as well as the area around Saint-Christophe are part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 45.68% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (15.02%), the Green Party (10.41%) and the FDP (10.32%). In the federal election, a total of 122 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 52.8%.\n\n, Champvent had an unemployment rate of 2.5%. , there were 33 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 11 businesses involved in this sector. 20 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 6 businesses in this sector. 32 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 8 businesses in this sector. There were 167 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 41.3% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 25 workers who commuted into the municipality and 112 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 4.5 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 6.6% used public transportation to get to work, and 62.3% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 36 or 12.0% were Roman Catholic, while 234 or 78.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 2 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.67% of the population). There was 1 individual who was Jewish, and there was 1 individual who was Islamic. 23 (or about 7.69% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 0.67% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Champvent about 131 or (43.8%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 36 or (12.0%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 36 who completed tertiary schooling, 72.2% were Swiss men, 27.8% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 60 students in the Champvent school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 32 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 28 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 49 students in Champvent who came from another municipality, while 26 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302898", "title": "Chanéaz", "text": "Chanéaz\n\nChanéaz is a former municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The municipalities of Chapelle-sur-Moudon, Correvon, Denezy, Martherenges, Neyruz-sur-Moudon, Peyres-Possens, Saint-Cierges, Thierrens and Chanéaz merged on 1 January 2013 into the new municipality of Montanaire.\n\nChanéaz is first mentioned in 1184 as \"Chafneya\".\n\nChanéaz had an area, , of . Of this area, or 72.7% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 25.9% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 2.9% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 0.7% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.4%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 57.6% is used for growing crops and 15.1% is pastures.\n\nThe former municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Chanéaz became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe former municipality is located in the northern Jorat plateau with a small enclave between Correvon and Vuissens.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Or, an Oak Tree eradicated Vert fructed with five Acorns of the same.\"\n\nChanéaz had a population () of 114. , 4.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 15.2%. It has changed at a rate of 7.6% due to migration and at a rate of 8.7% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (84 or 96.6%) as their first language with the rest speaking German\n\nThe age distribution, , in Chanéaz is; 15 children or 14.2% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 14 teenagers or 13.2% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 13 people or 12.3% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 19 people or 17.9% are between 30 and 39, 15 people or 14.2% are between 40 and 49, and 12 people or 11.3% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 7 people or 6.6% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 9 people or 8.5% are between 70 and 79, there are 2 people or 1.9% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 35 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 49 married individuals, 2 widows or widowers and 1 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 33 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 7 households that consist of only one person and 2 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 34 households that answered this question, 20.6% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 12 married couples without children, 14 married couples with children\n\n, a total of 33 apartments (94.3% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2 apartments (5.7%) were seasonally occupied. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 2.63%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the FDP which received 34.1% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (14.49%), the SVP (14.23%) and the Green Party (12.31%). In the federal election, a total of 45 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 59.2%.\n\n, Chanéaz had an unemployment rate of 0.4%. , there were 10 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 4 businesses involved in this sector. 17 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. 1 person was employed in the tertiary sector, with 1 business in this sector. There were 43 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 44.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 11 workers who commuted into the municipality and 31 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 2.8 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 4.7% used public transportation to get to work, and 67.4% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 12 or 13.8% were Roman Catholic, while 61 or 70.1% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 individual who belongs to another Christian church. There were 2 (or about 2.30% of the population) who were Islamic. 10 (or about 11.49% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 1 individual (or about 1.15% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nChanéaz has an average of 122.6 days of rain or snow per year and on average receives of precipitation. The wettest month is June during which time Chanéaz receives an average of of rain or snow. During this month there is precipitation for an average of 11 days. The month with the most days of precipitation is May, with an average of 12.7, but with only of rain or snow. The driest month of the year is February with an average of of precipitation over 10 days.\n\nIn Chanéaz about 36 or (41.4%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 11 or (12.6%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 11 who completed tertiary schooling, 72.7% were Swiss men, 27.3% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 18 students in the Chanéaz school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 9 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 9 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 15 students from Chanéaz who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302900", "title": "Chavannes-le-Chêne", "text": "Chavannes-le-Chêne\n\nChavannes-le-Chêne is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nChavannes-le-Chêne is first mentioned in 1334 as \"Chavanes\".\n\nChavannes-le-Chêne has an area, , of . Of this area, or 82.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 11.3% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 5.8% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.3% is either rivers or lakes and or 0.3% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 3.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.0%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 73.1% is used for growing crops and 8.8% is pastures. All the water in the municipality is in lakes.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Chavannes-le-Chêne became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nIt consists of the village of Chavannes-le-Chêne and the hamlet of La Ruchille.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Vert, three Acorns two and one Argent.\"\n\nChavannes-le-Chêne has a population () of . , 10.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 15%. It has changed at a rate of 14.2% due to migration and at a rate of 0% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (210 or 90.1%) as their first language, with German being second most common (12 or 5.2%) and Portuguese being third (5 or 2.1%). There is 1 person who speaks Italian.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Chavannes-le-Chêne is; 31 children or 11.9% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 31 teenagers or 11.9% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 36 people or 13.8% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 42 people or 16.2% are between 30 and 39, 31 people or 11.9% are between 40 and 49, and 34 people or 13.1% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 30 people or 11.5% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 15 people or 5.8% are between 70 and 79, there are 10 people or 3.8% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 98 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 97 married individuals, 24 widows or widowers and 14 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 98 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.3 persons per household. There were 35 households that consist of only one person and 4 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 99 households that answered this question, 35.4% were households made up of just one person and there were 2 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 19 married couples without children, 31 married couples with children There were 9 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 94 apartments (90.4% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2 apartments (1.9%) were seasonally occupied and 8 apartments (7.7%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\n\nThe Vallon Des Vaux, a prehistoric and High Middle Ages settlement is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 40.9% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (21.21%), the Green Party (13.99%) and the LPS Party (8.18%). In the federal election, a total of 57 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 33.1%.\n\n, Chavannes-le-Chêne had an unemployment rate of 3.5%. , there were 22 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 11 businesses involved in this sector. 13 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 4 businesses in this sector. 16 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 7 businesses in this sector. There were 122 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 40.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 11 workers who commuted into the municipality and 82 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 7.5 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 8.2% used public transportation to get to work, and 58.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 28 or 12.0% were Roman Catholic, while 161 or 69.1% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 3 individuals (or about 1.29% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 38 (or about 16.31% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 4 individuals (or about 1.72% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Chavannes-le-Chêne about 97 or (41.6%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 30 or (12.9%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 30 who completed tertiary schooling, 53.3% were Swiss men, 26.7% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 39 students in the Chavannes-le-Chêne school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 18 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 21 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 7 students in Chavannes-le-Chêne who came from another municipality, while 24 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\nClimate in this area has mild differences between highs and lows, and there is adequate rainfall year-round. The Köppen Climate Classification subtype for this climate is \"\". (Marine West Coast Climate/Oceanic climate).\n"}
{"id": "2302902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302902", "title": "Chêne-Pâquier", "text": "Chêne-Pâquier\n\nChêne-Pâquier is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nPâquier is first mentioned in 1462 as \"Pascua\". In 1517 it was mentioned as \"Pasquier\" and in 1550, Chêne was mentioned as \"loz Chanoz\".\n\nChêne-Pâquier has an area, , of . Of this area, or 68.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 24.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 5.2% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 0.9% and transportation infrastructure made up 3.8%. Out of the forested land, 22.6% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.4% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 60.8% is used for growing crops and 7.5% is pastures.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Chêne-Pâquier became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality consists of the hamlets of Le Chêne and Le Pâquier.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Argent, a Base Vert, an Oak Tree proper leaved Vert and fructed of three Acorns Gules.\"\n\nChêne-Pâquier has a population () of . , 2.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 4.7%. It has changed at a rate of 3.7% due to migration and at a rate of 0.9% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (98 or 94.2%) as their first language, with German being second most common (4 or 3.8%) and Serbo-Croatian being third (1 or 1.0%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Chêne-Pâquier is; 8 children or 7.1% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 16 teenagers or 14.3% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 18 people or 16.1% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 11 people or 9.8% are between 30 and 39, 15 people or 13.4% are between 40 and 49, and 14 people or 12.5% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 11 people or 9.8% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 12 people or 10.7% are between 70 and 79, there are 6 people or 5.4% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 46 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 44 married individuals, 10 widows or widowers and 4 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 41 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 14 households that consist of only one person and 6 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 42 households that answered this question, 33.3% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 9 married couples without children, 16 married couples with children There was one single parent with a child or children.\n\n, a total of 39 apartments (88.6% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2 apartments (4.5%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (6.8%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\n\nThe Temple and Cure is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance. The entire area around Chêne-Pâquier is part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 36.59% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (25.24%), the SP (12.56%) and the Green Party (7.2%). In the federal election, a total of 47 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 53.4%.\n\n, Chêne-Pâquier had an unemployment rate of 2.5%. , there were 10 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 4 businesses involved in this sector. 24 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. No one was employed in the tertiary sector. There were 43 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 46.5% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 5 workers who commuted into the municipality and 30 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 6.0 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 4.7% used public transportation to get to work, and 67.4% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 7 or 6.7% were Roman Catholic, while 93 or 89.4% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 2 members of an Orthodox church (or about 1.92% of the population), and there was 1 individual who belongs to another Christian church. 1 (or about 0.96% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist.\n\nIn Chêne-Pâquier about 41 or (39.4%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 8 or (7.7%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 8 who completed tertiary schooling, 50.0% were Swiss men, 50.0% were Swiss women.\n\n, there were 10 students in Chêne-Pâquier who came from another municipality, while 20 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302903", "title": "Thursday Night in San Francisco", "text": "Thursday Night in San Francisco\n\nThursday Night in San Francisco is a blues album by Albert King, recorded live in 1968 at the Fillmore Auditorium. This album, together with \"Wednesday Night in San Francisco\", contains leftovers recorded live on the same dates as \"Live Wire/Blues Power\". \"Thursday Night in San Francisco\", released in 1990, contains material recorded on June 27, 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302904", "title": "Cheseaux-Noréaz", "text": "Cheseaux-Noréaz\n\nCheseaux-Noréaz is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nCheseaux is first mentioned in 1147 as \"Chesaut\". Noréaz was first mentioned in 1177 as \"Nobraia\". The two villages merged into Cheseaux-Noréaz in 1798.\n\nCheseaux-Noréaz has an area, , of . Of this area, or 26.2% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 52.7% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 10.4% is settled (buildings or roads), or 1.0% is either rivers or lakes and or 10.3% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 4.1% and transportation infrastructure made up 4.1%. while parks, green belts and sports fields made up 2.2%. Out of the forested land, 51.4% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.3% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 18.1% is used for growing crops and 4.6% is pastures, while 3.5% is used for orchards or vine crops. Of the water in the municipality, 0.8% is in lakes and 0.2% is in rivers and streams.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Cheseaux-Noréaz became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located on the eastern shore of Lake Neuchâtel. It consists of the villages of Cheseaux and Noréaz which merged in 1798.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Vert, between two Walnuts Or on a Bend of the same three Houses Sable windowed and doored Argent.\"\n\nCheseaux-Noréaz has a population () of . , 9.0% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of -1.5%. It has changed at a rate of -1.5% due to migration and at a rate of -0.6% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (488 or 92.4%) as their first language, with German being second most common (27 or 5.1%) and English being third (4 or 0.8%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Cheseaux-Noréaz is; 52 children or 9.8% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 65 teenagers or 12.3% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 49 people or 9.3% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 44 people or 8.3% are between 30 and 39, 79 people or 15.0% are between 40 and 49, and 84 people or 15.9% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 72 people or 13.6% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 57 people or 10.8% are between 70 and 79, there are 21 people or 4.0% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 5 people or 0.9% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 184 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 307 married individuals, 25 widows or widowers and 12 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 197 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.7 persons per household. There were 35 households that consist of only one person and 23 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 199 households that answered this question, 17.6% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 68 married couples without children, 84 married couples with children There were 6 single parents with a child or children. There were 3 households that were made up of unrelated people and 2 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 193 apartments (82.8% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 37 apartments (15.9%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (1.3%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 3.8 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe Campagne De Champittet is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 21.6% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (17.28%), the FDP (16.81%) and the LPS Party (14.05%). In the federal election, a total of 209 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 58.2%.\n\n, Cheseaux-Noréaz had an unemployment rate of 3%. , there were 26 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 6 businesses involved in this sector. 5 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. 170 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 17 businesses in this sector. There were 250 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 39.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 188 workers who commuted into the municipality and 212 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 1.1 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 8.4% used public transportation to get to work, and 69.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 125 or 23.7% were Roman Catholic, while 303 or 57.4% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 2 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.38% of the population), and there were 35 individuals (or about 6.63% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 5 individuals (or about 0.95% of the population) who were Jewish, and 5 (or about 0.95% of the population) who were Islamic. There was 1 person who was Buddhist. 53 (or about 10.04% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 16 individuals (or about 3.03% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Cheseaux-Noréaz about 216 or (40.9%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 123 or (23.3%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 123 who completed tertiary schooling, 69.1% were Swiss men, 22.8% were Swiss women, 6.5% were non-Swiss men.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 56 students in the Cheseaux-Noréaz school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 26 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 30 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 190 students in Cheseaux-Noréaz who came from another municipality, while 103 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302905", "title": "Rue Saint-Jacques", "text": "Rue Saint-Jacques\n\nThe rue Saint-Jacques (in French, literally \"Saint James Street\"), is a street in a number of cities, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302906", "title": "Cronay", "text": "Cronay\n\nCronay is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nCronay is first mentioned in 1142 as \"Crosnai\".\n\nCronay has an area, , of . Of this area, or 61.0% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 32.6% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 5.8% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.5% is either rivers or lakes and or 0.2% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 3.0%. Out of the forested land, 31.6% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.1% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 53.4% is used for growing crops and 6.2% is pastures, while 1.4% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Cronay became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nIt consists of the village of Cronay and the hamlets of La Baumaz, La Crausaz and Planchamps.\n\nThe municipalities of Cronay, Cuarny, Pomy, Ursins, Valeyres-sous-Ursins and Villars-Epeney are considering a merger on at a date in the future into the new municipality with an, , undetermined name.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Argent, a Saltire engrailed Argent, four Torteaux.\"\n\nCronay has a population () of . , 6.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of -0.3%. It has changed at a rate of 1.9% due to migration and at a rate of -2.3% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (299 or 97.1%) as their first language, with German being second most common (4 or 1.3%) and Italian being third (2 or 0.6%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Cronay is; 20 children or 6.5% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 41 teenagers or 13.4% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 39 people or 12.7% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 33 people or 10.7% are between 30 and 39, 52 people or 16.9% are between 40 and 49, and 48 people or 15.6% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 36 people or 11.7% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 15 people or 4.9% are between 70 and 79, there are 22 people or 7.2% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 119 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 172 married individuals, 11 widows or widowers and 6 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 120 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 27 households that consist of only one person and 8 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 121 households that answered this question, 22.3% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 41 married couples without children, 46 married couples with children There were 5 single parents with a child or children. There was 1 household that was made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 115 apartments (84.6% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 17 apartments (12.5%) were seasonally occupied and 4 apartments (2.9%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 3.3 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe entire village of Cronay is designated as part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 40.92% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (17.9%), the FDP (15.07%) and the Green Party (12.01%). In the federal election, a total of 133 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 56.6%.\n\n, Cronay had an unemployment rate of 3.2%. , there were 53 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 21 businesses involved in this sector. 4 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. 9 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 4 businesses in this sector. There were 149 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 40.3% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 18 workers who commuted into the municipality and 113 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 6.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 9.4% used public transportation to get to work, and 66.4% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 35 or 11.4% were Roman Catholic, while 202 or 65.6% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 member of an Orthodox church, and there were 18 individuals (or about 5.84% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 2 individuals who were Hindu. 51 (or about 16.56% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 7 individuals (or about 2.27% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Cronay about 110 or (35.7%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 22 or (7.1%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 22 who completed tertiary schooling, 54.5% were Swiss men, 27.3% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 27 students in the Cronay school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 16 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 10 students in those schools. There was also 1 student who was home schooled or attended another non-traditional school.\n\n, there were 18 students in Cronay who came from another municipality, while 34 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302908", "title": "Cuarny", "text": "Cuarny\n\nCuarny is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nCuarny is first mentioned in 1174 as \"Quarnie\".\n\nCuarny has an area, , of . Of this area, or 67.6% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 25.8% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 7.0% is settled (buildings or roads) and or 0.2% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.5% and transportation infrastructure made up 5.0%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 54.9% is used for growing crops and 9.8% is pastures, while 2.8% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Cuarny became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located east of Yverdon. It consists of the linear village of Cuarny, the estate of Fignerolles and, since 1964, La Grand-Fin which came from the municipality of Pomy.\n\nThe municipalities of Cronay, Cuarny, Pomy, Ursins, Valeyres-sous-Ursins and Villars-Epeney are considering a merger on at a date in the future into the new municipality with an, , undetermined name.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Argent, in base three Rayonnes Gules; in chief Gules three Owls Argent.\"\n\nCuarny has a population () of . , 5.4% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 0.6%. It has changed at a rate of -1.7% due to migration and at a rate of 3.4% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (168 or 98.2%) as their first language, with Italian being second most common (2 or 1.2%) and German being third (1 or 0.6%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Cuarny is; 19 children or 10.7% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 16 teenagers or 9.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 25 people or 14.1% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 24 people or 13.6% are between 30 and 39, 32 people or 18.1% are between 40 and 49, and 28 people or 15.8% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 20 people or 11.3% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 6 people or 3.4% are between 70 and 79, there are 7 people or 4.0% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 74 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 86 married individuals, 5 widows or widowers and 6 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 64 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 17 households that consist of only one person and 6 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 66 households that answered this question, 25.8% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 19 married couples without children, 25 married couples with children There were 3 single parents with a child or children.\n\n, a total of 59 apartments (86.8% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 6 apartments (8.8%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (4.4%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 55.18% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (9.71%), the EDU Party (8.4%) and the LPS Party (7.94%). In the federal election, a total of 64 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 49.2%.\n\n, Cuarny had an unemployment rate of 2.9%. , there were 26 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 12 businesses involved in this sector. 15 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 6 businesses in this sector. 16 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 6 businesses in this sector. There were 95 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 35.8% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 9 workers who commuted into the municipality and 65 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 7.2 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 8.4% used public transportation to get to work, and 53.7% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 20 or 11.7% were Roman Catholic, while 110 or 64.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 2 members of an Orthodox church (or about 1.17% of the population), and there were 18 individuals (or about 10.53% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 individual who was Jewish, and there was 1 individual who was Islamic. 23 (or about 13.45% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 5 individuals (or about 2.92% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Cuarny about 68 or (39.8%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 18 or (10.5%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 18 who completed tertiary schooling, 61.1% were Swiss men, 33.3% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 28 students in the Cuarny school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 16 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 12 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 17 students in Cuarny who came from another municipality, while 21 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302909", "title": "Démoret", "text": "Démoret\n\nDémoret is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nDémoret is first mentioned in 1154 as \"Donmores\". In 1453 it was mentioned as \"Demoret\".\n\nDémoret has an area, , of . Of this area, or 78.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 16.6% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 4.7% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.1% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.3%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 72.1% is used for growing crops and 6.1% is pastures.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Démoret became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe rural municipality is located along both sides of the main road in the northern Jorat plateau between Broye and Mentue.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Sable, a Dolphin crowned haurient embowed Or.\"\n\nDémoret has a population () of . , 6.3% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of -3.8%. It has changed at a rate of -3.1% due to migration and at a rate of -0.8% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (129 or 97.0%) as their first language, with German being second most common (2 or 1.5%) and Portuguese being third (2 or 1.5%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Démoret is; 8 children or 6.3% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 24 teenagers or 19.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 16 people or 12.7% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 9 people or 7.1% are between 30 and 39, 21 people or 16.7% are between 40 and 49, and 21 people or 16.7% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 8 people or 6.3% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 8 people or 6.3% are between 70 and 79, there are 10 people or 7.9% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 55 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 69 married individuals, 5 widows or widowers and 4 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 49 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.7 persons per household. There were 12 households that consist of only one person and 8 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 49 households that answered this question, 24.5% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 16 married couples without children, 19 married couples with children There were 2 single parents with a child or children.\n\n, a total of 49 apartments (94.2% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 1 apartment was seasonally occupied and 2 apartments (3.8%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe entire village of Démoret is designated as part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 41.3% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (14.22%), the SP (12.57%) and the Other (8.99%). In the federal election, a total of 61 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 67.0%.\n\n, Démoret had an unemployment rate of 0.4%. , there were 33 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 12 businesses involved in this sector. 10 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. 5 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 3 businesses in this sector. There were 65 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 41.5% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 11 workers who commuted into the municipality and 28 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 2.5 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 4.6% used public transportation to get to work, and 38.5% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 15 or 11.3% were Roman Catholic, while 99 or 74.4% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 18 individuals (or about 13.53% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 10 (or about 7.52% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist.\n\nIn Démoret about 43 or (32.3%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 16 or (12.0%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 16 who completed tertiary schooling, 62.5% were Swiss men, 37.5% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 16 students in the Démoret school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 5 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 11 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 2 students in Démoret who came from another municipality, while 31 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302910", "title": "Donneloye", "text": "Donneloye\n\nDonneloye is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nDonneloye is first mentioned in 1150 as \"Donnolui\".\n\nIn the 12th century the village was dominated by a branch of a noble family from Goumoens by the name of Donneloye.\n\nThe river Mentue flows through the commune. The first stone bridge over this river was built during the Bernese period in 1754. Later becoming too narrow, it was widened in 1892 to form the present bridge on the Yverdon/Moudon road.\n\nOn 11 March 2007, the community decided to merge their commune with those of the neighbouring Gossens and Mézery-près-Donneloye communes, with effect from 1 January 2008.\n\nThe municipality of Prahins merged on 1 January 2012 into Donneloye.\n\nThe château of Donneloye was probably first built in the 15th century and passed through many hands from the 16th to the 19th centuries. Charles III, Duke of Savoy sold it in 1534 to Marguerite de Bellevaux, who sold it on to Guillaume Regnauld who in turn sold it to Marguerite de Chanéaz in 1597.\n\nAfter passing through other hands, the château was purchased in 1652 by Jean-Philippe Loys, whose family possessed it until the end of the 18th century, when the \"conseiller d'état\" Jacques-François Viquerat (1838–1904) bought it.\n\nThe building today consists of a principal rectangular body divided by a wide central corridor. At the end of the present garden is a massive round tower, probably a dovecote. The building has no sculptures like those of the château of Avenches, but it is a typical example of a rural medieval manor house. The château is currently in private hands.\n\nDonneloye has an area, , of . Of this area, or 69.3% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 22.8% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 6.9% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.5% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 3.2% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.4%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 56.2% is used for growing crops and 12.7% is pastures. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe area after the merger is .\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Donneloye became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located on the right side of the Mentue river. It consists of the village of Donneloye and a number of hamlets.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Sable, a chief indented Or.\"\n\nDonneloye has a population () of . , 5.3% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 20.3%. It has changed at a rate of 10.3% due to migration and at a rate of 10.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (300 or 93.8%) as their first language, with German being second most common (12 or 3.8%) and Portuguese being third (4 or 1.3%). There is 1 person who speaks Italian.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Donneloye is; 79 children or 13.3% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 83 teenagers or 14.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 69 people or 11.7% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 85 people or 14.4% are between 30 and 39, 92 people or 15.5% are between 40 and 49, and 72 people or 12.2% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 58 people or 9.8% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 31 people or 5.2% are between 70 and 79, there are 20 people or 3.4% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 3 people or 0.5% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 134 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 156 married individuals, 20 widows or widowers and 10 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 181 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.7 persons per household. There were 28 households that consist of only one person and 16 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 120 households that answered this question, 23.3% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 37 married couples without children, 42 married couples with children There were 6 single parents with a child or children. There were 6 households that were made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 86 apartments (88.7% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2 apartments (2.1%) were seasonally occupied and 9 apartments (9.3%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 5.1 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 1.86%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe entire village of Prahins is designated as part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 41.39% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (16.63%), the Green Party (12.36%) and the FDP (9.86%). In the federal election, a total of 127 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 51.4%.\n\n, Donneloye had an unemployment rate of 3.8%. , there were 42 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 14 businesses involved in this sector. 44 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 14 businesses in this sector. 19 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 11 businesses in this sector. There were 166 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 42.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 26 workers who commuted into the municipality and 117 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 4.5 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 7.6% used public transportation to get to work, and 69.6% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 48 or 15.0% were Roman Catholic, while 220 or 68.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 member of an Orthodox church, and there were 28 individuals (or about 8.75% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 31 (or about 9.69% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 5 individuals (or about 1.56% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Donneloye about 111 or (34.7%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 48 or (15.0%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 48 who completed tertiary schooling, 62.5% were Swiss men, 29.2% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 94 students in the Donneloye school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 49 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 45 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 23 students in Donneloye who came from another municipality, while 33 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302912", "title": "Épendes, Vaud", "text": "Épendes, Vaud\n\nÉpendes is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nÉpendes is first mentioned in 1154 as \"Spinles\". In 1174 it was mentioned as \"Espinnes\". The municipality is the site of the Château d'Épendes and the Observatory of Épendes, which is open to the public.\n\nÉpendes has an area, , of . Of this area, or 74.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 13.7% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 9.3% is settled (buildings or roads), or 2.1% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.5% and transportation infrastructure made up 6.2%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 66.0% is used for growing crops and 7.5% is pastures, while 1.4% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Épendes became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Gules a Barrulett Or, overall a Reed Vert fructed Sable between two Frogs Vert in base.\"\n\nÉpendes has a population () of . , 11.1% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 8.2%. It has changed at a rate of -3.1% due to migration and at a rate of 11.3% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (288 or 90.0%) as their first language, with Portuguese being second most common (10 or 3.1%) and German being third (9 or 2.8%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Épendes is; 43 children or 13.6% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 35 teenagers or 11.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 40 people or 12.6% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 48 people or 15.1% are between 30 and 39, 46 people or 14.5% are between 40 and 49, and 43 people or 13.6% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 44 people or 13.9% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 13 people or 4.1% are between 70 and 79, there are 4 people or 1.3% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 139 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 145 married individuals, 14 widows or widowers and 22 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 132 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.4 persons per household. There were 38 households that consist of only one person and 9 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 135 households that answered this question, 28.1% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 39 married couples without children, 46 married couples with children There were 6 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 3 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 130 apartments (86.1% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 15 apartments (9.9%) were seasonally occupied and 6 apartments (4.0%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 31.34% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (19.58%), the FDP (18.63%) and the Green Party (11.93%). In the federal election, a total of 106 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 46.9%.\n\n, Épendes had an unemployment rate of 2.1%. , there were 20 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 9 businesses involved in this sector. 15 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 4 businesses in this sector. 12 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 7 businesses in this sector. There were 183 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 42.1% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 15 workers who commuted into the municipality and 136 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 9.1 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 9.8% used public transportation to get to work, and 66.1% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 67 or 20.9% were Roman Catholic, while 197 or 61.6% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 2 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.63% of the population), and there was 1 individual who belongs to another Christian church. There were 10 (or about 3.13% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 1 individual who belonged to another church. 37 (or about 11.56% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 5 individuals (or about 1.56% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Épendes about 128 or (40.0%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 40 or (12.5%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 40 who completed tertiary schooling, 60.0% were Swiss men, 27.5% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 44 students in the Épendes (VD) school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 25 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 19 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 13 students in Épendes who came from another municipality, while 44 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302914", "title": "Essert-Pittet", "text": "Essert-Pittet\n\nEssert-Pittet is a former municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. In 2017 the former municipalities of Essert-Pittet and Corcelles-sur-Chavornay merged into the municipality of Chavornay.\n\nEssert-Pittet is first mentioned in 1100 as \"Exertus\". In 1453 it was mentioned as \"Essers\". It was first known as \"Essert-Pittet\" before 1764.\n\nEssert-Pittet had an area, , of . Of this area, or 81.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 6.2% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 11.2% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.7% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.8% and transportation infrastructure made up 9.1%. Out of the forested land, 4.7% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.4% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 75.0% is used for growing crops and 5.8% is pastures, while 1.1% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe former municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Essert-Pittet became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Gules, three Acorns Argent two and one.\"\n\nEssert-Pittet had a population () of 164. , 20.3% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 11.9%. It has changed at a rate of 11% due to migration and at a rate of 2.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (108 or 86.4%) as their first language, with German being second most common (6 or 4.8%) and English being third (4 or 3.2%). There is 1 person who speaks Italian.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Essert-Pittet is; 17 children or 12.9% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 10 teenagers or 7.6% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 20 people or 15.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 24 people or 18.2% are between 30 and 39, 19 people or 14.4% are between 40 and 49, and 7 people or 5.3% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 18 people or 13.6% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 12 people or 9.1% are between 70 and 79, there are 4 people or 3.0% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 47 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 57 married individuals, 11 widows or widowers and 10 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 59 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.1 persons per household. There were 19 households that consist of only one person and 2 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 59 households that answered this question, 32.2% were households made up of just one person and there were 3 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 14 married couples without children, 16 married couples with children There were 3 single parents with a child or children. There were 4 households that were made up of unrelated people.\n\n, a total of 55 apartments (91.7% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2 apartments (3.3%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (5.0%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 37.64% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the EVP Party (16.15%), the FDP (13.76%) and the SP (9.55%). In the federal election, a total of 43 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 53.1%.\n\n, Essert-Pittet had an unemployment rate of 5.3%. , there were 9 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 4 businesses involved in this sector. 4 people were employed in the secondary sector and there was 1 business in this sector. 11 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 4 businesses in this sector. There were 74 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 41.9% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 7 workers who commuted into the municipality and 56 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 8.0 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 14.9% used public transportation to get to work, and 58.1% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 18 or 14.4% were Roman Catholic, while 74 or 59.2% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 16 individuals (or about 12.80% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 22 (or about 17.60% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 3 individuals (or about 2.40% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Essert-Pittet about 53 or (42.4%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 15 or (12.0%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 15 who completed tertiary schooling, 60.0% were Swiss men, 26.7% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 12 students in the Essert-Pittet school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 8 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 4 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 17 students in Essert-Pittet who came from another municipality, while 8 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302916", "title": "Essert-sous-Champvent", "text": "Essert-sous-Champvent\n\nEssert-sous-Champvent is a former municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The municipalities of Essert-sous-Champvent and Villars-sous-Champvent merged on 1 January 2012 into the municipality of Champvent.\n\nEssert-sous-Champvent is first mentioned in 1095 as \"Exertas\".\n\nEssert-sous-Champvent had an area, , of . Of this area, or 70.2% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 19.8% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 11.6% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 3.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 7.4%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 51.2% is used for growing crops and 9.1% is pastures, while 9.9% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe former municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Essert-sous-Champvent became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe former municipality is located in a small valley between Chamblon hill and the foothills of the Jura Mountains. The Brinaz river flows through the municipality.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Paly of six Argent and Azure, two Stumps eradicated crossed in saltire Gules.\"\n\nEssert-sous-Champvent has a population () of 151. , 24.6% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 36%. It has changed at a rate of 18.9% due to migration and at a rate of 17.1% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (94 or 71.2%) as their first language, with Portuguese being second most common (28 or 21.2%) and Italian being third (6 or 4.5%). There are 2 people who speak German.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Essert-sous-Champvent is; 19 children or 12.6% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 19 teenagers or 12.6% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 20 people or 13.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 24 people or 15.9% are between 30 and 39, 28 people or 18.5% are between 40 and 49, and 16 people or 10.6% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 5 people or 3.3% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 13 people or 8.6% are between 70 and 79, there are 7 people or 4.6% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 48 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 71 married individuals, 4 widows or widowers and 9 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 47 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 10 households that consist of only one person and 1 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 48 households that answered this question, 20.8% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 19 married couples without children, 16 married couples with children There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 47 apartments (78.3% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 13 apartments (21.7%) were seasonally occupied. , the construction rate of new housing units was 6.6 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 33.93% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (22.22%), the SP (16.67%) and the PdA Party (12.3%). In the federal election, a total of 31 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 39.2%.\n\n, Essert-sous-Champvent had an unemployment rate of 3.7%. , there were 17 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 6 businesses involved in this sector. 149 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. 2 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 2 businesses in this sector. There were 77 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 35.1% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 77 workers who commuted into the municipality and 26 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net importer of workers, with about 3.0 workers entering the municipality for every one leaving. About 13.0% of the workforce coming into Essert-sous-Champvent are coming from outside Switzerland. Of the working population, 5.2% used public transportation to get to work, and 40.3% used a private car.\n\nThe meter gauge electric Yverdon–Ste-Croix railway line links Essert-sous-Champvent with Yverdon-les-Bains and Sainte Croix.\n\nFrom the , 54 or 40.9% were Roman Catholic, while 61 or 46.2% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 4 individuals (or about 3.03% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 individual who was Islamic. 12 (or about 9.09% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 1.52% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Essert-sous-Champvent about 36 or (27.3%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 9 or (6.8%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 9 who completed tertiary schooling, 66.7% were Swiss men, 33.3% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 15 students in the Essert-sous-Champvent school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 7 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 8 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 19 students from Essert-sous-Champvent who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302917", "title": "Gressy", "text": "Gressy\n\nGressy is a former municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The municipality of Gressy merged on 1 July 2011 into the municipality of Yverdon-les-Bains.\n\nGressy is first mentioned in 1228 as \"Grissie\".\n\nGressy has an area, , of . Of this area, or 68.8% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 16.5% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 13.8% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.9% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 3.6% and transportation infrastructure made up 8.9%. Out of the forested land, 14.7% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.8% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 52.7% is used for growing crops and 14.7% is pastures, while 1.3% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Gressy became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Pally Argent and Azure, overall on a Bend wavy Gules three Bezants.\"\n\nGressy had a population () of 155. , 4.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 14%. It has changed at a rate of 8.8% due to migration and at a rate of 5.1% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (134 or 96.4%) as their first language, with German being second most common (2 or 1.4%) and Spanish being third (2 or 1.4%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Gressy is; 18 children or 11.6% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 26 teenagers or 16.8% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 16 people or 10.3% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 20 people or 12.9% are between 30 and 39, 24 people or 15.5% are between 40 and 49, and 15 people or 9.7% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 18 people or 11.6% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 12 people or 7.7% are between 70 and 79, there are 5 people or 3.2% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 56 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 68 married individuals, 7 widows or widowers and 8 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 56 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 16 households that consist of only one person and 4 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 56 households that answered this question, 28.6% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 13 married couples without children, 22 married couples with children There were 4 single parents with a child or children. There was 1 household that was made up of unrelated people.\n\n, a total of 53 apartments (80.3% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 7 apartments (10.6%) were seasonally occupied and 6 apartments (9.1%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe Oppidum De Sermuz, an Iron Age settlement, is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 34.53% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (25.14%), the FDP (14.08%) and the LPS Party (8.83%). In the federal election, a total of 52 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 48.1%.\n\n, Gressy had an unemployment rate of 1.3%. , there were 16 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 6 businesses involved in this sector. 5 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. 48 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 3 businesses in this sector. There were 69 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 36.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 8 workers who commuted into the municipality and 50 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 6.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 4.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 63.8% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 18 or 12.9% were Roman Catholic, while 103 or 74.1% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 14 individuals (or about 10.07% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 4 individuals who were Buddhist. 4 (or about 2.88% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 3 individuals (or about 2.16% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Gressy about 57 or (41.0%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 15 or (10.8%) have completed additional higher education (either University or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 15 who completed tertiary schooling, 73.3% were Swiss men, 6.7% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 34 students in the Gressy school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 14 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 20 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 17 students from Gressy who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302919", "title": "Heath Shuler", "text": "Heath Shuler\n\nJoseph Heath Shuler (born December 31, 1971) is an American businessman, former NFL quarterback, and former U.S. Representative for from 2007 to 2013. He was a member of the Democratic Party and the Blue Dog Coalition.\n\nDuring his tenure in Congress, Shuler was known for challenging the leadership of his party, which he believed had moved too far to the left. In 2010, he ran against Nancy Pelosi for Minority Leader. He believed the challenge would add to his prominence as a leader of conservative and moderate Democrats. He was one of the leaders of the Blue Dog Democrats, whose numbers were severely reduced by Republican gains in the 2010 midterm elections. This left him with a lower profile in the national media than he had previously enjoyed.\n\nShuler's congressional district covered the Blue Ridge Mountains in western North Carolina. The largest city in the district was Asheville, which has voted strongly Democratic, in part influenced by retirees from Northeastern and Midwestern areas. In redistricting, the Republican-dominated legislature redrew the boundaries of the 10th and 11th congressional districts, removing half of Asheville and making the district far more Republican in terms of voter history. As a result, Shuler announced his retirement from the House on February 2, 2012.\n\nShuler was born in Bryson City, North Carolina, a small town in the Great Smoky Mountains near the Tennessee border. His father was a mail carrier and his mother a homemaker and volunteer with the Swain County Youth Association; he has a younger brother, Benjie.\n\nShuler's athletic career began at Swain County High School in Bryson City. A standout quarterback who led his team to two state championships, he was named as the North Carolina High School Player of the Year. He attracted scout attention and accepted an athletic scholarship to the University of Tennessee in 1990.\n\nUnder head coaches Johnny Majors and Phillip Fulmer, Shuler gained national attention as one of the SEC's top quarterbacks. After a limited role in the 1991 season behind quarterback Andy Kelly, he became a prolific passer. In the 1992 season, he passed for 1,712 passing yards, ten touchdowns, and four interceptions as Tennessee finished with a 9–3 record. The next season, he finished with 2,354 passing yards, 25 touchdowns, and eight interceptions as Tennessee finished with a 9–2–1 record. He held nearly all Volunteer passing records by the end of his collegiate career; most were subsequently eclipsed by Peyton Manning. In 1993, Shuler came in second behind Charlie Ward in the vote for the Heisman Trophy.\n\nShuler was a first-round selection in the 1994 NFL Draft, taken by the Washington Redskins with the third overall pick. He held out of training camp until he received a 7-year, $19.25 million contract, most of the holdout being due to Shuler's agent and the Redskins general manager discussing the parameters of the contract. The Redskins had fallen on hard times since winning Super Bowl XXVI, and Shuler was considered the quarterback of the future. However, Shuler's poor play contributed to a quarterback controversy with fellow 1994 draft pick, seventh-rounder Gus Frerotte. Public and fan sentiment soon began to back Frerotte, especially after Shuler threw five interceptions in a 19–16 loss to the Arizona Cardinals. Shuler started 18 games in his first two years with the team and was benched in his third year, as Frerotte led the team.\n\nAfter the 1996 season, Shuler was traded to the New Orleans Saints for a fifth-round pick in the 1997 draft and a third-round pick in 1998. Shuler's statistics remained poor. He suffered a serious foot injury during the 1997 season in New Orleans and had two surgeries to try to correct it. Football statistics site \"Football Outsiders\" called Shuler \"The least valuable quarterback of 1997.\"\n\nAfter being unable to take the field due to his foot injury in his second season in New Orleans, Shuler signed with the Oakland Raiders. After re-injuring his foot in training camp, he was cut and later retired. As a professional, his career passer rating was a 54.3. In 2004, ESPN rated him the 17th biggest 'sports flop' of the past 25 years, along with the fourth biggest NFL Draft bust. The NFL Network ranked Shuler as the ninth-biggest bust in NFL history.\n\nAfter retiring from the NFL, Shuler returned to the University of Tennessee and completed his degree in psychology. He became a real estate professional in Knoxville, Tennessee. His real estate company is one of the largest independent firms in East Tennessee. In 2003, Shuler moved to Biltmore Forest, North Carolina.\n\nIn July 2005, Shuler announced his intention to seek the Democratic nomination to run against eight-term incumbent Republican Charles H. Taylor. North Carolina's 11th congressional district covered most of the Western North Carolina mountains where Shuler grew up.\n\nWhen Shuler ran in 2006, he was a tough target for opponents. His views on social issues seemed to be in line with the traditionally conservative district and he did not have a legislative record for opponents to attack. His campaign points were based on supporting cultural \"mountain values:\" opposing abortion rights, same-sex marriage and gun control. Taylor, an Appropriations subcommittee chairman, campaigned on his ability to bring federal money to the district. In October, with polls showing Taylor trailing, \"The Wall Street Journal\" ran a story about spending earmarks sought by Taylor that benefited many of his business interests. Taylor poured $2.5 million of his own money into his race, and spent $4.4 million overall, compared with Shuler's $1.8 million.\n\nShuler repeatedly attacked Taylor for failing to stand up for the 11th's interests. For example, he blasted Taylor for missing a vote on the Central American Free Trade Agreement, which passed by only two votes. Shuler pointed out that, according to the House roll call, Taylor voted 11 times on the same day that CAFTA came up for a vote, suggesting he deliberately avoided the vote. Taylor was one of two Republicans who did not vote on the bill, even though he had publicly opposed it in the past.\n\nTaylor, for his part, claimed that Shuler would be an extra vote for Democrat Nancy Pelosi, although Shuler was nearly as conservative on social issues as Taylor.\n\nIn the November election, Shuler won with 54 percent of the vote to Taylor's 46 percent. He carried nine of the district's 15 counties, including several areas that had reliably supported Taylor over the years, including Taylor's home county of Transylvania. Shuler was one of only two Democrats to defeat an incumbent in the South that year. His victory gave the Democrats a majority of the state's congressional delegation for the first time since the 1994 elections.\n\nIn 2009, a documentary film about the successful 2006 Democratic campaign to retake control of the House, \"HouseQuake\", prominently featured then-Congressman Rahm Emanuel's efforts to recruit new candidates including Shuler. \"Mr. Emanuel's efforts to get him to run offer one of the most revealing moments in the film,\" including two weeks of frequent phone calls about the balancing of family and Congressional obligations. The film was directed and produced by Karen Elizabeth Price, daughter of Congressman David Price who represents North Carolina's 4th congressional district.\n\nIn 2008, Shuler faced Carl Mumpower, a Republican Asheville city councilman, and Libertarian Keith Smith. Shuler won strongly with 62 percent of the vote. He easily carried all 15 counties in the district, including the traditionally Republican Henderson County.\n\nIn early 2009, Shuler was mentioned as a possible candidate to run against incumbent Republican Richard Burr for the United States Senate in the next year's elections. He ultimately chose not to do so, and sought reelection to the House. Shuler defeated Republican nominee Jeff Miller, winning reelection by a margin of 54% to 46%.\n\nAlthough Shuler represented a district with a slight Republican bent, he had a lifetime ACU rating of 28.5.\n\nIn July 2011, the Republican-dominated General Assembly significantly redrew the 11th. The district and its predecessors had been anchored in Asheville for over a century. However, the new map saw most of heavily Democratic Asheville drawn into the 10th. To make up for the population loss, a number of heavily Republican counties in the Foothills were moved to the 11th. The redistricting reduced the percentage of registered Democrats in the 11th from 43% to 36%. Chris Cooper, a political science professor at Western Carolina University, concluded that the new district was so heavily Republican that Shuler would need to \"practically completely separate himself from the Democratic party\" in order to have any chance of winning a fourth term. Years later, NBC News also concluded that the redrawn 11th was all but unwinnable for a Democrat, even one as conservative as Shuler. The district was drawn in a way that in some neighborhoods, one side of the street moved to the 10th while the other side remained in the 11th.\n\nOver the course of 2011, several persons declared their candidacy for Shuler's seat or expressed interest in a possible run.\n\nOn February 2, 2012, Shuler announced that he would not run for another term. He endorsed his former chief of staff, Hayden Rogers, in the race to succeed him, but Rogers, as expected in the now heavily Republican district, lost the general election to Republican Mark Meadows. Years later, he told NBC News that the kind of ultra-precise redistricting that enabled the Republican-dominated legislature to split Asheville between two districts was bad for the country because it made it all but impossible to elect moderates to Congress. He argued that a fairer redistricting system was \"the single greatest thing that could happen.\"\n\nShuler was a whip of the Blue Dog Coalition, a caucus of moderate-to-conservative House Democrats.\n\nA list of bills sponsored by Shuler in the 112th Congress includes H.R.3065, the Target Practice and Marksmanship Training Support Act; H.R.2086, the Medical Debt Responsibility Act of 2011; H.R.2000, the SAVE Act of 2011: H.R. 1889, the Gas Tax Holiday Act; and H.R.1434, the International Child Protection Act of 2011.\n\nIn 2011, Shuler led a group of House Democrats in pressuring the President to deal with the AT&T and T-Mobile merger. The group pushed for the lawsuit to be settled by the Department of Justice. The group sided with the claim made by AT&T that the merger would create much-needed jobs.\n\nIn November 2011, Shuler took the lead in a bipartisan call calling for larger cuts of the U.S. deficit.\n\nIn 2007, Shuler introduced proposed legislation co-sponsored with fellow North Carolina U.S. Congressman Walter Jones to require airlines to have sections of the aircraft where large movie screens would not be visible.\n\nRepresentative Shuler has also been a major supporter of the government of Sri Lanka in Congress.\n\nReportedly owing to his success in real estate, Shuler was named chairman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Rural and Urban Entrepreneurship during the 110th and 111th Congresses. He has also been a deputy-at-large Whip.\n\nShuler voted against the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 both times it came before the House. He later joined seven other conservative House Democrats in voting against the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, an $819 billion economic stimulus bill proposed by President Barack Obama. Shuler also voted against the Affordable Health Care for America Act, or HR 3962, along with 38 other Democrats, despite voting yes on the Stupak amendment in the same bill, which prohibits federal funds to be used for abortions.\nIn January 2011, Shuler voted against repealing the law, explaining that the repeal would be immoral.\n\nShuler voted in favor of HR 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act which would implement a cap and trade system aimed at controlling pollution.\n\nIn 2011, he co-sponsored HR 3, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, The bill contained an exception for \"forcible rape,\" which opponents criticized as potentially excluding drug-facilitated rape, date rape, and other forms of rape. The bill also allowed an exception for minors who are victims of incest.\n\nShuler is a strong advocate of gun rights. On January 10, 2011, the \"Washington Post\" reported that \"[i]n the wake of the shooting of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords,\" Shuler \"intends to arm himself more frequently\" and is \"encouraging his staff members to apply for carry permits.\" On January 29, 2011, a Doonesbury cartoon made fun of Shuler's plan to carry a gun.\n\nIn April 2009, Shuler voted against the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.\n\nIn July 2011, Shuler was one of five Democrats to vote for the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act.\n\nDuring his 2010 campaign, Shuler showed interest in taking the place of Nancy Pelosi as Speaker of the House, if Democrats maintained their majority. On November 4, after Republicans had won a majority of seats in the upcoming Congress, Shuler predicted Pelosi would no longer be a leader in the House. However, if Pelosi wanted to take the minority leader position, Shuler told \"Roll Call\", he would run against her if there were no \"viable candidate\".\n\nOn November 13, 2010, in a long \"New York Times\" article about Shuler, Campbell Robertson noted his use of a football analogy to describe the current situation of Congressional Democrats: \"It's no different than me as a quarterback,\" he said. \"I didn't play very good. So what they'd do? They benched me.\" Robertson noted that \"Shuler has emerged as one of most prominent voices in the debate on the Democratic Party's immediate future. He was among the first to call for Ms. Pelosi to step down from her leadership role in the new Congress and said he would run for minority leader himself if no alternative emerged (though he admitted that he would be an underdog).\" According to Robertson, Shuler felt the Democratic leadership \"has been too reflexively partisan\" and called for \"a more moderate approach.\" \n\nRobertson observed that North Carolina \"has long nurtured a strand of progressivism, particularly on issues like education, and a Sunday school brand of social conservatism — sometimes in the same candidate,\" and that \"North Carolina's curious politics are on full display in Mr. Shuler's district, which ... includes the heavily Democratic city of Asheville, home to yoga studios and holistic medicine centers, as well as staunchly conservative hamlets scattered throughout the Blue Ridge Mountains.\"\n\nAs expected, Pelosi did run for minority leader, and on November 14, Shuler told CNN he would run against her, though he doubted he would win. Shuler lost to Pelosi 150-43 on November 17, but he was pleased that conservative Democrats showed they must be dealt with. On the opening day of the 112th Congress, Shuler received 11 votes for Speaker of the House, which his political aide called \"the most dissenting votes recorded in modern history for partisan defections during a vote for Speaker\" (Since 1925).\n\n\nShuler transitioned to a lobbying position with Duke Energy to direct its lobbying and government affairs in Washington, D.C., in 2013.\n\nShuler is married to Nikol Davis, with whom he has two children: a daughter, Island, and a son, Navy. Shuler remains active in the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Shuler also serves as a volunteer assistant football coach for Christ School, a boarding and day school located in suburban Asheville. His son Navy also attends Christ School.\n\nIn Washington, Shuler lived at the C Street House of The Fellowship, a controversial organization which operates the property as a tax-exempt church and a residence for several congressmen and senators. The building became notorious during a series of political sex scandals in 2009, in which current or former residents John Ensign, Mark Sanford, and Chip Pickering admitted to adulterous affairs, which their housemates knew of but did not publicize. In September 2010, \"The New Yorker\" published a piece about the house, focusing on the connection with a secretive religious organization called the Fellowship. Shuler has attended weekly prayer sessions sponsored by the group since his arrival in Washington. In reference to the secrecy, Shuler said \"I've been here the whole time, and there's talk about what the Fellowship is, but I honestly have no idea what they're talking about. I honestly don't know what it is.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302923", "title": "Mathod", "text": "Mathod\n\nMathod is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nMathod is first mentioned in 1141 as \"Mastod\".\n\nMathod has an area, , of . Of this area, or 84.8% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 8.3% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 5.6% is settled (buildings or roads), or 1.5% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.9% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.5%. Out of the forested land, 7.3% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.1% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 75.9% is used for growing crops and 6.2% is pastures, while 2.7% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Mathod became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located in the Mujon valley, a tributary of the Zihl river.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Pally of Six Argent and Azure, overall on a Bend dancety Gules three Cat's heads affronty Or.\"\n\nMathod has a population () of . , 13.3% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 21.8%. It has changed at a rate of 10.9% due to migration and at a rate of 10.2% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (416 or 90.6%) as their first language, with Portuguese being second most common (22 or 4.8%) and German being third (16 or 3.5%). There are 2 people who speak Italian.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Mathod is; 90 children or 16.5% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 73 teenagers or 13.3% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 68 people or 12.4% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 82 people or 15.0% are between 30 and 39, 87 people or 15.9% are between 40 and 49, and 56 people or 10.2% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 48 people or 8.8% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 23 people or 4.2% are between 70 and 79, there are 19 people or 3.5% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 193 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 234 married individuals, 20 widows or widowers and 12 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 173 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 44 households that consist of only one person and 19 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 176 households that answered this question, 25.0% were households made up of just one person and there were 4 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 44 married couples without children, 68 married couples with children There were 11 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 3 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 157 apartments (87.2% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 19 apartments (10.6%) were seasonally occupied and 4 apartments (2.2%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 1.8 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0.45%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nMathod Castle is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 31.66% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (17.9%), the FDP (17.6%) and the Green Party (12.81%). In the federal election, a total of 168 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 49.7%.\n\n, Mathod had an unemployment rate of 3.8%. , there were 38 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 12 businesses involved in this sector. 22 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 4 businesses in this sector. 44 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 15 businesses in this sector. There were 242 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 43.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 50 workers who commuted into the municipality and 166 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 3.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. About 10.0% of the workforce coming into Mathod are coming from outside Switzerland. Of the working population, 13.6% used public transportation to get to work, and 58.3% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 92 or 20.0% were Roman Catholic, while 286 or 62.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 member of an Orthodox church, and there were 30 individuals (or about 6.54% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 individual who was Islamic. There was 1 person who was Buddhist. 46 (or about 10.02% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 17 individuals (or about 3.70% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Mathod about 177 or (38.6%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 54 or (11.8%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 54 who completed tertiary schooling, 51.9% were Swiss men, 29.6% were Swiss women, 13.0% were non-Swiss men.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 95 students in the Mathod school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 52 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 38 students in those schools. There were also 5 students who were home schooled or attended another non-traditional school.\n\n, there were 14 students in Mathod who came from another municipality, while 76 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302925", "title": "Mézery-près-Donneloye", "text": "Mézery-près-Donneloye\n\nMézery-près-Donneloye was a municipality in the district of Yverdon of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. On January 1, 2008 it merged with Donneloye and Gossens to form Donneloye.\n"}
{"id": "2302926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302926", "title": "Warm Leatherette", "text": "Warm Leatherette\n\n\"Warm Leatherette\" is a song by Daniel Miller's project The Normal, released in 1978.\n\nThe lyrics of \"Warm Leatherette\" reference J.G. Ballard's controversial 1973 novel \"Crash\", which had heavily influenced Daniel Miller. Together with his college friend, he had worked on a film script based on the book, but after the project was abandoned, Miller decided to \"write a song encapsulating [the script] in 2 and a half minutes\". The song was recorded in Miller's apartment using two Revox B-77 tape machines. A series of sawtooth waves were recorded on a Korg 700S synthesizer.\n\nMiller took the record to a few independent music shops, including Rough Trade in London, where it would be played to customers. \"Warm Leatherette\" was released as the B-side to \"T.V.O.D.\", the only single by Miller's musical project The Normal, and the very first release on his Mute Records label. However, since it was \"Warm Leatherette\" that gained more public attention, it was featured as the lead song on subsequent single re-releases. Although Miller did not expect the single to be successful, it sold thirty thousand copies.\n\nThe single was an early example of industrial music, emerging on a wave of numerous electronic pop experiments of the late 1970s in the UK. It has since been described as having \"revolutionised electronic music with its punk aesthetic, stark sound and dark subject matter\" and has been covered by numerous artists.\n\n\n\nGrace Jones recorded \"Warm Leatherette\" for her 1980 album of the same name. The song was released as a promotional only 12\" single. In 1981 it became the opening song on her A One Man Show tour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302927", "title": "Molondin", "text": "Molondin\n\nMolondin is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nMolondin is first mentioned in 1380 as \"Mollondens\" and \"Mollendens\".\n\nMolondin has an area, , of . Of this area, or 66.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 29.5% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 4.4% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.6% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.0%. Out of the forested land, 27.9% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.6% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 59.0% is used for growing crops and 6.7% is pastures.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Molondin became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe village is located on a plateau, south-west of Vallon des Vaux.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Bendy of Eight Azure and Or, a Tower with a Wall to sinister embatteled Argent masoned Sable.\"\n\nMolondin has a population () of . , 11.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 6.8%. It has changed at a rate of 9.9% due to migration and at a rate of -2.1% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (172 or 95.0%) as their first language, with German being second most common (7 or 3.9%) and English being third (1 or 0.6%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Molondin is; 18 children or 8.8% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 31 teenagers or 15.1% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 19 people or 9.3% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 29 people or 14.1% are between 30 and 39, 36 people or 17.6% are between 40 and 49, and 21 people or 10.2% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 27 people or 13.2% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 11 people or 5.4% are between 70 and 79, there are 11 people or 5.4% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 2 people or 1.0% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 82 people who were single and never married in the village. There were 86 married individuals, 11 widows or widowers and 2 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 71 private households in the village, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 18 households that consist of only one person and 6 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 71 households that answered this question, 25.4% were households made up of just one person and there were 2 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 20 married couples without children, 26 married couples with children There were 4 single parents with a child or children. There was 1 household that was made up of unrelated people.\n\n, a total of 67 apartments (80.7% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 11 apartments (13.3%) were seasonally occupied and 5 apartments (6.0%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the village, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\n\nThe castle ruins and abandoned settlement at Saint-Martin-Du-Chêne is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance. The entire village of Molondin is part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 41.64% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (22.66%), the SP (14.84%) and the Green Party (6.65%). In the federal election, a total of 64 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 45.7%.\n\n, Molondin had an unemployment rate of 2.2%. , there were 56 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 12 businesses involved in this sector. 7 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 3 businesses in this sector. 23 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 5 businesses in this sector. There were 83 residents of the village who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 38.6% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 9 workers who commuted into the village and 42 workers who commuted away. The village is a net exporter of workers, with about 4.7 workers leaving the village for every one entering. Of the working population, 4.8% used public transportation to get to work, and 47% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 20 or 11.0% were Roman Catholic, while 129 or 71.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 19 individuals (or about 10.50% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 16 (or about 8.84% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 3 individuals (or about 1.66% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Molondin about 64 or (35.4%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 17 or (9.4%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 17 who completed tertiary schooling, 52.9% were Swiss men, 35.3% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 31 students in the Molondin school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 14 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 17 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 4 students in Molondin who came from another village, while 30 residents attended schools outside the village.\n"}
{"id": "2302928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302928", "title": "TVOD", "text": "TVOD\n\nTVOD may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302930", "title": "Travis Chick", "text": "Travis Chick\n\nTravis Cole Chick (born June 10, 1984) is an American former professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Seattle Mariners.\n\nChick was drafted by the Florida Marlins in the 14th round of the 2002 Major League Baseball Draft. After two seasons in the low minors, he was traded to the San Diego Padres, who subsequently traded Chick and Justin Germano to the Cincinnati Reds for Joe Randa on July 23, 2005. On July 6, 2006, he was again traded, this time to the Seattle Mariners for pitcher Eddie Guardado and cash considerations.\n\nThe Mariners assigned Chick to the Double-A San Antonio Missions. He was called up to the Mariners in September and made his major league debut on September 13, . He appeared in three games for the Mariners and returned to the minors for the next two seasons. He became a free agent at the end of the season and signed a minor league contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. He most recently pitched for the Chattanooga Lookouts. For the 2010 season, Chick signed with the Camden Riversharks of the independent Atlantic League. The Riversharks placed Chick on the inactive list July 16, 2010. Chick finish his stint with Camden with a 5-4 record and a 4.40 ERA while seeing action as both a starter and reliever. On July 27, 2010, Chick was signed by the Pittsburgh Pirates and was sent to their Class AAA affiliate, the Indianapolis Indians. Chick was soon traded to the Texas Rangers on August 13, 2010 for a PTBNL or cash. Chick retired in 2010.\n\nFollowing his professional baseball career, Chick began his work as a Financial Advisor at Merrill Lynch. In 2018, Chick began working at AWM Capital, a multi-family office serving first-generation wealth creators (athletes, founders, doctors, key employees). In 2019, Chick obtained a Certificate in Financial Planning from Pepperdine Graziadio Business School and successfully passed the Certified Financial Planner certification (CFP).\n"}
{"id": "2302931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302931", "title": "Montagny-près-Yverdon", "text": "Montagny-près-Yverdon\n\nMontagny-près-Yverdon is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nMontagny-près-Yverdon is first mentioned around 995-96 as \"in villa Montaniaco\". In 1397 it was mentioned as \"Montaigny-le-Courbe\".\n\nIts history goes back to at least the 12th century, but the medieval castle and church no longer exist. The current church, with two bells, was built in 1769. At one time on the Roman road connecting Yverdon with Sainte-Croix, it is now on an autoroute.\n\nMontagny-près-Yverdon has an area, , of . Of this area, or 69.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 6.5% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 22.4% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.6% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, industrial buildings made up 5.4% of the total area while housing and buildings made up 4.8% and transportation infrastructure made up 9.9%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 2.0% of the area Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 56.5% is used for growing crops and 8.5% is pastures, while 4.8% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the village is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Montagny-près-Yverdon became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipal area stretches from the hills around the village, over the Brinaz stream and to the banks of the Orbe.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Argent, a Crayfish-claw Gules.\" The crayfish claw is the missing claw from the coat of arms of the municipality of Onnens and represents the division of the two municipalities.\n\nMontagny-près-Yverdon has a population () of . , 14.4% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 8.7%. It has changed at a rate of 6.6% due to migration and at a rate of 3.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (536 or 88.4%) as their first language, with German being second most common (21 or 3.5%) and Italian being third (17 or 2.8%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Montagny-près-Yverdon is; 75 children or 11.1% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 85 teenagers or 12.6% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 81 people or 12.0% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 93 people or 13.8% are between 30 and 39, 101 people or 15.0% are between 40 and 49, and 111 people or 16.4% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 68 people or 10.1% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 43 people or 6.4% are between 70 and 79, there are 16 people or 2.4% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 2 people or 0.3% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 258 people who were single and never married in the village. There were 287 married individuals, 31 widows or widowers and 30 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 241 private households in the village, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 71 households that consist of only one person and 26 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 246 households that answered this question, 28.9% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 64 married couples without children, 88 married couples with children There were 12 single parents with a child or children. There were 5 households that were made up of unrelated people and 5 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 229 apartments (93.1% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 15 apartments (6.1%) were seasonally occupied and 2 apartments (0.8%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 7.4 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the village, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SP which received 24.89% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SVP (23.04%), the Green Party (14.85%) and the FDP (9.92%). In the federal election, a total of 191 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 45.6%.\n\n, Montagny-près-Yverdon had an unemployment rate of 3.4%. , there were 25 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 8 businesses involved in this sector. 213 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 28 businesses in this sector. 920 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 90 businesses in this sector. There were 334 residents of the village who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 44.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 626 workers who commuted into the village and 239 workers who commuted away. The village is a net importer of workers, with about 2.6 workers entering the village for every one leaving. About 4.6% of the workforce coming into Montagny-près-Yverdon are coming from outside Switzerland. Of the working population, 14.1% used public transportation to get to work, and 60.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 146 or 24.1% were Roman Catholic, while 317 or 52.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 13 members of an Orthodox church (or about 2.15% of the population), there was 1 individual who belongs to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 37 individuals (or about 6.11% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 4 (or about 0.66% of the population) who were Islamic. 97 (or about 16.01% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 9 individuals (or about 1.49% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Montagny-près-Yverdon about 227 or (37.5%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 91 or (15.0%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 91 who completed tertiary schooling, 52.7% were Swiss men, 30.8% were Swiss women, 11.0% were non-Swiss men and 5.5% were non-Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 77 students in the Montagny-près-Yverdon school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 43 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 34 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 53 students in Montagny-près-Yverdon who came from another village, while 107 residents attended schools outside the village.\n\n"}
{"id": "2302932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302932", "title": "Oppens", "text": "Oppens\n\nOppens is a municipality in the district of Gros-de-Vaud in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nOppens is first mentioned around 1160-64 as \"Opens\".\n\nOppens has an area, , of . Of this area, or 65.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 28.7% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 6.1% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.8% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.8% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.5%. Out of the forested land, 26.7% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.9% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 56.8% is used for growing crops and 7.0% is pastures, while 1.7% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the village is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Oppens became part of the new district of Gros-de-Vaud.\n\nThe village is located away from the main roads along the Sauteruz river. It consists of the village of Oppens on the left side of the Sauteruz and the hamlet of La Tuilière on the right side.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Vert, three Bars wavy Argent, in Chief Argent a capital O Or.\"\n\nOppens has a population () of . , 21.7% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of -0.6%. It has changed at a rate of -1.8% due to migration and at a rate of 0% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (144 or 84.7%) as their first language, with Portuguese being second most common (17 or 10.0%) and German being third (8 or 4.7%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Oppens is; 11 children or 6.7% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 26 teenagers or 16.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 17 people or 10.4% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 22 people or 13.5% are between 30 and 39, 28 people or 17.2% are between 40 and 49, and 22 people or 13.5% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 16 people or 9.8% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 12 people or 7.4% are between 70 and 79, there are 8 people or 4.9% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 65 people who were single and never married in the village. There were 89 married individuals, 10 widows or widowers and 6 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 69 private households in the village, and an average of 2.4 persons per household. There were 20 households that consist of only one person and 6 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 72 households that answered this question, 27.8% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 22 married couples without children, 22 married couples with children There were 4 single parents with a child or children. There was 1 household that was made up of unrelated people and 3 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 66 apartments (84.6% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 10 apartments (12.8%) were seasonally occupied and 2 apartments (2.6%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the village, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 29.98% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (22.35%), the Green Party (14.71%) and the PdA Party (8.63%). In the federal election, a total of 53 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 52.0%.\n\n, Oppens had an unemployment rate of 4.4%. , there were 67 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 8 businesses involved in this sector. 10 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 3 businesses in this sector. 21 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 4 businesses in this sector. There were 84 residents of the village who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 34.5% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 21 workers who commuted into the village and 47 workers who commuted away. The village is a net exporter of workers, with about 2.2 workers leaving the village for every one entering. Of the working population, 4.8% used public transportation to get to work, and 53.6% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 47 or 27.6% were Roman Catholic, while 107 or 62.9% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. 14 (or about 8.24% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 1.18% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Oppens about 54 or (31.8%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 24 or (14.1%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 24 who completed tertiary schooling, 75.0% were Swiss men, 20.8% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 21 students in the Oppens school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 296 children of which 96 children (32.4%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 10 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 11 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 12 students in Oppens who came from another village, while 25 residents attended schools outside the village.\n"}
{"id": "2302933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302933", "title": "Orges, Switzerland", "text": "Orges, Switzerland\n\nOrges is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nOrges is first mentioned in 1260 as \"Orses\". The country estate of Longeville is first mentioned in 1261 as \"Longavilla\".\n\nOrges has an area, , of . Of this area, or 80.8% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 13.2% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 6.0% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.5% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.7%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 70.9% is used for growing crops and 8.2% is pastures, while 1.7% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Orges became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe village is located on a high plateau above Lake Neuchatel and between the valleys of the L'Arnon and La Brine rivers. It consists of the village of Orges and the country estate of Longeville.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Azure, three Barley stems Or.\" The barley () is an example of canting arms.\n\nOrges has a population () of . , 9.4% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 19.5%. It has changed at a rate of 10% due to migration and at a rate of 9.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (187 or 92.1%) as their first language, with German being second most common (7 or 3.4%) and Portuguese being third (7 or 3.4%). There is 1 person who speaks Italian.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Orges is; 29 children or 11.6% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 32 teenagers or 12.8% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 23 people or 9.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 31 people or 12.4% are between 30 and 39, 45 people or 18.0% are between 40 and 49, and 38 people or 15.2% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 28 people or 11.2% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 15 people or 6.0% are between 70 and 79, there are 8 people or 3.2% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 93 people who were single and never married in the village. There were 94 married individuals, 10 widows or widowers and 6 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 88 private households in the village, and an average of 2.3 persons per household. There were 31 households that consist of only one person and 5 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 90 households that answered this question, 34.4% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 26 married couples without children, 26 married couples with children There were 3 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 2 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 82 apartments (82.8% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 11 apartments (11.1%) were seasonally occupied and 6 apartments (6.1%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the village, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 30.41% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (13.79%), the SP (11.44%) and the PdA Party (9.25%). In the federal election, a total of 72 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 44.7%.\n\n, Orges had an unemployment rate of 2.3%. , there were 19 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 7 businesses involved in this sector. 45 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 5 businesses in this sector. 31 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 8 businesses in this sector. There were 105 residents of the village who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 39.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 79 workers who commuted into the village and 64 workers who commuted away. The village is a net importer of workers, with about 1.2 workers entering the village for every one leaving. About 8.9% of the workforce coming into Orges are coming from outside Switzerland. Of the working population, 6.7% used public transportation to get to work, and 57.1% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 49 or 24.1% were Roman Catholic, while 123 or 60.6% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 14 individuals (or about 6.90% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 individual who was Jewish, and There was 1 person who was Buddhist. 20 (or about 9.85% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 0.99% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Orges about 81 or (39.9%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 23 or (11.3%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 23 who completed tertiary schooling, 47.8% were Swiss men, 43.5% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 31 students in the Orges school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 12 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 19 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 10 students in Orges who came from another village, while 35 residents attended schools outside the village.\n"}
{"id": "2302935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302935", "title": "Orzens", "text": "Orzens\n\nOrzens is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nOrzens is first mentioned in 1177 as \"Orsens\".\n\nOrzens has an area, , of . Of this area, or 79.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 15.7% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 4.8% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 3.1% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.7%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 63.6% is used for growing crops and 15.0% is pastures.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Orzens became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located in the wooded hills above the left bank of the Mentue. It consists of the village of Orzens and the hamlet of Champs Plats.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Argent, a Saltire Gules, overall a Mullet of Six of the first fimbriated Sable.\"\n\nOrzens has a population () of . , 5.4% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of -2.4%. It has changed at a rate of -3.4% due to migration and at a rate of 2% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (189 or 95.9%) as their first language, with German being second most common (3 or 1.5%) and English being third (2 or 1.0%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Orzens is; 13 children or 6.5% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 23 teenagers or 11.5% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 29 people or 14.5% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 28 people or 14.0% are between 30 and 39, 34 people or 17.0% are between 40 and 49, and 25 people or 12.5% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 16 people or 8.0% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 17 people or 8.5% are between 70 and 79, there are 15 people or 7.5% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 81 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 97 married individuals, 12 widows or widowers and 7 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 82 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.4 persons per household. There were 26 households that consist of only one person and 9 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 83 households that answered this question, 31.3% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 23 married couples without children, 26 married couples with children There were 2 single parents with a child or children. There were 4 households that were made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 76 apartments (88.4% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 5 apartments (5.8%) were seasonally occupied and 5 apartments (5.8%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 1.14%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 47.97% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the Green Party (16.31%), the SP (11.77%) and the FDP (7.78%). In the federal election, a total of 87 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 57.2%.\n\n, Orzens had an unemployment rate of 2.6%. , there were 20 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 9 businesses involved in this sector. 14 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 3 businesses in this sector. 4 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 3 businesses in this sector. There were 81 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 39.5% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 15 workers who commuted into the municipality and 56 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 3.7 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 0% used public transportation to get to work, and 72.8% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 17 or 8.6% were Roman Catholic, while 138 or 70.1% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 35 individuals (or about 17.77% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 23 (or about 11.68% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 1 individuals (or about 0.51% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nOrzens has an average of 123.8 days of rain or snow per year and on average receives of precipitation. The wettest month is June during which time Orzens receives an average of of rain or snow. During this month there is precipitation for an average of 11.4 days. The month with the most days of precipitation is May, with an average of 12.3, but with only of rain or snow. The driest month of the year is February with an average of of precipitation over 10.3 days.\n\nIn Orzens about 66 or (33.5%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 19 or (9.6%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 19 who completed tertiary schooling, 78.9% were Swiss men, 15.8% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 17 students in the Orzens school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 9 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 8 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 9 students in Orzens who came from another municipality, while 30 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302936", "title": "Angela Bailey", "text": "Angela Bailey\n\nAngela Bailey (born 28 February 1962) is a Canadian former track and field athlete. She is the Canadian record holder in the 100 metres with her personal best of 10.98 seconds, set in 1987. She also holds the 200 metres indoor national record of 23.32 seconds.\n\nBailey was born in Coventry, England. She first came to international attention at the Commonwealth Games in Edmonton in 1978. In 1980 she won Gold in both 100 meters and 200 meters at the first Pan Am Juniors Track and Field Championships in Sudbury. Beating the favoured American sprinter Michele Glover decisively in both distances. She won all her races on tour of New Zealand in late 1981; which included three gold medals at the Pacific Conference Games in 100m, 200m and 4 x 100m relay. She placed fourth in the 100 meters and seventh in the 200 meters at the 1982 Commonwealth Games, and was again fourth in the 100 meters in 1986.\n\nBailey won a silver medal for the 4×100 m relay at the 1978 Commonwealth Games, and did so again in both the 1982 and 1986 games. At the 1983 World Championships she placed 5th in the 100 m and seventh in the 200 metres 5th in the 4×100 m relay. At the same event in 1987 she placed seventh in the 100 m.\n\nAt the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles Bailey came in sixth in the 100 m and the silver medal with the Canadian team, made up of Marita Payne, Angella Taylor-Issajenko and France Gareau. She was selected for the 1980 Olympic team, but Canada boycotted the event.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302937", "title": "Pomy, Switzerland", "text": "Pomy, Switzerland\n\nPomy is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nPomy is first mentioned in 1184 as \"Pomiers\".\n\nPomy has an area, , of . Of this area, or 77.4% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 16.0% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 6.0% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.7%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 66.4% is used for growing crops and 8.4% is pastures, while 2.7% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Pomy became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located just a few kilometers south-east of Yverdon-les-Bains on the road to Moudon. It consists of the village of Pomy and the hamlet of Chevressy. The hamlet of La Grand-Fin went to the municipality of Cuarny in 1964.\n\nThe municipalities of Cronay, Cuarny, Pomy, Ursins, Valeyres-sous-Ursins and Villars-Epeney are considering a merger at a date in the future into the new municipality with an, , undetermined name.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Argent, from a Coupeaux Vert issuant an Apple Tree of the same fructed Gules.\" The apple tree () is an example of canting arms.\n\nPomy has a population () of . , 7.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 22.6%. It has changed at a rate of 15.6% due to migration and at a rate of 6.8% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (556 or 95.4%) as their first language, with German being second most common (11 or 1.9%) and Italian being third (9 or 1.5%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Pomy is; 96 children or 14.7% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 91 teenagers or 14.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 66 people or 10.1% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 93 people or 14.3% are between 30 and 39, 106 people or 16.3% are between 40 and 49, and 77 people or 11.8% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 54 people or 8.3% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 31 people or 4.8% are between 70 and 79, there are 32 people or 4.9% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 5 people or 0.8% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 263 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 279 married individuals, 27 widows or widowers and 14 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 196 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 48 households that consist of only one person and 17 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 203 households that answered this question, 23.6% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 59 married couples without children, 78 married couples with children There were 9 single parents with a child or children. There was 1 household that was made up of unrelated people and 7 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 189 apartments (92.6% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 8 apartments (3.9%) were seasonally occupied and 7 apartments (3.4%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 12.3 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 46.36% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (12.9%), the Green Party (11.91%) and the FDP (11.81%). In the federal election, a total of 229 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 53.4%.\n\n, Pomy had an unemployment rate of 2%. , there were 56 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 21 businesses involved in this sector. 41 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 12 businesses in this sector. 108 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 14 businesses in this sector. There were 271 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 38.4% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 72 workers who commuted into the municipality and 197 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 2.7 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 5.9% used public transportation to get to work, and 64.9% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 125 or 21.4% were Roman Catholic, while 370 or 63.5% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 35 individuals (or about 6.00% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 2 (or about 0.34% of the population) who were Islamic. 63 (or about 10.81% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 3 individuals (or about 0.51% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Pomy about 240 or (41.2%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 69 or (11.8%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 69 who completed tertiary schooling, 60.9% were Swiss men, 26.1% were Swiss women, 7.2% were non-Swiss men.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 102 students in the Pomy school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 60 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 42 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 8 students in Pomy who came from another municipality, while 108 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302940", "title": "Prahins", "text": "Prahins\n\nPrahins is a former municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The municipality of Prahins merged on 1 January 2012 into the municipality of Donneloye.\n\nPrahins is first mentioned in 1186 as \"Prehes\".\n\nPrahins had an area, , of . Of this area, or 66.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 26.4% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 5.9% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.1% and transportation infrastructure made up 3.3%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 52.7% is used for growing crops and 13.0% is pastures.\n\nThe former municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Prahins became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe former municipality is located at the intersection of the Yverdon-Moudon and Morges-Payerne roads, on the right bank of the Mentue river. It consists of the linear village of Prahins.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Vair, in Chief Azure a Wing Or.\"\n\nPrahins had a population () of 125. , 7.0% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 1.6%. It has changed at a rate of 2.3% due to migration and at a rate of -0.8% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (116 or 92.1%) as their first language, with German being second most common (8 or 6.3%) and English being third (2 or 1.6%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Prahins is; 8 children or 6.1% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 23 teenagers or 17.6% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 16 people or 12.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 7 people or 5.3% are between 30 and 39, 24 people or 18.3% are between 40 and 49, and 20 people or 15.3% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 18 people or 13.7% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 7 people or 5.3% are between 70 and 79, there are 6 people or 4.6% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 2 people or 1.5% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 48 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 63 married individuals, 7 widows or widowers and 8 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 46 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.7 persons per household. There were 11 households that consist of only one person and 7 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 47 households that answered this question, 23.4% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 11 married couples without children, 18 married couples with children There were 5 single parents with a child or children. There was 1 household that was made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 46 apartments (85.2% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2 apartments (3.7%) were seasonally occupied and 6 apartments (11.1%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe entire village of Prahins is designated as part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 28.89% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the Green Party (19.77%), the SP (19.29%) and the FDP (16.31%). In the federal election, a total of 60 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 64.5%.\n\n, Prahins had an unemployment rate of 4.4%. , there were 24 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 10 businesses involved in this sector. No one was employed in the secondary sector. 4 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 2 businesses in this sector. There were 60 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 53.3% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 4 workers who commuted into the municipality and 40 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 10.0 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 8.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 58.3% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 13 or 10.3% were Roman Catholic, while 101 or 80.2% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 individual who belongs to another Christian church. 10 (or about 7.94% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 1 individuals (or about 0.79% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Prahins about 35 or (27.8%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 21 or (16.7%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 21 who completed tertiary schooling, 47.6% were Swiss men, 42.9% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 17 students in the Prahins school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 5 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 12 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 32 students from Prahins who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302941", "title": "Rovray", "text": "Rovray\n\nRovray is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nRovray is first mentioned around 1403–1409 as \"Roueraye\". Arrissoules is first mentioned in 1148 as \"Arresules\". On 1 January 2005 the former municipality of Arrissoules merged into the municipality of Rovray, which kept the name Rovray.\n\nRovray has an area, , of . Of this area, or 74.1% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 19.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 6.6% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 3.1% and transportation infrastructure made up 3.1%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 55.9% is used for growing crops and 16.6% is pastures, while 1.6% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Rovray became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located above the shore of Lake Neuchatel. It consists of the villages of Rovray and Arrissoules.\n\nThe municipal coat of arms was created on 1 January 2005 when Rovray and Arrissoules merged. It includes the \"Azure semee of Acorns Argent, a Buck salient Or\" from Rovray and the \"Paly of six Azure and Or, a linden tree proper overall\" from Arrissoules. The tunnel represents the Arrissoules motorway tunnel.\n\nRovray has a population () of . , 5.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 5.4%. It has changed at a rate of 10.1% due to migration and at a rate of -5.4% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (86 or 98.9%) as their first language with the rest speaking English\n\nThe age distribution, , in Rovray is; 13 children or 9.6% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 18 teenagers or 13.2% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 15 people or 11.0% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 19 people or 14.0% are between 30 and 39, 22 people or 16.2% are between 40 and 49, and 17 people or 12.5% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 16 people or 11.8% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 6 people or 4.4% are between 70 and 79, there are 8 people or 5.9% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 2 people or 1.5% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 34 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 45 married individuals, 1 widows or widowers and 7 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 51 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.4 persons per household. There were 8 households that consist of only one person and 2 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 36 households that answered this question, 22.2% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 14 married couples without children, 12 married couples with children\n\n, a total of 35 apartments (85.4% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 5 apartments (12.2%) were seasonally occupied and one apartment was empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 45.24% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (21.85%), the SP (11.84%) and the Green Party (7.7%). In the federal election, a total of 60 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 64.5%.\n\n, Rovray had an unemployment rate of 1.2%. , there were 30 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 11 businesses involved in this sector. No one was employed in the secondary sector or the tertiary sector. There were 50 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 46.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 31 workers who commuted away from the municipality. Of the working population, 4.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 61.4% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 6 or 6.9% were Roman Catholic, while 72 or 82.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 6 individuals (or about 6.90% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 4 (or about 4.60% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 2.30% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Rovray about 36 or (41.4%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 14 or (16.1%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 14 who completed tertiary schooling, 42.9% were Swiss men, 42.9% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 13 students in the Rovray school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 6 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 7 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 16 students from Rovray who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302944", "title": "Suchy", "text": "Suchy\n\nSuchy is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nSuchy is first mentioned in 885 as \"Solpiaco id est Suzchie\".\n\nSuchy has an area, , of . Of this area, or 59.6% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 37.2% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 3.5% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.5% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.2%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 50.0% is used for growing crops and 8.7% is pastures.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Suchy became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Per pale Argent and Azure, two Keys in saltire counterchanged.\"\n\nSuchy has a population () of . , 10.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 25.1%. It has changed at a rate of 18.6% due to migration and at a rate of 6% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (316 or 91.6%) as their first language, with German being second most common (19 or 5.5%) and Portuguese being third (6 or 1.7%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Suchy is; 63 children or 15.1% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 51 teenagers or 12.2% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 39 people or 9.4% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 81 people or 19.4% are between 30 and 39, 65 people or 15.6% are between 40 and 49, and 50 people or 12.0% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 33 people or 7.9% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 22 people or 5.3% are between 70 and 79, there are 10 people or 2.4% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 3 people or 0.7% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 140 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 176 married individuals, 18 widows or widowers and 11 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 125 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.7 persons per household. There were 35 households that consist of only one person and 10 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 130 households that answered this question, 26.9% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 27 married couples without children, 55 married couples with children There were 5 single parents with a child or children. There were 3 households that were made up of unrelated people and 5 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 117 apartments (85.4% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 17 apartments (12.4%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (2.2%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 9.6 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 1.92%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 25.48% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (20.62%), the FDP (14.29%) and the LPS Party (10.83%). In the federal election, a total of 110 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 42.1%.\n\n, Suchy had an unemployment rate of 3.2%. , there were 31 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 14 businesses involved in this sector. 29 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 7 businesses in this sector. 18 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 12 businesses in this sector. There were 189 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 42.9% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 12 workers who commuted into the municipality and 120 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 10.0 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 5.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 59.3% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 65 or 18.8% were Roman Catholic, while 228 or 66.1% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 member of an Orthodox church, there was 1 individual who belongs to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 12 individuals (or about 3.48% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 35 (or about 10.14% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 9 individuals (or about 2.61% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Suchy about 144 or (41.7%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 40 or (11.6%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 40 who completed tertiary schooling, 72.5% were Swiss men, 25.0% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 67 students in the Suchy school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 39 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 28 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 2 students in Suchy who came from another municipality, while 63 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302945", "title": "Suscévaz", "text": "Suscévaz\n\nSuscévaz is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nSuscévaz is first mentioned in 1140 as \"Subsilva\".\n\nSuscévaz has an area, , of . Of this area, or 82.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 10.8% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 3.9% is settled (buildings or roads), or 2.2% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.4% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.2%. Out of the forested land, 9.2% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.7% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 76.1% is used for growing crops and 5.3% is pastures, while 1.4% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Suscévaz became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Barry wavy of Six Gules and Vert, a Lion rampant Or.\"\n\nSuscévaz has a population () of . , 5.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 6.9%. It has changed at a rate of 7.4% due to migration and at a rate of 0% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (166 or 93.3%) as their first language, with Portuguese being second most common (7 or 3.9%) and German being third (3 or 1.7%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Suscévaz is; 15 children or 8.0% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 24 teenagers or 12.8% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 19 people or 10.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 30 people or 16.0% are between 30 and 39, 27 people or 14.4% are between 40 and 49, and 25 people or 13.4% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 25 people or 13.4% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 12 people or 6.4% are between 70 and 79, there are 10 people or 5.3% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 68 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 94 married individuals, 12 widows or widowers and 4 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 70 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 20 households that consist of only one person and 8 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 74 households that answered this question, 27.0% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 20 married couples without children, 25 married couples with children There were 3 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 4 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 63 apartments (86.3% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 8 apartments (11.0%) were seasonally occupied and 2 apartments (2.7%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 5.3 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 42.35% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (16.36%), the Green Party (15.61%) and the FDP (12.1%). In the federal election, a total of 81 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 59.6%.\n\n, Suscévaz had an unemployment rate of 2.8%. , there were 27 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 9 businesses involved in this sector. 8 people were employed in the secondary sector and there was 1 business in this sector. 3 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 1 business in this sector. There were 90 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 41.1% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 12 workers who commuted into the municipality and 61 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 5.1 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 12.2% used public transportation to get to work, and 53.3% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 34 or 19.1% were Roman Catholic, while 110 or 61.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 16 individuals (or about 8.99% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 26 (or about 14.61% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist.\n\nIn Suscévaz about 64 or (36.0%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 13 or (7.3%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 13 who completed tertiary schooling, 92.3% were Swiss men, 7.7% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 18 students in the Suscévaz school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 10 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 8 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 16 students in Suscévaz who came from another municipality, while 31 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302949", "title": "Treycovagnes", "text": "Treycovagnes\n\nTreycovagnes is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nTreycovagnes is first mentioned in 1228 as \"Trescovanes\".\n\nTreycovagnes has an area, , of . Of this area, or 82.2% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 2.4% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 13.5% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.5% is either rivers or lakes.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 5.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 5.8%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 1.4% of the area Out of the forested land, 0.0% of the total land area is heavily forested and 2.4% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 76.4% is used for growing crops and 2.9% is pastures, while 2.9% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Treycovagnes became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located on the Yverdon-les-Bains and Orbe road. It consists of the linear village of Treycovagnes and the hamlets of Châtelard and Uttins.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Or, three Pine-trees bendwise sinister eradicated Vert, overall on a Bend Gules three Escallops of the first bendwise.\"\n\nTreycovagnes has a population () of . , 8.7% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 1.3%. It has changed at a rate of -5% due to migration and at a rate of 7.4% due to births and deaths. Most of the population () speaks French (429 or 93.7%) as their first language, with German being second most common (13 or 2.8%) and Italian being third (7 or 1.5%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Treycovagnes is; 86 children or 18.5% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 105 teenagers or 22.5% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 43 people or 9.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 45 people or 9.7% are between 30 and 39, 69 people or 14.8% are between 40 and 49, and 56 people or 12.0% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 29 people or 6.2% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 24 people or 5.2% are between 70 and 79, there are 9 people or 1.9% who are between 80 and 89. , there were 201 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 223 married individuals, 11 widows or widowers and 23 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 163 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.8 persons per household. There were 33 households that consist of only one person and 12 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 167 households that answered this question, 19.8% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 38 married couples without children, 79 married couples with children There were 11 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 4 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 158 apartments (90.3% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 12 apartments (6.9%) were seasonally occupied and 5 apartments (2.9%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 2.1 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 27.4% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (27.03%), the FDP (14.66%) and the Green Party (10.44%). In the federal election, a total of 149 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 45.3%.\n\n, Treycovagnes had an unemployment rate of 3.4%. , there were 7 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 3 businesses involved in this sector. 69 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 9 businesses in this sector. 24 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 11 businesses in this sector. There were 236 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 40.7% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 41 workers who commuted into the municipality and 198 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 4.8 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 13.1% used public transportation to get to work, and 68.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 137 or 29.9% were Roman Catholic, while 218 or 47.6% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 25 individuals (or about 5.46% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 individual who was Jewish, and 5 (or about 1.09% of the population) who were Islamic. 81 (or about 17.69% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 0.44% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Treycovagnes about 184 or (40.2%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 57 or (12.4%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 57 who completed tertiary schooling, 57.9% were Swiss men, 22.8% were Swiss women, 8.8% were non-Swiss men and 10.5% were non-Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 67 students in the Treycovagnes school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 33 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 34 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 19 students in Treycovagnes who came from another municipality, while 81 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302950", "title": "Ursins", "text": "Ursins\n\nUrsins is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nUrsins is first mentioned in 1174 as \"Ursi\".\n\nUrsins has an area, , of . Of this area, or 77.0% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 20.9% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 3.6% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.5% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.1%. Out of the forested land, 19.7% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.2% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 69.3% is used for growing crops and 6.0% is pastures, while 1.8% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Ursins became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipalities of Cronay, Cuarny, Pomy, Ursins, Valeyres-sous-Ursins and Villars-Epeney are considering a merger at a date in the future into the new municipality with an, , undetermined name.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Pally of Six Argent and Azure, on a Bend Gules three Bears' heads bendwise Or.\" This may be an example of canting with the bear or \"Ursus\" on the coat of arms.\"\n\nUrsins has a population () of . , 4.6% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 18.9%. It has changed at a rate of 19.4% due to migration and at a rate of -0.6% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (164 or 96.5%) as their first language, with German being second most common (2 or 1.2%) and Afrikanische Sprachen being third (2 or 1.2%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Ursins is; 24 children or 11.5% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 20 teenagers or 9.6% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 27 people or 13.0% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 36 people or 17.3% are between 30 and 39, 28 people or 13.5% are between 40 and 49, and 24 people or 11.5% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 24 people or 11.5% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 14 people or 6.7% are between 70 and 79, there are 10 people or 4.8% who are between 80 and 89, and there is 1 person who is 90 and older.\n\n, there were 65 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 92 married individuals, 9 widows or widowers and 4 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 66 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 14 households that consist of only one person and 4 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 67 households that answered this question, 20.9% were households made up of just one person and there was 1 adult who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 20 married couples without children, 27 married couples with children There were 3 single parents with a child or children. There was 1 household that was made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 63 apartments (87.5% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 6 apartments (8.3%) were seasonally occupied and 3 apartments (4.2%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe Roman era Sanctuary is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 50.29% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (17.46%), the Green Party (11.26%) and the SP (10.32%). In the federal election, a total of 79 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 56.4%.\n\n, Ursins had an unemployment rate of 1.4%. , there were 22 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 10 businesses involved in this sector. 7 people were employed in the secondary sector and there was 1 business in this sector. 1 person was employed in the tertiary sector, with 1 business in this sector. There were 87 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 42.5% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 4 workers who commuted into the municipality and 65 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 16.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 6.9% used public transportation to get to work, and 66.7% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 9 or 5.3% were Roman Catholic, while 134 or 78.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 2 members of an Orthodox church (or about 1.18% of the population). 20 (or about 11.76% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 5 individuals (or about 2.94% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Ursins about 61 or (35.9%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 22 or (12.9%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 22 who completed tertiary schooling, 54.5% were Swiss men, 27.3% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 23 students in the Ursins school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 13 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 10 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 29 students from Ursins who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302952", "title": "Steve Butler", "text": "Steve Butler\n\nSteve Butler (born September 26, 1956, in Amarillo, Texas) won six national driving championships in USAC Sprint Car and Silver Crown open-wheel racing. Butler was highly regarded for his technical skills and performed chief mechanic duties on several of his winning race cars. He also communicated his view of racing to fans both as author and television commentator. Despite a relatively brief racing career (1981–1993), Butler is an inductee into the National Sprint Car Hall of Fame, the USAC Hall of Fame, and the Hoosier Auto Racing Fan's Hall of Fame. He retired at age 37 to pursue both an engineering career and more time with his growing family. Butler currently resides in Kokomo, IN.\n\nIn 1990, Butler became the first four-time Sprint Car National Champion in the 34-year history of the United States Automobile Club. USAC Butler won USAC sprint car races on pavement, dirt, and on dirt with wings. He is the only driver to win in all of these categories during a single USAC season. In addition to his Sprint Car championships, Butler won two championships in USAC's Silver Crown division.\n\nWinning six national championships places Butler in the top-tier of all-time USAC driving champions. This distinction includes all championships in any of USAC's national championship racing divisions including Indy Car, Silver Crown Car, Sprint Car, Midget, and Stock Car. In this category A. J. Foyt is first with 9 titles; Levi Jones, Mel Kenyon and the late Rich Vogler share second (7 titles each). Butler earned his six championships in just 10 seasons of USAC competition, the highest percentage of championships won vs. seasons raced of this group.\n\nSteve was born to parents Bruce and Sharon Butler and has three sisters Linda, Laura, and Melanie. Due to Bruce's career as an USAF pilot, the family lived in England for four years shortly after Steve's birth. Bruce loved all things mechanical—especially those that involve speed. He repaired and modified cars in his free time and also owned a go-kart that he drove on remote parts of the British aircraft parking ramps, often allowing young Steve to ride in his lap.\n\nShortly after the family returned from England, Bruce was killed in an airplane crash. At the time, Steve was six years old but had already caught his father's enthusiasm for cars and airplanes. Steve set out to learn as much as possible about these mechanical wonders without benefit of his father's tutelage. By age 14, he had disassembled and rebuilt the family car and became known as the neighborhood “motor-head.\"\n\nBy age 20, Steve was a full-time student in the Flight Technology school at Vincennes University. Planning to become a pilot, he had earned his commercial pilot license and had distinguished himself by winning the school's “Top Aerobatic Pilot” award. However, he left school early to launch his professional motorcycle racing career. He was anxious to get serious about racing and was concerned that he was already 4 years older than most of his professional motorcycle racing peers. AMA Pro Racing Min. Age Requirements.\n\nButler launched his amateur bike racing career upon graduating from high school. His first opportunity came when a buddy agreed to let him race an old bike under a lease/purchase agreement. This involved Steve paying $25/week for the machine with earnings from flipping hamburgers after school.\n\nRealizing that his meager budget was insufficient to race competitively, Butler prevailed upon a friend to provide (free) transport to/from the races. This allowed Steve to buy tires and other racing essentials. The strategy worked and allowed Butler to begin winning races.\n\nIn 1976, Butler was able to win the AMA District 15 (Indiana) ½ Mile Flat Track Championship which convinced him to advance to professional motorcycle racing. However, in his first pro season Butler was severely injured during a race at the Onekama, MI ½ mile dirt track. He remained in the hospital for 30 days and spent nine months recovering from his injuries. This was the fourth time in four years that he found himself recovering from fractured bones resulting from motorcycle racing.\n\nIn 1978, Butler rebounded from his injuries by winning a pro race at Beaver Dam, WI—his very first event after recovering from the Onekama crash. More than 20 years later, Butler's exploits are recalled in a 2001 Cycle News article featuring racers successful in both motorcycle and automobile racing. This piece placed Butler on a short-list of motorcycle/car racers that included legends such as Joe Leonard, Swede Savage, and Steve Morehead.\n\nButler began 1979 aboard a Harley-Davidson XR-750—famous for both its performance and high maintenance costs. Unfortunately, these costs became prohibitive and Butler had to stop racing mid-season due to insufficient finances. At this point, he began attending local sprint car races and became inspired to abandon the unreliable Harley for a new kind of racer.\n\nIf Butler's motorcycle racing was conducted on a “shoe-string” budget, his entry into Sprint Car racing was seemingly hopeless—he was attempting to enter an advanced class of auto racing with no money and no prior auto racing experience. He was also nearly 25 years old and the sport was tilting towards very young drivers; in just a few years Jeff Gordon would begin his own sprint car career at age 13. Undaunted, Butler jumped in with both feet by selling all of his race bikes and his transport van (his only personal transportation). When liquidating his assets was insufficient to buy a sprint car, he convinced his future wife, Thomasa Brock, to help him obtain a loan using her own home as collateral. This provided enough money to buy a beat-up old Sprint Car.\n\nButler spent the winter of 1980–81 rebuilding the crashed and worn-out car in his mom's garage, using only hand tools and a gas-welding rig. The lack of sophisticated tools made this work very labor-intensive. Butler relied on a dedicated group of friends who volunteered to provide the labor and skills necessary to get the fabrication work done. Steve planned the overall design, performed the engine building, and participated in the fabrication work.\n\nAs the 1981 season opened, Butler was pouring all available money into the race car and was still without street wheels of any sort. Once again, a friend came to the rescue by offering to tow the race car. Despite these financial problems, Butler was able to win his very first (heat) race. This quick success led to Butler's first big break when Ezra Beachy, a local engine shop owner, offered Butler an engine sponsorship\n\nAlthough the Beachy engine sponsorship was very exciting, Butler's immediate problem was that he was rapidly running out of the money needed for essentials such as race tires and fuel. After only three weeks of racing, it was now uncertain if the team could even make the next race, let alone a full season. The atmosphere was gloomy, within Mom Butler's garage/race shop, when a newspaper delivery kid mentioned that one of his customers was a race fan. Butler immediately followed-up on this tip by arranging to meet with Bud Whitacre, a local supermarket owner. This led to $500 for a new set of tires and the beginning of a lifelong relationship.\n\nIn January 1983, Butler began the year by marrying Thomasa. Unfortunately, the couple could not yet afford a honey-moon. This problem was solved, later that year, when Butler won the 1983 Paragon Speedway track championship. Instead of a trophy, track promoter Mike Johnson supplied the couple with a trip to the Bahamas which became their belated honey-moon trip.\n\nIn 1982, Butler's first USAC appearance was dramatic. On his first qualifying lap, still driving his original home-built race car, Butler set a new track record at Bloomington, IN; on the second lap he flipped out of the track. Steve did return to race six USAC races in 1983, posting top-three finishes in half of these. However, his primary focus was on winning the 1983 Paragon track championship.\n\nButler mounted his first effort to campaign the full USAC Sprint Car series in 1984. He quickly seized national attention by winning his first USAC race on live television. The Jud Larson/Don Branson memorial, held on the high-banked ½ mile at Eldora Speedway, was broadcast on ABC's Wide World of Sports. The win was unexpected, as Butler started 10th behind formidable veterans such as Jack Hewitt, Sheldon Kinser, and Rickey Hood. However, Butler quickly moved through the field to take the lead from Hewitt on the 16th lap to claim his first USAC victory.\n\nIn June, Steve and Thomasa became parents with the birth of Jennifer. Just two days later, Butler won the annual Kokomo Classic race with both his wife and newborn daughter in attendance.\n\nBy the end of the year, Butler had won 5 USAC sprint races, one less than eventual series champion Rickey Hood. The most impressive of these was at the flat Terre Haute Action Track ½ mile; Butler started 7th and then drove past visiting champions Ken Schrader (defending USAC champ) and Steve Kinser (defending World of Outlaws champ) to earn the win. Butler went on to finish the season 3rd in USAC points.\n\nIn February, Butler started the 1985 season driving in Phoenix (AZ) in a locally owned car. In April, as the Midwest Spring began, he was back in the Whitacre/Beachy sprint car. However, by the end of the year, he had driven for at least 9 different race teams and had advanced to 2nd in the USAC sprint championship standings. \nIn August, Butler hooked-up with Phil Poor, who had just purchased his first sprint car by way of a bargain-priced package. This deal included the car, engine, spares, transport trailer, and even a rusted out Chevy Suburban tow vehicle. Butler and Poor began to win races with the old sprint car even though it had been cast aside—as uncompetitive—by its previous owner. In response, Poor named the under-appreciated car “Ol’ Whitey.” This little team was the genesis for many years of racing success, as Butler and Poor went on to win four USAC titles together.\n\nLate in the season, Butler joined with the Jarrett racing team to compete in the Springfield Silver Crown race, finishing in the top ten. The new team then finished 2nd in the annual Hoosier Hundred at Indianapolis, nearly winning the race. These performances earned Butler the title of 1985 USAC Silver Crown Rookie of the Year.\n\nIn 1986, Ol' Whitey returned as the centerpiece of Phil Poor's small race team. With new sponsorship from Jeff Stoops, Butler drove the faithful car to a very successful racing season. They won USAC races, AllStar Circuit of Champions races and posted some top-five World of Outlaws finishes. The team also won many non-sanctioned “special” races including the Indiana Sprint Week championship. In September, Butler capped-off the year by winning the USAC Sprint Championship.\n\nButler continued to improve in the Silver Crown series and advanced to 2nd in the 1986 championship standings. At Indianapolis Raceway Park, Steve impressed the racing fraternity by nearly winning in his very first attempt to race on pavement. Butler started in 16th and then proceeded to drive into the lead, passing NASCAR and Indy 500 competitors such as Ken Schrader, Gary Bettenhausen, and Rich Vogler. Although tire problems dropped him to 2nd at the finish, Butler's race-leading performance had grabbed attention.\n\nButler finished the season with a win at Gas City, IN. This win came the day after Austin, his new son, was born. As with Jennifer's birth, the Butler's celebrated their new child with a race win.\n\nIn 1987, the team debuted with brand new equipment as Jeff Stoops supplied the resources to create a truly professional class race team. The team continued its practice of running a variety of races, while concentrating on the USAC Sprint series. A highlight of the year was winning the Tony Hulman classic at Terre Haute Action Track Butler went on to claim his 2nd straight USAC Sprint Championship and was awarded “Driver of the Year” by the Hoosier Auto Racing Fan club.\n\nIn the Silver Crown series standings Butler had a strong run and scored top-five finishes in over half the races. He also continued to show potential as a pavement racer, by finishing top-three at both Indianapolis Raceway Park and Phoenix International Raceway. However, in the point standings he was, for the second year in a row, 2nd behind the tough Jack Hewitt.\n\nIn 1988, Butler became the first driver to win three consecutive USAC sprint championships. Two of these were during a brief period (1987–1990) in which USAC added winged dirt races to the traditional mix of pavement and dirt non-winged races. This new challenge provided Steve a chance to demonstrate his versatility by winning all three types of races during the 1988 season.\n\nEldora Speedway, always a Butler favorite, was the site of great dirt wins. In July, Butler won a USAC winged-sprint race at the track. Visiting World of Outlaws stars such as Jac Haudenschild, Jimmy Sills, and Brad Doty made this an especially tough win. These drivers were using the USAC race to prepare for Eldora's King's Royal, the track's premier winged-sprint car race, scheduled the following weekend. A few months later, Butler also won Eldora's most prestigious non-wing sprint race—the annual USAC Four-Crown National.\n\nThe highlight of Butler's season was his dominance of the new pavement races at Indianapolis Raceway Park where he won on ESPN television and was fastest at the races that he didn’t win outright (due to mechanical misfortune). In the process, Butler pioneered a new style of passing on the banked oval. His spectacular maneuver was dubbed “The Butler Grass-Cutter Move” by ESPN announcers Larry Nuber and Steve Chassey. Twenty years later, this technique was cited as an influence by NASCAR star Jason Leffler after his win in the 2007 Kroger 200 at ORP.\n\nIn the Silver Crown series, Butler finally defeated Jack Hewitt to win the championship. This achievement highlighted Butler's technical capabilities as he was \"chief mechanic\", as well as driver, on the winning Jarrett Farms race car.\n\n Butler did not defend his USAC titles in 1989 due to his bid to enter Indy Car racing and compete in the Indianapolis 500. Driving a Jeff Stoops-owned Lola/Cosworth, Butler established himself as a top rookie contender by posting the fastest speed (214.246 mph) achieved during the mandatory rookie orientation testing. At the conclusion of the 2nd day of official race practice, Steve was surprised to find himself with speeds among the top veteran drivers. This performance generated considerable excitement, given that Butler had never before raced an Indy Car and was considered a “dirt track” racer. Unfortunately, Butler's fortunes reversed quickly when he crashed heavily, destroyed the car, and suffered a broken right shoulder.\n\nIn June, after recovering from the broken shoulder, Butler returned to sprint car racing and soon resumed winning races. Unfortunately, in August he was again injured, this time breaking his left shoulder in a sprint car accident. However, Butler missed only one race weekend during his recovery. He made good use of the break by joining Larry Nuber, in the ESPN TV announcer's booth, to call the USAC sprint car action at Indianapolis Raceway Park.\n\nIn 1990, Steve returned to USAC racing full-time trying for a record 4th USAC Sprint Car championship. He began the season driving the Aristocrat #2 and won two races, including another ESPN television race at Winchester Speedway. At mid-season he changed rides to the Hoffman #69. The team enjoyed quick success, setting fast qualifying time six-times and setting track records and winning races. This performance secured the USAC Sprint Car championship.\n\nThe highlight of Butler's Silver Crown season was a dramatic win at Eldora Speedway, where he narrowly defeated Jack Hewitt. The pair battled the entire race, exchanging the lead many times. Their duel set a blistering pace and forced Butler to establish a new 50-lap track record that stood for many years after his retirement\n\nThe 1991 season was bittersweet for the Hoffman/Butler alliance. The team continued to excel at raw speed; it set the most fast qualifying times and won the most USAC sprint car races. The team also won the majority of the live-television races on ESPN, including wins on the notorious hi-banks at Salem Speedway and at Indianapolis Raceway Park. Despite being the winningest team on the USAC circuit, they finished third in the series point standings after a string of mechanical problems caused inconsistent finishes.\n\nThe highlight of Butler's 1992 USAC season was winning his 2nd Silver Crown championship. This championship run was the most dramatic of Butler's career. Coming into the season's final race, at Eldora Speedway, Butler was well behind point-leader Jeff Swindell. With only a slim chance at the championship, Butler had to win; 2nd place had no mathematical chance. He improved his chances by setting the fastest qualifying speed and earning the pole starting position. During the race, Butler and points-leader Jeff Swindell traded the lead and battled for advantage. In the final laps, Butler was able to prevail for the win, but did not know the championship outcome. Only after points were tallied, did he learn that he had won the championship. Butler attributes much of this success to the return of Phil Poor, his former mechanic on the Stoops sprint car team. Although the pair had not worked together since 1989, winning the Silver Crown championship proved that they still had the right “chemistry.”\n\nIn the sprint car division, the Butler/Hoffman team struggled through a difficult season marred by crashes and mechanical problems. In between these problems, Butler won at Winchester Speedway after battling with future NASCAR star Tony Stewart. Steve would eventually finish the year second in the championship standings. This was Butler's eighth, and final, season to run the full USAC sprint schedule, during these years, he won four championships and was never below the top-three in championship points.\n\nButler was known primarily for his success in non-winged USAC racing, however he also performed well in the winged-sprint cars. Steve occasionally raced with winged-sprint specialists such as the AllStar Circuit of Champions(Allstars) and World of Outlaws and was very competitive. He won six races with the Allstars and, in 1987, finished top-ten 87 Allstar Point Standings in the AllStar point standings, despite running a limited schedule due to conflicts with his USAC commitments.\nWhen USAC briefly experimented with winged-sprint races, Butler won several of these against competition that included regulars from the AllStar Circuit of Champions and World of Outlaws.\n\nFor 1993, Butler changed to the Chrisman Racing team hoping to find a new chemistry that could lead to another sprint championship. Butler was consistently running well and, at mid-season, was again leading the point standings in both the Sprint and Silver Crown divisions.\n\nButler scored an early Silver Crown win at the Hulman 100 (Indianapolis). This race was Steve's final USAC victory and included a special twist: Butler was forced to perform in-cockpit diagnosis and repair of a problem that was causing the engine to misfire. At mid-race, the rough-running engine was causing Butler to fade back into the pack and was threatening his ability to even finish. However, during a caution period, Butler was able to identify the problem as a faulty ignition switch. He then disconnected the switch and secured the bare wire by tying it off around a hydraulic hose, thereby preventing the exposed strands from shorting out. All this was accomplished on the race track, while driving with one hand and repairing with the other. With full power restored, Butler charged into the lead and defeated Ron Shuman by 10 seconds at the checkered flag.\n\nUnfortunately, Butler's hopes for additional USAC titles were destroyed in July when he was involved in racing accidents in two consecutive races. Officials levied a rare one-month driving suspension against him, effectively eliminated his championship hopes.\n\nUSAC's actions created significant controversy: the club had little precedent for such harsh action against a current champion and points leader; on the other hand Butler had a history of driving aggressively and some thought his risk-taking style needed to be reigned in. In spite of this controversy—or perhaps because of it—the Hoosier Auto Racing Fan club immediately inducted Butler into its Hall of Fame.\n\nAt the end of the season, Butler decided to conclude his racing career and focus on pursuing his future career in electronic systems engineering.\n\nAfter retiring from racing, Butler focused on a career at Delphi Automotive Systems. In two years, he earned a BSBA from Indiana Wesleyan University and was recognized with the “Outstanding Professional” award in his graduating class. Despite lacking a technical degree, Butler then set out to become an engineer by relying on technical skills he had honed as a racer. This determination eventually paid off as Butler became a senior systems engineer and received many company awards for his technical contributions. On one occasion, Butler received a $20,000 bonus for cost-saving electrical diagnostic procedures he developed. These accomplishments allowed Butler to receive increasingly challenging technical assignments, such as:\n\n\nButler was a regular contributor to \"Open Wheel Magazine\" during the last four years of his racing career. He authored a wide range of monthly opinion columns and technical articles until his retirement from racing. In 1992, Butler's writing caught the attention of Motor Trend magazine who asked him to author an engine technology article. Pleased with the result, Motor Trend later offered Steve a full-time technical editor job. Butler declined, wishing to stay in Indiana rather than move to the west coast.\n\nButler also performed as television on-camera commentator for several ESPN broadcasts of USAC races, from 1988 to 1996. His role was to add color and racing insight in order to help fans better understand the sport. He was successful and offered other broadcast opportunities. However, Butler had left racing to pursue an engineering career and time with his family, not to continue to travel to race tracks in a non-driving role. He was also concerned that being at the races would tempt him to get back into the cockpit.\n\nButler retired from racing determined to make a clean break from the sport to focus on the new challenges of his engineering career, while also devoting more time to his family.\n\nIn 1993, Steve Butler was inducted into the Hoosier Auto Racing Fans Hall of Fame and joined AJ Foyt, Mario Andretti, Bobby Unser, Jeff Gordon and Tony Stewart in receiving this honor.\n\nIn 2005, Steve Butler was honored to be inducted into National Sprint Car Hall of Fame in Knoxville, IA. Fellow 2005 inductees include Steve Kinser and Robbie Stanley.\n\nIn 2016, Butler was honored with induction into the USAC Hall of Fame in Indianapolis, IN. Tony Stewart and Rick Mears are fellow 2016 inductees.\n\nIn 2018, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Museum honored Steve Butler’s racing career by featuring his accomplishments as part of the Hoosier Thunder exhibit. Focusing on short track open wheel racing champions, Hoosier Thunder honored dirt track championships won by Jeff Gordon, Tony Stewart, Steve Kinser, Levi Jones, Pancho Carter, Tom Bigelow, Dave Darland and other great drivers. \n\n2018 IMS Museum Hoosier Thunder Ft. Steve Butler\n\nSprint car racing video, Steve Butler career highlights\n\nFlat track motorcycle racing video, Steve Butler career highlights\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302953", "title": "Valeyres-sous-Montagny", "text": "Valeyres-sous-Montagny\n\nValeyres-sous-Montagny is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nValeyres-sous-Montagny is first mentioned around 1139-48 as \"Valeriis\".\n\nValeyres-sous-Montagny has an area, , of . Of this area, or 60.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 23.7% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 16.2% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 6.1% and transportation infrastructure made up 7.0%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 2.2% of the area Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 46.1% is used for growing crops and 11.8% is pastures, while 2.6% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Valeyres-sous-Montagny became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipality is located on the left bank of the Brine river, north-west of Yverdon-les-Bains.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Azure, a Bend wavy Argent, in chief a Hand Or, in base a Trefoil of the same.\"\n\nValeyres-sous-Montagny has a population () of . , 15.0% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 25%. It has changed at a rate of 21.7% due to migration and at a rate of 2.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (501 or 93.8%) as their first language, with German being second most common (14 or 2.6%) and Italian being third (12 or 2.2%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Valeyres-sous-Montagny is; 69 children or 10.6% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 85 teenagers or 13.1% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 82 people or 12.6% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 83 people or 12.7% are between 30 and 39, 122 people or 18.7% are between 40 and 49, and 76 people or 11.7% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 66 people or 10.1% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 43 people or 6.6% are between 70 and 79, there are 20 people or 3.1% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 5 people or 0.8% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 202 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 274 married individuals, 24 widows or widowers and 34 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 214 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.4 persons per household. There were 52 households that consist of only one person and 14 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 220 households that answered this question, 23.6% were households made up of just one person and there were 3 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 73 married couples without children, 73 married couples with children There were 8 single parents with a child or children. There were 5 households that were made up of unrelated people and 6 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 191 apartments (95.5% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 9 apartments (4.5%) were seasonally occupied. , the construction rate of new housing units was 4.6 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0.46%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 27.48% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (17.82%), the Green Party (15.88%) and the FDP (12.93%). In the federal election, a total of 165 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 40.1%.\n\n, Valeyres-sous-Montagny had an unemployment rate of 4.7%. , there were 19 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 5 businesses involved in this sector. 42 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 6 businesses in this sector. 30 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 9 businesses in this sector. There were 272 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 43.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 60 workers who commuted into the municipality and 227 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 3.8 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. About 6.7% of the workforce coming into Valeyres-sous-Montagny are coming from outside Switzerland. Of the working population, 12.5% used public transportation to get to work, and 70.6% used a private car.\n\nThe meter gauge electric Yverdon–Ste-Croix railway line links Valeyres-sous-Montagny with Yverdon-les-Bains and Sainte Croix.\n\nFrom the , 153 or 28.7% were Roman Catholic, while 258 or 48.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 3 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.56% of the population), and there were 22 individuals (or about 4.12% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 3 (or about 0.56% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 2 individuals who were Buddhist and 1 individual who belonged to another church. 88 (or about 16.48% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 15 individuals (or about 2.81% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Valeyres-sous-Montagny about 197 or (36.9%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 82 or (15.4%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 82 who completed tertiary schooling, 53.7% were Swiss men, 30.5% were Swiss women, 12.2% were non-Swiss men.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 85 students in the Valeyres-sous-Montagny school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 46 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 35 students in those schools. There were also 4 students who were home schooled or attended another non-traditional school.\n\n, there were 49 students in Valeyres-sous-Montagny who came from another municipality, while 79 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302954", "title": "Valeyres-sous-Ursins", "text": "Valeyres-sous-Ursins\n\nValeyres-sous-Ursins is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nValeyres-sous-Ursins is first mentioned in 1184 as \"de Valeres\".\n\nValeyres-sous-Ursins has an area, , of . Of this area, or 75.7% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 19.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 3.8% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.4% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.0%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 63.2% is used for growing crops and 10.4% is pastures, while 2.1% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Valeyres-sous-Ursins became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipalities of Cronay, Cuarny, Pomy, Ursins, Valeyres-sous-Ursins and Villars-Epeney are considering a merger on at a date in the future into the new municipality with an, , undetermined name.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Vert, two Bars wavy Argent, overall a Cup Or.\"\n\nValeyres-sous-Ursins has a population () of . , 4.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 32.2%. It has changed at a rate of 27.6% due to migration and at a rate of 5.7% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (172 or 95.6%) as their first language, with German being second most common (2 or 1.1%) and Italian being third (2 or 1.1%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Valeyres-sous-Ursins is; 37 children or 16.1% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 29 teenagers or 12.6% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 27 people or 11.7% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 39 people or 17.0% are between 30 and 39, 31 people or 13.5% are between 40 and 49, and 21 people or 9.1% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 25 people or 10.9% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 14 people or 6.1% are between 70 and 79, there are 7 people or 3.0% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 68 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 102 married individuals, 4 widows or widowers and 6 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 73 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 19 households that consist of only one person and 4 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 73 households that answered this question, 26.0% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 24 married couples without children, 26 married couples with children There were 2 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people.\n\n, a total of 71 apartments (95.9% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 1 apartment was seasonally occupied and 2 apartments (2.7%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 45.36% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the Green Party (16.17%), the SP (12.32%) and the EDU Party (10.69%). In the federal election, a total of 111 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 73.5%.\n\n, Valeyres-sous-Ursins had an unemployment rate of 3.1%. , there were 26 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 12 businesses involved in this sector. 5 people were employed in the secondary sector and there was 1 business in this sector. 5 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 4 businesses in this sector. There were 100 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 37.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 9 workers who commuted into the municipality and 67 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 7.4 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 6% used public transportation to get to work, and 64% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 26 or 14.4% were Roman Catholic, while 113 or 62.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 28 individuals (or about 15.56% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 person who was Buddhist. 23 (or about 12.78% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 3 individuals (or about 1.67% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Valeyres-sous-Ursins about 75 or (41.7%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 28 or (15.6%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 28 who completed tertiary schooling, 57.1% were Swiss men, 28.6% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 39 students in the Valeyres-sous-Ursins school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 19 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 20 students in those schools.\n\n, there was one student in Valeyres-sous-Ursins who came from another municipality, while 32 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302955", "title": "Villars-Epeney", "text": "Villars-Epeney\n\nVillars-Epeney is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nVillars-Epeney has an area, , of . Of this area, or 77.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 17.4% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 5.8% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 3.5% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.3%. Out of the forested land, 16.3% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.2% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 68.6% is used for growing crops and 8.1% is pastures, while 1.2% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Villars-Epeney became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe municipalities of Cronay, Cuarny, Pomy, Ursins, Valeyres-sous-Ursins and Villars-Epeney are considering a merger on at a date in the future into the new municipality with an, , undetermined name.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Or, a thorn bough Vert bendwise.\"\n\nVillars-Epeney has a population () of . , 7.1% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 50.9%. It has changed at a rate of 49.1% due to migration and at a rate of 1.9% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (49 or 98.0%) as their first language with the rest speaking Portuguese\n\nThe age distribution, , in Villars-Epeney is; 4 children or 5.0% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 13 teenagers or 16.3% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 8 people or 10.0% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 14 people or 17.5% are between 30 and 39, 15 people or 18.8% are between 40 and 49, and 15 people or 18.8% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 5 people or 6.3% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 2 people or 2.5% are between 70 and 79, there are 4 people or 5.0% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 22 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 21 married individuals, 3 widows or widowers and 4 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 20 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 7 households that consist of only one person. Out of a total of 20 households that answered this question, 35.0% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 2 married couples without children, 9 married couples with children There were 2 single parents with a child or children.\n\n, a total of 20 apartments (87.0% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2 apartments (8.7%) were seasonally occupied and one apartment was empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 12.5 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 33.04% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (17.39%), the SP (12%) and the LPS Party (10.96%). In the federal election, a total of 34 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 64.2%.\n\n, Villars-Epeney had an unemployment rate of 7.3%. , there were 5 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 2 businesses involved in this sector. 1 person was employed in the secondary sector and there was 1 business in this sector. 2 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 2 businesses in this sector. There were 24 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 50.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 16 workers who commuted away from the municipality. Of the working population, 12.5% used public transportation to get to work, and 54.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 15 or 30.0% were Roman Catholic, while 31 or 62.0% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. 4 (or about 8.00% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist.\n\nIn Villars-Epeney about 13 or (26.0%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 9 or (18.0%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 9 who completed tertiary schooling, 44.4% were Swiss men, 44.4% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 12 students in the Villars-Epeney school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 2 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 10 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 10 students from Villars-Epeney who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302957", "title": "Villars-sous-Champvent", "text": "Villars-sous-Champvent\n\nVillars-sous-Champvent was a former municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The municipalities of Essert-sous-Champvent and Villars-sous-Champvent merged on 1 January 2012 into the municipality of Champvent.\n\nVillars-sous-Champvent had an area, , of . Of this area, or 84.6% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 8.8% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 6.6% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.2% and transportation infrastructure made up 3.3%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 1.1% of the area Out of the forested land, 7.7% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.1% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 70.3% is used for growing crops and 9.9% is pastures, while 4.4% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe former municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Villars-sous-Champvent became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nVillars-sous-Champvent lies at an elevation of , west as the crow flies from Yverdon-les-Bains. This farm village is nestled in the Bey valley.\n\nTo the north are the hills that rise to the foot of the Jura Mountains. To the south lies the Mont de Chamblon (), the highest point in the municipality.\n\nThe surrounding municipalities are Montagny-près-Yverdon, Chamblon, Suscévaz, Champvent, and Essert-sous-Champvent.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Pally of Six Argent and Azure, overall a Harrow Gules.\"\n\nVillars-sous-Champvent had a population () of 59. , about 1.9% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 12.8%. It has changed at a rate of 4.3% due to migration and at a rate of 8.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (44 or 97.8%) as their first language with the rest speaking German\n\nThe age distribution, , in Villars-sous-Champvent is; 6 children or 11.3% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 10 teenagers or 18.9% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 7 people or 13.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 10 people or 18.9% are between 30 and 39, 8 people or 15.1% are between 40 and 49, and 5 people or 9.4% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 4 people or 7.5% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 3 people or 5.7% are between 70 and 79, there are people or 0.0% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 16 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 26 married individuals, 2 widows or widowers and 1 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 19 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.4 persons per household. There were 4 households that consist of only one person. Out of a total of 19 households that answered this question, 21.1% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 8 married couples without children, 7 married couples with children.\n\n, a total of 18 apartments (94.7% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 1 apartment was seasonally occupied. , the construction rate of new housing units was 18.9 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 4.76%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 43.08% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (20.18%), the Green Party (11.79%) and the SP (10.88%). In the federal election, a total of 25 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 64.1%.\n\n, Villars-sous-Champvent had an unemployment rate of 0%. , there were 16 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 3 businesses involved in this sector. 1 person was employed in the secondary sector and there was 1 business in this sector. 2 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 1 business in this sector. There were 23 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 43.5% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 17 workers who commuted away from the municipality. Of the working population, 4.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 65.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 10 or 22.2% were Roman Catholic, while 35 or 77.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church.\n\nIn Villars-sous-Champvent about 18 or (40.0%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 5 or (11.1%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 5 who completed tertiary schooling, 80.0% were Swiss men, 20.0% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 9 students in the Villars-sous-Champvent school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 5 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 4 students in those schools.\n\n, there were 7 students from Villars-sous-Champvent who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302959", "title": "Vugelles-La Mothe", "text": "Vugelles-La Mothe\n\nVugelles-La Mothe is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nVugelles-La Mothe has an area, , of . Of this area, or 30.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 64.2% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 4.2% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.3% is either rivers or lakes and or 1.3% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 1.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.3%. Out of the forested land, 60.6% of the total land area is heavily forested and 3.6% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 14.0% is used for growing crops and 14.3% is pastures, while 1.3% is used for orchards or vine crops and 1.3% is used for alpine pastures. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Vugelles-La Mothe became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Pally of Six Argent and Azure, overall an Owl proper standing on a semi Mining-weel Or.\"\n\nVugelles-La Mothe has a population () of . , 5.9% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 5.5%. It has changed at a rate of 3.6% due to migration and at a rate of 0% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (81 or 81.8%) as their first language, German is the second most common (14 or 14.1%) and English is the third (2 or 2.0%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Vugelles-La Mothe is; 19 children or 16.4% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 15 teenagers or 12.9% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 13 people or 11.2% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 17 people or 14.7% are between 30 and 39, 17 people or 14.7% are between 40 and 49, and 15 people or 12.9% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 11 people or 9.5% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 5 people or 4.3% are between 70 and 79, there are 4 people or 3.4% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 37 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 48 married individuals, 8 widows or widowers and 6 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 38 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.6 persons per household. There were 7 households that consist of only one person and 4 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 38 households that answered this question, 18.4% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 11 married couples without children, 15 married couples with children There were 5 single parents with a child or children.\n\n, a total of 36 apartments (92.3% of the total) were permanently occupied and 3 apartments (7.7%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 52.54% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (18.21%), the FDP (11.38%) and the Green Party (9.63%). In the federal election, a total of 33 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 44.6%.\n\n, Vugelles-La Mothe had an unemployment rate of 6.6%. , there were 10 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 3 businesses involved in this sector. 5 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 2 businesses in this sector. 4 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 1 business in this sector. There were 43 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 46.5% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 7 workers who commuted into the municipality and 25 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 3.6 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 7% used public transportation to get to work, and 51.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 10 or 10.1% were Roman Catholic, while 70 or 70.7% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. There were 2 individuals who were Hindu. 15 (or about 15.15% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 2 individuals (or about 2.02% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Vugelles-La Mothe about 29 or (29.3%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 16 or (16.2%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 16 who completed tertiary schooling, 56.3% were Swiss men, 37.5% were Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 20 students in the Vugelles-La Mothe school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 9 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 9 students in those schools. There were also 2 students who were home schooled or attended another non-traditional school.\n\n, there were 22 students from Vugelles-La Mothe who attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2302961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302961", "title": "Yvonand", "text": "Yvonand\n\nYvonand is a municipality in the district of Jura-Nord Vaudois (former Yverdon) of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nLocated on the southwestern shore of Lake Neuchâtel the village has a population of almost 2,500 which may rise to 7,000 in summer, due to the popularity of the sandy beaches, which gently shelve into the lake.\n\nYvonand has a long tradition of settlement. Approximately 4,000 years BC, the caves in the Vallon of Vaux were used as first places of settlement. Some cave paintings date from this time. In the Bronze Age, settlements were made of wooden stakes in Yvonand bay.\n\nThe area around Yvonand village was settled during the Roman era, on the road between Eburodunum (Yverdon) and Aventicum (Avenches). At Mordagne to the west of the Mentue, the foundation walls of a Roman villa were excavated, which was established around 100 years after Christ. The traces of a settlement, to which a Heiligtum (a Gallo-Roman temple) also belonged, was probably inhabited in the year 400.\n\nYvonand is first mentioned in 1010 as \"Evonant\". The designations Ivonant (1100) appeared later, de Vonant in the 12th Century, Eyvonant (1437) and Yvonant (1453). The place name derives from the Germanic family name Evo and the word 'nant', which signifies a brook or a valley.\n\nDuring the Burgundian Wars in 1476, Yvonand came under the administration of Grandson, which was itself under the common rule of Bern and Fribourg; situated at the southern lakeshore it had its own Court of Justice. In 1531 the commune joined the reformation.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Ancien Régime and during the period of Napoleon's Helvetic Republic, from 1798 to 1803, Yvonand was forced to join the Canton of Léman, which afterwards became Canton Vaud. In 1798, it was assigned to the district of Yverdon.\n\nYvonand has an area, , of . Of this area, or 52.3% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 31.9% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 12.9% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.6% is either rivers or lakes and or 2.1% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 5.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 5.5%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 42.0% is used for growing crops and 8.9% is pastures, while 1.4% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Yverdon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Yvonand became part of the new district of Jura-Nord Vaudois.\n\nYvonand is above sea level and east northeast of the former district capital Yverdon-les-Bains. The village extends along the mouth of the River Mentue, briefly before its delta into Lake Neuchâtel, in northern French speaking Switzerland. The municipality covers a section of the undulating land between Lake Neuchâtel and the Broye.\n\nThe central part of the area features the delta of the River Mentue, which flows into Lake Neuchâtel. The lakeshore in the region of and surrounding Yvonand is flat, near a belt of reeds and forest. In the southeast the land rises to its highest point, in the municipality, at above sea level, bordering a high plateau with Rovray and Arrissoules, achieving the height of La Baume, which then drops dramatically toward Yvonand. The southern part of the municipality covers the valley of the Mentue, up to wide. On the east side of the River Vaux, the stream has created a valley in the course of millions of years by its erosive strength. Between these two valleys is the high forest, Bois de Montessy, and Niédens. The western delimitation runs by sections along the River Epena, which rises behind the Montéla.\n\nNeighbouring municipalities of Yvonand are Cheseaux-Noréaz, Villars-Epeney, Cuarny, Cronay, Donneloye, Molondin and Rovray in Canton Vaud as well as Cheyres in Canton Fribourg.\n\nYvonand has a population () of . , 11.1% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 13.2%. It has changed at a rate of 15.5% due to migration and at a rate of -2.3% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (2,094 or 91.9%) as their first language, German is the second most common (99 or 4.3%) and Portuguese is the third (26 or 1.1%). There are 18 people who speak Italian and 2 people who speak Romansh.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Yvonand is; 258 children or 10.5% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 392 teenagers or 16.0% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 237 people or 9.7% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 297 people or 12.1% are between 30 and 39, 415 people or 16.9% are between 40 and 49, and 310 people or 12.6% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 269 people or 11.0% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 141 people or 5.7% are between 70 and 79, there are 114 people or 4.6% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 22 people or 0.9% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 915 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 1,117 married individuals, 138 widows or widowers and 108 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 862 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 238 households that consist of only one person and 76 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 883 households that answered this question, 27.0% were households made up of just one person and there were 4 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 245 married couples without children, 317 married couples with children There were 51 single parents with a child or children. There were 7 households that were made up of unrelated people and 21 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 839 apartments (85.9% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 106 apartments (10.8%) were seasonally occupied and 32 apartments (3.3%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 1.2 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0.09%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SP which received 28.71% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SVP (27.51%), the FDP (17.04%) and the Green Party (9.01%). In the federal election, a total of 713 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 44.1%.\n\n, Yvonand had an unemployment rate of 3.1%. , there were 44 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 17 businesses involved in this sector. 234 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 33 businesses in this sector. 464 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 58 businesses in this sector. There were 1,054 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 41.1% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 484 workers who commuted into the municipality and 653 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 1.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 11.7% used public transportation to get to work, and 63.9% used a private car.\n\nThe municipality is well served thanks to the main road from Yverdon to Estavayer-le-Lac, which traverses the commune and which serves as the High Street to the village. Since 2001, through traffic has bypassed the village thanks to the completion of the Yverdon-les-Bains–Payerne section of the A1 motorway (Lausanne–Bern). This motorway runs across the heights to the south of Yvonand, where the deep valleys of the Mentue and the Vaux had to be spanned, with two impressive viaducts over 100m high (Pont sur la Mentue and Viaduc du Vaux). The nearest motorway junctions are Yverdon Ouest (10 km to the west) and Estavayer-le-Lac (14 km to the east).\n\nOn 1 February 1877 the Yverdon railway line was extended to Payerne with a station in Yvonand. There is a Post Bus, which serves the municipalities of the hinterland in a circular route.\n\nThe recent extension of the A1 motorway, which traverses the municipality has improved communication links, making it more attractive to commuters, who work further afield, but who enjoy the sheltered lakeside location.\n\nFrom the , 507 or 22.3% were Roman Catholic, while 1,270 or 55.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 7 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.31% of the population), there were 3 individuals (or about 0.13% of the population) who belonged to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 72 individuals (or about 3.16% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 2 individuals (or about 0.09% of the population) who were Jewish, and 17 (or about 0.75% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 5 individuals who were Buddhist, 3 individuals who were Hindu and 1 individual who belonged to another church. 313 (or about 13.74% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 113 individuals (or about 4.96% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Yvonand about 853 or (37.4%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 224 or (9.8%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 224 who completed tertiary schooling, 63.8% were Swiss men, 24.1% were Swiss women, 8.9% were non-Swiss men and 3.1% were non-Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 375 students in the Yvonand school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 578 children of which 359 children (62.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 176 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 197 students in those schools. There were also 2 students who were home schooled or attended another non-traditional school.\n\n, there were 68 students in Yvonand who came from another municipality, while 102 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\nA church, belonging to the diocese of the Bishop of Lausanne, has existed in the village since its first denomination as Yvonand; the reformed parish church was built again in 1749 and received a new tower in 1906, which was upgraded in 2006. The Catholic chapel dates from 1959.\n\nThe prehistoric settlement at Le Marais is part of the Prehistoric Pile dwellings around the Alps a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302964", "title": "Active protection system", "text": "Active protection system\n\nAn active protection system is a system (usually for a military application) designed to prevent line-of-sight guided anti-tank missiles/projectiles from acquiring and/or destroying a target.\n\nElectronic countermeasures that alter the electromagnetic, acoustic or other signature(s) of a target thereby altering the tracking and sensing behavior of an incoming threat (e.g., guided missile) are designated soft-kill measures.\n\nMeasures that physically counterattack an incoming threat thereby destroying/altering its payload/warhead in such a way that the intended effect on the target is severely impeded are designated hard-kill measures.\n\nSoft-kill measures are applied when it is expected that a sensor-based weapon system can be successfully interfered with. The threat sensor can be either an artificial one, e.g., a solid-state infrared detector, or the human sensory system (eye and/or ear).\n\nSoft-kill measures generally interfere with the signature of the target to be protected. In the following the term \"signature\" refers to the electromagnetic or acoustic signature of an object in either the ultraviolet (wavelength: 0.3–0.4 μm), visual (0.4–0.8 μm), or infrared (0.8 - 14 μm) spectral range as well as cm-radar range (frequency: 2–18 GHz), mmw-radar (35, 94, 144 GHz) and finally sonar range (either 50 Hz – 3 kHz and/or 3–15 kHz).\n\nOne or more of the following actions may be taken to provide soft-kill:\n\nSoft-kill countermeasures can be divided into on-board and expendable countermeasures.\nWhereas on-board measures are fixed on the platform to be protected, expendable measures are ejected from the platform.\n\n\"Preemptive action\" of countermeasures is directed to generally prevent lock-on of a threat sensor to a certain target. It is based on altering the signature of the target by either concealing the platform signature or enhancing the signature of the background, thus minimizing the contrast between the two.\n\n\"Reactive action\" of countermeasures is directed toward break-lock of a threat already homing in on a certain target. It is based on the tactics of signature imitation, augmentation, or reduction.\n\nGenerally one has to distinguish between infrared and radar countermeasures. The wavelength range between 0.8 and 5 μm is considered as Infrared (IR), the frequency range between 2 and 18 GHz is considered as Radar.\n\nIn the wake of shoulder-launched missile attacks against civilian passenger and cargo airliners in the early 2000s, various agencies investigated the feasibility of equipping countermeasures such as chaff and flares. Many commercial carriers found the estimated price of countermeasures to be too costly. However, the Israeli airline El-Al, having been the target of the failed 2002 airliner attack, in which shoulder-launched surface-to-air missiles were fired at an airliner while taking off, began equipping its fleet with radar-based, automated flare release countermeasures from June 2004. This caused concerns in some European countries, regarding the possible fire hazard at civilian airports, resulting in banning such aircraft from landing at their airports. In 2007, Saab announced a new infrared countermeasure system called CAMPS that does not use pyrotechnic flares, thereby directly addressing these concerns.\n\nIR-decoy flares serve to counter infrared-guided surface-to-air missiles (SAM) or air-to-air missiles (AAM) and can be expelled from a craft according to an anticipated threat in defined sequences.\n\nTo counter radar-guided missiles, chaff is used. These are copper nickel-coated glass fibers or silver-coated nylon fibers having lengths equal to half of the anticipated radar wavelength.\n\nNew systems, such as the BriteCloud expendable active decoy, use DRFM technology to generate a false target, luring the RF threat system away from the aircraft.\n\nLand and sea-based forces can also use such countermeasures, as well as smoke-screens that can disrupt laser ranging, infrared detection, laser weapons, and visual observation.\n\nExcept for countering intercontinental ballistic missiles, hard-kill measures generally refer to measures taken in the so-called \"end-game\" shortly before a warhead/missile hits its target.\nThe hard-kill measure in general physically affects the incoming warhead/missile by means of either blast and/or fragment action.\nThe action may lead to:\nThere are many examples of active countermeasures. For example, the Russian-made Arena system utilizes a Doppler radar to detect incoming threats and fires a top attack rocket to eliminate the threat. The Israeli Trophy system fires a shotgun-like blast to destroy the threat. An American system known as Quick Kill detects incoming threats using an Active Electronically Scanned Array, which assesses the threat, and deploys a smaller rocket countermeasure. Another American system, known as Iron Curtain, utilizes two sensors to reduce false alarms and defeat threats inches from their target by firing a kinetic countermeasure designed to minimize collateral damage.\n\nThe Russian T-14 Armata tank features the \"Afghanit\" () active protection system (APS), which includes a millimeter-wavelength radar to detect, track, and intercept incoming anti-tank munitions, both kinetic energy penetrators (reportedly) and tandem-charges. Currently, the maximum speed of the interceptable target is , with projected future increases of up to . According to news sources, it protects the tank from all sides.\n\nAn example of a hard-kill countermeasure is the reactive armor, a sandwich of high explosive material between two armor plates found on many modern armored vehicles. As a penetrator hits the armor, the explosive detonates, which disrupts any plasma jet generated by the penetrator, damaging it.\n\nAnother example of hard-kill countermeasures is the use of short-range missiles or rapid-fire guns to protect warships and fixed installations from cruise missile, bomb and artillery attacks.\n\nCountermeasures are a complicating factor in the development of anti-ballistic missile defense systems targeting ICBMs. Like aircraft, ICBMs theoretically could evade such systems by deploying decoys and chaff in the midcourse phase of flight. Novel proposed chaff mechanisms describe the creation of a \"threat cloud\" by deploying large aluminized PET film balloons which could conceal a warhead among a large number of inert objects having similar radar profiles.\n\nMountains and neighboring vehicles reflect radio waves, thus creating radar clutter, which adversely affects radar-detection and radar-lock performance.\n\nTop attack ATGMs like FGM-148 Javelin (USA) and Trigat (Germany) attack the tank turret's top, requiring the active protection system to attack nearly vertically, for which turret might have not been designed. The same is true for an RPG being fired in a steep downward angle from an elevated location at a target below.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2302979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302979", "title": "Third Ear Band", "text": "Third Ear Band\n\nThird Ear Band were a British musical group formed in London during the mid-1960s. Their line-up initially consisted of violin, cello, oboe and percussion. Most of their performances were instrumental and partly improvised. Nevertheless, their records for the Harvest label, \"Alchemy\" and \"Third Ear Band\", achieved some popularity, after which they found some success creating soundtrack music for films.\n\nDave Tomlin, who had initiated free-form jazz sessions at the London Free School, began similar sessions at the UFO Club by assembling members of the audience, usually at 4am, into a free-form group playing for the, by then, exhausted dancers. The drummer, Glen Sweeney, was sometimes so carried away he had to be told that the rest of the group had finished. They became known as 'The Giant Sun Trolley'.\n\nMembers came from The Giant Sun Trolley and The People Band to create an improvised music drawing on Eastern raga forms, European folk, experimental and medieval influences. They recorded their first session in 1968 for Ron Geesin which was released under the pseudonym of The National-Balkan Ensemble on one side of a Standard Music Library disc. \n\nTheir first album, \"Alchemy\", was released on the EMI Harvest label in 1969 and featured John Peel, the BBC disc jockey who did much to publicise the group, playing jaw harp on one track. This was followed by an eponymous second album containing four tracks, \"Air\", \"Earth\", \"Fire\" and \"Water\", which reached wider attention due to the inclusion of one track on the Harvest sampler \"Picnic\". \n\nThey recorded two soundtracks, the first in 1970 for an animated film by Herbert Fuchs of \"Abelard and Heloise\" (which first saw release as part of Luca Ferrari's \"Necromancers of the Drifting West\" Sonic Book in 1997) and then in 1971 for Roman Polanski's film of \"Macbeth\". After various later incarnations and albums they finally disbanded in 1993 owing to leader and percussionist Glen Sweeney's ongoing health problems.\n\nThey also opened The Rolling Stones Free Concert at Hyde Park on 5 July 1969, and played at the Isle of Wight Festival the next month.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303003", "title": "Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry", "text": "Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry (Karl Friedrich Bonhoeffer Institute) in Göttingen is a research institute of the Max Planck Society. Currently, 850 people work at the institute, about half of them are scientists.\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry is the only one of the institutes within the Max Planck Society which combines the three classical scientific disciplines – biology, physics and chemistry. Founded in 1971, its initial focus was set on physical and chemical problems. It has since undergone a continuous evolution manifested by an expanding range of core subjects and work areas such as neurobiology, biochemistry and molecular biology. To date, four researchers working in the institute (Stefan Hell, 2014; Erwin Neher and Bert Sakmann, 1991; Manfred Eigen, 1967) have been awarded by Nobel Prize.\n\nIn April, 2020, Patrick Cramer's team at the Max Planck Institute of Biophysical Chemistry created the first \"3D structure of the corona polymerase\" for the COVID-19 virus. Their model will allow researchers \"to investigate how antiviral drugs such as remdesivir – which blocks the polymerase – work, and to search for new inhibitory substances.\"\n\n The history of the Institute goes back to the year 1949. At that time, the Max Planck Society established the Max Planck Institute for Physical Chemistry in Göttingen as follow-up of the former Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physical Chemistry in Berlin. Karl Friedrich Bonhoeffer, who already worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, became the founding director of the new institute. He was one of the first researchers who applied physical-chemical methods in biological research and thus combined different disciplines of natural sciences in research.\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry was created in 1971 by merging the Max Planck Institutes for Physical Chemistry and for Spectroscopy in Göttingen. This was mainly initiated by Nobel Prize laureate Manfred Eigen, who was at that time director of the Max Planck Institute for Physical Chemistry. His vision of an interdisciplinary approach to biological research was decisive and the creative impulse for the development of the institute. In honour of Karl Friedrich Bonhoeffer, the new institute was named after him.\n\nAlthough the institute is dedicated to basic research – by virtue of the charter of the Max Planck Society – its policy has been to encourage the transfer of numerous technological innovations to the marketplace. As a consequence, many licensing agreements and start-up firms have arisen from research conducted at the institute, e. g. Lambda Physik (today part of Coherent), DeveloGen (today part of Evotec) and Evotec.\n\nResearch at the institute focuses on the fundamental mechanisms that regulate and control life processes: How is genetic information correctly translated into proteins? How do nerve cells communicate with each other? How is cellular logistics controlled? On the organismal level, researchers at the Institute study the circadian rhythms of the vertebrate, or differentiation and development in multicellular organisms.\n\nTo obtain even deeper insights into the nanocosmos of living cells, the institute employs ultra-high resolution microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and tomography, mass spectrometry, optical spectroscopy, or atomistic computer simulations. At the same time the Institute concentrates on developing novel measurement and analysis methods to provide a closer look into the world of molecules.\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry currently encompasses 12 departments:\n\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry is particularly engaged in the support of junior scientists. 20 independent research groups pursue their own research goals.\n\n\nAfter retiring, directors of the Institute can actively continue their research for a couple of years.\n\n\nThe Institute has undergone a permanent change in research with the closing of departments after their heads have retired and by continuously establishing new departments. Some of the former directors pursue their research even after their Emeritus Group has expired and can still be contacted at the institute (*).\n\nThe institute also accommodates the independent Biomedizinische NMR Forschungs GmbH headed by Jens Frahm, which was founded in 1993. The focus of this association is the development and application of spatially resolved NMR techniques for non-invasive studies of the central nervous system in animals and humans. These innovative approaches allow for unique insights into the structure, metabolism and function of the intact living brain. Jens Frahm and his coworkers invented a rapid acquisition technique for magnetic resonance imaging termed FLASH MRI (fast low angle shot) technique which allowed for a 100-fold reduction of the measuring times of cross-sectional and three-dimensional images. The FLASH technique led the ground for many modern MRI applications in diagnostic imaging.\n\nIn 2000, two International Max Planck Research Schools (IMPRS) were established together with the Georg August University Göttingen, the German Primate Center and the Max Planck Institute for Experimental Medicine: the IMPRS for Molecular Biology and the IMPRS for Neurosciences (in cooperation with the Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-Organization and the European Neuroscience Institute Göttingen). A third graduate school, the IMPRS for Physics of Biological and Complex Systems, was opened in 2008 (in cooperation with the Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-Organization).\n\n"}
{"id": "2303013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303013", "title": "The Alarm", "text": "The Alarm\n\nThe Alarm are a Welsh rock band that formed in Rhyl, Wales, in 1981. Initially formed as a punk band, The Toilets, in 1977, under lead vocalist Mike Peters, the band soon embraced rock and included marked influences from Welsh language and culture. By opening for acts such as U2 and Bob Dylan, they became a popular new wave pop band of the 1980s.\n\nThe Alarm's highest charting single in Britain was 1983's \"Sixty Eight Guns\", which reached number 17 in the UK Singles Chart. Their 1984 album, \"Declaration\", which contained \"Sixty Eight Guns\", peaked at number six in the UK Albums Chart.\n\nIn 1977 a punk band was formed in Rhyl, Wales, billed as \"The Toilets\". It contained Mike Peters (alias Eddie Bop), Glyn Crossley (alias Steve Shock), Richard \"O'Malley\" Jones (alias Bo Larks) and Nigel Buckle (alias Des Troy). The band ceased to exist in 1978; they renamed themselves Quiasimodo and played note-for-note covers of The Who's \"Live At Leeds\" with guitarist Dave Sharp. This group also included Karl Wallinger on keyboards. Later the group named themselves Seventeen, with both Mike Peters and Nigel Buckle alongside Eddie MacDonald (who had been Mike Peters' next-door-but-one neighbour in Edward Henry Street, Rhyl). Seventeen began as a three-piece but were soon joined by guitarist David Kitchingman (who changed his name to Dave Sharp) and became a power pop mod band who released a single (\"Don't Let Go\" / \"Bank Holiday Weekend\") in March 1980 and toured with the Stray Cats later that year. They played their last concert together under the new name of \"Alarm Alarm\" in January 1981 at the Half Moon, Herne Hill, London, but this would also be the last time this name was used.\n\nThe band soon reformed under the new name of The Alarm (with Nigel Buckle changing his surname to 'Twist'), and played their first gig at The Victoria Hotel, Prestatyn, north Wales, on 6 June 1981, opening with \"Shout to the Devil\", which would later appear on the \"Declaration\" album.\n\nThey moved from North Wales to London in September 1981, and the band recorded a one-off 7\" single. One thousand copies were pressed that month, featuring \"Unsafe Building\" on the \"electric\" side and \"Up For Murder\" on the \"acoustic\" side. The single was noticed by Mick Mercer, who featured it as his single of the month in his \"ZigZag\" magazine. The band played a show with The Fall in December 1981, where a journalist from \"Sounds\" noticed them. This journalist attended the band's next show, at Upstairs at Ronnie's in London's West End. Also at this show was a representative of Wasted Talent, who arranged a meeting between the band and Ian Wilson, U2's agent. Wilson arranged another show in order to assess the band's quality, was impressed, and became their manager soon after. To celebrate, The Alarm played with U2 at the Lyceum Ballroom on 22 December 1981.\n\nIn 1982, the band began to record demos for various record labels, but had little success. At this point, they were playing with three acoustic guitarists. The band were eventually offered a deal by I.R.S. Records. This forced them to make a decision on who was to play which musical instrument, and it was decided that Peters would concentrate on singing, with Sharp on guitar and Macdonald playing bass.\n\n\"Marching On\" was released as a single in October 1982, and the band's sound started to become clear. On stage, they would almost always begin gigs acoustically, before finishing with electric guitars. Constant gigging in London helped the band build up a following, and in December 1982, they played four shows with U2. These shows were the first time that Bono joined the Alarm on stage.\n\nA new song, \"The Stand\", was recorded in Battersea in April 1983, and was released in the UK as a single. The song's lyrics were inspired by Stephen King's novel of the same name. Outside the UK, the song was released as part of a five-track EP, entitled \"The Alarm\". The EP was released to coincide with the Alarm's first tour of the U.S. in June 1983. Following the success of the sessions that produced \"The Stand\", I.R.S. picked up their recording option on the band, signalling the start of work on an album. Another session with producer Mick Glossop was arranged to produce a new single, with \"Blaze of Glory\" recorded and released.\n\nIn June 1983, the Alarm embarked on their first tour of the U.S., supporting U2 on the War Tour. The 18-date tour went a long way in establishing the band in the U.S. \"The Stand\" was quickly released by I.R.S. to capitalize on this, supported by TV appearances on \"The Cutting Edge\" and \"American Bandstand\".\n\nFollowing the tour, the band returned to the UK to begin working with producer Alan Shacklock on the new album. They focused on re-recording \"Blaze of Glory\" and \"Sixty Eight Guns\". After the sessions, the band recorded a video for \"Sixty Eight Guns\" and flew back to America to begin their first headline American tour as well as playing in support of The Pretenders. \"Sixty Eight Guns\" was released as a single on 12 September 1983, and charted the following week at number 50. The same week, the band performed the song on the BBC Television music show \"Top of the Pops\". The song subsequently climbed into the Top 20 and remains their highest charting single, peaking at No. 17.\n\nThe band had been recording the new album from July 1983, and by the time of the \"Top of the Pops\" appearance they had recorded the backing tracks to most of the songs. After completing a U.S. tour and a headline tour of the UK in late 1983, the band returned to the studio to record the backing tracks for the rest of the songs.\n\nOn 6 November 1983, the band recorded an acoustic radio session for the BBC. This session saw the debut of three brand new songs: \"Walk Forever by My Side\", \"One Step Closer to Home\" and \"Unbreak the Promise\".\n\nOn 7 November, the band returned to the recording studio to finish recording the album, now titled \"Declaration\". In December, the Alarm returned to the U.S. for a third headline tour. The weather was atrocious, and on 6 December, the car in which the band was travelling crashed, although none of the four members was injured. They returned to the UK on 17 December and appeared as part of an Anti-Nuclear Benefit Concert at the Apollo Theatre, London.\n\nWhilst the band had been in the U.S., Alan Shacklock and sound engineer Chris Porter finished mixing the album. The band played a handful of gigs supporting The Police over Christmas, and by 5 January 1984, the album had been mixed and finalised. \"Declaration\" was released by I.R.S. Records on 14 February 1984. A week later, the album entered the UK Albums Chart at Number 6.\n\nIn November 1984, the Alarm recorded demos of nine brand-new songs, including \"Absolute Reality\". They played their new material to the American producer Jimmy Iovine, who agreed to come to the UK in January 1985 to begin work on the follow-up to \"Declaration\". During this period Peters appeared solo at a number of events, including the Greenbelt Arts festival in Northamptonshire, playing Alarm material as well as some unrecorded personal songs. Studio sessions were booked for early 1985, and a UK headline tour was booked for May 1985, to coincide with the release of the new album. However, Iovine never came to the UK to work with the Alarm, eventually citing personal reasons. The band had to cancel the sessions and look for another producer. Alan Shacklock was unavailable, so Ian Wilson (the band's manager) convinced I.R.S. to release the Shacklock-produced \"Absolute Reality\" as a single to promote the UK dates in May. \"Absolute Reality\" was released on 18 February 1985, entering the Top 40 of the UK Singles Chart a week later. After a series of appearances at European festivals and a new producer (Mike Howlett), the Alarm began work on their follow-up album, \"Strength\". The band teamed up with MTV, I.R.S. Records, and UCLA's Campus Events to present one of the first live satellite broadcasts from UCLA on 12 April 1986. They played at Queen's \"Live at Wembley '86\" concert on 12 July 1986.\n\n\"Strength\" was released on 1 October 1985 and was another UK success, and brought them into the top 40 of the US \"Billboard\" 200 album chart for the first time; additionally, the single \"Spirit of '76\" was a Top 40 UK hit. The Alarm took a break after the supporting tour, but returned in 1987 with \"Eye of the Hurricane\" and landed a tour slot supporting Bob Dylan. A concert EP, \"Electric Folklore Live\", followed in 1988. They also had a hit single in the UK in 1987 with \"Rain in the Summertime\" (from \"Eye of the Hurricane\"), which gave them their second-best placing on the UK chart.\n\nThe band toured extensively through the United States and Europe through the 1980s into 1991. They gained much popularity in 1983 when they were the opening act for U2, a band to whom they were often compared musically. On 13 March 1988, the Alarm performed at The Fillmore in San Francisco with The 77s and House of Freaks.\n\n1989's \"Change\" was an homage to the group's native Wales, and was accompanied by an alternate Welsh-language version, \"Newid\". Produced by Tony Visconti, \"Change\" spawned the group's biggest Modern Rock hit in America, \"Sold Me Down the River\", which also put them in the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Top 50 for the first and only time. \"Devolution Working Man Blues\" and \"Love Don't Come Easy\" also earned radio airplay, and the track \"A New South Wales\" had an appearance by the Welsh Symphony Orchestra and the Morriston Orpheus Male Voice Choir. Although it was popular in Wales, it did not sell as well as the group's earlier works, and internal band dissension, exacerbated by deaths in both Peters' and Twist's families, made 1991's \"Raw\" the original Alarm's final effort.\n\nAfter the release of \"Raw\" in 1991, despite their success and relative longevity, Peters announced on stage at the Brixton Academy that he was leaving the band.\n\n\"We've shared some great moments in time over the last ten years and tonight I would like to thank all the people who have supported me from the beginning to the end. Tonight this is my last moment with the Alarm, I'm going out in a Blaze of Glory – my hands are held up high\". This came as much of a shock to his colleagues as to the audience. Following this show Peters signed his legal right to one quarter of the Alarm name and logo over to the other three. Peters and Sharp both embarked on solo careers.\n\nAfter the Alarm, Peters teamed up with a band of unknown musicians to form The Poets Of Justice (which included his wife Jules Peters on keyboards), and embark on a solo career which produced a number of singles and albums. In 2000, the Alarm released a complete collection covering all recorded material by the band. It also included sleeve notes to which all four members had contributed. This was the first project to which all four original members had contributed since Peters left the band in 1991.\n\nFollowing the box set release, Peters used the Alarm name on the tour to promote the complete collection release. The musicians Peters used were his backing band in the late 1990s; Steve Grantley from Stiff Little Fingers, Craig Adams from The Sisters of Mercy, The Mission and The Cult, and James Stevenson from Chelsea and Gene Loves Jezebel. The Alarm name was followed by an MM++ that indicated in Roman numerals what year the record was released. Over the past decade Peters has replaced the band members as needed when Adams, Stevenson or Grantley have pursued other projects.\n\nIn February 2004, Peters' new line-up of Alarm MM++ carried out a hoax on the British music industry by issuing \"45 RPM\" under the fictitious name The Poppy Fields. Peters, having garnered positive feedback for the song, decided to disassociate it from his veteran band to have it judged on its own merits, and recruited a young Welsh group called the Wayriders to lip-sync the song in the video. The so-called Poppy Fields took \"45 RPM\" into the UK Top 30 before the hoax was revealed, setting the stage for the album \"In the Poppy Fields\".\n\nThe Alarm appeared together for a one-off show on the VH1 television programme \"Bands Reunited\" in 2005, and performed live in London with a subsequent expanded DVD/CD release of the episode.\n\nIn 2005, Peters discovered that he was suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. At this time, he started a cancer foundation called Love Hope Strength to help with the fight against cancer. In October 2007, Peters, along with 38 other musicians, cancer survivors and supporters, made a 14-day trek to the Mount Everest base camp to perform the highest concert ever on land to raise awareness and money to fight cancer. Other musicians included Cy Curnin and Jamie West-Oram of The Fixx, Glenn Tilbrook of Squeeze, Slim Jim Phantom of The Stray Cats and Nick Harper. Peters is the co-founder of The Love Hope and Strength Foundation with fellow leukemia survivor James Chippendale, CEO of Ascend Insurance Brokerage in Austin, Texas.\n\nIn 2006, the new version of Alarm MM++ released a second studio album, \"Under Attack\". It spawned another UK Top 30 hit, \"Superchannel\". In 2008 A third studio album entitled \"Guerrilla Tactics\" was released. The Alarm's song \"Sixty Eight Guns\" has been featured in a Heineken television advertisement in the U.S. In April, 2008 Sharp launched his own version of the band, AOR – Spirit of The Alarm, to showcase the band's American set lists from the late 1980s.\n\nIn 2009 the Alarm released \"21\", a \"best of\" collection of songs from their 2000's output. The collection included a new remix of the single \"45 RPM\", as well as remixes and alternate takes of 20 other songs. This was followed by a fourth studio album, \"Direct Action\", in April 2010 and then by \"The Sound And Fury\" in 2011, an album of 12 re-imagined tracks from the catalog of the Alarm and of Mike Peters.\n\n2013 saw the release of \"Vinyl\", which featured new tracks written for the soundtrack album and performed by Mike Peters and The Alarm with guest vocals from the film's main stars, Phil Daniels and Keith Allen. The film, written and directed by Sara Sugarman, is loosely based on the true events surrounding The Poppy Fields and release of the single \"45 RPM.\" It also features a cameo appearance of Mike Peters. \"Vinyl\" is a British comedy film that has aging rock star Johnny Jones (Phil Daniels) fool the media into believing his music is that of a new fresh young rock group from North Wales. However, as the media frenzy develops the truth has to come out. The Alarm took the step of touring the soundtrack album with a showing of the film at selected venues in the UK during March and April 2013.\n\nIn 2014 Peters started the process of \"reimagining\" the Alarm's full, original albums as new recordings for the 21st century. He began with \"Declaration [30th Anniversary]\" in 2014, followed quickly by \"Peace Train ,\" a collection of b-sides reimagined\".\" The songs were not mere re-recordings, and were not meant to replace the original songs, but instead offer fresh takes on the classics played through the lens of 30 years of experience. Some of the songs have updated lyrics to match the passage of time, while others contain edited verses, or lyrics from demo versions of the songs before they were recorded for the albums and singles. Peters continued this process for \"<nowiki>Strength : [30th Anniversary]</nowiki>\" and its companion album. \"Majority\" in 2015.\n\nThe band released a new studio album, \"Equals\", on In Grooves Records, in July 2018. This was followed by a companion album, \"Sigma\", released a year later. Peters' wife Jules currently plays keyboards in the band and James Stevenson has adopted a multi-instrumentalist role playing guitar, bass guitar, bass pedals and a bass/six string double-neck guitar made for him by Gordon-Smith Guitars\n\nHistorian Martin Johnes has argued that the band are part of the contemporary history of Wales. His case is based on how the Alarm reflected cultural trends within Wales, and the band are discussed in his book \"Wales since 1939\" (2012).\n\nAllMusic journalist Steve Huey stated:\n\n\"The British music press habitually savaged their records as derivative and pretentious, but this meant little to their zealous following, who supported the band to the tune of over 5 million sales worldwide and 16 Top 50 UK singles.\"\n\n\n∆ Part of the \"In the Poppyfields\" bond (4 albums + bonus album)\n\n1 – also released in a Welsh-language version as \"Newid\"\n2 – also released in a Welsh-language version as \"Tân\"\n3 – Digital re-mastered release including bonus tracks and demos \n5 – Released as \"Alarm MMIII\"\n6 – Released as \"Alarm MMIV\"\n7 – Part of Counter Attack Collective, released as \"Alarm MMVII\" and \"Alarm MMVIII\"\n8 – Released as \"Alarm MMVI\"\n9 – Released as \"Alarm MMVIII\"\n10 – Released as \"Alarm MMX\"\n11 – A collection of songs by the Alarm and Alarm MM++\n\n1 – \"A New South Wales\" featured the Morriston Orpheus Male Voice Choir\n2 – Released as The Poppy Fields / Alarm MMIV\n3 – Released as Alarm MMIV\n4 – Released as Alarm MMVI\n\n1 – Released as The Alarm MM <br>\n2 – Released as The Alarm MMIV <br>\n3 – Released as The Alarm MMVII <br>\n4 – Released as The Alarm MMVIII\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303019", "title": "Mary Carillo", "text": "Mary Carillo\n\nMary Carillo (born March 15, 1957) is a U.S. sportscaster and former professional tennis player. She is a reporter for NBC Sports and NBC Olympics.\n\nCarillo played on the women's professional tennis circuit from 1977 to 1980. She was ranked as high as World No. 33, in the Women's Tennis Association Rankings, from January through March 1980, then retired due to knee injuries.\n\nShe won the 1977 French Open mixed-doubles title with partner and childhood friend John McEnroe. Carillo and McEnroe then made it to the quarterfinals of Wimbledon, and later that year Carillo was a women's doubles quarter finalist at the US Open.\n\n\nCarillo began her television career working for USA Network from 1980 through 1987, PBS from 1981 through 1986 and MSG from 1981 through 1988. She then worked with ESPN from 1988 to 1997 and again from 2003 to 2010. She also worked on US Open coverage for CBS Sports from 1986 to 2014. In addition, Carillo worked as both a host and analyst on HBO's Wimbledon coverage from 1996 to 1999, and on Turner Sports' coverage of Wimbledon from 2000 to 2002. In May 2003, Carillo joined NBC Sports as an analyst on the network's French Open and Wimbledon coverage, having made her debut as an analyst on NBC for the 1996 Family Circle Cup tennis event. Also, she currently does commentary on The Tennis Channel.\n\nCarillo's candid and insightful commentary has earned her accolades throughout the industry, including the distinction of being called \"the sport's top analyst\" by \"Sports Illustrated\". She is known for her deep voice, quick wit and pointed sense of humor. Like her long-time friend and fellow Douglaston, Queens, New York native John McEnroe, Carillo is known for her colorful turns of speech, and is credited with coining the phrase \"Big Babe Tennis\" to describe the era in women's tennis dominated by large, powerful players such as Lindsay Davenport, Serena Williams and Venus Williams. Carillo's unabashed and opinionated style of tennis commentary has drawn criticism from several top players, notably Andre Agassi, Serena and Venus Williams, and Maria Sharapova. Nevertheless, she has been named Best Commentator by \"Tennis Magazine\" (1988–91), Best Commentator by \"World Tennis\" magazine (1986) and Broadcaster of the Year by the Women's Tennis Association (1981 and 1985).\n\nCarillo served as Olympic tennis analyst at both the Atlanta and Sydney Summer Olympics and as the skiing reporter for CBS's coverage at the Albertville, Lillehammer and Nagano Winter Olympics.\n\nDuring NBC's coverage of the 2002 Salt Lake Winter Olympics she covered bobsled, luge and skeleton competitions. Her comment that men's doubles luge is \"like a bar bet gone bad\" was recognized as \"line of the year\" in many sports television columns. In addition, Carillo's work co-hosting the 2002 Closing Ceremony alongside Dan Hicks earned her critical acclaim.\n\nAt the 2004 Athens Games, Carillo earned critical praise in her debut as a full-time Olympic host on Bravo's coverage in addition to anchoring USA Network's live, Grand Slam-style coverage of the tennis gold medal finals. She delivered a lengthy, well-received commentary on badminton during this coverage.\n\nAt the 2006 Winter Games in Torino Carillo hosted \"Olympic Ice\", a daily figure skating show on the USA Network. She co-hosted the daily figure-skating television program with Scott Hamilton, Dick Button, and Jamie Salé and David Pelletier.\n\nCarillo served as late-night show host, closing ceremony host, and \"Friend of Bob\" for the 2008 Beijing Games, her ninth Olympic assignment and her sixth with NBC. Her role focused on cultural commentary and \"slice of life\" pieces about China. She repeated these duties late-night host and human-interest reporter for NBC in their coverage of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, and the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. She was also one of the torch bearers during the torch's tour through Canada.\n\nSince 1997, Carillo has been a correspondent on HBO's \"Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel\", winning a Sports Emmy Award for her \"Real Sports\" feature on the Hoyt Family.\n\nIn 2009, 2013, and 2016, she co-hosted the 133rd, 137th and 140th Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show broadcast on USA Networks.\n\nMary Carillo is a commentator for the \"Hallmark Channel\" special \"Paw Star Game\" premiering July 12, 2015. \"At best, baby cats have the barest, most rudimentary grasp of the rules and regulations of American football and baseball,\" says Carillo. \"And, that's really okay with me. Frankly, watching kittens play any sport is going to be endearing and adorable.\" Carillo is also a commentator for Hallmark's \"Kitten Bowl\".\n\nCarillo has written three books, all related to tennis:\n\n\nCarillo appeared as herself in the romantic-comedy film \"Wimbledon\" (2004).\n\nShe is a former member of the Women's Tennis Association's Board of Directors.\n\n\nCarillo splits her time between Naples, Florida, and New York City's Greenwich Village. She was married for 15 years to tennis instructor Bill Bowden. They have two children, Anthony (b. August 8, 1987) and Rachel (b. October 5, 1991), and divorced in 1998. Her brother is the author Charlie Carillo. She is a distant cousin of sports-radio host Mike Francesa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303025", "title": "Lotus FM", "text": "Lotus FM\n\nLotus FM (formerly, Radio Lotus) is a South African national radio station based in Durban, loosely similar to the BBC Asian Network in the United Kingdom, that caters for the needs of the Indian South African community. It combines a mix of Indian music, news, current affairs, interviews and entertainment. Lotus FM targets South African Indians between the ages of 25-34 (core) and 35-49 (secondary) in the LSM 7-10 segment.\n\nLotus FM has occasionally been the subject of complaints, with people of South Indian descent claiming that the station's broadcasts favour Hindi music over Tamil music.\n\nThe Lotus FM studio complex is based at the SABC in Durban, next to the famous Kingsmead Cricket stadium.\n\nThe following is a list of On-Air Personalities who present and produce shows on the station (including weekends)\n\n\n\nThe station broadcasts in FM on the following frequencies throughout South Africa\n\n"}
{"id": "2303027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303027", "title": "The Chevy Chase Show", "text": "The Chevy Chase Show\n\nThe Chevy Chase Show was an American late night talk show hosted by actor and comedian Chevy Chase that aired in 1993 on Fox. The series was canceled after five weeks on the air.\n\nFox originally asked country musician Dolly Parton to host a new late night program—the network's first since \"The Late Show Starring Joan Rivers\". Parton turned the network down, and suggested Chase for the job. Chase reportedly signed a $3 million deal with Fox.\n\nDays before the show's premiere, the name of the venue where the show was recorded was changed from the Aquarius Theater to the Chevy Chase Theater, and Fox spent $1 million in renovations.\n\n\"The Chevy Chase Show\" was one of several talk shows that various networks put on the air after Johnny Carson retired from hosting the highly-successful \"The Tonight Show\" on NBC. The show premiered a week after the first \"Late Show with David Letterman\" and a week prior to the first \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\". In keeping with the formula Carson and David Letterman had established, the show featured a house band that Chase called the best band in the world: the Tom Scott-led MBC Orchestra (which would later be called The Hollywood Express). As with several other late night shows (the most notable exception being the Jay Leno-hosted \"Tonight Show\"), Chase secured ownership rights to his show which he produced through his company, Cornelius Productions. The show's set featured a tank with live fish (visible during interviews), basketball hoops, and shelves of toys., as well as a desk with a built-in piano.\n\nThe program's lead-in featured a clay-animated Chase stealing letters from notable Los Angeles landmarks to spell the name of his show. As the credits rolled at the end of each episode, Chase was seen shooting basketballs at an onstage backstop.\n\nAccording to newspaper listings, Chase's guests during the 29-episode run included:\n\n\nTelevision critic Ken Tucker of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the show an F late in its run in 1993. Tucker noted that \"the audience that fills Hollywood's new Chevy Chase Theatre has steadily turned into the worst-behaved crowd in late-night television; they hoot and yell and cheer over whatever pitiful chatter Chase is attempting to wring out of a luckless guest.\" In a similarly contemporaneous review, \"Time\" panned the show: \"Nervous and totally at sea, Chase tried everything, succeeded at nothing.\" The magazine criticized Chase for having \"recycled old material shamelessly,\" taking pratfalls, and even pleading with the audience to stand up and dance in their seats.\n\nAdvertisers had been promised that the show would bring between five and six million viewers nightly. By contrast, the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" guaranteed fewer than four million viewers to their advertisers. \"The Chevy Chase Show\"'s actual ratings were much lower, averaging fewer than three million viewers. Fewer than two million people tuned in during the show's final weeks.\n\nLucie Salhany, the then-chairwoman of Fox Broadcasting, announced on October 17, 1993 that the network had decided to cancel the show \"in the best interests of both its affiliated stations and its star.\" Salhany spoke about Chase's first episodes: \"He was very nervous. It was uncomfortable and embarrassing to watch it.\" Chase issued a statement regarding the cancellation, in which he called the talk-show format \"very constraining\" and promoted his upcoming film, \"Cops and Robbersons\". Chase had never intended the show to be a long-term series, even if it had been successful, and admitted in an interview that he would \"never be tied down for five years interviewing TV personalities.\"\n\nAlthough Fox dropped the show after four weeks, it ran for a week after the cancellation announcement. The entire last week was dedicated to making light of the show's \"success\". Within 48 hours of the final show, workmen had already dismantled and painted over the Chevy Chase Theater's sign. The theater is now known as Nickelodeon on Sunset. Fox ran reruns of \"In Living Color\" in the former time slot of \"The Chevy Chase Show\" after the cancellation. In November 1993, Fox was in talks with Howard Stern to replace Chase's show, but the talks went nowhere. With the exceptions of talking with Stern and attempting to sign Conan O'Brien in the early 2000s, Fox has not attempted to air late-night network programming on weeknights since \"The Chevy Chase Show\" left the air.\n\nIn a 2007 interview with \"Time\", Chase spoke of the show, saying that it was \"an entirely different concept than what was pushed on me. I would never do it again. What I wanted had a whole different feel to it, much darker and more improv. But we never got there.\" In an \"A&E Biography\" on Chase in 2009, Chase explained that because he had signed a contract with Fox, he was obligated to do the show the way the network wanted. During an interview on \"Norm Macdonald Has a Show\", Chase reiterated his dislike of the experience, noting that the only thing he liked about the program was interviewing Robert De Niro.\n\nIn 2002 \"TV Guide\" ranked the show number 16 on its TV Guide's 50 Worst TV Shows of All Time list. \nIn 2010, TV Guide Network listed the show at #16 on their list of \"25 Biggest TV Blunders\" alongside \"The Megan Mullally Show\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303038", "title": "Magnus Bäckstedt", "text": "Magnus Bäckstedt\n\nMagnus Bäckstedt (born 30 January 1975) is a Swedish former professional road bicycle racer. His most notable achievement in cycling is winning Paris–Roubaix in 2004.\n\nBorn in Linköping, Östergötland Bäckstedt began as a skier, selected for the national team when he was 14.\n\nBäckstedt began his professional career in 1996, riding for Collstrop before moving to Palmans in 1997. In 1998, having switched to , Bäckstedt came seventh in 1998 Paris–Roubaix and won the 19th stage of the 1998 Tour de France between La Chaux-de-Fonds and Autun.\n\nIn 2002 and 2003 he rode for Team Fakta where he was the strongest rider in 2003. When Fakta closed he went to , where he won the 2004 Paris–Roubaix. The two favourites, Peter van Petegem and Johan Museeuw dropped out after crashes, leaving Bäckstedt to sprint on the track at Roubaix against three others. The manager of Crédit Agricole, Roger Legeay, had predicted that Bäckstedt would one day win the race. He said: \"He's not a flahute. He's not especially the fastest, but after 260km on the cobbles, it's often the rider who feels freshest who wins.\"\n\nIn 2005 Bäckstedt moved to Liquigas-Bianchi, and came second on the 7th stage of the 2005 Tour de France. He rode for in 2008. He was eliminated in that year's Tour de France for being too slow. He said:\n\nBäckstedt announced his retirement from professional cycling on 6 February 2009, citing a desire to focus on managing his developmental cycling team, Cyclesport.se-MagnusMaximusCoffee.com. Bäckstedt said he will also continue as a consultant with his former Garmin-Slipstream team. The Swede had struggled with a number of health issues during his career, including a serious knee injury, melanoma, and a separated shoulder and broken collarbone.\n\nOn 13 November 2010, Bäckstedt announced at the UK Youth Centenary Gala that he would be coming out of retirement to lead the UK Youth Cycling Team along with Nigel Mansell and his sons.\n\nBäckstedt rode for the MG Maxifuel team in 2013. Prior to round 8 of the Pearl Izumi Tour Series at Canary Wharf on 6 June 2013, he once again announced he was retiring and that the race would be his final one in professional road racing, his intention being to continue competing in triathlon and Ironman Triathlon events.\n\nBäckstedt is married to a British former cyclist, Megan Hughes. They live in Wales, moving there from Zulte, Belgium. They have two daughters. His eldest daughter, Elynor, won bronze in the Team Pursuit at the 2018 UCI Junior track championships and bronze at the 2018 and 2019 UCI world championships in the junior women's time trial . Bäckstedt said: \"We used to come back here [to Wales] every time I had a break. I prefer it to Belgium. You can ride 30 miles between villages here, whereas in Belgium you were stopping for traffic lights.\"\n\nHis sister Cecilia is also a racing cyclist.\n\nBäckstedt runs a coffee business with franchises in the United States and Sweden. Proceeds from the business support Swedish cycling. In 2013 he joined Declan Quigley to commentate on the Tour of Britain for Eurosport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303050", "title": "Manly Junior", "text": "Manly Junior\n\nThe Manly Junior is a junior racing dinghy class popular in Sydney Australia. It was designed in 1959 for younger sailors and the length (2.6 m) was originally designed so that the boat could be stored vertically downstairs inside Manly Yacht Club (the founding club). To provide as much performance as possible in a short length, the designer, Ralph Tobias used a \"snub\" bow. \n\nTypically the helmsman is aged 10~14 and the crew 7~11 years old. It is amongst the smallest of classes with a \"full rig\": mainsail, jib and spinnaker. The class has a strict set of rules on sail size, shape and hull construction. Some variation is allowed in the details of how the boat is rigged (position of fittings etc.). \n\nThe class has made some significant changes since inception, in 1967 the buoyancy tanks were redesigned to allow the boat to come up after a capsize with little water on board. In the 1980s the class underwent a transition from plywood to fibreglass hulls. In 2000 false floors were added allowing the boat to completely drain of water after a capsize or swamping.\n\nRacing is competitive with many previous sailors going on to become world or Olympic Games champions in other classes. The skill level shown at a State or National event is high with racing being completed in up to of wind. \n\nMany children however join in for the social side. Sometimes you will get two 11-year-old friends match up to have fun while learning. Other times the younger children look up to the older children as \"heroes\". Club racing is often like a friendly \"family\" where the focus is on learning. Even at major events \"Novice\" (learning) fleets allow the less experienced to compete and enjoy the fun.\n\nAs the sailors grow they often move onto Flying Eleven (dinghy), 420 (dinghy) or laser dinghy.\n\nA quick count would suggest over 30,000 children have been introduced to sailing via the Manly Junior fleet. \n\n"}
{"id": "2303054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303054", "title": "Stanisława Przybyszewska", "text": "Stanisława Przybyszewska\n\nStanisława Przybyszewska (; 1 October 1901 – 15 August 1935) was a Polish dramatist who is mostly known for her plays about the French Revolution. Her 1929 play \"The Danton Case\", which examines the conflict between Maximilien Robespierre and Georges Danton, is considered to be one of the most exemplary works about the Revolution, and was adapted (albeit with significant ideological edits) by Polish filmmaker Andrzej Wajda for his 1983 film \"Danton\".\n\nPrzybyszewska was born Stanisława Pająkówna on 1 October 1901, in Kraków. She was the illegitimate child of the Polish impressionist painter Aniela Pająkówna and the writer Stanisław Przybyszewski, the latter a famous and notoriously dissolute modernist who was one of the founding members of the Young Poland movement. From 1902-1906 she lived with her mother in Lviv. From 1907 to 1916 she lived in Western Europe. As a child, Przybyszewska traveled across Europe with her mother (Vienna, Munich, Gries near Bolzano, and Paris). Having lost her mother in 1912 (she died in Paris from pneumonia), she changed cities following her guardians. Initially her parents' friends Wacław and Zofia Moraczewski paid for the studies, but from 1914 it was Stanisława's aunt (her mother's sister) Helena Barlińska who took care of the girl. Between the ages of ten and fifteen Przybyszewska attended four different schools in three countries: France (Paris), Switzerland (Zürich, 1912-1914), and Austria (Vienna and Oberhollabrunn). In Austria she took violin lessons and began writing poetry and stories which she destroyed, dissatisfied with her own accomplishments.\n\nFrom 1916 to 1919 she attended the Teachers Institute for Women in Kraków. Kosicka and Gerould wrote: \"(...) she enrolled in the Teachers Institute, a highly regarded training school, which her mother before her had attended. Although she was an outstanding student, Stanisława was sharply critical of both how and what she was taught, and she considered herself essentially self-educated, since her own special interests led her to the exact sciences, above all mathematics and astronomy.\" As a part of her studies she spent the required year of teaching practice at the elementary school in Nowy Sącz. She passed her Gymnasium examinations \"cum laude\" in 1920. In August 1919 she met her father for the first time as an adult; the period of initial fascination with his ideas did not last long, and later in life Przybyszewska was very critical about her father's works.\n\nIn 1920, not without Przybyszewski’s involvement, Stanisława moved to Poznań where she established connections with the expressionistic circle of the journal, \"The Source\", and studied music at the conservatory. She also enrolled into a philology course at the Poznań University and for one term followed a diverse curriculum it proposed: the courses of French and English literature (of the nineteenth and the eighteenth centuries respectively), medieval literature, history of philosophy, Spanish, Latin and Greek languages.\n\nIn 1922 she moved to Warsaw and found a job as a salesgirl in a Communist bookstore; this employment, in the recent aftermath of the Polish-Soviet War, led to her being arrested for a week in Poznań (her official place of residence) before being released for lack of evidence. Kosicka and Gerould noted that \"she took only a theoretical interest in Marxism and remained incapable of becoming directly involved in politics. Stanisława made not a single lasting frindship during her year in Warsaw, but as a result of her incarceration she grew obsessed with the victims of unjust imprisonment and judicial oppression, starting with Robespierre and going up to Sacco and Vanzetti in her own time.\"\n\nFollowing her marriage to an artist Jan Panieński (from Poznań circle) Stanisława moved to Gdańsk where Panieński got a job as an art teacher in Polish Gymnasium (her father had been instrumental in the creation of the school). The couple participated in the activities of a local group Friends of Science and Art. Though not motivated by love, the marriage proved to be a happy one, as they grew attached to each other. It was not, however, very long: in November 1925, while on an art scholarship in Paris, Panieński died from cardiac arrest.\n\nThe next ten years of Przybyszewska's life were marked by growing isolation and dedication to her work. She only left Gdańsk on a few occasions, one of them being her father's funeral in 1927. There she met her half-sister Iwi Bennet (Dagny Juel's daughter from Przybyszewski), who became, along with her aunt, one of her closest friends and correspondents. Between March 1928 and 9 March 1929 she wrote \"The Danton Case\" and as Kosicka and Gerould noted: \"began to dream of a European career, 'like Conrad', as a way of overcoming her isolation and alienation.\" She devoted much time to the study of contemporary German literature. From Polish writers she valued Joseph Conrad and Juliusz Kaden-Bandrowski, and considered Stefan Żeromski as having huge talent which didn't develop.\n\nShe did not have any stable financial income: the state scholarship that she received in unequal amounts from 1929 to 1933 was not enough to survive, so Przybyszewska depended heavily on the support from Barlińska and Bennet. She lived in poor conditions in the wooden barracks belonging to the Polish Gymnasium. Suffering from poverty and numerous illnesses, she was prescribed increased dosages of morphine by her German doctor . Kosicka and Gerould wrote: \"During the last eight months of Stanisława's life, nothing was heard from her; all letters, sent and unsent, stopped. She had grown so weak from gradual emaciation that she could no longer type or hold a pen. Her money gone, even the morphine that had sustained her for so long ran out. On 14 August 1935 in her room am Weissen Turm 1, Baracke Nr. 12, Stanisława Przybyszewska died alone, the official cause of death tuberculosis.\"\n\nPrzybyszewska was fixated upon Maximilien Robespierre, and attributed to him, in her writing, extraordinary brilliance and powers of foresight. \"I have the calm certainty,\" she wrote to a friend, \"that I understand Robespierre better than anyone whose works are known to me.\" Przybyszewska depicted Robespierre as having predicted the disastrous rise of capitalism. Robespierre was the central figure in both of her surviving plays, \"The Danton Case\" (Sprawa Dantona, 1929), and an earlier unfinished play, \"Thermidor\" (1925).\n\nBritish author Hilary Mantel remarks of her that she was \"the woman who died of Robespierre.\" Przybyszewska left a collection of letters written from 1913 to 1934 in several languages to publishers, her friends, and famous European writers like Georges Bernanos, Jean Cocteau, and Thomas Mann; which were published in Gdańsk in original languages and in Polish in three volumes as \"Listy\" (Volume 1 in 1978, Volume 2 in 1983, and Volume 3 in 1985). The production of \"The Danton Case\" by the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1986 was a realization of the playwright's dream that one day she would be performed in London. This first English-language staging was directed by Ron Daniels and adapted by Pam Gems as \"The Danton Affair\". One of Hilary Mantel's 2017 Reith Lectures on BBC Radio Four, \"Silence Grips the Town\", was delivered in Antwerp and was dedicated to Przybyszewska. Jolanta Kajzer discovered haiku poetry in Przybyszewska's writings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303067", "title": "Earl Bakken", "text": "Earl Bakken\n\nEarl Elmer Bakken (January 10, 1924 – October 21, 2018) was an American engineer, businessman and philanthropist of Dutch and Norwegian American ancestry. He founded Medtronic, where he developed the first external, battery-operated, transistorized, wearable artificial pacemaker in 1957.\n\nBorn in Columbia Heights, Minnesota, Bakken had a long-held fascination with electricity and electronics. A self-described \"nerd\", Bakken designed a rudimentary electroshock weapon in school to fend off bullies. After earning a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in 1948, he studied electrical engineering with a minor in mathematics at the University of Minnesota Graduate School. Post-World War II hospitals were just starting to employ electronic equipment, but did not have staff to maintain and repair them. \n\nSensing an opportunity, with his brother-in-law, Palmer Hermundslie, he formed Medtronic (a portmanteau of \"medical\" and \"electronic\") in a small garage, primarily working with the University of Minnesota hospital.\n\nIn the 1950s, Dr. C. Walton Lillehei was performing life-saving surgery on children with blue baby syndrome. That surgery often left the children needing to be temporarily attached to a pacemaker. The pacemakers at the time were large devices that required their own carts and relied on wall current for power. As a result of a power blackout on October 31, 1957, one of Dr. Lillehei's young patients died. Dr. Lillehei, who had worked with Bakken before, asked him the next day if he could solve the problem. Four weeks after finding a circuit diagram for a metronome in \"Popular Electronics\", Bakken delivered a battery-powered transistorized pacemaker about the size of a few decks of cards to Dr. Lillehei. After successfully testing the hand-made device in the laboratory, Bakken returned to create a refined model for patients. However, much to his astonishment, when he came in the next day, he found the pacemaker already in use on a patient. (The Food and Drug Administration did not start regulating medical devices until 1976.)\n\nOver the next several years, Bakken and Medtronic worked with other doctors to develop fully implantable pacemakers, but they also veered toward bankruptcy. He borrowed money that kept Medtronic going, but the bankruptcy near-miss drove Bakken to develop the \"Medtronic Mission\", which still guides the company. The mission helped the young company to stay focused on areas where it could truly help patients.\n\nBakken retired from Medtronic in 1989 and moved to a 9-acre estate in the Kona District of Hawaii he called \"Bakken Hale\", but still returned to the company several times a year to meet new employees and explain the \"Medtronic Mission\" to them in person.\n\nIn 1996 he helped to dedicate the North Hawaii Community Hospital and was active there for some time afterwards, working to combine Eastern and Western approaches to medicine to develop a more holistic approach to health care.\n\nIn 2001, Medtronic started the construction of its new European distribution center in Heerlen, The Netherlands. The street on which the facility was built is named after Bakken.\n\nBakken died at his Hawaii home on October 21, 2018 at the age of 94.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303068", "title": "Axel Gustaf Torbjörn Enström", "text": "Axel Gustaf Torbjörn Enström\n\nAxel Gustaf Torbjörn Enström (October 25, 1893 - March 9, 1977) was the head of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget in Sundsvall. He was managing director from 1950 to 1960 and chairman of the board from 1960 to 1965.\n\nHe was born on October 25, 1893 in Sweden.\n\nHe married Margit Lisa Magdalena Wahlberg (1900-1984) in Ytterlännäs, Västernorrland, Sweden on July 18, 1920. She was a daughter of Johanna Winblad (1859-1916) and Per Olof Bernhard Wahlberg (1852-1927). Their children include: Torbjörn Enström (1921-1983) who married Genenieve Shaw; Lennart Enström (1923-1999) who married Inga Lisa Bergengren; and Birgitta Enström (1925- ) who married Rickard Jörgen Ryott Malmros (1924-2006).\n\nHe was managing director of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget from 1950 to 1960.\n\nOn September 12, 1953 the golf course he created in Sundsvall was opened. The course was officially opened by His Royal Highness Prince Bertil. The SCA Men's Choir was established on August 28, 1957 on his initiative. His interest in male choral singing lead to the creation of choirs wherever there was an SCA run company, in Kramfors, Holmsund, Byske and Karlsvik. An icebreaking tugboat that belonged to SCA was named after him. It was later sold and renamed \"Fram\".\n\nIn 1953, he was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences.\n\nHe was chairman of the board of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget from 1960 to 1965. He retired in 1965 and died on March 9, 1977 in Sweden.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303075", "title": "Ademption by satisfaction", "text": "Ademption by satisfaction\n\nAdemption by satisfaction, also known as satisfaction of legacies, is a common law doctrine that determines the disposition of property under a will when the testator has made lifetime gifts to beneficiaries named in the will. Under the doctrine, a gift that the maker of the will (the testator) gives during his lifetime to a named beneficiary of the will is treated as an advance payment of that beneficiary's inheritance. If the probate court determines that the testator intended the lifetime gift to satisfy a bequest under the will, the amount of the lifetime gift is deducted from the amount that the beneficiary would have received under the will.\n\nIn the United States, state law determines which lifetime gifts are treated as gifts in satisfaction of a bequest. Under the Uniform Probate Code, § 2-609, a lifetime gift is treated as satisfaction of a legacy only if (i) the will provides for deduction of the gift, (ii) the testator indicated in a contemporaneous writing that the lifetime gift was intended to satisfy a legacy in the will, or (iii) the gift recipient acknowledged in writing that the gift was intended to satisfy a legacy in the will. Courts may presume that gifts of money from a parent to a child after the execution of the parent's will are gifts in satisfaction of the child's legacy under the will, even without a written indication of intent to satisfy the provision under the will. Courts are reluctant to apply the doctrine to certain kinds of legacies, for example, devises of specific real estate or bequests of personal property. These specific legacies are viewed by courts as unique and not able to be replaced with a lifetime gift of money or other property.\n\nWhen the probate court determines that the doctrine applies to a lifetime gift made to a will beneficiary, the amount beneficiary's gift under the will is reduced by the amount the beneficiary has already received. For example, if the will bequeaths $5,000 to a beneficiary, but the beneficiary received a lifetime gift of $4,000 from testator that was intended to partially satisfy the gift under the will, the beneficiary will receive only $1,000 under the will. If the will provides that the beneficiary receives a percentage of the testator's estate, the court may engage in a hotchpot calculation to determine the amount, if any, that the beneficiary should receive under the will. If the value of the lifetime gift received is greater than the beneficiary's calculated share under the will, the beneficiary receives nothing under the will, but does not return any of the lifetime gifts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303078", "title": "John Hamilton (Quebec politician)", "text": "John Hamilton (Quebec politician)\n\nJohn Hamilton (16 December 1827 – 3 April 1888) was one of the founding members of the Senate of Canada.\n\nHe was born in Hawkesbury in Upper Canada in 1827, the son of George Hamilton. John and his brothers continued to expand their father's lumber business from its base on the lower Ottawa River. He served as reeve of Hawkesbury from 1858 to 1864. In 1860, he was elected to the Legislative Council of the Province of Canada for the Inkerman division in Canada East. A Conservative, he was appointed to the senate on 23 October 1867 by royal proclamation following the Canadian Confederation of 1867. He served in that capacity, representing the province of Quebec until his resignation on 1 May 1887.\n\nHe died at Montreal in 1888.\n\nThe Hamilton Memorial Prize was instituted at the University of Trinity College by Hamilton's family in his honour. It is given each year to the Divinity student with the top Honours Thesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303083", "title": "CSI effect", "text": "CSI effect\n\nThe CSI effect, also known as the CSI syndrome and the CSI infection, is any of several ways in which the exaggerated portrayal of forensic science on crime television shows such as \"\" influences public perception. The term was first reported in a 2004 \"USA Today\" article describing the effect being made on trial jurors by television programs featuring forensic science. It most often refers to the belief that jurors have come to demand more forensic evidence in criminal trials, thereby raising the effective standard of proof for prosecutors. While this belief is widely held among American legal professionals, some studies have suggested that crime shows are unlikely to cause such an effect, although frequent \"CSI\" viewers may place a lower value on circumstantial evidence. As technology improves and becomes more prevalent throughout society, people may also develop higher expectations for the capabilities of forensic technology.\n\nThe CSI effect is named for \"\", a television program which first aired in 2000. In \"CSI\", a fictional team of crime scene investigators solve murders in the Las Vegas metropolitan area. In each episode, the discovery of a human corpse leads to a criminal investigation by members of the team, who gather and analyze forensic evidence, question witnesses, and apprehend suspects. The show's popularity led to three spin-offs: \"\", which debuted in 2002, \"\", first aired in 2004, and \"\", which premiered in 2015.\n\nThe \"CSI\" franchise's success resulted in the production of many similar shows. The \"CSI effect\" has been associated with drama and true crime television series that preceded \"CSI\", such as \"American Justice\", \"Cold Case Files\", \"Cold Squad\", \"\", \"Forensic Files\", \"Silent Witness\", \"Waking the Dead\"; and others that followed, including \"Bones\", \"Cold Case\", \"Criminal Minds\", \"Crossing Jordan\", \"NCIS\", \"Numb3rs\", \"Wire in the Blood\", and \"Without a Trace\". Based on the Nielsen ratings, six of the top ten most popular television shows in the United States in 2005 were crime dramas, and \"CSI: Crime Scene Investigation\" reached the number one ranking in November 2007.\n\nSeveral aspects of popular crime shows have been criticized as being unrealistic. For instance, the show's characters not only investigate (\"process\") crime scenes, but they also conduct raids, engage in suspect pursuit and arrest, interrogate suspects, and solve cases, which falls under the responsibility of uniformed officers and detectives, not CSI personnel. Additionally, if CSIs process a crime scene it is inappropriate for them to also be involved in the examination and testing of any evidence collected from that scene as it would compromise the impartiality of scientific evidence. In real investigations, DNA and fingerprint data are often unobtainable and, when they are available, can take several weeks or months to process, whereas television crime labs usually get results within hours. In the first season of \"CSI\", technicians made a plaster mold of the interior of a wound to determine the type of knife used to make the wound, which is not possible with current technology. Characters on television often use the word \"match\" to describe a definitive relationship between two pieces of evidence, whereas real forensic technicians tend to use terms that are less definite, which acknowledges that absolute certainty is often not possible.\n\nAnthony E. Zuiker, creator of the \"CSI\" franchise, claimed that \"all of the science is accurate\" on the shows; researchers, however, have described \"CSI\" portrayal of forensic science as \"high-tech magic\". Forensic scientist Thomas Mauriello estimated that 40 percent of the scientific techniques depicted on \"CSI\" do not exist. In addition to using unrealistic techniques, \"CSI\" ignores all elements of uncertainty present in real investigations, and instead portrays experimental results as absolute truth.\n\nThe notion that these inaccurate portrayals could alter the public perception of forensic evidence was dubbed the \"CSI effect\", a term which began to appear in mainstream media as early as 2004.\n\nUnder this effect, victims and their families – and jurors – are coming to expect instant answers from showcased techniques such as DNA analysis and fingerprinting, when actual forensic processing often takes days or weeks, with no guarantee of revealing a \"smoking gun\" for the prosecution's case. District attorneys state that the conviction rate in cases with little physical evidence has decreased, largely due to the influence of \"CSI\" on jury members.\n\nBy 2009 more than 250 stories about the CSI effect had appeared in newspapers and magazines, including articles in \"National Geographic\", \"Scientific American\", and \"U.S. News & World Report\".\n\nAlthough the CSI effect is a recent phenomenon, it has long been recognized that media portrayals of the United States legal system are capable of significantly altering public awareness, knowledge, and opinions of it. An attorney told \"The New York Times\" in 1990 that \"Any lawyer who doesn't watch \"L.A. Law\" the night before he's going to trial is a fool\". A 2002 juror survey showed that viewers of the popular court show \"Judge Judy\" were greatly misinformed about the purpose of the judge within a courtroom. Earlier programs which may have affected public perception of \"the legal or investigative systems\" include \"Perry Mason\" (1957–1966), \"Quincy, M.E.\" (1976–1983) and the \"Law & Order\" franchise (1990–present). News media reports on criminal trials, extensive internet blogging, and the successes of the Innocence Project have also contributed to the increased public awareness of forensic science. Zuiker has stated that The CSI Effect' is, in my opinion, the most amazing thing that has ever come out of the series.\"\n\nThe \"CSI\" effect is described by researchers N. J. Schweiter and Michael J. Saks as a reference to the alleged phenomenon of \"CSI\" raising crime victims' and jury members' real-world expectations of forensic science, especially crime scene investigation and DNA testing. Donald E. Shelton, Young S. Kim and Gregg Barak have said it has changed the way many trials are presented today, in that prosecutors are pressured to deliver more forensic evidence in court.\n\nIn 2006, the evidence cited in support of the supposed effect was mainly anecdotes from law enforcement personnel and prosecutors, and allegedly little empirical examination of the effect had been done, and the one study published by then suggested the phenomenon may be an urban myth. A survey conducted by Donald E. Shelton on 1,027 potential jurors in Ann Arbor, Michigan revealed that while \"CSI\" viewers had higher expectations for scientific evidence than non-\"CSI\" viewers, in most cases, scientific evidence was not needed in order to reach a verdict.\n\nHowever, more recent research suggests that these modern TV shows do have a misleading influence on public perceptions and expectations, and juror behavior.\n\nCiting the \"CSI effect\", at least one researcher has suggested screening jurors for their level of influence from such TV programs.\n\nThe popularity of forensic crime television shows supposedly gives rise to many misconceptions about the nature of forensic science and investigation procedures among jury members. The CSI effect is hypothesized to affect verdicts in two main ways: first, that jurors expect more forensic evidence than is available or necessary, resulting in a higher rate of acquittal when such evidence is absent; and second, that jurors have greater confidence in forensic and particularly DNA evidence than is warranted, resulting in a higher rate of conviction when such evidence is present. While these and other effects may be caused by crime shows, the most commonly reported effect is that jurors are wrongly acquitting defendants despite overwhelming evidence of guilt. In particular, prosecutors have reported feeling pressured to provide DNA evidence even when eyewitness testimony is available. In fact, in a study of 444 prosecutors, 56% believed the CSI Effect to almost always or always influence juries, and 81% believed the CSI Effect to influence judges. In one highly publicized incident, Los Angeles County, California District Attorney Steve Cooley blamed actor Robert Blake's acquittal on murder charges on the CSI effect. Cooley noted that the not guilty verdict came despite two witness accounts of Blake's guilt, and claimed that the jury members were \"incredibly stupid\".\n\nBy 2005, some judges and prosecutors had begun altering their trial preparations and procedures in an attempt to counter the CSI effect. Some ask questions about crime drama television viewership during \"voir dire\" to target biased jurors. For example, in \"Charles and Drake v. State\" (2010), the defendants were convicted of second degree murder, and during \"voir dire\", the judge presented a question about the CSI Effect. In this case, the Maryland appellate court ruled the CSI Effect \"voir dire\" question inappropriate due to its biased language and use of the term \"convict\" without mention of acquittal. Prosecutors have also used opening statements and closing arguments to minimize the possible impact of the CSI effect. In \"Goff v. State\" (2009), the prosecutor asked jurors during \"voir dire\" about their ability to render a verdict without scientific evidence, and then reminded them during closing arguments about this question. In this case, the mention of the CSI Effect was considered acceptable because the language used was neutral and unbiased. Additionally, jury instructions have also been used as a means of informing jurors about the CSI Effect. In \"Atkins v. State\" (2011), the jury was instructed that scientific evidence is not necessary for a case to be valid. The court ruled that this jury instruction regarding scientific evidence was improper because the State was not held to its burden of proof. Furthermore, prosecutors have hired expert witnesses to explain why particular forms of physical evidence are not relevant to their cases. In one Australian murder case, the defense counsel requested a judge-only trial to avoid having DNA evidence misinterpreted by a jury.\n\nBy 2006, the CSI effect had become widely accepted as reality among legal professionals, despite little empirical evidence to validate or disprove it. A 2008 survey by researcher Monica Robbers showed that roughly 80 percent of all American legal professionals believed they had had decisions affected by forensic television programs.\n\nNew York University professor Tom R. Tyler argued that, from a psychological standpoint, crime shows are more likely to increase the rate of convictions than acquittals, as the shows promote a sense of justice and closure which is not attained when a jury acquits a defendant. The perceived rise in the rate of acquittals may be related to sympathy for the defendant or declining confidence in legal authorities. A 2006 survey of U.S. university students reached a similar conclusion: the influence of \"CSI\" is unlikely to burden prosecutors, and may actually help them.\n\nOne of the largest empirical studies of the CSI effect was undertaken in 2006 by Washtenaw County Circuit Court Judge Donald Shelton and two researchers from Eastern Michigan University. They surveyed more than 1,000 jurors, and found that while juror expectations for forensic evidence had increased, there was no correlation between viewership of crime shows and tendency to convict. One alternate explanation for the changing perception of forensic evidence is the so-called \"tech effect\": as technology improves and becomes more prevalent throughout society, people develop higher expectations for the capabilities of forensic technology. Shelton described one instance in which a jury member complained because the prosecution had not dusted the lawn for fingerprints, a procedure which is impossible and had not been demonstrated on any crime show. A later study by the same authors found that frequent \"CSI\" viewers may place a lower value on circumstantial evidence, but their viewership had no influence on their evaluation of eyewitness testimony or their tendency to convict in cases with multiple types of evidence.\n\nMany stories about the CSI effect assume that there has been an increase in acquittal rates, though this is often based entirely on anecdotal evidence. A 2009 study of conviction statistics in eight states found that, contrary to the opinions of criminal prosecutors, the acquittal rate has decreased in the years since the debut of \"CSI\". The outcome of any given trial is much more strongly dependent on the state in which it took place, rather than whether it occurred before or after the \"CSI\" premiere. A 2010 study by the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee suggests that, while there may be a correlation between crime show viewership and a perceived understanding of DNA evidence, there was no evidence that such viewership affected jury decision making. As of August 2010, no empirical evidence has demonstrated a correlation between \"CSI\" viewership and acquittal rates. One researcher suggested that the perception of a CSI effect—and of other courtroom effects, such as Perry Mason syndrome and white coat syndrome—is caused not by the incompetence of jury members, but by a general distrust of the jury system as a whole.\n\nThe CSI effect has influenced the manner in which forensic scientists are educated and trained. In the past, those who sought to enter the field of forensics typically earned an undergraduate degree in a science, followed by a master's degree. However, the popularity of programs such as \"CSI\" has caused an increase in the demand for undergraduate courses and graduate programs in forensic science. In 2004, the forensics programs at Florida International University and the University of California, Davis, doubled in size, reportedly as a result of the CSI effect. However, many students enter such programs with unrealistic expectations. Vocational interest in forensic science has proliferated among students in countries besides the United States, including Australia, the United Kingdom, and Germany. The increased popularity of the forensic science program at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland has also been attributed to the CSI effect.\n\nAlthough the increased popularity of forensics programs means there are more applicants for jobs at crime labs, there is some concern that these courses do not adequately prepare students for real forensics work, as graduates often lack a firm grasp of basic scientific principles that would come from a science degree. Many forensics students are presented with streamlined exercises with overly clear answers, which may give them distorted perceptions of the power of forensic science. The Albuquerque Police Department has attempted to improve scientific literacy among future forensic scientists and jurors alike by developing a \"Citizen CSI\" course which familiarizes local citizens with the \"capabilities and limitations of authentic forensic science techniques.\"\n\nWhile forensic crime shows are often criticized for portraying technologies that do not exist, these may inspire inventors and research teams, as it is not uncommon for scientific innovations to be first portrayed in science fiction.\n\nThe CSI effect may also alter how crimes are committed. In 2000, the year that \"CSI: Crime Scene Investigation\" debuted, 46.9 percent of all rape cases in the United States were resolved by police. By 2005, the rate had fallen to 41.3 percent. Some investigators attributed this decline to the CSI effect, as crime shows often inadvertently explain in detail how criminals can conceal or destroy evidence. Several rape victims have reported that their assailants forced them to shower or clean themselves with bleach after their assaults. In December 2005, Jermaine McKinney broke into a home in Trumbull County, Ohio, where he murdered two women. A fan of \"CSI\", McKinney went to unusual lengths to remove evidence of his crime: he cleaned his hands with bleach, burned the bodies and his clothing, and attempted to dispose of the murder weapon in a lake. McKinney was eventually apprehended. Ray Peavy, head of the Los Angeles County homicide division, commented that, in addition to teaching criminals how to conceal evidence, crime shows may even \"encourage them when they see how simple it is to get away with [it] on television.\"\n\nOthers argue that shows like \"CSI\" are not having any educational effect on criminals. Max Houck, director of the Forensic Science Initiative at West Virginia University, said although \"CSI\" may be educating criminals, people who resort to a life of crime generally are not very intelligent to begin with. It is also possible that crime shows have the opposite effect, if attempts to conceal evidence generate more evidence. Houck gave an example of criminals who avoided licking envelopes because of the DNA in their saliva, but left fingerprints and hair samples on adhesive tape instead. Tammy Klein, the lead investigator on the McKinney case, said that the killings she investigates are committed by people \"who for the most part are pretty stupid.\" Larry Pozner, former president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, argued that because people who commit violent crimes generally do not take precautions, television forensics programs are unlikely to have any effect on their behavior.\n\nConvicted serial rapist Jonathan Haynes forced his victims to destroy forensic evidence. He was only caught after one of his victims deliberately pulled out her own hair which was later discovered in his car, tying him to the attacks. She was inspired by watching the \"CSI\" television series.\n\nLaw enforcement officers often receive inquiries and demands about their investigations that stem from unrealistic portrayals on television. In a 2010 survey of Canadian police officers, some were frustrated by these CSI-affected queries, though most saw them as opportunities to inform the public about real police work. New technologies and the increased public awareness of forensic science have stimulated new interest in solving cold cases and encouraged higher accountability among police investigators. However, the increased demand for forensic evidence can cause an unmanageable workload for forensic laboratories. Some crime labs process several thousand cases every year. Many law enforcement agencies have insufficient storage space for the increasing amount of physical evidence they collect. In some investigations, DNA evidence is not collected simply because there is not enough space to store it properly.\n"}
{"id": "2303087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303087", "title": "Summerhaven, Arizona", "text": "Summerhaven, Arizona\n\nSummerhaven is a small unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) on Mount Lemmon in the Santa Catalina Mountains north of Tucson in Pima County, Arizona, United States. As of the 2010 census it had a permanent population of 40. Summerhaven sits at an elevation of approximately above sea level. Summerhaven is accessed via the Catalina Highway from suburban northeast Tucson, and it is about from the base of the mountains to Summerhaven.\n\nWhite Anglo-Americans originally used the area of Summerhaven when the U.S. Army at Fort Lowell in Tucson put a military camp there in its defense against the Apache in the 1870s and 1880s. As to white settlement of the vicinity, the Ransier School in Carter Canyon, run by Lydia Ransier and 'Auntie' Broadbent, had two cabins, the larger log one being built in 1912, \"one of the oldest cabins on the mountain.\"\n\nSummerhaven is located in the Santa Catalina Mountains and is surrounded by pine trees. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Summerhaven CDP has a total area of , almost all of which is land.\nDue to its high elevation of , Summerhaven experiences moderately warm summers and cool snowy winters. Yearly snowfall averages can be significant, on average reaching a year. A windstorm hit Summerhaven in May 2010 and caused extensive damage to the forest around it. Some trails were severely damaged, although repair efforts were underway. The climate could be classified as a subtropical highland climate.\n\nIn 2010, the population of the Summerhaven census-designated place was 40. Note that this includes only people who were living in Summerhaven on the day of the census, thus excluding many part-time or seasonal residents. As of the 2010 census, the racial composition of Summerhaven was:\n\n\nSummerhaven is a popular tourist destination. Several small shops in Summerhaven attract visitors, including the Mount Lemmon General Store and The Cookie Cabin, which offers homemade cookies and pizzas. In the winter, residents from lower elevations travel to Summerhaven, when the Catalina Highway is open, to enjoy the snow. Also during the summer, the same residents will frequent the area to get away from the heat. Because of the elevation difference between the Tucson area (5–6000 feet), the temperature in Summerhaven will be anywhere from 15-30 degrees F cooler depending on weather patterns, which usually makes it a very comfortable place to be compared to the hot desert heat in the summer time.\n\nOctober 2010 saw the inaugural running of the Mount Lemmon Marathon, in which nearly 800 participants finished the race from near the start of the Catalina Highway up to Summerhaven.\n\nThe Mount Lemmon Ski Valley located outside Summerhaven is the southernmost ski location in the continental United States.\n\nThe Aspen wildfire struck Summerhaven in the summer of 2003, which resulted in the destruction of more than 250 of the 700 homes in the community. Arizona Governor Janet Napolitano assessed the damage, and both federal and county officials surveyed the extensive loss. In the months that followed, Tucson residents organized \"Lemmon Aid\" to help rebuild Summerhaven. Summerhaven continues to recover from the wildfire.\n\nThere is a general store and several food venues, but no gasoline or automotive services. The Mount Lemmon Fire Department maintains a station near Summerhaven, providing fire and EMS services.\n"}
{"id": "2303095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303095", "title": "Jimmy Eat World (1994 album)", "text": "Jimmy Eat World (1994 album)\n\nJimmy Eat World is the debut studio album by American rock band Jimmy Eat World, released in 1994 on Wooden Blue Records. The album displays their early sound with guitarist and eventual backing vocalist Tom Linton singing lead on most of the songs on this album. The one song on this album that is sung by current primary vocalist Jim Adkins is the track \"Usery\". The album also marks the only appearance of former bass guitarist Mitch Porter.\n\nThe album cover is an old picture of Linton's younger brothers Jim and Ed, from whom the band's name originated.\n\nIn 2012, The A.V. Club's Jason Heller noted, \"It's long been out of print, and there’s a good reason for it. It’s not terrible, but it doesn't represent what the band would become.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2303096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303096", "title": "Roger Voisin", "text": "Roger Voisin\n\nRoger Louis Voisin (June 26, 1918 – February 13, 2008) was an American classical trumpeter. In 1959, The New York Times called him \"one of the best-known trumpeters in this country.\"\n\nAmong the most influential trumpet performers and teachers of the twentieth century, Voisin joined the Boston Symphony Orchestra as assistant principal trumpet in 1935 at age seventeen, and became principal trumpet in 1950. He performed in the Boston Symphony for 38 years, until 1973. During this period, he was also principal trumpet with the Boston Pops Orchestra.\n\nVoisin moved to the United States as a child when his father, René Voisin (1893–1952), was brought to the Boston Symphony as fourth trumpet by Sergei Koussevitzky in 1928. He was initially a student of his father, but he later studied with the Boston Symphony's second trumpet Marcel LaFosse (1894–1969) and principal trumpet Georges Mager (1885–1950). He also studied solfege with Boston Symphony contrabassist Gaston Dufresne.\n\nHe is credited with premiere performances of many major works for trumpet including Paul Hindemith's \"Sonata for Trumpet and Piano\" (with Hindemith at the piano), and Alan Hovhannes' \"Prayer of St. Gregory\". He is also credited with the US premiere of Alexander Arutiunian's \"Trumpet Concerto\", performing with the Boston Pops Orchestra in 1966. Leroy Anderson's \"A Trumpeter's Lullaby\" was written for Roger Voisin in 1949, and first recorded with Arthur Fiedler conducting Voisin and the Boston Pops Orchestra in 1950. Leroy Anderson states that \"(A Trumpeter's Lullaby) had its beginning backstage at Symphony Hall in Boston. In addition to composing and conducting, I was arranger for the Boston Pops Orchestra for a number of years --- and after one of the concerts I was sitting talking with the conductor Arthur Fiedler and the first trumpet of the Boston Pops, Roger Voisin. Suddenly Roger Voisin asked me why I didn't write a trumpet solo for him to play with the orchestra that would be different from traditional trumpet solos which are all loud, martial or triumphant. After thinking it over, it occurred to me that I had never heard a lullaby for trumpet so I set out to write one --- with a quiet melody based on bugle notes played by the trumpet and with the rest of the orchestra playing a lullaby background.\"\n\nHe has also been involved with many early recordings and performances of both solo and orchestral works including J. S. Bach's \"Brandenburg Concerto #2\", Béla Bartók's \"Concerto for Orchestra\", Aaron Copland's \"Quiet City\", Joseph Haydn's \"Concerto for Trumpet in Eb\", Alexander Scriabin's \"The Poem of Ecstasy\", Georg Philipp Telemann's \"Concerto for Trumpet in D\", and Antonio Vivaldi's \"Concerto for Two Trumpets in C\".\n\nRoger Voisin was with the Boston Symphony at the inception of the Tanglewood Music Center in 1940, and continued to serve on the faculty there, coaching the orchestral winds and teaching solfège to the conducting class, until his death in 2008. He became chair of the New England Conservatory of Music (NEC) brass and percussion department in 1950 and was the primary trumpet teacher at NEC for nearly 30 years. In 1975 he became a full professor at Boston University, teaching trumpet and chairing the wind, percussion and harp department until his retirement in 1999. In 1989 Voisin donated much of his personal music library to Boston University, where it is housed in the Mugar Library's \"Special Music Collections\". He was awarded an honorary Doctorate from the New England Conservatory in 1991, along with legendary jazz trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie. He has served on the jury of the Maurice André trumpet competition since 1988.\n\nHis students are found performing in orchestras and teaching at conservatories and universities throughout the world. A partial list follows:\n\nGeorge Kent (University of Rhode Island, New England Conservatory, Chorus of Westerly), Andrew Balio (Baltimore Symphony Orchestra), Gilbert Blais (Conservatoire de musique de Saguenay), Peter Chapman (Boston Symphony Orchestra), Jon Paul Danté (Paramount Brass Quintet, Singapore Symphony Orchestra), Russell Devuyst (Montreal Symphony Orchestra), Kurt Dupuis (\"The President's Own\" U. S. Marine Band), Anthony DiLorenzo (Center City Brass, composer, recording artist), Albert DiPietro (Longy School of Music), Joseph D. Foley (Atlantic Brass Quintet, Wellesley College, Boston University), William Harvey (Oakland East Bay Symphony), Edward Hoffman (Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, Peabody Institute), Bruce Hopkins (College of the Holy Cross), Paul Jackson (Alabama Symphony Orchestra), Robert Lemons (Eastern Connecticut State University), Louis Larouche ( Québec Symphony Orchestra), Steven Matera (\"The President's Own\" U. S. Marine Band), Vincent Monaco (Handel and Haydn Society, Phillips Academy) Timothy Morrison (Boston Symphony Orchestra, Hollywood recording artist), Rodney Mack (Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia), Niel Mueller (North Dakota State University), Dennis Najoom (Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra), Gary Peterson (Bergen Philharmonic Orchestra, Grieg Academy), William Pfund (University of Northern Colorado, Greeley Philharmonic Orchestra), Marc Reese (Empire Brass Quintet), Betty Barber Rines (Portland Symphony Orchestra), Jay Rizzetto (California State University, San Francisco Ballet), John Schnell (Portland Symphony Orchestra), David Scott (McNeese State University), Lt Col Alan Sierichs (The United States Air Force Band), Rolf Smedvig (Empire Brass Quintet), Thomas V. Smith (New York Philharmonic, Manhattan School of Music), Edward Tarr (trumpet soloist, historian), James Thompson (Montreal Symphony Orchestra, Atlanta Symphony Orchestra, Eastman School of Music), Peter Voisin (Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra), Linn Weeda (Anchorage Symphony Orchestra, University of Alaska Anchorage), Alan Wenger (Central Missouri State University), Mike Zonshine (Honolulu Symphony) Earl Gaar (Top Brass Louisville KY).\n\nThe Roger Voisin Memorial Trumpet Competition for student trumpet performers was founded by Marc Reese and is named in Voisin's memory. \n\nRoger Voisin was also very active as an editor for International Music Company, providing over 45 editions for the company.\n\nVOISIN EDITIONS:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303104", "title": "Herbie Goes Bananas", "text": "Herbie Goes Bananas\n\nHerbie Goes Bananas is a 1980 American comedy adventure film and the fourth installment of \"The Love Bug\" film series made by Walt Disney Productions starring Herbie – the white Volkswagen racing Beetle with a mind of its own.\n\nLoosely picking up where \"Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo\" (1977) left off, protagonist Pete Stancheck (Stephan W. Burns) has inherited Herbie from his uncle Jim Douglas and travels to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico with his friend Davy \"D.J.\" Johns (Charles Martin Smith) to retrieve the car. There, they befriend Paco (Joaquin Garay III), a comically mischievous, orphaned pickpocket.\n\nPete and D.J. board the \"Sun Princess\", a cruise ship, to Rio de Janeiro to enter Herbie in the Brazil Grand Prêmio, while Paco follows hidden in Herbie's cargo compartment. \"En route\" they meet an anthropology student named Melissa (Elyssa Davalos) and her extravagant, eccentric aunt Louise (Cloris Leachman), who is trying to find a husband for her niece. When Herbie wreaks havoc on board, Pete pretends to court Melissa, intending that her Aunt Louise will sponsor their race.\n\nMeanwhile, Herbie helps Paco, who has dubbed the car 'Ocho', escape captivity. When the ship's Captain Blythe (Harvey Korman) has his costume party wrecked by the boy and car, he has Herbie dropped into the sea. However, later on land, a rusty Herbie resurfaces from the water to reunite with Paco, who then goes into business with Herbie as a taxi.\n\nThereafter follow three villains (John Vernon, Alex Rocco, and Richard Jaeckel) seeking to capture an antique gold disc, and to find Paco as earlier he had pickpocketed their wallets which contained important film by threatening to use an acetylene torch to cut up Herbie; Herbie's matador part in a bullfight; romance between Aunt Louise and Captain Blythe; and bananas initially used to conceal Herbie among farm vehicles traveling to market and later used by Herbie and Paco to stop the villains escaping justice by having them trip over bananas and Herbie wrecking their airplane to prevent them from getting away. The villains are captured by the police, and the protagonists re-unite on the Sun Princess. Pete and Davy resume their plans to enter Herbie in the Brazil Grand Prêmio with Paco dressed as the driver (Pete concedes that Paco and Herbie have a better connection than Pete would have if he drove Herbie in the race). Davy finally asks Paco why he keeps referring to Herbie as \"Ocho\", since that is Spanish for eight. Paco looks at Herbie's \"53\" and remarks that 5+3=8. After that Pete, Davy, Aunt Louise, and Melissa have a toast hoping for Herbie to win the race with Paco giving Herbie a thumbs up.\n\n\n\"Herbie Goes Bananas\" was poorly received and is widely considered to be the weakest film in the \"Herbie\" franchise. Most film critics remarked that the series felt tired, and had run its course, with Leonard Maltin commenting that there was \"one amusing scene where the VW turns matador; otherwise, strictly scrap metal.\" Maltin (who rated the film *½ out of ****) added that the plot dealt with its cast \"encountering all sorts of 'hilarious' obstacles along the way.\" Phil Patton, author of the book \"Bug: The Strange Mutations of the World's Most Famous Automobile\", observed that the \"Herbie\" franchise was \"a game of diminishing returns: \"Herbie Goes Bananas\"...is filled with 'south of the border' clichés and stereotypes.\" The film has a 40% rating on the website Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nThe prop Herbie dropped into the ocean was never retrieved. A total of 26 VW Beetles were used, by reason of the quantity of stunts and tricks.\n\nA paperback novelization of the film was written by Joe Claro and published by Scholastic Paperbacks in July 1980 to coincide with the film's release.\n\n\"Herbie Goes Bananas\" was released on VHS in late 1984 and re-released on November 6, 1985 and September 16, 1997. It was first released on DVD in Region 1 on May 4, 2004 and re-released on DVD on September 2, 2012 as part of Herbie: 4-Movie Collection with \"The Love Bug\", \"Herbie Rides Again\" and \"Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo\".\n\nOn June 30, 2015, \"Herbie Goes Bananas\" was released on Blu-ray Disc as a Disney Movie Club exclusive title.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303108", "title": "John Hamilton (Ontario politician)", "text": "John Hamilton (Ontario politician)\n\nJohn Hamilton (1802 – 10 October 1882) was a businessman, a political figure in Upper Canada and member of the Senate of Canada.\n\nHe was born in Queenston in 1802, the son of Robert Hamilton. He was educated in Queenston and Edinburgh, Scotland and first worked as a clerk in Montreal, Quebec. In 1824, with his stepbrother Robert, he established the Queenston Steamboat Company which operated a number of ships transporting goods on Lake Ontario. In 1831, he was appointed to the Legislative Council of Upper Canada for Queenston and, in 1841, he was re-appointed to its successor, the Legislative Council of the Province of Canada for Canada West. In the 1840s, due to increasing competition, he moved to Kingston, where he operated a business moving goods between Kingston and Montreal. In 1857, after his former competitors had gone bankrupt, he began operating on Lake Ontario again. In 1847, he became president of the Commercial Bank of the Midland District. Although his relationship with the bank was useful to his shipping business, his lack of attention to the bank's business may have contributed to its failure.\n\nHe was a co-founder of Queen's College at Kingston, later Queen's University, and became chairman of the board of trustees in 1842.\n\nA Conservative, he was appointed to the Senate on 23 October 1867 by royal proclamation following the Canadian Confederation of 1867. He served in that capacity, representing the province of Ontario and Kingston until his death. He died at Kingston in 1882.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303117", "title": "Fred Small (singer-songwriter)", "text": "Fred Small (singer-songwriter)\n\nFrederick Emerson Small (born November 6, 1952), known publicly as Fred Small, is an American singer-songwriter. He began his career as a lawyer and later became a Unitarian Universalist minister.\n\nSmall graduated from Yale University and the University of Michigan, from which he earned both a law degree and a master's in environmental policy. His first position was as staff attorney for the Conservation Law Foundation. \n\nHis songs often make a political or ethical statement. Among his best-known songs are \"Heart of the Appaloosa\", \"Everything Possible\", \"Peace Is\", and \"Cranes Over Hiroshima\". He was hailed by Pete Seeger as \"one of America's best songwriters\".\n\nHis debut album, \"Love's Gonna Carry Us\" (1981), featured Small singing and accompanying himself on guitar. As his fame and success increased, so too did the production level of his albums, as he included more instrumentation, and appearances by other artists, including instrumental and vocal backing by popular New England folk artists. Famous fiddlers, guitarists, and mandolin players alike became a part of Small's discography and helped Small increase his popularity.\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard Divinity School, he became the minister of First Church Unitarian in Littleton, Massachusetts in 1996. On April 20, 2008, he was called as Senior Minister at First Parish in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Small resigned in September 2015 to devote his energies to climate advocacy. He is currently Minister for Climate Justice at Arlington Street Church, Boston, and Director of Faith Outreach for Climate XChange, which advocates for carbon pricing legislation in Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303133", "title": "Aggregate planning", "text": "Aggregate planning\n\nAggregate planning is a marketing activity that does an aggregate plan for the production process, in advance of 6 to 18 months, to give an idea to management as to what quantity of materials and other resources are to be procured and when, so that the total cost of operations of the organization is kept to the minimum over that period.\n\nThe quantity of outsourcing, subcontracting of items, overtime of labour, numbers to be hired and fired in each period and the amount of inventory to be held in stock and to be backlogged for each period are decided. All of these activities are done within the framework of the company ethics, policies, and long term commitment to the society, community and the country of operation.\n\nAggregate planning has certain pre-required inputs which are inevitable. They include:\n\n\"Aggregate Planning is concerned with matching supply and demand of output over the medium time range, up to approximately 12 months into the future. The term aggregate implies that the planning is done for a single overall measure of output or, at the most, a few aggregated product categories. The aim of aggregate planning is to set overall output levels in the near to medium future in the face of fluctuating or uncertain demands. Aggregate planning might seek to influence demand as well as supply.\n\n\n\n\nSmoothing\n\nBottleneck Problems\n\nPlanning Horizon\n\nTreatment of Demand\nAggregate planning methodology requires the assumption that demand is known with certainty. This is simultaneously a weakness and a strength of the approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303140", "title": "Jeff Barry", "text": "Jeff Barry\n\nJeff Barry (born Joel Adelberg; April 3, 1938) is an American pop music songwriter, singer, and record producer. Among the most successful songs that he has co-written in his career are \"Do Wah Diddy Diddy\", \"Da Doo Ron Ron\", \"Then He Kissed Me\", \"Be My Baby\", \"Chapel of Love\", and \"River Deep - Mountain High\" (all written with his then-wife Ellie Greenwich and Phil Spector); \"Leader of the Pack\" (written with Greenwich and Shadow Morton); and \"Sugar, Sugar\" (written with Andy Kim).\n\nBarry was born in Brooklyn to a Jewish family. His parents divorced when he was seven, and his mother moved him and his sister to Plainfield, New Jersey, where they resided for several years before returning to New York.\n\nAfter graduating from Erasmus Hall High School, Barry served in the Army, then returned to New York where he attended City College. Although he leaned toward a degree in engineering, his main aspiration was to become a singer. He left college in the late '50s to sign with RCA Records, courtesy of music publisher Arnold Shaw. Around this time, he adopted a new name more in tune with show business, borrowing \"Jeff\" from actor Jeff Chandler and \"Barry\" from family friends.\n\nBarry recorded several singles for RCA label, including the self-penned \"It's Called Rock and Roll\", backed with \"Hip Couple\", released in 1959. The following year, Barry garnered his first significant success as a songwriter with two songs targeting the burgeoning teen market. First, Sam Cooke took Barry's \"Teenage Sonata\" to No. 22 on the Billboard R&B charts. Later that year, the teen-tragedy ballad \"Tell Laura I Love Her\", written with lyricist Ben Raleigh, went to No. 1 on the U.S. pop charts for Ray Peterson and to No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart for British singer Ricky Valance.\n\nIn the 1960s, Barry would partner, both professionally and personally, with Ellie Greenwich to form one of the decade's most prolific songwriting and producing teams. The two met in late 1959, although it might not have been for the first time - her maternal uncle was married to his cousin, so they may actually have known each other since childhood. However, their first formal meeting as adults was at a Thanksgiving dinner at the home of mutual relatives. (A few sources erroneously cite the year as 1960.) Fueled by a shared interest in music, a friendship developed that led to romantic involvement some months later, after Barry's first marriage was annulled.\n\nIn the summer of 1960, Barry and Greenwich recorded Barry's \"Red Corvette\", which was released as a single under the name Ellie Gee and The Jets. Greenwich stayed in college at Hofstra (she would graduate in 1962) and commuted to the Brill Building whenever time permitted. Songwriter-producers Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller had offered her a job as a staff writer for Trio Music, their publishing company, after Leiber overheard her singing in an office at the Brill Building. Barry was subsequently signed to Trio as well. At first, Barry and Greenwich continued to write songs with other partners. In addition, both became in-demand demo singers. Some of Barry's demos ended up in the hands of Elvis Presley and other major artists of the day.\n\nBarry and Greenwich married in October 1962 and shortly afterward decided to write songs exclusively with each other. Greenwich introduced Barry to her latest partner, songwriter-producer Phil Spector, and the threesome went on to help define the \"Girl Group\" sound of the early 1960s. The Barry-Greenwich-Spector team composed several of Spector's biggest hits, including The Crystals' \"Da Doo Ron Ron\" and \"Then He Kissed Me,\" and The Ronettes' \"Be My Baby\" and \"Baby, I Love You\", as well as the holiday perennial \"Christmas (Baby Please Come Home)\" by Darlene Love.\n\nIn early 1963, Barry and Greenwich had chart success with \"What A Guy\" and \"The Kind of Boy You Can't Forget\", recorded by the couple under the name The Raindrops for Jubilee Records, with Greenwich providing all the female vocals through the process of overdubbing, while Barry sang backgrounds in a bass voice. (Greenwich's sister, Laura, was drafted for live performances by The Raindrops, though she was little more than a prop, singing into a dead microphone.) The Raindrops also recorded a Jubilee single in late 1963 called \"That Boy John\" a catchy fusion of jazz and rhythm and blues that reached the middle of the charts; President John F. Kennedy had just been assassinated and, according to Barry and Greenwich, radio stations were loath to play the song. However, in a twist of fate, the B side written by Barry and Greenwich was \"Hanky Panky\", which would resurface in 1966 as a No. 1 cover version for Tommy James & The Shondells, giving that group its first hit.\n\nIn 1964, Leiber and Stoller brought Barry and Greenwich onboard their new label, Red Bird Records, as songwriter-producers. Of Red Bird's first 20 releases, 15 hit the charts; all were written and/or produced by the Barry-Greenwich team, including \"Chapel of Love\", \"People Say\", and \"Iko Iko\" by The Dixie Cups, and \"Remember (Walkin' in the Sand)\" (co-produced by Artie Ripp) and \"Leader of the Pack\" by The Shangri-Las. In 1964 alone, the duo were responsible for writing 17 singles that reached the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. One of these was \"Do Wah Diddy Diddy\", originally recorded by the girl group The Exciters, but reworked for a No. 1 pop hit by the British Invasion group Manfred Mann. In 1964, Barry and Greenwich also penned songs for Connie Francis and charted with two Lesley Gore hits, \"Maybe I Know\" and \"Look of Love.\"\n\nBarry and Greenwich released solo singles under their own names for Red Bird in 1965, Greenwich the haunting \"You Don't Know\" and Barry the uptempo \"I'll Still Love You\". However, 1965 was difficult for the pair, since unbeknownst to many, Barry and Greenwich's marriage had begun to unravel. The couple divorced in late 1965 but would continue to work together for much of the following year, and sporadically after that until the late 1960s. Their professional and personal partnerships were the subject of the 1985 Broadway jukebox musical \"Leader of the Pack\".\n\nIn early 1966 Barry and Greenwich discovered a talented young singer-songwriter named Neil Diamond and brought him to the attention of Bert Berns, one of the principals of Bang Records. Diamond was signed to the label, and Barry and Greenwich produced Neil's first hits, including \"Solitary Man\", \"Cherry, Cherry\", \"Kentucky Woman\", and \"Girl You'll Be A Woman Soon\". Barry and Greenwich can be heard singing backgrounds on many of Diamond's Bang recordings.\n\nDuring the same period, the pair teamed with Phil Spector to write the classics \"River Deep, Mountain High\", by Ike and Tina Turner and \"I Can Hear Music\" by The Ronettes and The Beach Boys. Penning songs (especially love songs) together was awkward at best given the circumstances, and Barry and Greenwich's writing partnership soon came to its end. Among Barry's new collaborators were Marty Sanders, a member of the pop group Jay and the Americans, and Bang label CEO Bert Berns, with whom he wrote \"Am I Groovin' You?\", a top R & B single for Freddie Scott in 1967. Also in 1967, Reparata and the Delrons had a minor hit with Barry's \"I'm Nobody's Baby Now\".\n\nIn late 1966, Barry was asked to produce tracks for the Monkees, a music group put together specifically as the stars of an NBC sitcom, also called \"The Monkees\". Drafted by the show's musical supervisor, Don Kirshner, Barry brought with him a few Neil Diamond-penned tunes for the group to record. One among them, \"I'm a Believer\", under Barry's production, would sail up the U.S. charts to No. 1 and become one of the biggest-selling records of all time. The group also had a hit with another Diamond-composed, Barry-produced single, \"A Little Bit Me, A Little Bit You\". After Kirshner's dismissal from Colgems Records, however, Barry would not produce songs for the Monkees again until 1970's \"Changes\", which contained many songs co-written by Barry, and their 1971 single Do It in the Name of Love, which he also co-wrote.\n\nHaving been removed from the Monkees project, Kirshner became music supervisor for a new Saturday morning cartoon, \"The Archie Show\", in 1968, and enlisted Barry as producer and main songwriter. During the next three years, Barry composed dozens of songs for the fictional Archies group, including the show's theme, \"Everything's Archie\", and the \"Dances of the Week\" (a staple of the show's first season). Barry had also recently founded his own label, Steed Records, and one of his most successful recording artists was Montreal native Andy Kim, who had hits with remakes of Barry's Ronettes tunes \"Be My Baby\" and \"Baby, I Love You.\" Barry and Kim collaborated on several tunes for The Archies to record, including their best-known single, \"Sugar, Sugar\", which hit No. 1, became the RIAA Record of the Year for 1969, and earned the group a gold record.\n\nIn 1970, Barry wrote and produced singles and albums for Archies lead singer Ron Dante; Bobby Bloom (\"Montego Bay\"), and Robin McNamara (\"Lay a Little Lovin' On Me\"), among others. In addition, Barry penned his first music for motion pictures (\"Hello Down There\" (1969) and \"Where It's At\") and wrote the music for and produced Tom Eyen's hit off-Broadway revue \"The Dirtiest Show in Town\". In 1975 he produced \"Ooh, I'm Satisfied\" for short-lived mid-'70s pop singer-turned-session vocalist Polly Cutter.\n\nIn 1971 Barry moved from New York to California, where he had a production and administration deal with A&M Records for several years. Between 1972 and 1975, he produced hit singles for Nino Tempo and April Stevens (together and separately) and the a cappella vocal group the Persuasions. In subsequent years he shifted his focus to television (writing the theme songs for \"One Day at a Time\", \"The Jeffersons\", and \"Family Ties\") and movies (the score for 1980's \"The Idolmaker\"), although he continued his work in the pop music field. \"I Honestly Love You\", written by Barry with Peter Allen, became a 1974 No. 1 for Olivia Newton-John; and, in 1984, Jeffrey Osborne and Joyce Kennedy hit the Top 40 with another Barry composition, \"The Last Time I Made Love\", written with Barry Mann and Cynthia Weil.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s Barry also scored numerous hit songs on the country charts, among them \"Out Of Hand\" by Gary Stewart, \"Sayin' Hello, Sayin' I Love You, Sayin' Goodbye\" by Jim Ed Brown and Helen Cornelius, \"Lie To You For Your Love\" by The Bellamy Brothers, a remake of \"Chip Chip\" (originally a 1962 Gene McDaniels pop smash) by Patsy Sledd, and \"Walkin' In The Sun\" by Glen Campbell.\n\nIn 1990, Barry co-produced the theme song for the television series based on \"Where's Waldo?\". In May 1991, Barry and Greenwich were inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. In 2004, Rolling Stone's list of the 500 greatest rock songs included six Greenwich-Barry compositions, more than by any other non-performing songwriting team.\n\nDuring the mid-1990s, Barry served as president of the National Academy of Songwriters, and in December 1998 he was a recipient of their Lifetime Achievement Award. In March 2000, Barry filmed a music special for the PBS television network, \"Chapel of Love: Jeff Barry and Friends\". The show featured performances of Barry tunes by several of the artists who made them famous, including the Dixie Cups, the Crystals, Ronnie Spector, Andy Kim, Ray Peterson, and Ron Dante of the Archies.\n\nIn recent years, Barry has been involved in several projects, among them the stage musical \"The Girl Who Would Be King\", written by the husband-and-wife team of Prudence Fraser and Robert Sternin, best known for their writing and production work on the CBS series \"The Nanny\". The musical had its official world premiere in Vero Beach, Florida.\n\nIn 2016, Barry composed songs for the musical theater show \"Jambalaya The Musical\" along with his production partner, Clarence Jey, a US Billboard and viral record producer. Jeff Barry was involved in part of the music in the Hallmark Channel movie titled \"My Christmas Love\". \n\n2019 saw Jeff Barry and his writing partner Clarence Jey compose and write songs for Lego City Adventures, a computer-animated television series, produced by The Lego Group, for Nickelodeon television.\n\nBarry and Greenwich were among the 2010 recipients of the Ahmet Ertegün Award from the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Unable to attend the ceremony, Steven Van Zandt accepted the award on Barry's behalf.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303149", "title": "Telethusa", "text": "Telethusa\n\nTelethusa (Ancient Greek: Τελέθουσα) was the Cretan mother of Iphis in Greek Mythology. She was told by her husband Ligdus that if she gave birth to a girl, the child would be put to death. But when the child was about to be born Telethusa had a vision in her dreams in which Isis, in the company of other Egyptian gods (Anubis, Bubastis, Apis, Harpocrates and Osiris), told her not to obey her husband's orders. Doing as the vision said, Telethusa then raised her daughter Iphis as a boy to spare her from Ligdus's wrath. Iphis was later transformed into a man by the Egyptian goddess Isis in order to marry her true love, the maiden Ianthe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303156", "title": "509th Heavy Panzer Battalion", "text": "509th Heavy Panzer Battalion\n\nThe 509th Heavy Panzer Battalion (; abbreviated: \"s PzAbt 509\") was a German heavy Panzer \"Abteilung\" (an independent battalion-sized unit), equipped with heavy tanks, during the Second World War.\n\nThe 509th was ordered formed on 9 September 1943, taking most of its personnel from \"Panzer-Regiment 204\" of the disbanded 22nd Panzer Division. The battalion received forty-five Tiger Is. It was committed to action in Ukraine as a part of Army Group South. Reaching the Front in October 1943, the 509th saw action near Kirovograd and Krivoi Rog, and participated in Wehrmacht's retreat.\n\nIn early 1944, the 509th was involved in the Second Battle of Kiev and then retreated across Ukraine. In late May, the depleted 509th was pulled back for refitting. After receiving a full complement of Tiger 1s, the battalion was sent back to the front on 1 June 1944. On 22 June 1944, the Red Army launched Operation Bagration, and the 509th, attached to Army Group Centre, was in their line of advance. On 8 September 1944, the detachment lost sixteen Tigers in under 24 hours near Kielce, Poland.\n\nIn late September the battalion was pulled back to be equipped with Tiger IIs. After it had received forty-five new Tiger IIs in December 1944, the detachment was attached to IV SS Panzer Corps, which was preparing an attempt to relieve the encircled garrison of Budapest. Launched on 18 January 1945, the operation, codenamed \"Konrad III\", was ultimately a failure. During the operation, the 509th had lost forty of its forty-five Tiger IIs, with ten being total losses.\n\nThe 509th was transferred to III Corps, to support Operation Frühlingserwachen in March, and retreating to Vienna. It took part in the Battle of Vienna in April, before retreating to the American lines. On 9 May 1945, the 509th surrendered to the U.S. Army near Linz.\n\n\n\nJentz, Thomas L. \"Panzer Truppen, Vol. 2: The Complete Guide to the Creation & Combat Employment of Germany's Tank Force 1943-1942\". Atlgen, PA: Schiffer, 1996 \n"}
{"id": "2303158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303158", "title": "Drexciya", "text": "Drexciya\n\nDrexciya was an American electronic music duo from Detroit, Michigan, consisting of James Stinson (1969 - 2002) and Gerald Donald.\n\nThe majority of Drexciya's releases were in the style of dancefloor-oriented electro, punctuated with elements of retro, 1980s Detroit techno, with occasional excursions into the ambient and industrial genres. Tracks were mostly centered around the Roland TR-808 drum machine.\n\nDrexciya, which eschewed media attention and its attendant focus on personality, developed a nautical afrofuturist myth. The group revealed in the sleeve notes to their 1997 album \"The Quest\" that \"Drexciya\" was an underwater country populated by the unborn children of pregnant African women who were thrown off of slave ships; the babies had adapted to breathe underwater in their mothers' wombs. The myth was built partly on Paul Gilroy's \"The Black Atlantic: Modernity and Double Consciousness\" (1993), according to Kodwo Eshun.\n\nIn 1997, Drexciya released a compilation album, titled \"The Quest\". The duo released three studio albums: \"Neptune's Lair\" (1999), \"Harnessed the Storm\" (2002), and \"Grava 4\" (2002).\n\nStinson died suddenly on 3 September 2002 of a heart condition. Donald continues to produce music under other names.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303161", "title": "Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport", "text": "Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport\n\nChengdu Shuangliu International Airport is the major international airport serving Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, China. Located about southwest of downtown Chengdu to the north of Shuangliu District, Shuangliu airport is an important aviation hub for Western China. Shuangliu Airport is one of the two core hubs for Air China, together with Beijing, as well as the main hub and headquarters for Sichuan Airlines and Chengdu Airlines. China Eastern Airlines, China Southern Airlines, Shenzhen Airlines, Lucky Air and Tibet Airlines also have bases at Shuangliu Airport.\n\nShuangliu Airport handled 42.2 million passengers in 2015. It was among world's 30 busiest airports in 2015, the fourth-busiest in mainland China, and the busiest in western China. It was also the fourth-busiest airport in terms of cargo traffic in China for 2013.\n\nThe airport, formerly named Shuangguisi Airport, opened as an auxiliary military airfield in 1938 during the Second Sino-Japanese War/World War II. At the time, its runway was only large enough for small biplanes. It was also where the Republic of China Air Force Polikarpov I-15 fighters of the 5th Pursuit Group were based for aerial defense of the Chengtu area against Imperial Japanese bomber raids; this following the Chinese retreat from Wuhan to Chungking (now Chongqing) as the new provisional capital in aftermath of the Battle of Wuhan against the Imperial Japanese onslaught. Civilian targets were indiscriminately bombed, and ace fighter pilot of the Chinese Air Force Major Wong Sun-shui and Lieutenant Lin Heng (younger brother of renowned architect and poet Lin Huiyin) flying in their I-15 fighter planes were both killed near Shuangliu air base as a result of battling against the A6M \"Zero\" (Reisen) fighter, in defense of Chengdu on 14 March 1941.\n\nDuring World War II, the airport was known as Shwangliu (Shuangliu) Airfield and was later used by the United States Army Air Forces Fourteenth Air Force as part of the China Defensive Campaign (1942–1945). It was used as a fighter base by the 33d Fighter Group, which flew P-47 Thunderbolt fighter-bombers from the airport in 1944 to support Chinese ground forces, and also by reconnaissance units that operated camera-equipped P-38 Lightnings that located Japanese forces and provided intelligence to the fighter-bombers. The Americans closed their facilities at Shwangliu Airfield at the end of August 1945.\n\nOn December 12, 1956, the Shuangguisi Airport was put under civil aviation, which was then formally listed as a civil aviation airport and renamed Chengdu Shuangliu Airport. In 1957, the flights of Chengdu civil aviation were shifted to Shuangliu Airport from Guanghan Airport. The flight courses from Chengdu were thus opened to various cities within China including Beijing, Taiyuan, Xi'an, Chongqing, Kunming, Guiyang, and Nanchong. The airport went through several earlier expansions in 1959, 1967, 1983 and 1991 respectively.\n\nA large-scale expansion was conducted on flight area and navigation area from 1994 to 2001. The runway was extended to with Class 4E rating, allowing for larger jumbo jets including the Boeing 747-400. The newly built terminal building was incorporated with a three-parallel-porch design, accommodating an hourly capacity of 3,500 passengers during rush hours, while the previous terminal building was only designated for regional flights within Sichuan and Chongqing.\n\nThe airport is now an international civil airport with flights to more than 50 international destinations and over 170 domestic airports, and is a hub for Chengdu Airlines, Air China and Sichuan Airlines. It is linked to downtown Chengdu by the Airport Expressway, the Chengdu–Mianyang–Leshan intercity railway and the newly built Chengdu Metro line 10 which has stations in both terminals. KLM launched the first intercontinental air route from Chengdu, to Amsterdam, on 28 May 2006.\n\nThe construction of its second runway started from late 2008, and service commenced in December 2009. The completed new runway, in length and in width, upgraded the previous flight area rating from 4E to 4F, capable of handling the Airbus A380.\nThe new Terminal 2 has started construction in June 2009; trial operations began on July 28, 2012 with limited airlines and was officially opened on August 9, 2012 for all domestic airlines other than Sichuan Airlines. T1 is split into Domestic and International wings, and retained all international flights from airlines within and outside China. The new terminal is twice the size of the current T1, and allows the airport to handle up to 50 million passengers annually.\n\nOn June 9, 2014, United Airlines began operating a nonstop service from San Francisco to Chengdu, connecting central China to the United States non-stop for the first time. Service to the US has since expanded, as Hainan Airlines now offers nonstop service from Chengdu to Los Angeles and began nonstop service to New York–JFK in October 2017. In addition, Sichuan Airlines and Air China have many international routes in this airport.\n\nChina Southwest Airlines once had its headquarters on the airport property.\n\nAirport Bus No. 1, Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport - City Centre (Minshan Hotel, Section 2 of Renmin Road South, Metro station of Jinjiang Hotel); single ticket: ￥10.\n\nAirport Bus No. 2, Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport - Chengdu railway station (North Railway Station); single ticket: up to ￥10.\n\nAirport Bus No. 3, Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport - Chengdu East railway station (Chengdu Dong Railway Station); single ticket: ￥12.\n\nIt costs about RMB 60 Yuan from Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport to the city centre of Chengdu.\n\nPassengers can take the CRH train at Shuangliu Airport railway station (-1F of Terminal 2) to Chengdu Nan (South) Railway Station and Chengdu Dong (East) Railway Station; single tickets are about ￥11 (US$1.5). The CRH trains at Shuangliu Airport Station are also bound for Mianyang Railway Station, Deyang Railway Station, Meishan Dong (East) Railway Station, Leshan Railway Station and Emeishan Railway Station.\n\nChengdu Metro Line 10 is a subway line that links Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport with Taipingyuan Station (the transfer station for Chengdu Metro Line 3 and Chengdu Metro Line 7). It opened on 6 September 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2303169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303169", "title": "FC Shinnik Yaroslavl", "text": "FC Shinnik Yaroslavl\n\nFC Shinnik Yaroslavl () is a Russian football club, based in Yaroslavl.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1960 the team was called Khimik ( - \"the chemist\").\n\nIn the USSR championships the team held 1346 matches (523 wins, 376 draws, 447 defeats), with the goal difference 1652:1499 (+153).\n\n\", according to the official FNL site.\"\n\nHad international caps for their respective countries. Players whose name is listed in bold represented their countries while playing for Shinnik.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
