{"id": "2256310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256310", "title": "WXIN", "text": "WXIN\n\nWXIN, virtual channel 59 (UHF digital channel 22), is a Fox-affiliated television station licensed to Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group, as part of a duopoly with Bloomington-licensed CBS affiliate WTTV, channel 4 (and its Kokomo-licensed satellite WTTK, channel 29). The two stations share studios on Network Place (near 71st Street & I-465) at the Intech Park office development in northwestern Indianapolis; WXIN's transmitter is located on West 73rd Street (or Westlane Road) on the northern outskirts of the city (west of Meridian Hills).\n\nOn cable, WXIN is available on Comcast Xfinity, Charter Spectrum and AT&T U-verse channel 11.\n\nThe UHF channel 59 allocation in Central Indiana was originally assigned to Lafayette (located approximately northwest of Indianapolis). The allocation would become occupied by CBS affiliate WFAM-TV (now WLFI-TV), which original owner Sarkes Tarzian (who also founded WXIN's present-day sister station WTTV) signed on in June 1953. After that station moved its allocation to UHF channel 18 in 1957, UHF channel 59 would remain dormant until the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) later reassigned the allotment to Indianapolis.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the FCC began taking applications for channel 59 in Indianapolis, receiving four, from Indianapolis Television Corporation; Channel 59 of Indiana; United Television Corporation of Indiana (owned by United Cable); and Indianapolis 59 (subsidiary of a young Sinclair Broadcast Group). Indianapolis Television Corporation secured the channel in a joint settlement, reimbursing its competitors a combined $128,300 in the process.\n\nThe new construction permit, initially held by Indianapolis Television—a consortium of shopping mall and Indiana Pacers co-owner Melvin Simon, his brother Fred, and Gerald Kraft—took the call letters WSMK and was initially planned as a subscription television operation, but the expansion of cable TV made such operation impractical by 1983. That year, 80 percent of the stock in the company was sold to locally based Anacomp, Inc.; Melvin retained 10 percent, while his other brother, Herbert Simon, bought a 10 percent stake. The $800,000 acquisition produced capital to be invested in the construction of the station. Anacomp was headed by Ron Palamara, while one of the vice presidents in Anacomp was Chris Duffy, who had been the general manager at WTHR for five years before joining Anacomp in 1981. Their names and that of Simon formed the basis for the station's new call sign of WPDS-TV.\n\nPalamara had promised the station would be on air by New Year 1984; due to weather delays, that turned into the Chinese New Year when WPDS-TV signed on February 1, 1984. Originally operating as an independent station, channel 59 maintained a general entertainment programming format featuring cartoons, movies, classic sitcoms and drama series. Through Simon's part-ownership of the station, it also aired Indiana Pacers NBA games in the 1984–85 season. The station originally operated from studio facilities located on North Meridian Street in Indianapolis' Television Row section. Its primary competitor was rival independent WTTV (channel 4, now a CBS affiliate) in Bloomington; WPDS would gain another competitor when WMCC (channel 23, now MyNetworkTV affiliate WNDY-TV) signed on November 1, 1987. Palamara, Duffy and Simon sold the station to Outlet Broadcasting (through its Atlin Communications subsidiary) in 1985; the station's call letters were then changed to WXIN on August 10 of that year. The station lost the Pacers broadcast rights after the sale, with the telecasts returning to WTTV for the 1985-86 season.\n\nWXIN became a charter affiliate of the Fox Broadcasting Company when the network launched on October 9, 1986, after WTTV—despite its status as one of the strongest independent stations in the country—turned down an offer to become an affiliate. As was the case with other Fox stations during the network's early years, channel 59 was programmed as a de facto independent station, as Fox initially ran primetime programs only on weekends and would not offer nightly programming until September 1993. Until then, WXIN aired a movie at 8:00 p.m. on nights when network programs did not air. The station began identifying as \"Fox WXIN 59\" by 1988 (simply adding the Fox name to the \"WXIN 59\" branding in use since 1985), which was simplified to \"Fox 59\" in 1991; it also added more sitcoms to its inventory, and eventually began to overtake WTTV in the ratings. Outlet sold WXIN to Chase Broadcasting in December 1989; Chase subsequently merged with Renaissance Broadcasting in 1993.\n\nChicago-based Tribune Broadcasting bought Renaissance's television properties for $1.13 billion on July 7, 1996. Under Tribune ownership, WXIN gradually added more talk shows, reality series and court shows to its schedule. By that time, WXIN carried the weekday afternoon edition of the Fox Kids block from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m., before moving it one hour earlier (from 1:30 to 3:30) in 1999; Fox discontinued the Fox Kids weekday block in December 2001, though WXIN continued to carry the remaining Saturday morning lineup (which was relaunched FoxBox in September 2002, and was later branded as 4Kids TV from September 2005 until December 2008, when Fox discontinued its children's programming after declining to renew its agreement with time-lease partner 4Kids Entertainment).\n\nTribune acquired WTTV and its Kokomo satellite WTTK (channel 29) from the Sinclair Broadcast Group on April 29, 2002; this created the market's first television duopoly under current FCC regulations with WXIN when the purchase was finalized on July 24 (Sinclair – which had ironically considered acquiring WXIN and the other Renaissance stations in 1996 – had briefly owned WTTV and WIIB (channel 63, now Ion Television owned-and-operated station WIPX-TV) from 1996 to 1998 under a cross-ownership waiver as the FCC had prohibited duopolies at the time). While an affiliation swap should have been expected given that WTTV was a VHF station that had been on the air much longer than UHF outlet WXIN, and WXIN had an established news department whereas WTTV had been outsourcing its newscasts since 1990, Tribune kept the WB affiliation on WTTV and Fox programming on WXIN due to the fact that WTTV had a weaker signal in the northern parts of the market as its transmitter was located farther south than other area stations, requiring WTTK to relay its programming. Additionally since Fox holds the broadcast television rights to the National Football Conference, the network only airs Indianapolis Colts regular season games (at least two per season) in which the NFL team plays against an NFC opponent (with most other games airing on WISH-TV (channel 8) at the time through American Football Conference rightsholder CBS; however, starting in 2014, any games that are moved from WISH or WTTV to WXIN will air on channel 59, via the new 'cross-flex' broadcast rules), so Fox did not consider Indianapolis an important market for getting a VHF affiliate (incidentally, WXIN carried Colts-related analysis programs including head coach Bill Polian's discussion program from 2006 to 2008, assuming the rights from and later losing them to WISH-TV and WNDY-TV).\nIn 2004, WXIN relocated its operations from its Meridian Street studio to a new facility at 6910 Network Place at the Intech Park office development on the city's northwest side (as a result, both it and WTTV are the only major network affiliates in Indianapolis whose studios are not located within the Television Row section).\n\nIn 2011, WXIN and WSJV in South Bend became the only full-power Fox affiliates in Indiana to carry the network's programming on their primary channels, after Fox programming was relegated to digital subchannels of Big Three-affiliated stations in three markets due to a dispute between the network and the Nexstar Broadcasting Group over reverse compensation of retransmission consent fees that led to Nexstar's Evansville and Fort Wayne stations (WTVW and WFFT-TV) being stripped of their Fox affiliations, and its Terre Haute station (WFXW, now WAWV-TV) dropping the network to rejoin ABC (WFFT-TV rejoined Fox on March 1, 2013, after Nexstar settled a 2011 lawsuit against Granite Broadcasting citing undue control of five major network affiliations on Granite's virtual duopoly in Fort Wayne at the time – ABC and The CW on WPTA and NBC, Fox and MyNetworkTV on WISE-TV). As a result of fellow charter affiliate WFFT-TV losing its Fox affiliation, WXIN became the longest-tenured Fox affiliate in the state of Indiana. On January 1, 2015, WXIN became the second largest Fox affiliate (behind WRAZ in Raleigh, North Carolina) owned in a duopoly with a \"Big Three\" station when WTTV switched from The CW to CBS; it is also the only station in Indianapolis to have never changed its network affiliation.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Sinclair Broadcast Group announced that it would acquire Tribune Media for $3.9 billion, plus the assumption of $2.7 billion in debt held by Tribune. If the deal receives regulatory approval by the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division, this would reunite sister station WTTV under the Sinclair umbrella, fifteen years after the group sold the station to Tribune. WXIN/WTTV would also gain a new sister station in CBS primary/Fox subchannel-only affiliate WSBT-TV in the nearby South Bend market. The deal has brought concerns by Fox about increased leverage that Sinclair would have with reverse compensation in future Fox affiliation contract negotiations as the Tribune purchase would add 14 Fox stations based entirely in top-50 markets to the 38 that Sinclair already operates (which would account for 28% of the Fox network's national affiliate reach). Executives with network parent 21st Century Fox also see Sinclair as a competitor to Fox News Channel as the group produces conservative-leaning news and commentary segments that appear on local newscasts of stations owned and/or operated by the group. (This has furthered existing confusion among some viewers over the connection between Fox News and local newscasts on Fox stations, despite the fact that Fox News is not structured as a news division of the Fox Broadcasting Company and operates as a separate entity from its broadcast sister.)\n\nOn August 2, 2017, it was reported that Fox Television Stations was in talks with Ion Media to create a joint venture that would own their respective stations. The partnership was said to include plans to shift affiliations from Sinclair stations in favor of Ion-owned stations, such as those whose affiliation agreements are soon to expire. In Indianapolis' case, this would include shifting Fox from WXIN to WIPX-TV (channel 63). In the event that WXIN loses its Fox affiliation, the station may return to independent status. The chances of WXIN keeping its Fox affiliation increased somewhat in October 2017 when Ion elected its stations to have must-carry status instead of retransmission consent, which the FCC ruled Ion must keep for three years. However, must-carry only applies to a main signal, allowing Fox to possibly affiliate with a digital subchannel on WIPX-TV and other Ion stations.\n\nOn December 6, 2017, reports stated that Sinclair and Fox were working on a deal that would see most of the Fox-affiliated stations whose affiliation contracts were set to expire at the end of the year renew said agreements, in exchange for Sinclair selling some Fox affiliates involved in the Tribune deal or already under the group's ownership directly to Fox Television Stations. The deal would see between six and ten Fox affiliates owned by Sinclair and Tribune in markets with an NFL franchise become Fox owned-and-operated stations. It is not known if WXIN will be one of the stations sold nor how the deal could be brokered with regards to its duopoly with WTTV/WTTK, although the stations being sold to Fox are expected to largely come from Tribune Media (notably KCPQ and its MyNetworkTV-affiliated sister KZJO in Seattle, where Sinclair already owns ABC affiliate KOMO-TV and Univision affiliate KUNS-TV), many of which were previously owned by Fox. (Sinclair may sell additional Fox affiliates to other groups not associated with the company to both address the aforementioned issues and the ownership conflicts that Sinclair and Tribune have in ten markets that largely would be excluded from the side deal with Fox.)\n\nThree weeks after the FCC's July 18 vote to have the deal reviewed by an administrative law judge amid \"serious concerns\" about Sinclair's forthrightness in its applications to sell certain conflict properties, on August 9, 2018, Tribune announced it would terminate the Sinclair deal, intending to seek other M&A opportunities. Tribune also filed a breach of contract lawsuit in the Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that Sinclair engaged in protracted negotiations with the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division over regulatory issues, refused to sell stations in markets where it already had properties, and proposed divestitures to parties with ties to Sinclair executive chair David D. Smith that were rejected or highly subject to rejection to maintain control over stations it was required to sell.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Irving, Texas-based Nexstar Media Group—which has owned WISH-TV and MyNetworkTV affiliate WNDY-TV (channel 23) since January 2017—announced it would acquire the assets of Tribune Media for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar is precluded from acquiring WXIN and WTTV/WTTK directly or indirectly, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. (Furthermore, any attempt by Nexstar to assume the operations of WXIN and WTTV/WTTK through local marketing or shared services agreements may be subject to regulatory hurdles that could delay completion of the FCC and Justice Department's review and approval process for the acquisition.) As such, Nexstar was required to sell two of the stations (including one ranking in the top four in ratings; WTTV and WTTK counting as one station) to a separate, unrelated company to address the ownership conflict, potentially creating two new duopolies. In April 2019, Nexstar announced that it would sell its existing duopoly of WISH-TV and WNDY to Circle City Broadcasting (owned by DuJuan McCoy of Indianapolis, who formerly owned WEVV-TV) for $42.5 million. The sale was completed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWXIN shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 59, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 45. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 59, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\nIn addition to the Fox network schedule, syndicated programming on WXIN includes \"Steve Wilkos\", \"Maury\", \"TMZ on TV\" and \"Daily Mail TV\".\n\nIn September 2013, WXIN became the flagship station for the Hoosier Lottery, whose Daily 3 and Daily 4 evening drawings are held at the station's Network Place studios, and air nightly at 10:58 after the 10:00 p.m. newscast (the station had already been airing drawings for Powerball on Wednesdays and Saturdays, and Mega Millions on Tuesdays and Fridays, which now air after the Hoosier Lottery telecasts on those nights). Ironically, sister station WTTV (which carried the drawings since 1998 through a deal with then-rightsholder, ABC affiliate WRTV (channel 6) had lost the rights to the televised drawings after the Indiana State Lottery Commission discontinued them due to budget cuts and began conducting the drawings at its offices using a random number generator in 2001.\n\nChannel 59 also airs select Indianapolis Colts telecasts, as part of Fox's National Football Conference package. Shortly before WTTV switched to CBS, the team announced a deal with Tribune Broadcasting that made WXIN and WTTV official broadcast partners. This means both stations will air Colts preseason games, team programming and coach's show beginning in the summer of 2015, though a majority of the games will air on WTTV, owing to CBS' AFC rights. Advertising within Lucas Oil Stadium is also included in the deal. Additionally, both stations will carry the Super Bowl for the next three years, with WTTV carrying CBS coverage of Super Bowl LIII in 2019, WXIN airing Fox's coverage of Super Bowl LIV in 2020 and CBS airing Super Bowl LV in 2021 (CBS and NBC switched Super Bowl coverage in 2021 and 2022, this was so that NBC would not have to worry about airing a Winter Olympic game (which starts the Friday before Super Bowl LVI) against CBS' coverage of the Super Bowl. Thus, CBS will air Super Bowl LV in 2021 and NBC will air Super Bowl LVI in 2022. The only time the Colts would not play on a Tribune station would be if they were scheduled for an \"NBC Sunday Night Football\" telecast, which would air on WTHR, or ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\", which has traditionally aired on WRTV. Beginning in 2018, the \"Thursday Night Football\" telecast games are aired on WXIN, due to Fox carrying the package as part of a contract lasting through 2022.\n\nWXIN presently broadcasts 62½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 10½ hours each weekday and five hours each on Saturdays and Sundays, which includes \"IN Focus\" airing Sundays at 9:30 a.m. and \"Indy Sports Central Overtime\" airing Fridays and Sundays at 10:35 p.m.); in regards to the number of hours devoted to news programming, it was the largest local newscast output among any station in the state of Indiana until late 2017 with the cancellations of \"FOX59 NewsPoint @ 11\" on weekends, and also one of the highest in the nation. WISH-TV has now taken the reign of local news output in the market and the state of Indiana with about 77 hours of content. The sports highlight program \"Indy Sports Central Overtime\" is retitled \"Fast Break Friday\" or \"Football Friday Night on Fox\" during the high school basketball and football seasons.\n\nLocal newscasts debuted on channel 59 the day it started operations as WPDS-TV on February 1, 1984, with an hour-long 10:00 p.m. newscast, titled \"59 Headline News\"; it was co-anchored by Ken Owen, who later served as an anchor at WISH-TV, WANE and WRTV. Unable to compete with WTTV's longer-established primetime newscast in the ratings (which itself was canceled with the November 1990 shutdown of channel 4's news department), the program was cancelled in the fall of 1984. For the next six years, channel 59's news programming consisted solely of 60-second news and weather updates, branded as \"WXIN News Extra\", that aired during commercial breaks within the station's daytime and evening programming.\n\nLong-form newscasts returned in September 1991 after Chase Broadcasting restarted a news department for WXIN, which began producing a nightly 35-minute newscast at 10:00 p.m. Debuting as \"Fox 59 Nightcast\" – which was later retitled \"Fox News at 10\" in 1994 and then to \"Fox 59 News at Ten\" in 1997, it was first anchored by Bob Donaldson (who remained WXIN's lead anchor until January 2016, when he moved exclusively to sister station WTTV, with which he had been serving as its primary weeknight co-anchor since it joined CBS in January 2015) and Caroline Thau, alongside chief meteorologist Chris Wright (who left in 1994, and was replaced by current chief Brian Wilkes) and sports director (and former ABC Sports commentator) Brian Hammons. WXIN grew to become the ratings leader in the 10:00 p.m. timeslot, even with competition from a WRTV-produced newscast on WTTV (which began shortly before the start of WXIN's second primetime news effort, and was canceled in December 2002 after Tribune acquired WTTV) and WTHR's late newscast – which moved from 11:00 p.m. to 10:00 on April 7, 1991 as part of a short-lived \"early primetime\" network scheduling experiment; more competition sprang up when then-WB affiliate WNDY-TV debuted the WTHR-produced \"Eyewitness News at 10:00\" on March 16, 1996, which briefly moved to WIPX-TV when WISH-TV took over production of the WNDY newscast (as \"24-Hour News 8 at 10:00\") on February 28, 2005.\n\nWXIN expanded news programming outside its established 10:00 slot on March 29, 1999, when it premiered \"Fox 59 a.m.\" Formatted as a mix of news, entertainment and lifestyle features with a looser, \"personality-driven\" style inspired by morning radio programs, the show initially aired from 6:00 to 9:00 a.m., replacing paid programming and children's programs that had previously aired in that time period. The program was reformatted as a more traditional morning newscast in 2004, and grew to beat competing local and national morning news programs in the 25-54 age demographic. The station expanded the flagship 10:00 p.m. newscast to one hour on April 17, 2006; until that point, WXIN had been among the largest news-producing Fox affiliates by market size that did not air an hour-long primetime newscast, either on a nightly basis or on weeknights only.\n\nIn May 2007, WXIN entered into a content partnership with the \"Indianapolis Business Journal\" to provide news and weather content for the newspaper. On January 2, 2008, WXIN added an hour onto its morning newscast from 5:00 to 6:00 a.m., expanding it to four hours; a simulcast of the 6:00 to 9:00 a.m. block of the program began airing on WTTV on that date (the WTTV simulcast later moved to that station's This TV-affiliated digital subchannel on September 13, 2010, before being dropped in September 2013). The station debuted a half-hour midday newscast at 11:00 a.m. nine months later on September 15.\n\nUnder the direction of now-former general manager Jerry Martin and his successor Larry Delia, and former news director Lee Rosenthal, WXIN spearheaded a major expansion of its news programming. On September 21, 2009 (as other Tribune-owned Fox affiliates began to increase their news output, which the network had encouraged its stations to do since the 1990s), the station expanded its weekday morning newscast to 4½ hours with the addition of a half-hour at 4:30 a.m., and premiered an hour-long 4:00 p.m. newscast. On November 1, 2009, WXIN became the fourth television station in the Indianapolis market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; with the change, WXIN adopted the logo and graphic scheme used by Fox's owned-and-operated stations and certain affiliates (including some of its sister stations under Tribune ownership). On WXIN, this Fox graphics scheme and corresponding music package was already in use in some aspects (though the music package was used in all aspects) since 2006. The 11:00 a.m. newscast was dropped on January 1, 2010; WXIN then added an hour to its weekday morning newscast from 9:00 to 10:00 a.m. on January 4.\n\nWXIN launched Indysportsnation.com in April 2009; in addition, the station debuted a weekend evening sports program that month, \"IndySportsNation Overtime\" (which replaced another highlight show, \"Fox 59 Sports Weekender\"), and sports segments during the station's newscasts were rebranded under the \"IndySportsNation\" banner. Morning newscasts expanded again on August 21, 2010, with the debut of three-hour weekend editions from 6:00 to 9:00 a.m. (as a result, WXIN became Tribune's first television station, since an attempt by its Chicago flagship WGN-TV for a few years during the 1990s, to carry a weekend morning newscast); three weeks later on September 13, the station debuted an hour-long weeknight 5:00 p.m. newscast. The weekend morning newscasts expanded to four hours on January 8, 2011, with the addition of a 9:00 a.m. hour; this was followed on January 10, 2011, with the expansion of its weekday morning newscast to six hours with the addition of a half-hour at 4:00 a.m.\n\nWXIN furthered its evening news expansion on September 10, 2012, when it debuted an hour-long weeknight 6:00 p.m. broadcast. On June 15, 2013, WXIN implemented a standardized graphics package for Tribune's Fox affiliates that originated on Grand Rapids sister station WXMI in November 2012. On June 23, 2014, WXIN entered into a multi-year content partnership with \"The Indianapolis Star\" – which began on August 1, replacing WTHR – to collaborate on coverage of news reports and investigative reports, with WXIN also providing weather forecasts for the newspaper. On June 30, 2014, the station debuted a half-hour nightly 11:00 p.m. newscast, titled \"Fox 59 NewsPoint at 11\", a program packaged as a standalone newscast serving as a wrap-up of the day's headlines; this was followed on September 22, 2014 by the launch of a half-hour weeknight 7:00 p.m. newscast. These particular additions had increased the station's weekly news total to 66 hours (beating Cleveland sister station WJW for the largest local news output of any major U.S. television station). WXIN's 7:00 p.m. newscast competes with an existing newscast on ABC affiliate WRTV (which predates the WXIN program by seven years). In late 2017, the weekend editions of the 11 p.m. newscast were cancelled and replaced by FOX's late night programming on Saturdays, moving from 11:30 p.m. to its original start time of 11 p.m., as it once was prior to the launch of the 11 p.m. newscast and being replaced by repeat episodes of \"The Simpsons\" on Sunday nights.\n\nWhen sister station WTTV announced that upon its switch to CBS it would launch a separate news operation from WXIN with its own on-air staff (similar to, though also differing in structure from the shared news operation of St. Louis sister duopoly KTVI/KPLR-TV, the latter of which maintains separate anchors from KTVI for certain newscasts), WTTV/WXIN became the first known duopoly (legal or virtual) involving a Big Three affiliate and a Fox station, in which the two stations maintain separate news departments and newscasts in competing timeslots (the presence of two separate, but jointly based news departments controlled by one company structured in this manner is more common with duopolies involving stations affiliated with two of the Big Three networks). Both stations' news departments are housed out of their shared facility on Network Place, and – while it does hinder both stations – each produce newscasts that compete in most traditional timeslots, except on weekend mornings (as WTTV carries the CBS Dream Team lineup), weekdays at noon and weekends at 6:00 p.m. (as WXIN airs syndicated programming in both periods, with sports programming periodically airing in the latter slot on either station). There is also a considerable amount of sharing between WTTV and WXIN in regards to news coverage, video footage and the use of reporters; though both outlets maintain their own primary on-air personalities (such as news anchors and meteorologists) that only appear on their respective station (Bob Donaldson is a notable exception as he anchors newscasts on both stations, remaining as lead anchor of channel 59's 10:00 p.m. newscast but transferring his 6:00 p.m. duties from WXIN to WTTV following the CBS switch). On May 3, 2015, WXIN debuted \"IN Focus\", a half-hour Sunday morning program focusing on political and civic issues (the Sunday morning newscast was concurrently reduced by a half-hour in order to make room for the program).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256327", "title": "Yeongdong Line", "text": "Yeongdong Line\n\nThe Yeongdong Line is a line of Korail. It connects Yeongju in North Gyeongsang Province with Gangneung in Gangwon Province. From Yeongju, it crosses the Taebaek Mountains and reaches the Sea of Japan (East Sea) at Donghae, thence proceeding north to Gangneung.\n\nAt Yeongju, the line connects with the Gyeongbuk and Jungang Lines. Some trains travel directly from one to the other, so that it is possible to travel directly from Seoul or Busan to Gangneung by rail.\n\nThe first section of the line (Mukho Port–Dogye) was opened by the privately owned Samcheok Railway on 31 July 1940. The line was named Cheoram Line, which ran from Mukho, a port on Korea's east coast that became part of Donghae in 1980, to Cheoram in the Taebaek Mountains, to develop three coal fields. Between Simpo-ri and Tong-ri stations, the great height difference was scaled by a steep double-track railway. Freight railcars going up and down were connected to the same cable, passengers had to walk up the mountain. A branch from Bukpyeong Station (today Donghae Station) to Samcheok, the Samcheok Line, was opened on 11 February 11.\n\nAnother section of the future Yeongdong Line was first projected as a branch line from Yeongju to Chunyang for the exploitation of the forest areas and mines in the area, the Yeongchun Line. Permission to build the line was given to the privately owned Chosen Railway on 16 October 1944, and work began that year with local forced labourers. Although the first section from Yeongju to Naeseong (today Bonghwa) was almost complete by August 1945, that month World War II ended, a Korean provisional government formed, and a flood damaged the tracks, leading to the abandonment of the line. After the nationalisation of the line work resumed in 1949, when the Economic Cooperation Administration, the United States government agency administering the Marshall Plan, also launched a plan to revive South Korea's economy, which included the construction of new railway lines. One new line under the plan was the long Yeongam Line from Yeongju to Cheoram, which included and extended the Yeongchun Line alignment planned by the Chosen Railway to link up the Cheoram Line with the rest of the network. The reconstructed from Yeongju to Naeseong opened in March 1950. Construction was interrupted again because of the Korean War in 1950. After the end of the war work was resumed in 1953, and the last section finally opened in 1955. The scenic Yeongam Line included 55 bridges and 33 tunnels:\nFollowing the 1961 coup, the Supreme Council for National Reconstruction started South Korea's first five-year plan, which included a construction program to complete the railway network, to foster economic growth. The Gangwon Bukbu Line, a railway along the eastern coast from Mukho to Gyeongpo-dong in Gangneung, the endpoint of a narrow-gauge railway to Sokcho, was opened until 1962 as follows:\nThis line was also called the Donghae Bukbu Line with view to a planned connection with the existing line by the same name further north. On May 17, 1963, the Yeongam, Cheoram and Gangwon Bukbu Lines were integrated into a single line from Yeongju to Gangneung under the present name as the Yeongdong Line. Meanwhile, from August 1961, the Hwangji switchback section was built to bypass the cable-hauled section between Simpo-ri and Tong-ri stations, which opened on May 30, 1963.\n\nA number of branches were built from the line, among them the long Hwangji Branchline from Baeksan to Hwangji (today Taebaek), which opened on December 20, 1962, and was integrated into the Taebaek Line in 1973.\n\nAfter the closure of the Gangneung–Gyeongpo-dong section on March 1, 1979, the total length of the line reduced from to .\n\nElectrification reached the line from the Taebaek Line, when the catenary on the 85.5 km long section from Gohan on the Taebaek Line via junction station Baeksan to Donghae went into service on December 5, 1975. On March 28, 1997, the 87.0 km long section from the junction to Yeongju followed, and electrification was completed with the 45.1 km long Donghae–Gangneung section on September 8, 2005.\n\nThe steep descent from Dongbaeksan to Dogye contains switchbacks, which hinder smooth traffic. In addition, a 1996 investigation found that the section is endangered by soil subsistence and the ageing of tunnels. To solve these problems, Korail built a new alignment between the two stations with a budget of 510.322 billion won. The main part of the section is the Solan Tunnel, which includes a spiral. The tunnel was opened on 27 June 2012.\n\nAt the time of thawing relations between South and North Korea, when the cross-border section of the Donghae Bukbu Line was reopened in 2007, the South Korean government considered the construction of a railway for freight traffic all along the east coast to the North Korean border. This line would incorporate the Donghae–Gangneung section of the Yeongdong Line and the Samcheok branch, and connect to newly built lines at Samcheok and Gangneung. Three years later, the project re-surfaced as a domestic project. On September 1, 2010, the South Korean government announced a strategic plan to reduce travel times from Seoul to 95% of the country to under 2 hours by 2020. Under the plan, the east coast line, including the section of the Yeongdong Line from Donghae to Gangneung and the Samcheok Line, would be upgraded for , and may see KTX service.\n\nIn passenger traffic, the Yeongdong Line is served by Mugunghwa-ho cross-country trains. In the timetable valid from December 15, 2010, three pairs of daily trains run along the entire length of the line, reinforced by a seventh pair on Saturdays and Sundays, with Yeongju–Gangneung travel times between 3 hours 42 minutes and 3 hours 56 minutes, depending on the number of stops. Two pairs of the daily trains connect Gangneung and Dongdaegu Station in Daegu, traversing the Daegu Line and part of the Jungang Line to connect to the Yeongdong Line, with Dongdaegu–Gangneung travel times between 6 hours 16 minutes and 6 hours 39 minutes. The third pair of daily trains runs between Gangneung and Bujeon Station in Busan, also traversing parts of the Jungang and Donghae Nambu Lines, with Bujeon–Gangneung travel times of 8 hours 24 minutes toward Gangneung and 8 hours 34 minutes in the opposite direction. The pair of weekend trains runs between Gangneung and Busan Station, also traversing the Gyeongbuk Line and the Gimcheon–Busan section of the Gyeongbu Line, with Busan–Gangneung travel times of 8 hours 25 minutes toward Gangneung and 8 hours 30 minutes in the opposite direction. A further pair of daily trains runs only between Yeongju and Donghae.\n\nThe Dongbaeksan–Gangneung section of the Yeongdong Line sees more frequent passenger traffic, with Mugunghwa trains from the capital Seoul reaching the line via the connecting Taebaek Line. In the timetable valid from December 15, 2010, six pairs of daily trains run between Cheongnyangni Station in Seoul and Gangneung, reinforced by a seventh pair on Fridays to Sundays, with Cheongnyangni–Gangneung travel times between 5 hours 47 minutes and 6 hours 25 minutes, depending on the number of stops.\n\nIn 1998, Korean National Railroad (today Korail) introduced special tourist trains operating in the winter months, identified by a snowflake decoration, which enjoyed great popularity. Most of these trains also traverse parts of the Yeongdong Line. By the 2009/2010 season, the offer expanded to a dozen different tour packages, including trips to single destinations combined with local excursions, as well as round trips in the Taebaek Mountains along the Jungang, Taebaek and Yeongdong Lines.\n\nAccording to Korail's plans in 2009, travel times on the Yeongdong Line are to be reduced after 2013 with the future series version of the Tilting Train Express.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256335", "title": "Huangbaiyu", "text": "Huangbaiyu\n\nHuangbaiyu () is a model sustainable village in Benxi, Liaoning, China. As of 2006, over 40 individual houses had been built; however, the construction methods, costs, materials used and the design of each house has come under great criticism.\n\nHuangbaiyu was conceived by William McDonough and Partners in conjunction with Tongji University in Shanghai, the Benxi Design Institute, and China-U.S. Center for Sustainable Development. The town is being built in stages and is to be model of sustainable development using principles laid out by McDonough. His main thesis is that instead of trying to reduce waste you eliminate it by having everything be capable of being broken down into technical or biological nutrition that can be reused so that no waste is created and no waste needs to be disposed.\n\nIn April 2006, the project was encountering some difficulties: some housing was completed, but no residents had moved in.\nBy September 2006, 42 houses had been built. The cost of each individual dwelling is estimated to be around 28,000 yuan (A$4,600).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256336", "title": "Chitarwata Formation", "text": "Chitarwata Formation\n\nThe Chitarwata Formation is a geological formation in western Pakistan, made up of Oligocene and early Miocene terrestrial fluvial facies. The sediments were deposited in coastal depositional environments (estuarine, strandplain and tidal flats) when Pakistan was partly covered by the Tethys Ocean.\n\nPaleomagnetic data indicates an age range of around 28 to 17 million years ago, with its base in the Oligocene, and its upper boundary, where it meets the overlying Vihowa Formation, of the Early Miocene.\n\nTogether with the Vihowa Formation, the Chitarwata Formation records the sedimentation of the Himalayan foreland basin during the collision of the Indian and Asian tectonic plates, the transition from marginal marine to fluvial environments, and the rise of the Himalayas.\n\nThe Chitarwata Formation has provided a wealth of terrestrial mammal fossils of the late Paleogene and early Neogene, or Tabenbulakian; the last of the Asian land mammal ages (ALMA).\n\nAmong many others, the following fossils are reported from the formation:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256337", "title": "Radio spectrum pollution", "text": "Radio spectrum pollution\n\nRadio spectrum pollution is the straying of waves in the radio and electromagnetic spectrums outside their allocations that cause problems for some activities. It is of particular concern to radio astronomers.\n\nRadio spectrum pollution is mitigated by effective spectrum management. Within the United States, the Communications Act of 1934 grants authority for spectrum management to the President for all federal use (47 U.S.C. 305). The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) manages the spectrum for the Federal Government. Its rules are found in the \"Manual of Regulations & Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management\". The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) manages and regulates all domestic non-federal spectrum use (47 U.S.C. 301). Each country typically has its own spectrum regulatory organization. Internationally, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) coordinates spectrum policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256345", "title": "Sigma Kappa", "text": "Sigma Kappa\n\nSigma Kappa (ΣΚ, also known as SK or Sig Kap) is a sorority founded in 1874 at Colby College in Waterville, Maine.\n\nIn 1874, Sigma Kappa was founded by five women: Mary Caffrey Low Carver, Elizabeth Gorham Hoag, Ida Mabel Fuller Pierce, Frances Elliott Mann Hall and Louise Helen Coburn. The sorority has initiated 172,000 members, has 122 collegiate chapters, and has over 110 alumnae chapters. It is officially partnered with the Maine Sea Coast Mission to raise money for the Mission's programs, and it also includes gerontology with an emphasis on Alzheimer's disease and research its other initiatives. \n\nThe sorority is one of 26 members of the National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) of national women's fraternities, joining the conference in 1904.\n\nIn 1871, Mary Caffrey Low Carver became the first and only female student at Colby College in Maine until Elizabeth Gorham Hoag, Ida Mabel Fuller Pierce, Frances Elliott Mann Hall and Louise Helen Coburn were admitted and enrolled in 1873. As the only women, they associated frequently and decided to form a society. They were instructed by the college administration that they would need to present a constitution and bylaws with a petition requesting permission to form Sigma Kappa. On November 9, 1874, the faculty approved their petition. Sigma Kappa annually celebrates November 9 as its Founders' Day.\n\nLow was the first woman to appear on the sorority's rolls and the first to preside over an initiation, of which Coburn wrote a large portion. The first Sigma Kappa emblem was designed by Hoag, who died shortly thereafter of tuberculosis. Much of the original initiation music was written by Hoag's cousin, Emily Peace Meader, who was inducted shortly before Hoag's death in 1875. Mann Hall was the first to marry (a fellow Colby student).\n\nIn the first constitution, chapters were limited to 25 members, and so Beta chapter and Gamma chapter were also established at Colby College as more joined. Early records indicate that the groups met together, but in 1893, the members voted to stop expanding inside the college, meaning that the Alpha chapter could initiate to the limit of 25, but Beta and Gamma chapters could initiate no more and would eventually disappear. The vote also meant that the members began expansion outside of Colby College.\n\nExpansion began in 1904 at Boston University, and in 1905, Sigma Kappa joined the National Panhellenic Conference. The sorority published first published its magazine, the \"Sigma Kappa Triangle\", in 1907. In 1918, the sorority adopted a philanthropic partner, the Maine Sea Coast Mission, and in 1924, it established its first national headquarters in Reading, Massachusetts, which would move to Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1936. In 1937, it began sending out field consultants for collegiate chapters.\n\nIn 1954, Sigma Kappa adopted gerontology as its third philanthropy. In 1959, it absorbed another social sorority, Pi Kappa Sigma. In 1962, it established a separate branch, the Sigma Kappa Foundation, to manage its philanthropy funds, and added Alzheimer's disease as a focus for its gerontology philanthropy in 1984. In 1992, it began another program as part of its gerontology initiatives, \"Inherit the Earth\". In 1993, it established a housing corporation.\n\nSigma Kappa's colors are lavender and maroon, chosen in 1891. In June 1892, the violet was adopted as the official flower and specified in 2008 as the Wild Purple Violet to distinguish it from other varieties of violets. The pearl is the official jewel and was adopted in 1915, the year the official banner was also adopted. The dove was accepted as an official symbol at the 1984 convention, and the heart was adopted at the 1988 convention.\n\nThe Sigma Kappa coat-of-arms includes the symbols of the sorority: the dove, violet, Greek letters, and colors. Adopted in 1911, the coat-of-arms consists of a maroon shield with a diagonal gold bar on which are five lavender stars. The lower half has a coiled serpent, and the upper has a maroon and gold wreath. A silver dove is above the shield, with an arch of gold rays above the dove. Below is a silver scroll, bearing the open motto in black text and the date 1874.\n\nThe current membership badge is a one-inch jeweled triangle with Greek letters Σ and Κ. The triangle badge was chosen in 1894, and later, jeweled badges were approved at the 1915 convention when the pearl was adopted as the national jewel. Unjeweled badges have a scroll edge. Badges are either made of silver, white gold or yellow gold.\n\nThe new members pin is only worn during the new member period, and it is shaped as gold Greek \"K\" for Kappa with a serpent lacing through it to form a Greek \"Σ\" for Sigma. This design was adopted as the new member pin in 1920.\n\nThere are also alumni pins, 25-year pins, and 50-year pins, and the \"Pearl Court Pin\" which is given to recipients of the Ernestine Duncan Collins Pearl Court Award, which is a national award given by the organization.\n\nIn 1962, Sigma Kappa established a separate branch, the Sigma Kappa Foundation, and in 1989, it was incorporated as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Chapters raise funds for the Foundation, which then grants the funds towards: scholarships for leadership and tuition for its collegiate members, alumnae chapter funds, alumnae and collegiate crisis relief, and collegiate project grants, while donations made with specific restrictions may be given to specific scholarships or causes such as Alzheimer's research.\n\nAt a 1918 convention, the sorority voted to partner with the Maine Sea Coast Mission to aid communities and ecologies of coastal Maine. In 1954, gerontology was adopted as another main philanthropy of Sigma Kappa, with members encouraged to volunteer with the elderly. Beginning in 1984, the sorority added an emphasis on Alzheimer's disease research. The sorority also has an \"Inherit the Earth\" project that has goals of improving local environments.\n\nMany collegiate chapters of Sigma Kappa participate in The Walk to End Alzheimer's to raise money for the Alzheimer's Association. This money does not go through the Sigma Kappa Foundation but directly to the Alzheimer's Association. According to the Foundation's website: \"Since becoming a Platinum National Walk team in 2016, Sigma Kappa has consistently raised more than $1,000,000 annually.  In 2019, Sigma Kappa will become a Diamond Level National Walk Team, the highest level for a national team for the Alzheimer's Association.\" Some chapters may also participate host a variety of fundraising events called \"Ultra Violet\", a concept introduced in 2008, where all funds raised go to the Foundation's PULSE fund.\n\nAs with all National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) sororities, women may join Sigma Kappa if they attend as an undergraduate a university with an active chapter from which they receive a membership offer. Prospective members must meet the fraternity's national minimum GPA requirement (2.5/4.0) as well as the chapter's requirement. Alternatively, women past college-age may be invited or may apply to join via alumnae initiation if they are not already a member of another NPC sorority, a process which 20 of the 26 NPC members also participate in. Due to NPC agreements, no woman who has been initiated into another NPC sorority may join another one, although no NPC member is restricted from joining a professional or service Greek letter organization.\n\nAccording to the sorority, it has initiated more than 172,000 women.\n\nSigma Kappa has 122 collegiate chapters and 110 alumnae chapters.\n\nThe Delta chapter of Boston University is now the oldest existing chapter. The Eta Chapter of Illinois Wesleyan University is the longest continuously running chapter. In 1984, Colby College banned fraternities and sororities, ensuring that the Alpha, Beta, and Gamma chapters will probably never be resurrected.\n\nIn 2005, Sigma Kappa's Mu Chapter House at the University of Washington obtained City of Seattle Landmark status, becoming the only sorority or fraternity in Seattle to achieve Historic Landmark status both at the City of Seattle and on the National Historic Register.\n\nIn 2014, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte chapter performed a Pocahontas-themed skit that involved dressing up in redface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256354", "title": "Pine Ridge, Arkansas", "text": "Pine Ridge, Arkansas\n\nPine Ridge is an unincorporated community in Oden Township, Montgomery County, Arkansas, United States. It is located at .\n\nThe original name was Waters, but the name was changed in 1936 to Pine Ridge through a vote of the city's town council. Waters was the basis for the fictional town of Pine Ridge, Arkansas on the radio show \"Lum and Abner\", and the name of the real town was changed to honor and match the fictional one that made it famous. Since that time, Pine Ridge has lost its incorporation and no longer has a municipal government. The two oldest buildings in Pine Ridge, the Huddleston Store and McKinzie Store, both of which date to the first decade of the 20th century, are listed on the National Register of Historic Places and currently serve as a Lum and Abner museum and replica of the \"Jot'em Down\" general store heard in the radio series.\n"}
{"id": "2256360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256360", "title": "All Is Full of Love", "text": "All Is Full of Love\n\n\"All Is Full of Love\" is a song by Icelandic musician Björk from her third studio album \"Homogenic\" (1997). The lyrics were inspired by love in spring and Ragnarök of Norse mythology. Björk's original version is a trip hop ballad with soul influences, harp, strings, and electronic beats; the version on \"Homogenic\" is a minimalist remix by Howie B, emphasising Björk's vocals. A remix by the German IDM duo Funkstörung was released as a single in 1998.\n\nIn 1999, \"All Is Full of Love\" was released as a single with a music video directed by Chris Cunningham. The video uses Björk's original mix, and depicts Björk as a robot being assembled in a factory, who passionately kisses another robot. The video is often cited as one of the best of all time and a milestone in computer animation; it has been displayed in art exhibitions and was on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. The single reached number 24 on the UK Singles Chart and became a dance hit in the United States.\n\n\"All Is Full of Love\" is the opening track on \"Greatest Hits\" (2002), whose tracks were voted for by fans. It has been covered by various artists.\n\n\"All Is Full of Love\", the closing track of \"Homogenic\", was the album's last song to be written and recorded. Produced by Björk, the original version of the song was replaced \"at the last minute\" with a remixed version by Howie B. It was inspired by the spring while producing the album in Málaga, Spain. After living in the mountains among other people for six months, Björk felt lonely, but a morning walk in April inspired her to write the track. She had a rough winter and then she realised it was spring after she could hear the birds singing. She wrote and recorded the song in half a day.\n\nIn keeping with \"Homogenic\"'s theme as a tribute to Björk's native Iceland, the track was inspired by Icelandic mythology, such as the Ragnarök. The previous track, \"Pluto\", stands for death and destruction, whereas \"All Is Full of Love\" stands for a new beginning. Björk also called it a song about \"believing in love\" and expressed that \"love isn't just about two persons. It's everywhere around you. Even if you're not getting love from Person A, it doesn't mean there's not love there.\" However, she also described it as \"taking the piss\", considering it the most \"sugary song\" ever. As the song opposes the rest of \"Homogenic\"'s \"macho\" aesthethic, Björk has said it could have been included on \"Vespertine\".\n\nThe lyrics begin with a promise of protection and caretaking: \"You'll be given love / You'll be taken care of / You'll have to trust it\". The song moves towards a more reproachful tone as Björk sings, \"You just ain't receiving / Your phone is off the hook / Your doors are shut\", tempered by the recognition that you have to \"twist your head around you\" because \"love is all around you\". This is musically effected by Björk's vocals as she sings the lyric \"All is full of love\" in counterpoint with herself.\n\nThe album version of the track does not have drum accompaniment and portrays an ambient song. It does not have \"Homogenic\"'s characteristic electronic beats, focusing instead on \"[creating] an intimacy between the growing dynamics of the instrumentation and Bjork's impressive vocal abilities.\" It uses a long reverb, which results in a wash of sound that suggests a very large space suggestive of the \"heavenly\" environment Björk envisaged for the track. According to Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine, the song has a soft pulse with intervals that build up to an electronic orchestration of industrial beats. David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" called it a \"moony lullaby\" and compared it to the music of Enya. In his review for \"Spin\", James Hunter wrote that the track is one of the times Björk \"dips her toe into the warm lake of tradition\" and noted its \"rockish minor-key verses traipse off into her gospel.\"\n\nThe video version of the song is a midtempo trip hop ballad with soul influences. In opposition to the sonically minimalist mix included on the album, this version has been described as \"lushly produced\" and includes \"fluttering\" harps and \"shivering\" strings. Reportedly the best known and the preferred version by Björk's fans and herself, it is further known under the names of \"Mark Stent Mix\" and \"Video Mix\".\n\nIn August 1998, a 12-inch single of \"All Is Full of Love\", containing a remix by German IDM duo Funkstörung, was released through FatCat Records as a limited release. This remix had been previously distributed as a B-side for \"Hunter\" (1998), and another remix of the song had been released as a B-side of \"Jóga\" in 1998. In January 1999, it was announced that the track would be released later that year as a single and that its music video would be shot soon. It was atypical to release a single for promoting an album released two years before, but Björk purposely decided to do this so that the music video was more of a short film than a marketing move. The original release date for the single was 2 May 1999, but was later extended out two weeks to 17 May. To coincide with this announcement, Funkstörung's remix was made available again and an official logo for the release was unveiled.\n\nThe music video was released that April, although the premiere of the single was pushed back to June. \"All Is Full of Love\" was released as two 12-inch singles, two CD singles, a DVD single, and a box set, which included the CD singles and the music video in VHS format. Some publications regard the single as the first DVD single release. In the United Kingdom, it was also made available as two different promotional singles in 1999, and as two VHS singles. B-sides include remixes by μ-Ziq, Funkstörung, Plaid, Guy Sigsworth, Mark Stent and Howie B. The single's artwork consists of shots from the music video and features the official logo, which can be seen in the video as well. The song was also included as the opening track of Björk's 2002 compilation album \"Greatest Hits\", whose songs were selected by fans through a survey, in which the single was the second most voted song, coming after \"Hyperballad\" (1996).\n\nBoth versions of \"All Is Full of Love\" received acclaim from music critics. In a review for \"Homogenic\", Phares from AllMusic described the track as a \"reassuring finale\". Sal Cinquemani of \"Slant Magazine\" called it a \"sublime rebirth\", and Tiny Mix Tapes commented that \"the album ends on an optimistic note\" with the \"exquisite\" song. In a retrospective review, \"Music Tech\" described the song as \"hauntingly-beautiful.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\"s David Browne was less enthusiastic, considering it \"the weakest track\" of the album.\n\nIn a review for the DVD single, Alex Castle of IGN gave the music a score of 9 out of 10, writing \"the thing sounds fantastic\" and that the song is \"pretty good\". However, he admitted that he \"would probably not have been particularly impressed\" if he hadn't seen the music video. James Oldham of \"NME\" described it as \"magnificent, sultry, pneumatic trip-soul ballad, which gently blooms into a magical garden of fluttering harps and shivering strings.\" He also added that the track \"is no mere soundtrack\" for the video. AllMusic's Heather Phares gave the DVD single four out of five stars, considering it \"a necessary addition to the collections of dedicated Bjork fans\". Douglas Wolk of \"CMJ New Music Monthly\" also gave the single a positive review, commending its B-sides and writing it \"was hardly the most striking piece at the time—but the tune turns out to have been something of a sleeper.\"\n\nNorwegian magazine \"Panorama\" ranked \"All Is Full of Love\" at number four on its list of Singles of the Year. \"Blender\" included the track on two lists: \"Standout Tracks from the 500 CDs You Must Own\" and \"The 1001 Greatest Songs to Download Right Now!\", both published in 2003. The staff members of Slant Magazine placed \"All Is Full of Love\" at number 59 on their list of \"The 100 Best Singles of the 1990s\", writing: \"Though it has been as oft-remixed as any other Björk single from the landmark \"Homogenic\" set, no version quite achieves the ethereal effect that the album mix of the song does. Coming off the tail-end of \"Pluto,\" a sonic threnody for a suicidal fan, Björk's open-source, beat-free echo chamber is both absolution and resurrection\". The track was also included on Quintessence Editions' \"1001 Songs You Must Hear Before You Die: And 10,001 You Must Download\".\n\nThe music video for \"All Is Full of Love\" was directed by Chris Cunningham. Björk was impressed by Cunningham's original music videos for IDM musicians Autechre, Squarepusher, and Aphex Twin, and by his clear lines, science fiction inclinations, and discordant imagery. This resulted in Björk contacting him to meet at his London office; she brought a Chinese \"Kama Sutra\" as a guide to what she wanted. Cunningham had also associated the track with sex upon hearing it, but could not figure out how to make the video explicit yet broadcastable. Björk said: \"I think the only thing I said was that I thought it was very white [...] and I'm trying to describe some sort of a heaven. But I wanted also to have the other level there, there would be lust, it wouldn't be just clean.\" She complemented saying she mentioned that the video should be \"white\" and \"frozen\", and then it \"melts because of love\" and \"making love\".\n\nWhen Cunningham first heard the track, he wrote down the words \"milk\", \"sexual\", \"surgery\", and \"white porcelain\"; they outline what would become the music video. Concerning this, Cunningham added that it was like Kama Sutra meeting Industrial Robotics and that because of the surreal nature of the images, they could be \"sexually suggestive\" as they liked. Initially, it was planned that during the visual's ending, the robots would unfold like a flower as they mated, revealing an abstract life form made from the two artificial forms. However, the team could not manage to materialize this thought.\n\nThe robots were designed by Cunningham and were built in full-size by Paul Catling — who had also sculpted the masks for Aphex Twin's \"Windowlicker\" (1999) — in clay in two hours. He also worked with Julian Caldow in set design, which was created by Chris Oddy. The treatment described the set as an \"elegant\" and \"white environment\" with \"a Japanese feel to it\". However, the music video's director was dissatisfied with the result and relied heavily on post-production. On the shoot there were two main robot arms, but during its post production, a third and fourth robot arm were created in computer-generated imagery.\n\nThe video was shot at Bray Studios and Greenford Studios, and post-production was handled by Glasswork using the software programs Softimage and Flame. Cunningham said that every shot in the clip had four layers. He reportedly first shot the set and the props doing nothing for about 21 seconds, and then removed the robot and replaced it with Björk, who had her face painted white and wore a blue suit. Using a mix of the master shot and a live feed of Björk in frame, the production team tried to match up her face and the robot body as much as possible. Only Björk's eyes and mouth were used, with the rest of the robot representing 3D animation traced from her real head. Cunningham has described the filming process as an unpleasant experience:\n\nBjörk left Cunningham alone to work for the video, refusing to see the product until it was finished, explaining that \"when you come across someone as special as Chris you just go humble\", which Cunningham said made the work much easier.\n\nThe video begins with a journey through a dark environment wrought with cables and a faint pulsating light. The sequence has been described as \"womb-like, voyeuristic, as if the black box of technology is about to open up\". The camera follows these cables to an ethereal, white room where a robot with Björk's features lies in a fetal position. As the room lightens up, two mechanical arms begin to assemble the robot, which opens its eyes and begins to sing the song. Pistons pumping white fluids, as well as drilling and penetrative motions are seen, featuring a \"clear\" sexual subtext.\n\nNow sitting upright, the robot looks up to see another robotic Björk as the machines stop the assembly. It smiles and extends its hand to the sitting robot, joining in the song. In the climax of the video, the robots passionately kiss and embrace while the machines assemble their backs and light comes and goes. The images of the kissing robots are interposed with shots of white fluid washing over robotic parts and the mechanical arms assembling them. According to the Institute for the Unstable Media, \"as the music fades and the pulsating beat becomes more dominant, we are once again drawn in the womb-like dark space, making it clear to us that we sampled a glimpse of a black-boxed kingdom\".\n\nThe music video was greeted with widespread critical acclaim. Music journalist Mark Pytlik wrote the visual \"marked an unquestionable creative apex for Björk's visual work, a perfect synthesis of form and content\". IGN gave the video a score of 9/10, writing it is an \"utterly gorgeous sight to behold\" and \"just about perfect\". \"Time\"s Craig Duff called it a milestone in computer animation and stated that \"no robot had expressed the sensuality that director Chris Cunningham imbues in a Björk-bot in the video\". MusicRadar considered the music video to be \"one of the most visually striking promos of Björk's career.\" \"NME\" also praised the \"All Is Full of Love\" clip as one of Björk's best, and particularly commended the wide angle shot of the cyborgs kissing as the chorus kicks in. Eric Henderson of Slant Magazine dubbed it \"the perfect pre-millennial precursor to our current gadget-assisted culture of self-love\" and also wrote, \"When it was released, I thought it looked cool and stressed the importance of loving yourself. Now I think it's a terrifying and sealed-off nightmare wherein you find out that you are the only person who will ever love you.\" Writing for Pitchfork Media, Scott Plagenhoef considered that \"the strongest single images from any video of the 1990s come from [the clip]\", also calling it \"strange and moving\". \"CMJ New Music Monthly\"'s Douglas Wolk called the video \"magnificent\" and praised it for \"[bringing] out the beauty of the song\".\n\nThe music video has won various awards and accolades. It won the Jury Prize at ArtFutura Festival of 1999, Best Video in the 2000 Fantasporto, Best Video at the 2000 Australian Effects and Animation Festival and Best Art Direction in a Video and Best Special Effects in a Video at the Music Week Awards. Other awards received at festivals include the second place of the Prix PIXEL-INA Best Script in the 2000 Imagina, and the music video award at the London Effects and Animation Festival. At the D&AD Awards, the video was awarded prizes in Video Direction, Cinematography, Animation, and Special Effects. Furthermore, at the MVPA Awards, Cunningham received the award for Best Direction of a Female Artist in a Music Video. Björk won two awards at the MTV Video Music Awards in 2000: Breakthrough Video and Best Special Effects in a Video. The music video also received the Best Special Effects in a Music Video and Best 3D Animation Music Video during the 2000 International Monitor Awards. Particularly, the visual won various nominations: Best Video at the 1999 Ericcson Muzik Awards, Best Short Form Music Video at the 42nd Annual Grammy Awards, and Best Alternative Video, Best Cinematography, and Best Editing in a Video at the 2000 Music Week Awards.\n\nIn 2008, MTV2 ranked the music video as number one on their list \"Greatest Music Videos Ever\". In 2011, \"All Is Full of Love\" was placed at number 14 in MusicRadar's list of the 30 best music videos of all time, and was placed in \"Time\"s list of The 30 All-TIME Best Music Videos. The video was also listed as the fifth-greatest of all time by \"NME\", and the ninth top music video of the decade by Pitchfork Media. In addition, \"All Is Full of Love\" has been included in various art exhibitions and museums, including \"DEAF04 Exhibition\" in the V2_Institute for the Unstable Media in Rotterdam, \"Chris Cunningham\" in MoMA PS1 in New York City, the 49th Venice Biennale, \"While Interwoven Echoes Drip into a Hybrid Body – an Exhibition about Sound, Performance and Sculpture\" in the Migros Museum für Gegenwartskunst in Zürich, and \"This Is Not a Love Song\" in La Virreina Centre de la Imatge in Barcelona. The music video was also on permanent exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.\n\nChris Cunningham served as a model for a character in the novel \"Pattern Recognition\" (2003) by William Gibson, in which a fictitious music video director who puts \"robot girls in his video\" makes a clip characterized by the following words: \"No sci-fi kitsch for Damien. Dreamlike things in the dawn half-light, their small breasts gleaming, white plastic shining faints as old marble\", as a reference to \"All Is Full of Love\". In 2004, similarities were noted between the design of the robots in the music video and those in the film \"I, Robot\", raising accusations of plagiarism by fans. E! News contacted Cunningham and 20th Century Fox—the studio behind the film—but neither of them returned calls for comment. According to Tymon Smith of \"The Times\", 2015 American film \"Chappie\" \"ends with a rip off\" of the music video. It also was an inspiration for the opening title sequence of the television series Westworld.\n\nBjörk first performed \"All Is Full of Love\" live in July 1997, playing the whole album for a press conference and presentation concert concerning \"Homogenic\" at the Old Truman Building, an old beer factory in London, wearing a pink dress designed by Hussein Chalayan, which she would later sport in the video for \"Bachelorette\" (1997) and photoshoots. The song was part of the set list for her Homogenic Tour, on which Björk embarked with Mark Bell and Icelandic String Octet from late 1997 to early 1999. \"All Is Full of Love\" was also performed during the Vespertine World Tour in 2001, which featured \"Vespertine\" collaborators Matmos and Zeena Parkins, an Inuit choir, and an orchestra. During the tour, Björk performed in concert halls and opera houses in order to \"have the best acoustics possible\" and avoid the \"appalling acoustics\" of stadiums and rock venues. The track was the most performed of the tour, alongside \"Frosti\" and \"Pagan Poetry\". Björk's concert at the Royal Opera House of 16 December 2001, which included a performance of the song, was broadcast on BBC Four and released as the DVD \"Live at Royal Opera House\" in 2002. A live version of the track can also be found on the tour documentary DVD \"Minuscule\" of 2003. A Vespertine Tour live version of the song was released through \"Vespertine Live\", a live album of the tour included in the box set \"Live Box\" (2003).\n\nThe headliner of the 2002 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, Björk opened the set with the track, wearing a white Comme des Garçons dress. This performance was included on the 2006 video documentary \"Coachella\". The song was also part of the set list of the Greatest Hits Tour (2003), which once again featured the Icelandic String Octet, but with the addition of Vespertine World Tour collaborators Matmos and Zeena Parkins. It was one of the most played songs of the tour. Björk's performance of the song in New York City during the tour was included in the 2005 documentary film \"Screaming Masterpiece\". \"All Is Full of Love\" was also performed during the Volta Tour (2007–08), a tour she undertook with Mark Bell, Jónas Sen, Damian Taylor, Chris Corsano, and a 10-piece female brass band. Several of the concerts were part of festivals, including Coachella, Glastonbury, and Rock en Seine, among others. A live performance of the track during the tour was included in the box set \"Voltaïc\" (2009), specifically the CD \"Songs from the Volta Tour Performed Live at the Olympic Studios\". The track was also performed a few times during Björk's Biophilia Tour (2011–13). The song was performed only once on the 2015 Vulnicura Tour.\n\n\"All Is Full of Love\" was used in the 1999 film \"Stigmata\", directed by Rupert Wainwright. It was subsequently included on the official soundtrack, \"Stigmata: Music From The MGM Motion Picture Soundtrack\". The Funkstörung mix of the song was also included on the soundtrack for the 2000 Christopher Nolan film, \"Memento\". The track was further used for the 1998 French film \"Those Who Love Me Can Take the Train\", directed by Patrice Chéreau.\n\nIn 2001, American indie rock band The Microphones covered the song and added it on their 2001 studio album, \"Blood\". \"All Is Full of Love\" was also covered by Death Cab for Cutie and was released on their 2002 \"The Stability EP\". The Vitamin String Quartet, a musical group widely known for its series of tributes to popular music acts, covered the track as part of their 2005 tribute to Björk \"Violently: The String Quartet Tribute To Bjork\". The song was also sampled in Kerli's \"Love Is Dead\" from her 2008 album of the same name.\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Homogenic\" and the single's physical release.\nThe song performed moderately on the UK Singles Chart, peaking at number 24. In the United States, it became a hit on the Dance/Electronic Singles Sales chart, reaching number eight.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256368", "title": "Let Me Hold You", "text": "Let Me Hold You\n\n\"Let Me Hold You\" is a song by American rapper Bow Wow. It was the first single off his fourth album, \"Wanted\" (2005). Released on March 11, 2005, the song features American R&B singer Omarion (the first collaboration they did together). It was co-written and co-produced by frequent producer Jermaine Dupri and No I.D. and uses a sample of Luther Vandross' 1985 version of Brenda Russell's \"If Only for One Night\".\n\nThe song received positive reviews from critics. \"Let Me Hold You\" peaked at number four on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, making this the first top 10 hit for both Bow Wow and for Omarion as a solo artist. It also became a number-one hit for both artists on the Hot Rap Songs chart and stayed there for seven weeks. The song also peaked at numbers 2 and 10 on both the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and Mainstream Top 40 charts respectively, and reached the top 40 in countries like Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and the UK. The song was certified Platinum by the RIAA for selling over 1,000,000 copies. A music video, directed by Bryan Barber, was made to promote the single and featured Bow Wow and Omarion hanging out at a house party.\n\nBow Wow had publicly announced his interpretation of the song's meaning as he stated in an interview with MTV: \"Basically the song is me talking to a girl and telling her, 'These are the things I can do for you. Let me hold you down. This is what I want to do for you as a man. These are the things I'm capable of doing for you if you get with me. Just hear me out.' I'm just really talking to the ladies. The song is really special to me, and I love that song.\" The collaboration began when Bow Wow was talking with producer Jermaine Dupri about the song and how he suggested on getting Omarion to appear on the track.\n\nIn a 2011 retrospective of his previous hits with \"Complex\", producer No I.D. said that this was the first time he worked with Dupri and was asked by him to bring over his samples to pick one that would be used for a single to finish off the album. He played him the Luther Vandross sample and was hesitant about his initial reaction at first before thinking it over and seeing its potential as a smash hit.\n\n\"Let Me Hold You\" was co-written and co-produced by Jermaine Dupri and No ID. It features a sample of Luther Vandross' version of \"If Only for One Night\", written and originally performed by Brenda Russell. The song is in 4/4 time and in the key of E♭ minor.\n\nThe song received positive reviews from music critics. AllMusic's David Jeffries put it alongside \"Like You\" as the album's highlights that work \"on a more adult level.\" Steve 'Flash' Juon of \"RapReviews\" praised the production by Dupri and No ID for their clever take on the sample, Bow Wow's lyrics and Omarion's guest vocal performance. Angie Romero of \"Vibe\" praised the sing-song hook for making the track \"undeniably catchy.\"\n\n\"Let Me Hold You\" debuted at number 93 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for the week of May 21, 2005. Three weeks later, it moved twenty-two spots from number 73 to 51 for the week of June 11, 2005. It moved eleven spots from number 28 to 17 for the week of July 2, 2005. It moved four spots from number 15 to 11 for the week of July 16, 2005. It reached the top ten for the week of July 23, 2005 at number 8. It reached its peak at number 4 and spent a total of twenty-four weeks on the chart. With the release of \"Let Me Hold You\", Bow Wow achieved his first top ten hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, surpassing his 2003 hit \"Let's Get Down\" which peaked at number 14. The song was also Omarion's first top ten hit as a solo artist, although he previously had a number-one hit with \"Bump, Bump, Bump\" as a member of B2K.\n\nSimilar to its airplay success, sales peaked lower at number 24 on the Hot Digital Songs chart. Jermaine Dupri, with the inclusion of \"Let Me Hold You\" in the Hot 100 Airplay chart, had production (or co-production) credit on the current top four songs on that chart (\"Let Me Hold You\", along with Bow Wow's next single, \"Like You\", Mariah Carey's \"We Belong Together\" and \"Shake It Off\" held positions 1-4). The song was also Bow Wow and Omarion's first entry on the Pop 100, where it peaked at number 14, with an airplay position at number 9. On the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart and its component airplay (Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay) the single peaked at number 2, being kept from the top spot by Mariah Carey's \"We Belong Together\". The song also became a number-one hit for both artists on the Hot Rap Songs chart for seven weeks and the Rhythmic Top 40 chart for five weeks.\n\nOn May 14, 2006 \"Let Me Hold You\" was certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for selling over 1,000,000 copies in the United States.\n\nThe song's music video, directed by Bryan Barber, features Bow Wow attempting to woo a girl with mixed results. After surprising her at her house, the two attend a house party, but problems arise as she is less social than Bow Wow, who begins talking to other girls. After a brief reconciliation, the two argue again over the music at the party. Once again, the two are able to reconcile, but things remain awkward, and they do not communicate on their return home. The video appears to be an unresolved cliffhanger, but a \"to be continued\" title is shown as the video ends. (The video's story is continued in Bow Wow's next video, \"Like You\".) The video features a cameo from the song's co-producer, Jermaine Dupri.\n\n\"Let Me Hold You\" was a staple at concerts for Bow Wow's 2005 summer tour Scream Tour IV. It was performed at the 2005 American Music Awards on November 22, 2005 as part of a medley with Bow Wow's \"Like You\" and Omarion's \"O\".\n\n\n\n\nCredits are adapted from the liner notes of \"Wanted\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256369", "title": "Vassily Balabanov", "text": "Vassily Balabanov\n\nVassily Vassilievich Balabanov (January 30, 1873 in Bakhmut, Yekaterinoslav Governorate – January 27, 1947 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada) was an administrator and Provincial Governor of Imperial Russia.\n\nVassily (also Vasile Vasilivich) Balabanov was the third of five children of Vassily Stephanovich Balabanov and Maria Muravskaya.\n\nIn 1892 he was married for the first time. In 1894 Vasile graduated from Moscow University and returned to the Family estate in Bakhmut. He was noted for being sympathetic to the peasants and helped modernize methods and improve conditions.\n\nIn 1905 he visited Asiatic Russia, impressed with the vastness and available land for the poor Russian peasants. He went to Moscow with his idea and came back with the backing of the government. After a slow start, with the loss of the Russian-Japanese War., there were many ex-soldiers and families attracted to the prospect and a trickle turned into a flood.\n\nVasile received the title of 'Minister of Resettlement of Turkistan' and helped the new arrivals settle in the area.\n\nHis first wife died after 4 children (Galina, Sergei, Alexsay and Clara) and Vasile married Anastasia Kvasnicki from Odessa, a daughter of a Jewish merchant with whom he had three children, Vladimer, Basil and Taras (Tom).\n\nIn 1913 Vasile was appointed Governor General of the entire Turkestan Province. He spent time with dignitaries, and had one of the few automobiles in this remote area. Although he didn't live in a palace, the official house was large and it had many staff in attendance.\n\nWith the start of the war in 1914 everything changed. The Czar needed soldiers from the peasants and Vasile had to balance this with keeping enough farmers in the fields to produce enough food for everyone. As a result few staff were available to take care of his offices and home. His wife left and he married a third time to Vera Afanaseva who had to run the large official residence in Lepsinsk.\n\nBy 1919 the Russian Revolution reached Turkestan. For many months there was fighting between the reds and whites, with one side taking a town only to be taken back a few days later. Vasile spent a great deal of time working with Alexander Dutov and General Semyonov in diplomacy. One time General Dutov sent Vasile to convince General Semyonov to join him in an attack. General Semyonov claimed Vasile was no longer the Governor because the government no longer gave support. Semyonov though wrote out appointments to Vasile's three sons as Lieutenants.\n\nVasile was imprisoned several times by the reds narrowly escaping with his life, once being freed by a newly made red who remembered his helpfulness, once survived because the man next to him was the one who got shot. Another time the reds broke into the government house, took all his valuables and destroyed anything else.\n\nHe refused the French offer of sanctuary but with the help of Lieutenant General Alexander Dutov he escaped through the mountainous passes with his younger children, third wife, and trusted officers to China in 1920. One of the passes he had to pass through a red blockade by walking quietly at night.\n\nHe settled in the border area for about 6 months helping the anti-Bolsheviks until an assassination attempt (a 10,000 rouble reward was posted for him) forced him to flee with his family overland to Hankow, passing through the Gobi desert. Alexander Dutov however was assassinated when he escaped to China.\n\nAt the time China did not recognize the Communist Government of Russia, and Vasile being invited to China by the Governor of the nearest Province as an equal was supplied with a small stipend while in China to pay for expenses.\n\nWhen he and his family had arrived in Hankow, after 6 months of hard travel, and he went to the best hotel in the city, he startled the hotel management by his appearance, with dirty furs and ragged clothing, they were almost kicked out of the hotel until Vasile gave proof of his identity.\n\nVasile and his family stayed in Hankow for 6 years before emigrating to Vancouver, British Columbia on the \"Empress of Russia\" with the help of Western Missionaries in Shanghai.\n\nHe settled with his family (Clara, Basil, Taras Balabanov), Galina Doubroff, and Olga Lapka) and lived in Richmond farming, Vancouver, and Grand Forks, British Columbia teaching Russian.\n\nHis family struggled with the change of life and depression in Canada, Vasile never wanting to talk much about his previous life. His life ended in 1947.\n"}
{"id": "2256373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256373", "title": "Frágil", "text": "Frágil\n\nFrágil is a Peruvian rock band. Named after an eponymous Yes album (\"Fragile\"), Frágil is one of the most respected rock bands in Perú. Fragil started as a symphonic progressive/hard rock band influenced by the likes of Yes, Genesis, Emerson, Lake & Palmer, Jethro Tull, Black Sabbath, Rainbow . They earned local fame through their hit single \"Av. Larco\"(Ave. Larco) in the early 80's. Frágil has a cult status in Peru usually selling out all of their concerts.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256379", "title": "Hidden Place", "text": "Hidden Place\n\n\"Hidden Place\" is a song recorded by Icelandic singer Björk for her fourth studio album \"Vespertine\". It was written and produced by Björk. \"Hidden Place\" was released as the lead single from \"Vespertine\" on 3 August 2001, by One Little Indian Records.\n\nIn 2000, while Björk worked on the film \"Dancer in the Dark\", she also began producing her next album, writing new music and teaming with new collaborators; she has said \"\"Selmasongs\" was the day job and \"Vespertine\" was the hobby\". Her new relationship with artist Matthew Barney and the tension while filming \"Dancer in the Dark\" have been referred to as the two major forces that shaped what would become \"Vespertine\". As the process of filming demanded her to be extroverted, the new music she was creating became hushed and tranquil as a way to escape. Björk commissioned Valgeir Sigurðsson to relocate some of his studio equipment from Iceland to Denmark, where \"Dancer in the Dark\" was being filmed. While living in Copenhagen she also contacted the electronic musician Thomas Knak (aka Opiate), after having enjoyed his 1999 album \"Objects for an Ideal Home\". Björk's musical taste shifted from the \"clang and clatter\" and \"thumping techno that characterized \"Homogenic\", as she \"was bored with big beats\".\n\nBjörk then set to make a record with a domestic mood featuring \"everyday moods and everyday noises translating into melodies and beats,\" hence its working title \"Domestika\". As she wanted to write her own songs in music boxes, Björk contacted a music box company, requesting see-through acrylic glass boxes because she wanted it to sound \"as hard as possible, like it was frozen.\" She also began to use her laptop to write music, and decided to use instruments whose sound wouldn't be compromised when downloaded from sites such as Napster. Björk completed: \"I had loads and loads of beats for 'Hidden Place' but it still wasn't up enough. Matthew Herbert came for a visit in the studio and offered to do it. He ran away to his studio and came back after a few hours later with a DAT\". She explains the song's title:\n'Hidden Place' is sort of about how two people can create a paradise just by uniting. You've got an emotional location that's mutual. And it's unbreakable. And obviously it's make-believe. So, you could argue that it doesn't exist because it's invisible, but of course it does.\n\"Hidden Place\" features choirs of space sirens, and lyrically is about a new love that has a private side. \"I'm not sure what to do with it or where to put it/ I'll keep it in a hidden place\", Björk sings. According to \"The Wire\" magazine, the song \"hints at the extent to which her lyrics parallel their fragile musical arrangements: 'I'm so close to tears and so close to simply calling you up/ I'm simply suggesting/ We go to that hidden place'\". For Ryan Schreiber of \"Pitchfork\" the track opens \"Vespertine\" with a \"glitchy, almost lo-fi melodic loop, paired with the deep sub-bass attack that has dominated the low-end of Björk's music in recent years\". MusicOMH's Michael Hubbard noted that it is reminiscent of Björk's previous single \"Hunter\" (1997), although he telt the beats were not \"so central this time round\".\n\n\"Hidden Place\" received positive reviews from music critics. Greg Kot from \"Blender\" magazine commented that album openers \"Hidden Place\" and \"Cocoon\" \"live up to their billing as sound sanctuaries, with Björk singing a barely-above-a-whisper lullaby enhanced by the plush embrace of a choir\". David Fricke of \"Rolling Stone\" called it \"floating beauty\". British magazine \"NME\"s Joe Logic was also positive saying, \"'Hidden Place' is a mellow and low-key opener that combines Matmos sneezing-cricket beats with deep warm bass and a distant choir. The chorus is almost mantra-like, drawing you further into this immeasurably gorgeous record\". However, Steve Granlee from \"The Boston Globe\" commented that \"Hidden Place\" was \"a subtle update\" of \"Human Behaviour\", but \"it won't have any radio appeal\". Katy Widder of PopMatters shared a similar sentiment, saying the song \"is by no means top 40 material\".\n\nThe music video for \"Hidden Place\" was directed by Inez van Lamsweerde and Vinoodh Matadin and co-directed by M/M Paris. It was shot in four days in February 2001 in London. It was originally planned for a song from \"Selmasongs\", but Björk felt the project was more appropriate for \"Vespertine\". The video consists of close-up shots panning around Björk's face, as fluids flow in and out of her facial orifices. M/M Paris explained the concept behind the video: \"We always wanted to get as close to her as we could, as we all felt she had never been portrayed as the \"real\" and beautiful woman she is. This is somehow taboo, to observe a pop star with no makeup from a distance of half an inch. Then the idea of the liquid works as a visualization of all possible emotions pulsating and circulating in her very busy brain. The loop idea was a main point for us as well, trying to extend the usual time frame of pop video super-fast editing, to make it hypnotising, mesmerising and irritating, like an eternally burning fireplace.\"\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"Vespertine\"'s liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256381", "title": "WSAV", "text": "WSAV\n\nWSAV may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2256382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256382", "title": "The Jury (TV serial)", "text": "The Jury (TV serial)\n\nThe Jury is a British television serial broadcast in 2002 (with a second series in 2011). The series was the first ever to be allowed to film inside the historic Old Bailey courthouse.\n\nThe killing of a 15-year-old-boy rocks the nation, as a Sikh classmate of the boy is charged with the murder. The trial, which is engulfed in protests and media speculation, brings together 12 jurors who find themselves having to make a decision that the entire country is waiting for.\n\nThe jurors include: Charles, a young man who has left the seminary to search for his lost love; Elsie, an old lonely woman who is dying; Johnny, a recovering alcoholic; Rose, a beautiful woman whose husband is paranoid in the aftermath of a car accident; Jeremy, a once-wealthy family man who lost all his money when conned by a friend in a bad investment; Peter, who wants to be a good and impartial juror at the trial but is besieged by his wife's parents, who want to get involved; and Marcia, a single mother who is forced to let her mother back into her life during the trial.\n\nThe victim, John Maher, was stabbed twenty-eight times on his way to school one morning. His classmate, Duvinder Singh, is accused.\n\n\nProsecutor Gerald Lewis gives his version of events, painting Singh as a psychopath. The Maher family threaten Singh when he arrives in court, and later they decide to influence the jurors. Rose and Johnnie flirt, Jeremy discovers that the friend who conned him is a juror on another trial, Charles searches for Isobel his lost love, and Peter - against his instincts - tells his in-laws all about the case.\n\n\nSingh is abused by a prison warden; the prosecution argues that Singh stole a sword, killed Maher, threw the evidence into the river and fled; Rose and Johnny have lunch; Jeremy runs into Mark Waters who claims he would have saved Jeremy if he could; Elsie befriends Charles, and later learns she will need to undergo surgery; Charles meets his best friend, Sebastian (uncredited Darren Boyd) and learns Isobel has moved on from him; Rose's husband Len grows suspicious of her; Peter's in-laws investigate the evidence; and Marcia - angry that she has to keep her mother in her life - receives a phone call telling her that, for the sake of her family, she had better vote guilty.\n\n\nLen follows Rose to the trial and sees her with Johnny; Marcia receives further threats but - after telling the Judge - agrees to stay on, although the Judge says if any other juror is influenced, he will call for a retrial; Elsie learns that she may need a transplant; Cording, the defence attorney, learns of a psychopath who was arrested on the day of the crime near the scene; Duvinder takes the stand, claiming he stole the sword and planned to kill Maher but then backed out, dropped the sword and fled; Peter is threatened.\n\n\nPeter decides against telling the Judge he was threatened, since he is so enjoying the trial; Lewis cross-examines Duvinder which makes him look very guilty and the Mahers decide he will be found thus; Johnny and Rose meet at lunch again and tell each other how they feel but decide they cannot start a relationship at this point, although Len - who is spying on them - doesn't realise this; Peter's father-in-law comes up with his own theory about why the police did not find the evidence supposedly dumped in the river; the woman attacked by the psychopath on the day of the crime testifies; Cording accuses the police of racial profiling; Jeremy's friend informs him of another stock, this one for real, and Jeremy considers it; Charles and Elsie - now both alone - bond; and after an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, Johnny is bashed by Len.\n\n\nJeremy takes the stock, giving up his deeds to his home as insurance; Lewis and Cording make their closing statements; Charles leaves the seminary for good; Rose learns that Len bashed Johnny; the jury are taken into their room to deliberate, where they vote for Eva as foreperson; an initial vote reveals that opinion is divided, while Rose and Johnny are surprised by each other's vote; Eva's style is not liked by all, so she steps down and Peter is elected without even standing for the job; going home for the night, Rose tells Len she wants to leave him; looking after Elsie, Charles realises that his place is with the priesthood after all; Peter's father-in-law turns up at his house with what he claims to be important evidence, but Peter does not listen; and the Maher family decide to kill Duvinder if he is found innocent.\n\n\nJohnny slips back into drinking; Marcia befriends her mother; the jurors re-enact the crime and each person's individual experiences and prejudices begin to come through; Peter finally speaks out in Duvinder's defence and, when the judge is willing to accept a 10-2 vote, Rose becomes the key between guilty and not-guilty: she finally votes not-guilty. After the verdict is read, Peter's father-in-law tells him that there is a part of the river that he found out was never searched and the evidence could still be there. Peter refuses to listen. Johnny and Rose kiss, but admit that they need more time before they can start a relationship. As the Singh family leave the country, John Maher's father goes to the airport with a gun to kill him but instead kills himself. Jeremy pulls out of the stock at the last minute, only for it to go sailing high. Peter, beginning to fear his father-in-law was right, goes to the river to try to find the evidence but cannot.\n\nSix months later, the jurors reunite for Elsie's funeral at which Charles, now a priest, reads the last rites. Johnny and Rose agree to get together. Peter says goodbye to them with a pained look on his face, now uncertain as to whether Duvinder Singh was guilty or innocent.\n\nThe second series is entirely unconnected with the first, and was broadcast in 2011. It concerns the retrial of Alan Lane, who was convicted five years earlier of the murder of three women whom he'd met through an Internet dating site. John Mallory QC acts for the prosecution; Emma Watts QC, for the defence. The jurors include Paul Brierly, a single man looking after his mother; Katherine Bulmore, a teacher who has had an affair with a 17-year-old pupil; Tahir Takana, a Sudanese immigrant waiting to get a visa to join his brother in the US; Lucy Cartwright, the assistant of businesswoman Theresa Vestry who takes Theresa's place on the jury; Rashid, a quiet young man with Asperger's Syndrome, who lives with his parents; Kristina Bamford, a lonely woman; and Ann Skailes, a devout Christian.\n\nThe lives of 12 people are turned upside down when they are summoned for jury duty in a controversial murder retrial. New evidence has come to light calling into question the conviction of Alan Lane, who was found guilty almost five years previously of killing three women he met on the internet. Julie Walters stars as defence barrister Emma Watts, with Roger Allam, John Lynch and Steven Mackintosh.\nJohn Mallory calls his witnesses to the stand, before the evidence against Lane is examined and argued by Watts. The jurors' complicated lives unfold as the mysterious woman tells Paul she was a member of the jury in the original trial, lonely Kristina creates an internet dating profile, and Lane writes back to Ann. \nWatts cross-examines Howson, the man in charge of the investigation into Alan Lane, Tahir tells Jeffrey about his experience in Sudan, and Paul and Tasha grow closer over lunch. Katherine prepares to make a big decision and Kristina gets out of her depth when she goes to meet her internet date\nLane takes the stand, Jeffrey waits anxiously as Tahir finds out about his US visa, and Tasha tells Paul some shocking facts about the collapse of the first trial. The jurors retire to consider their verdict.\nPaul tells the other members of the jury what he knows as they struggle to reach a majority verdict, while Lane and Watts anxiously await the outcome. Rashid gives Paul information that makes him question everything, and Tasha has some explaining to do when the jurors' decision is delivered.\n\n\n\n\"(in alphabetical order)\"\n\n\n\nAt the 2010 Edinburgh International Television Festival, another series of \"The Jury\" was announced by ITV, once again written by Morgan. The five-part series was commissioned by director of drama commissioning Laura Mackie and controller of drama commissioning Sally Haynes, and described by ITV as a \"character based series which focuses on the everyday people who find themselves at the centre of one of the most controversial criminal re-trials of their time\".\n\n\"Quantum of Solace\" director Marc Forster has been slated to direct an American adaptation of the serial after Fox 2000 purchased the rights in 2007. Forster recruited Beau Willimon to adapt Morgan's script after reading his play \"Farragut North\".\n\nThe first episode of the second series attracted 6.2m viewers, 24% of the total TV audience, above the usual 9pm slot average for ITV1 of 5.4m. A further 202,500 watched on ITV1+1.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256389", "title": "Fangshan District", "text": "Fangshan District\n\nFangshan District () is situated in the southwest of Beijing, away from downtown Beijing. It has an area of and a population of 814,367 (2000 Census). The district is divided into 8 subdistricts, 14 towns, and 6 townships.\n\nThe district administers 8 subdistricts (with 4 subdistricts under Yanshan \"area\"), 14 towns with 3 towns of which carry the \"area\" () label, and 6 townships:\n\nThe Subdistrict area of Fangshan (population 187,667) contains an urban area, has an area of and an estimated population of 200,000. Other major urban areas are Liangxiang (population estimate 110,000, 93,486 in township), Zhoukoudian (35,000, 39,877 in township), Doudian (30,000, 25,046 in township), and Liulihe (22,000, 37,936 in township).\n\nFangshan is situated to the east of the Taihang Mountains. The east and south of the district is a fertile plain, with a narrow hilly area running from northeast to southwest. The district has many rivers and lakes; the Juma River, Dashi River, Yongding River, and Xiaoqing River run through the district, assuring abundant water resources.\n\nThe location, climate and environment provide good conditions for agriculture. The district produces wheat, rice and various high quality fruits as well as large quantities of animal products. At the moment large investments are made for greenhouse production.\n\nJingguang railway and Jingyuan railway cross the district. In addition, the district is serviced by 4 branch railways and 24 railway stations. Jingshi Expressway also goes through the district. The four main roads are the Jing-Zhou, Jing-Bao, Jing-Yuan, Jing-Liang roads, with branch roads to townships and villages. The total length of roads is up to . Tanggu Port is only distant. The programme-controlled telephone capacity supports 128,000 phone sets.\n\nFangshan is currently served by one metro line operated by Beijing Subway:\n\n\nIn 2017,the regional GDP of the district is 68.17 billion yuan, with GDP per capita at 59.1 thousand yuan.\n\nFangshan district has a long history and many ancient sites. Best known is Zhoukoudian, location of the “Peking Man Site”, which has gained Fangshan the name of “Home of the Dragon”. The 3,000-year-old ruins of the Liulihe Site are housed in the Western Zhou Yan State Capital Museum. The famous Buddhist shrine of Yunju Temple has precious Buddhist relics, including “Sakyamuni’s Bone” and 14,278 stone slabs with sculpted Buddhist sutras. There are also the remains of the Christian (Jingjiao) Monastery of the Cross from the Yuan dynasty. There are many ancient towers, temples, town sites and other sites in Fangshan. Fangshan also has many scenic spots like Shidu’s karst landscape, the unique Stoneflower Cave and natural ancient forests in Shangfang Mountains. Ecologically, Fangshan has 554 kinds of wild plant and 22 kinds of wild animal.\n\nFangshan has 2.1 billion tons of coal reserves, which makes it a veritable “coal storehouse” in the west of Beijing; building materials resources are also present in a variety of large deposits. Marble deposits total 450 million cubic meters. A total of 17 kinds have been developed, including “Chinese white marble”, “pink”, “rosy cloud”, and “black jade”. In particular, “Chinese white marble” is famous worldwide and is regarded as a national treasure. There are also large deposits of quartzite (29 million tons); silica (28.6 million tons), granite and buhrstone, in addition to argil, mineral water and slab stones.\n\n\nBoth industry and agriculture are well developed in Fangshan. Over 2300 enterprises owned by the district, townships or villages have been set up and form a complete industrial system in a variety of trades, with different grades and many kinds of products. Yanshan Petrochemical Group, one of the largest state-owned enterprises in China, is located in Fangshan District. Agriculture has developed from traditional growing and planting to integrated and full development in forestry, livestock, greenhouse horticulture and fishery. The building industry has become the backbone of the district, with annual building area reaching 6 million square meters.\n\nThe foreign-oriented economy of Fangshan has developed rapidly in recent years. By 1999, the District government had approved 345 foreign-invested enterprises. Over 20 countries and territories throughout five continents are represented. There are 100 export-oriented enterprises producing over 40 kinds of product. Liangxiang Satellite Town, approved by Beijing Municipal Government, has become a new hub of development. In 1998, the site of Fangshan People’s Government moved to Liangxiang, making it the district's center of politics, economics and culture. The development Zone of Liangxiang extends favorable policies to business. Under the Ninth Five-Year Plan and Ten-year Outline, the zone will be further opened to the outside and encourage foreign investment in the following industries: electricity, machinery and electronics, instruments, textiles, printing, new building materials, new materials, new energy resources, fine chemicals, food processing, flowers, greenhouse vegetables, tourist facilities, commercial facilities and the animal industry. The zone welcomes overseas Chinese and guests from Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan and other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256402", "title": "Detalion", "text": "Detalion\n\nDetalion S.C, was a Polish video game developer founded by a partnership of six people, that first met in the early 1990s (Maciej Miąsik, Robert Ożóg, Łukasz Pisarek, Krzysztof Bar, Roland Pantoła & Danuta Sienkowska), working from game developer and publisher LK Avalon.\n\nThese games (particularly \"Mysterious Journey: Schizm\") were noted for the complexity and great difficulty of their puzzles, and also were hailed as having some of the best graphics in the industry at the time. Detalion was one of the first developers to use the DVD-ROM disc as an effective medium for software distribution.\n\nAfter Detalion's disestablishment in 2005, its founders went on to create Detalion Games (basically a one-person shop, headed by Roland Pantola, which produced basic game concepts) and Detalion Arts (to worked as an outsourcing studio doing various jobs, including for CD Projekt game The Witcher, until being purchased by City Interactive in 2007 and rebrand as City Interactive Rzeszów. In the same year, they started to work on \"Art of Murder\" series. In 2010, Detalion Games was working in Galander, an upcoming action game developed for PC but since then no more information was released about the game. In 2012, Roland Pantola from Detalion Games created a sister studio called Detalion Furniture to create innovative furniture design.\n\nIn 2018, after 15 years Roland Pantola revealed that is in development for Microsoft Windows through Detalion Games, using Unreal Engine 4 and will be published by PlayWay S.A. In \"Schizm III: Nemezis\", you return to the beautiful planet of Argilus (original Schizm) as Amia and Bogard, two tourists hoping for an enjoyable and relaxing vacation.\n\nV-Cruise engine was developed by Detalion for Microsoft Windows to provide immersive experience and ultra-smooth, fast and effective navigation between hundreds of locations of their games. V-Cruise engine provides Full motion 25p 360 degree panoramic views.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256403", "title": "Alan Lennox-Boyd, 1st Viscount Boyd of Merton", "text": "Alan Lennox-Boyd, 1st Viscount Boyd of Merton\n\nAlan Tindal Lennox-Boyd, 1st Viscount Boyd of Merton, CH, PC, DL (18 November 1904 – 8 March 1983), was a British Conservative politician.\n\nLennox-Boyd was the son of Alan Lennox-Boyd by his second wife Florence, daughter of James Warburton Begbie. He had an elder half-sister and three full brothers, two of whom were killed in the Second World War and one who died in Germany in April 1939. He was educated at Sherborne School, Dorset, and graduated from Christ Church, Oxford, with a BA later promoted to MA. In the Second World War he saw active service as a lieutenant in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve with Coastal Forces.\n\nLennox-Boyd was elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Mid Bedfordshire in 1931 (at the age of 26), and was admitted to Inner Temple, as a barrister in 1941. He was a member of Winston Churchill's peacetime government as Minister for Transport and Civil Aviation from 1952 to 1954. In this post he once memorably opined that road accidents were the result not of the taking of large risks, but of the taking of small risks very large numbers of times.\n\nAs a Minister, he opened the third Woodhead Tunnel on the British Railways electrified railway across the Pennines on 3 June 1954.\n\nIn 1954 he became Secretary of State for the Colonies, where he oversaw early stages of decolonisation, with the granting of independence to Cyprus, Ghana, Iraq, Malaya and Sudan. He was in office during the Mau Mau Rebellion in Kenya, and was persuaded to stay in office by Harold Macmillan after being censured for the Hola massacre. He talked openly about independence for the Federation of Malaya, and invited the then Chief Minister of Malaya, Tunku Abdul Rahman and his colleagues to Lancaster House to discuss the possibility of independence.\n\nFollowing the Suez Crisis of 1956, Lennox-Boyd appears to have made the initial approach to writer Ian Fleming about the possibility of Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden's using Fleming's Jamaican house, Goldeneye, for a rest cure given the precarious state of Eden's health. Because of security considerations, he initially intimated to Fleming that he wanted Goldeneye for a holiday of his own and, when he resisted Fleming's suggestion that his and Fleming's wife (a close friend of Lady Eden) liaise over the arrangements, Fleming at first assumed that he was planning an extra-marital assignation.\n\nAfter the 1959 general election, Lennox-Boyd was replaced as Colonial Secretary by Iain Macleod.\n\nIn September 1960 he was raised to the peerage as Viscount Boyd of Merton of Merton-in-Penninghame in the County of Wigtown. This caused a by-election for his Mid Bedfordshire constituency which was won by Stephen Hastings. He was further honoured the same year when he was appointed a Companion of Honour. Being opposed to the line taken in Harold Macmillan's Wind of Change speech, he subsequently became an early patron of the Conservative Monday Club.\n\nLord Boyd of Merton held the office of Deputy Lieutenant of Bedfordshire between 1954 and 1960 and Deputy Lieutenant of Cornwall in 1965. He was managing director of Arthur Guinness & Sons between 1959 and 1967, and was a Companion of Honour and Privy Councillor.\n\nIn June 1957, Lennox-Boyd, who was Secretary of State for the Colonies, received a secret memorandum written by Eric Griffiths-Jones, the attorney general of Kenya. The letter described the abuse of Mau Mau detainees. The memorandum was passed on by Sir Evelyn Baring, the Governor of Kenya, who is alleged to have added a cover letter asserting that inflicting \"violent shock\" is the only way to deal with Mau Mau insurgents.\n\nIn April 2011 a \"Guardian\" report described a cache of government documents which may indicate that, despite clear briefings, Lennox-Boyd repeatedly denied that the abuses were happening, and publicly denounced those colonial officials who came forward to complain.\n\nLord Boyd married Lady Patricia Guinness, daughter of Rupert Guinness, 2nd Earl of Iveagh, on 29 December 1938. His mother-in-law, the Countess of Iveagh, had been an MP in 1927-35 and he was brother-in-law to Sir Henry ('Chips') Channon, also an MP (1935–58), making them jointly a first mother-in-law and child-in-law set of MPs. They had three children:\n\n\nLord Boyd was knocked down and killed by a car when walking across Fulham Road in London in March 1983, aged 78, and, after cremation, was buried at St Stephen's Church, Saltash, Cornwall. He was succeeded by his eldest son, Simon.\n\nLady Boyd died in May 2001, aged 83. She gave her name to the Viscountess of Merton cup, awarded at the Cornwall Spring Flower Show.\n\nAccording to many sources Lennox-Boyd was a practising homosexual. He is depicted in James Lees-Milne's diary of 1942-1943, \"Ancestral Voices\", as being infatuated with the American aesthete Stuart Preston.\n"}
{"id": "2256404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256404", "title": "Pagan Poetry", "text": "Pagan Poetry\n\n\"Pagan Poetry\" is a song recorded by Icelandic singer Björk for her fourth album, \"Vespertine\". It was released as the second single from the album on 5 November 2001, by One Little Indian Records.\n\nThe single peaked at number 38 in the UK and number 15 in Canada.\n\nBjörk had always wanted to work with music boxes, but was waiting for the right occasion. Until then, she had been collecting them and wanted to write her own songs in them. According to her, the music box company were not very excited in the beginning. \"They'd made wooden boxes for eons and I wanted see-through plexiglass. They couldn't get their head round it - they were like 'Why?' They wanted to make the plonky sound softer with wood but I wanted it as hard as possible, like it was frozen. In the end, they said it was the best thing they'd ever done\". Björk then featured the music box into the song's composition.\n\nHeather Phares of AllMusic said of \"Pagan Poetry\" that it \"shares a spacious serenity with the album's quietest moments\" and included this song as a track pick. \"Rolling Stone\" said, \"In 'Pagan Poetry', she deploys the implied heaven of Zeena Parkins harp and a flotilla of music boxes with an Asian-teahouse touch\". \"Blender\" said \"'Pagan Poetry' sounds like the prelude to a particularly exotic sexual interlude\". Saul Campbell from \"7\" magazine called the track \"terrifying\" and an album standout.\n\nIn March 2006, on the Spanish edition of \"Rolling Stone\", \"Pagan Poetry\" was ranked number 38 by Spanish music professionals and experts on a list of the best songs of the 21st century. \"Pitchfork\" placed the song at number 227 on its list of \"The Top 500 Tracks of the 2000s\".\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Pagan Poetry\" was directed by Nick Knight, who had previously photographed the cover image for her third studio album \"Homogenic\" (1997). The video is described as being about \"a woman preparing herself for marriage and for her lover\". It features highly blurry and stylized images of explicit sex from Björk's personal footage, including fellatio and ejaculation, and images of large needles sewing pearls to skin. The second half of the video features Björk in a dress designed by Alexander McQueen, which covers only the lower portion of her body. The upper portion of the dress consists of pearls piercing her skin, which is shown throughout the first half. The video ends with a shot of a Corset piercing.\n\nThe video had three stages of shooting: a video shoot of piercings, a private video shoot handled by Björk, and a film shoot of Björk. The piercings video and film shoot were done in a day in June 2001 in Knight's studio in London. The sole light source was diffused sunlight shining through the ceiling windows of the second floor daylight studio. This studio gave a \"northlight\" look and had a rawness to it that matched the subject matter, photography director Simon Chaudoir said.\n\nFive young women who were into subculture and piercings were cast for the video. Knight directed Chaudoir to shoot the piercings by placing the Sony Mini DV camera on the women's bodies—mostly chests, arms, and shoulders—and getting as physically near as he could while maintaining a close, macro focus on a wide-angle lens. A nurse and piercing unit were on hand, but no thimble, so the bleeding most often came from cast girls' thumbs as they pushed the needles in. \"It was one of the most difficult things I've ever filmed because I felt I was on the verge of throwing up. I liked to actually only watch it by the video monitor rather than with my eyes as it were because it was just too much\", Chaudoir said. Björk also pierced her own ear at the shoot, but all other piercings were the cast girls'. Knight gave Björk a Sony Mini DV camera and asked her to shoot her own private scenes.\nTired of music videos which featured the singer looking to the camera and lip-synching throughout, Chaudoir suggested having Björk lip-synch and look into the camera only for some of the last lines. He also suggested using a track so they could move closer to her as she sings these lines or move closer before she sings them—\"so it's like a reveal of her\", he said. There was no script, so some improvisation made it to the final cut. Since blue-screening and CGI work were not involved, Chaudoir did not use diffusion or consulted with post-production, and he arrived with only a few assistants—a gaffer, loader, grip, focus puller, and some electricians. \"Basically what I was asked to do and what I thought I'd be able to do is more or less there. It would have benefited from being simplified down to a much more bold and direct visualization of what she was trying to do. I think we were too subtle in that\", Knight said.\n\nThe video was banned by MTV in the United States, but was eventually shown in unedited form on MTV2 in a presentation of the \"20 Most Controversial Music Videos\". The music video was placed sixth on the \"20 Of The Most Controversial Music Videos Ever\" list by \"NME\", which described it as \"scarier than her dead swan dress or when she punched that photographer\". It was also included on the list by \"Rolling Stone\", \"The 15 Most NSFW Music Videos of All Time\", and was considered by \"Slant\" the sixth best music video by Björk. The dress was shown in Björk's MoMA retrospective in 2015. It was sold as part of Kerry Taylor Auctions \"Passion for Fashion\" sale in London, in June 2016.\n\nOn 9 July 2019, Björk uploaded the uncensored music video to her YouTube channel.\n\nIn 2001, Björk performed \"Pagan Poetry\" on the \"Late Night with David Letterman\" with a Greenland women's choir, harpist and electronica duo Matmos.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256405", "title": "Interlinear gloss", "text": "Interlinear gloss\n\nIn linguistics and pedagogy, an interlinear gloss is a gloss (series of brief explanations, such as definitions or pronunciations) placed between lines (\"inter-\" + \"linear\"), such as between a line of original text and its translation into another language. When glossed, each line of the original text acquires one or more lines of transcription known as an interlinear text or interlinear glossed text (IGT)interlinear for short. Such glosses help the reader follow the relationship between the source text and its translation, and the structure of the original language. In its simplest form, an interlinear gloss is simply a literal, word-for-word translation of the source text.\n\nInterlinear glosses have been used for a variety of purposes over a long period of time. One common usage has been to annotate bilingual textbooks for language education. This sort of interlinearization serves to help make the meaning of a source text explicit without attempting to formally model the structural characteristics of the source language.\n\nSuch annotations have occasionally been expressed not through interlinear layout, but rather, through enumeration of words in the object and meta language. One such example is Wilhelm von Humboldt's annotation of Classical Nahuatl:\n\nThis \"inline\" style allows examples to be included within the flow of text, and for the word order of the target language to be written in an order which approximates the target language syntax. (In the gloss here, \"mache es\" is reordered from the corresponding source order to approximate German syntax more naturally.) Even so, this approach requires the readers to \"re-align\" the correspondences between source and target forms.\n\nMore modern 19th- and 20th-century approaches took to glossing vertically, aligning the same sort of word-by-word content in such a way that the metalanguage terms were placed vertically below the source language terms. In this style, the given example might be rendered thus (here English gloss):\n\nNote that here word ordering is determined by the syntax of the object language.\n\nFinally, modern linguists have adopted the practice of using abbreviated grammatical category labels. A 2008 publication which repeats this example labels it as follows:\n\nThis approach is denser and also requires effort to read, but it is less reliant on the grammatical structure of the metalanguage for expressing the semantics of the target forms.\n\nIn computing, special text markers are provided in Specials (Unicode block) to indicate the start and end of interlinear glosses.\n\nA semi-standardized set of parsing conventions and grammatical abbreviations is explained in the Leipzig Glossing Rules.\n\nAn interlinear text will commonly consist of some or all of the following, usually in this order, from top to bottom: \nand finally \n\nAs an example, the following Taiwanese clause has been transcribed with five lines of text: \nIn linguistics, it has become standard to align the words and to gloss each transcribed morpheme separately. That is, \"koat-tēng\" in line 1 above would either require a hyphenated two-word gloss, or be transcribed without a hyphen, for example as \"koattēng.\" Grammatical terms are commonly abbreviated and printed in to keep them distinct from translations, especially when they are frequent or important for analysis. Varying levels of analysis may be detailed. For example, in a Lezgian text using standard romanization,\n\nHere every Lezgian morpheme is set off with hyphens and glossed separately. Since many of these are difficult to gloss in English, the roots are translated, but the grammatical suffixes are glossed with three-letter grammatical abbreviations.\n\nThe same text may be glossed at a different level of analysis:\n\nHere the Lezgian morphemes are translated into English as much as possible; only those which correspond to English are set off with hyphens.\n\nA more colloquial gloss would be:\n\nHere the gloss is word for word; rather than setting off Lezgian morphemes with hyphens, the English words in the gloss are joined with periods when more than one is required to translate a Lezgian word.\n\nIn interlinear morphological glosses, various forms of punctuation separate the glosses. Typically, the words are aligned with their glosses; within words, a hyphen is used when a boundary is marked in both the text and its gloss, a period when a boundary appears in only one. That is, there should be the same number of words separated with spaces in the text and its gloss, as well as the same number of hyphenated morphemes within a word and its gloss. This is the basic system, and can be applied universally. For example,\n\nAn underscore may be used instead of a period, as in \"go_out-\", when a single word in the source language happens to correspond to a phrase in the glossing language, though a period would still be used for other situations, such as Greek \"oikíais\" house. 'to the houses'.\n\nHowever, sometimes finer distinctions may be made. For example, clitics may be separated with a double hyphen (or, for ease of typing, an equal sign) rather than a hyphen:\n\nAffixes which cause discontinuity (infixes, circumfixes, transfixes, etc.) may be set off by angle brackets, and reduplication with tildes, rather than with hyphens:\n\nMorphemes which cannot be easily separated out, such as umlaut, may be marked with a backslash rather than a period:\n\nA few other conventions which are sometimes seen are illustrated in the Leipzig Glossing Rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256414", "title": "Glenville, North Carolina", "text": "Glenville, North Carolina\n\nGlenville is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Jackson County, North Carolina, United States. It is now a popular lakeside vacation community with many second homes that sometimes are rented around Lake Glenville, which flooded and destroyed the original town. As of the 2010 census, the year-round population was 110.\n\nGlenville is in south-central Jackson County at coordinates 35°10'24\"N, 83°7'45\"W (35.1734296, -83.129311). It is on the east side of Lake Glenville (formerly Thorpe Lake), a reservoir on the West Fork of the Tuckasegee River. North Carolina Highway 107 passes through the community, leading north (downriver) to Cullowhee and south to Cashiers.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Glenville CDP has a total area of , of which , or 0.46%, are water.\n\nPrior to incorporation in 1891, it was named \"Hamburgh\" and later \"Hamburg\", from which the township gets its name. The Hamburgh post office was established there in 1856, but settlement began at least as early as 1827. It was used as a fort in case of attack from the local Cherokee people. At the time of incorporation in 1891, it was the largest town in Jackson County, a surprising fact considering it was so small. The town had a private high school, the first in Jackson County, formed in 1886 and was just like Cullowhee High School, founded in 1889, which has now become Western Carolina University. The Glenville school became a public institution in 1891. In 1926, a new Glenville School was built on a hill above the town, with grades 1-11. It was the main high school for that part of the county until 1975, when Blue Ridge School opened, consolidating Cashiers Elementary and Glenville School. When the lake was filled in the 1940s, the waters were brought to the edge of the campus, making the school lakeside. It was the pride of the community but deteriorated after being abandoned and was demolished around 2000 to make way for lakeside homes. The town managed to save its church and graveyard from the lake, and they were moved not far beyond the present shoreline; today they rest lakeside.\n\nThe original town was destroyed in 1941 by Nantahala Power and Light after it built a hydroelectric dam, forming Lake Glenville on the Tuckasegee River. The area next to the lake is still called Glenville, however, and has United States Postal Service ZIP Code 28736, assigned mostly to the many vacation homes now built around the lake. The area is now a popular tourist and second home destination, and the lake has many multimillion-dollar homes around it.\n\nLake Glenville is renowned for bass fishing and annually hosts bass fishing tournaments. Smallmouth bass live abundantly in Lake Glenville, as well do lake trout, crappie, largemouth bass, bream, and perch species. Certain species of catfish also live in the lake, mainly \"channel cats\". There are numerous creeks that produce the water for Lake Glenville, including Cedar creek (Cedar Creek and Bee Tree Creek combined), Mill Creek, Hurricane Creek, and Pine Creek, as well as other natural springs consumed at the base of the lake. Lake Glenville is the highest reservoir east of the Mississippi, with a surface elevation of . The majority of higher income seasonal residents are from Florida or Georgia. It is a popular area due to families seeking refuge from the summer heat of the South. The average summer temperature in Glenville is approximately . This is much lower than the average summer temperatures in the surrounding 100 miles.\nThe town made news in 2014 when Lucy Morgan, who had retired to Glenville, exposed a $49.6 million mortgage fraud/Ponzi scheme being run by developer Domenico Rabuffo while he was in the United States Federal Witness Protection Program. It was the subject of the \"American Greed\" episode \"Goodfella Gone Bad\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2256419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256419", "title": "List of Northwest Territories Legislative Assemblies", "text": "List of Northwest Territories Legislative Assemblies\n\nThis is a list of the Northwest Territories Legislative Assemblies dates and legislative sessions from 1870–present. The current capital is Yellowknife since 1967. There have been twenty three legislatures since becoming a territory in 1870.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256420", "title": "Tony Gatlif", "text": "Tony Gatlif\n\nTony Gatlif (born as Michel Dahmani on 10 September 1948 in Algiers) is a French film director of Romani ethnicity who also works as a screenwriter, composer, actor, and producer.\n\nGatlif was born in Algeria of Pied noir ancestry. After his childhood there, Gatlif arrived in France in 1960 following the Algerian War of Independence.\n\nGatlif struggled for years to break into the film industry, playing in several theatrical productions until directing his first film, \"La Tête en ruine\", in 1975. He followed it with the 1979 \"La Terre au ventre\", a story of the Algerian War of Independence.\n\nSince the 1981 film \"Corre, gitano\", Gatlif's work has been focused on the Romani people of Europe, from whom he partially traces his descent.\n\nAfter making \"Gaspard et Robinson\" in 1990, Gatlif spent 1992 and 1993 shooting \"Latcho Drom\", which was awarded numerous prizes. This feature-length musical film, often mislabelled as a documentary, deals with gypsy culture throughout the world around the theme of their music and dance. For Vincent Ostria, then journalist at the Cahiers du Cinéma, it was \"the most genuine film of the year (1993 editor's note).\" A year later, Gatlif brought the world of the author J. M. G. Le Clézio to the screen in \"Mondo\" (1994).\n\nHis 2004 film \"Exils\", won the Best Director Award at the 2004 Cannes Film Festival. His film \"Transylvania\" also premiered at Cannes in May 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256430", "title": "Cocoon (Björk song)", "text": "Cocoon (Björk song)\n\n\"Cocoon\" is a song recorded by Icelandic singer Björk for her fourth studio album \"Vespertine\" (2001). It was written and produced by Björk and Thomas Knak, and released as the album's third single on 11 March 2002, by One Little Indian Records. Inspired by her relationship with artist Matthew Barney, Björk wanted to make a record with a domestic mood. Working with Knak, she wrote \"Cocoon\", a song which is lyrically about a woman who describes making love with her lover during their post-coital hibernation, and includes frank sexual narrative related both explicitly and through over-sharing and metaphor.\n\nMusic critics received \"Cocoon\" with positive reviews, calling it one of the album's best moments. The song experienced moderate commercial success in record charts in the United Kingdom, Australia, and France, but reached the top 10 in Spain. The accompanying music video for \"Cocoon\" was directed by Eiko Ishioka and was shot in New York City. It premiered at Raindance Film Festival in October 2001, and was made available online through the singer's official website in February 2002, closer to the song's release as a single. It depicts Björk as a geisha whose makeup extends over her entire bleached nude body. The video was considered inappropriate and was banned from prime-time MTV following her music video for \"Pagan Poetry\". Björk promoted the song by performing on the Vespertine World Tour and several TV and radio shows.\n\nIn 2000, Björk starred on her acting debut \"Dancer in the Dark\". Whilst she worked on the film, she also began producing her next album, writing new music and teaming with new collaborators. She had to go to Denmark to work on the film and there was nothing going on. She was lying on the beach whilst looking at the ocean, with a ghetto blaster listening to producer Thomas Knak's music. When she realised he was from Copenhagen, she called him up\". \"Cocoon\", produced by Knak, was one of the last songs to be written for the album; its melody came to Björk in a sudden rush and she contacted him. She made a long-distance, late-night phone call to Knak in Denmark, and woke him up. \"I didn't have any track of time so she didn't really know that I was asleep. She was explaining that she had this melody in her head and maybe, if I had the time, she would still have two or three weeks to decide if this track could be worked on\", said the producer. Knak took it as a chance to make a more minimal track, similar to his own releases. He liked the idea of having two songs on the album, and immediately after he put down the phone, he started working. His original treatment of \"Cocoon\", made with an Ensoniq ASR-10, appeared relatively intact in the final version. Knak elaborated: \"She had two changes: one for one semitone up and another for I think about 20BPM slower or something. I don't really make music so I'm not really used to thinking could the singer really sing in a tempo. From there she started working on the lyrics and one more melody for the vocal\".\n\nThey met up in January 2001 in London to record the song. He went into a studio with only three tracks for the mix, and was impressed that there were many technicians and programmers that probably had been using a hundred. However, the singer was protecting the idea of the raw version, and said: \"This is how we wanted to be\". They added two changes to the song and then spent the rest of the day recording Björk's vocals. They wanted to have only one take that really worked so that they did not have to edit different takes. They recorded 20 takes, and used the fifth or sixth, and because of that, the producer thought that \"this track is very intimate and personal because of the way the vocals were recorded\". The way the song was recorded was \"kind of rough\" according to Knak; \"It's also very close to the mic; all these things that you wouldn't normally keep. In that sense, it is very kind of, almost naked. In the structure and in the feeling because of the lyrics\".\n\n\"Cocoon\" is a song based around a bassline and beats that \"sound like fingertips on skin\". Discussing the glitch sound of the song, Björk said: \"when you take technology and use the areas where it breaks, where it's faulty, you're entering a mystery zone where you can't control it.\" Björk's whispered vocals in \"Cocoon\" were described as \"near-cracking falsetto and a breathy ecstasy\". Lyrically, for Michael Cragg from \"The Guardian\" newspaper, \"it feels almost intrusive, like reading someone's diary as they write about a new love\", as Björk had just started the relationship with Barney. Its lyrics are set between metaphor, with her singing \"who would have known that a boy like him would have entered me lightly, restoring my blisses\" and over-sharing, whilst also stating \"He slides inside, half awake, half asleep ... gorgeousness, he's still inside me\".\n\nWhen asked about its sexually explicit nature, the singer responded: \"Erm, yeah. I guess a part of me wanted to be truthful about what it is that really drives me, and maybe give back to the place that is nourishing me ... I don't know what to say. When I read books or see films or listen to albums I want certain things. I want a heart—I'm very old school like that, I'm very emotional ... I just didn't want anybody to know. I wanted it for myself. The lyric to 'Cocoon' was a whole diary, then I had to edit 90 per cent of it out. It's very hard to explain, but when I read it and the other person it's about reads it, we don't feel abused or anything. I think there's songs where I've been more ... scruffy about what I'm expressing. I have a problem with music that's too indulgent. It's like 'Keep your own dirty laundry, please'\".\n\n\"Cocoon\" was received with positive reviews from music critics. AllMusic's Heather Phares called the song \"seductively alien\". Seth Stevenson from \"Slate\" magazine gave a positive review to it, commenting that because of the song, Björk is \"actually at her best either barely murmuring or full-out yelling, and she may be the most stylized vocalist in music today\". Michael Cragg from \"The Guardian\" commented that \"\"Vespertine\" is littered with defining moments. While the first single Hidden Place, the choir-assisted Undo and the Matmos collaboration Aurora are among the highlights, it's Cocoon that best represents the album's sense of heavy-lidded, post-coital hibernation\". David Fricke from \"Rolling Stone\" commented that \"the flurry of rhythm\" at the start of the song felt like \"the gravity of a spider scurrying across linoleum\". Ian Gittins, author of \"Björk: Human Behaviour - the Stories Behind Every Song\", referred to \"Cocoon\" as the eyes of many of the most significant moments of \"Vespertine\", as well as the most complete display and literal philosophy that the singer had taken for the album. \n\nBritish magazine \"NME\"s Joe Logic was also positive saying, \"Soft organs and Rice Krispies (Eh? - Cereal Ed) feature heavily on a very minimalist 'Cocoon', a beautiful love song featuring Bjork whispering sexual lyrics over a track that To Rococo Rot would be proud of\". Stephen Dalton from the same publication was less positive, and stated: \"Then there is the uncomfortably intimate, tremble-whisper Björk voice of 'Cocoon' where she relates the joy of shutting herself away with her lover with a broken music box and some mouldy old string\". Greg Kot from \"Blender\" magazine commented that album openers \"Hidden Place\" and \"Cocoon\" \"live up to their billing as sound sanctuaries, with Björk singing a barely-above-a-whisper lullaby enhanced by the plush embrace of a choir\". \"The Wire\" opined that the track \"nearly matches the macabre tone of \"Dancer in the Dark\", particularly the trembling moment three minutes in, when her barely audible whisper conjures a feeling beyond sadness as she pleads, 'Who would have known?'\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Cocoon\" debuted at its peak of number 35 on the UK Singles Chart on the issue dated 17 March 2002. It fell to number 65 the next week, before falling off the chart. The song debuted at number 61 in France, on the issue dated 23 March 2002, but fell to number 89 the next week, before falling off the chart. In Spain, \"Cocoon\" had commercial success, peaking at number eight on its singles chart.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Cocoon\" was directed by Eiko Ishioka and shot in April 2001 in New York City. It was premiered at Raindance Film Festival on 24 October 2001, and was made available online through the singer's official website on 12 February 2002. Its treatment was described as playing with \"minimalist white for both costume and bleached eyebrows, treating Björk as a geisha whose makeup extends over her entire nude body\". The video begins with many apparently nude Björks singing. Throughout the video, red threads emerge from her nipples and circulate between her breasts and nose, finally enveloping her in a cocoon. Björk actually wore a very close-fitting body suit. Following the music video for previous single \"Pagan Poetry\", it was also banned from prime-time MTV. The music video for \"Cocoon\" was included in the DVDs \"Volumen Plus\" (2002) and \"Greatest Hits - Volumen 1993–2003\" (2002).\n\nBjörk performed \"Cocoon\" on the 2001 Vespertine World Tour. It was later included on the DVD titled \"Live at Royal Opera House\", released in 2002. The song was also performed by the singer on the American talk show \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\". Jeremy Allen from \"NME\" magazine included it on his list of \"10 Greatest Musical Moments\" on the show, commenting, \"with her fingers tinted like icicles and the background sonics just a sparse and glitchy soundscape with tinkles of warm xylophone like the inside of some ethereal cave, the singer takes a little bit of Iceland to the USA - via heaven - with her voice as commanding as it ever was\". She also performed it across Europe following its release as a single, including \"The Jonathan Ross Show\", \"Die Harald Schmidt Show\", \"Johnny Vaughan Tonight\", \"Top of the Pops\", and Music Planet 2Nite.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"Cocoon\" liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256432", "title": "Francis Chapin", "text": "Francis Chapin\n\nFrancis W. Chapin (February 14, 1899 – February 23, 1965) was an American artist. His works included both watercolors and oil paintings of landscapes and portraits.\n\nHe was born in Bristolville, Ohio. He graduated from Washington and Jefferson College, where he was a member of Phi Delta Theta, in 1921. A year later he enrolled at the Art Institute of Chicago where he spent six years and won the Bryan Lathrop Fellowship in his last year. He chose to remain in Chicago where he became known as the “Dean of Chicago Painters.” It wasn't until 1929 when he hosted his first pair of one-man shows.\n\nChapin was an instructor at the Art Institute of Chicago from 1929 to 1947. In 1932, Chapin was approached by Grant Wood and accepted a faculty position at the Stone City Art Colony, where he taught lithography for two summers. From 1934 to 1938, he taught at Art Institute of Chicago's summer art school at Saugatuck, Michigan, and he served as director of the summer school from 1941 to 1945. He was also the Artist-in-Residence at the Old Sculpin Gallery on Martha's Vineyard for many years. In 1951, he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate member, and became a full member in 1953.\n\nAmong Chapin’s notable showings were at the Art Institute of Chicago, the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts and the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, D.C. His works are in permanent collections at the Art Institute of Chicago, Brooklyn Museum (NYC), Philadelphia Museum of Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art (NYC), Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Syracuse University, and other museums.\n\nChapin died in his home at 347 Menomonee Street in Chicago on February 23, 1965. In reporting his death, one newspaper described Chapin's appearance as follows: \"he was a colorful figure, nearly 6 feet 6 inches tall, and thin, and usually wearing tweeds.\" \n\nChapin's papers are held in the Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256433", "title": "WJCL (TV)", "text": "WJCL (TV)\n\nWJCL, virtual and UHF digital channel 22, is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Savannah, Georgia, United States, serving southeastern Georgia's Coastal Empire and southern South Carolina's Lowcountry. The station is owned by the Hearst Television subsidiary of Hearst Communications. WJCL's transmitter is located in unincorporated western Chatham County, near Bloomingdale; it shares studios with Hardeeville, South Carolina-licensed Fox affiliate and former sister station WTGS (channel 28, now owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group) in the \"Savannah Morning News\" building on Chatham Parkway in Savannah. On cable, the station is available on Comcast Xfinity channel 4 and Charter Spectrum channel 7 or 12. There is a high definition feed offered on Xfinity digital channel 431 and Spectrum digital channel 704 (channel 1105 on former Time Warner Cable systems).\n\nThe station began operations on July 18, 1970. It was the fourth television station to launch in Savannah and immediately became the area's first-ever primary ABC affiliate. Prior to channel 22 signing on, CBS affiliate WTOC-TV (channel 11) and NBC affiliate WSAV-TV (channel 3) shared secondary affiliations with ABC. Originally owned by former Savannah mayor and avid amateur radio operator Julius Curtis Lewis, Jr. (whose initials provided the call sign), the station marked many \"firsts\". At the time, it built the tallest broadcast tower in the market rising some above sea level.\n\nLocal color news film and reel-to-reel videotape were introduced to the Savannah market by WJCL. It claims to have been the first station in the area to televise a live event (President Richard Nixon's Savannah visit and ride in a parade on Skidaway Road) as well as broadcasting in stereo. WJCL-TV and WJCL-FM (96.5 FM) were both run by Lewis Broadcasting's Executive Vice President, J. Fred Pierce, from 1972 until the television station's first sale in 1999. Channel 22 dropped the \"-TV\" suffix from the callsign in 1981.\n\nIn 1982, WJCL swapped affiliations with WSAV (due to the latter's action) and became an NBC affiliate. However, a mere three years later, it returned to ABC in 1985. When Lewis purchased the WNOK television and radio stations in Columbia, South Carolina in 1977, he quickly sold off WNOK radio (for an undisclosed price) and immediately changed the television outlet's callsign to WLTX. In 1982, he purchased WYEA in Columbus, Georgia from AFLAC and changed its calls to WLTZ to follow a similar call letter format used for his station in South Carolina's capitol (including \"LT\" meaning Lewis Television).\n\nIn the early 1990s, Lewis sold two of his radio stations, WSTZ-FM and WSTZ-AM in Jackson, Mississippi for an undisclosed price. In 1999, Lewis Broadcasting sold WJCL to Grapevine Communications, which merged with Piedmont Television around the same time. In the mid-to-late 1990s, Lewis decided to divest an even larger portion of his media interests and sold four of his combined eight owned and/or previously owned radio and television stations including WJCL, WTGS, WJCL-FM, and WLTX. Lewis died in 2005, and on May 1, 2007, Lewis Broadcasting, by then owned by his son, Julius Curtis Lewis III, entered into an agreement with SagamoreHill Broadcasting to sell-off its last remaining television station, WLTZ. In 1995, WJCL became a charter UPN affiliate as a secondary basis until 1997 when former WB affiliate WUBI took over the UPN affiliation.\n\nIn 2001, WJCL partnered with Carleton Public Relations, Inc. to produce \"ABC 22 LawCall\". Radio on-air personality Lexie Kaye was hired by Carleton Public Relations as producer of the weekly live, legal call-in show. The program featured Mike Avery as host along with attorneys from the Carter & Tate firm with a weekly guest and various topics. This was the first legal call-in show in the nation to use the \"LawCall\" name. The show aired until June 2006 on Sunday nights from 11 to 11:30. WJCL and WTGS were sold to New Vision Television (in an ironic twist, a prior incarnation of New Vision once owned rival WSAV) and Parkin Broadcasting respectively in 2007. The station unveiled a new blog-based website in June 2007.\n\nOn November 2, 2007, it was announced that with the recent acquisition of WJCL by New Vision, a brand new website was on the way. The revamped website (operated largely in-house with technology borrowed from Broadcast Interactive Media) featured the usual news, weather, and sports along with streaming video. In January 2009, the websites of WJCL and several of its sister stations migrated to the Inergize Digital Network platform (with KOIN in Portland, Oregon being the first station in the New Vision group featuring it). The station is the setting of the second season of TV Guide Network's \"\" which began airing on June 4, 2008.\n\nOn May 7, 2012, LIN TV Corporation announced that it will acquire the New Vision Television station group for $330.4 million and the assumption of $12 million in debt. Along with the outright ownership of WJCL, the agreement includes the acquisition of New Vision's shared services agreement with Parkin Broadcasting, giving LIN operational control of WTGS. On October 2, the FCC approved the proposed sale to LIN TV. The transaction was completed on October 12.\n\nOn March 21, 2014, LIN Media entered into an agreement to merge with Media General in a $1.6 billion deal. Because Media General already owned NBC affiliate WSAV-TV, the companies were required to sell either WSAV or WJCL to another station owner in order to comply with FCC ownership rules as well as planned changes to those rules regarding same-market television stations which would prohibit sharing agreements. On August 20, 2014, Media General announced that it would keep WSAV and sell WJCL, along with WVTM-TV in Birmingham, Alabama, to Hearst Television, with WTGS going to Sinclair Broadcast Group. The sale was completed on December 19, and Hearst closed on its purchase of WJCL and WVTM on December 22.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWJCL discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 22, on February 17, 2009, the original target date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate (which was later pushed back to June 12, 2009). The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 23 to channel 22.\n\nSyndicated programming on WJCL includes \"Extra\", \"Inside Edition\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" and \"The Doctors\" among others.\n\nWJCL produces a prime time newscast on its sister station (currently known as \"WTGS Fox News at Ten\"). For a while, WTGS also simulcasted WJCL's \"Good Morning Show\" on weekdays (from 5 until 7) but it was dropped at some point.\n\nWJCL and WTGS combined operations with the \"Savannah Morning News\" and be relocated to the newspaper's facility on Chatham Parkway in Savannah. The stations began broadcasting at their new location on October 4, 2011. The station has an hour of news at 5 p.m. with a weekday morning show that airs WTGS from 7 until 8. WJCL does not air a midday show during the week, and also does not air any weekend morning newscasts unlike Hearst's other ABC affiliates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256448", "title": "Rondout Creek", "text": "Rondout Creek\n\nRondout Creek is a tributary of the Hudson River in Ulster and Sullivan counties, New York, United States. It rises on Rocky Mountain in the eastern Catskills, flows south into Rondout Reservoir, part of New York City's water supply network, then into the valley between the Catskills and the Shawangunk Ridge, where it goes over High Falls and finally out to the Hudson at Kingston, receiving along the way the Wallkill River.\n\nThe name of Rondout Creek comes from the fort, or redoubt, that was erected near its mouth. The Dutch equivalent of the English word redoubt (meaning a fort or stronghold) is \"reduyt\". In the Dutch records of Wildwyck, however, the spelling used to designate this same fort is invariably \"Ronduyt\" during the earliest period, with the present form \"rondout\" (often capitalized) appearing as early as November 22, 1666.\n\nThe Roundout Creek became economically important in the 19th century when the Delaware and Hudson Canal followed closely alongside it from Napanoch to the village of Rondout, now part of Kingston, which grew rapidly as the canal's northern port. Today it is important not only for the reservoir, but for the fishing and other recreational opportunities it provides.\n\nDue to the Wallkill, it drains a vast area stretching over all the way down to Sussex County, New Jersey. The high mountains around its upper course and the reservoir, which collects water from three others, also add to its flow.\n\nThe Rondout goes through several different stages because of the changes in surrounding geography and past development, such as the canal and reservoir, that has drawn on its waters. Its headwaters, above the reservoir, are a typical mountain stream. Below the reservoir it remains fairly rocky but widens into the floor of a narrow valley. At Napanoch, where it turns northeast and receives its first significant tributary, the Ver Nooy Kill, it becomes wider, as does the valley it drains, and deeper.\n\nNorth of the Shawangunks, where the Wallkill trickles down from Sturgeon Pool, it is wide enough to be referred to as the Rondout River at some points. At Creeklocks, the former northern outlet of the canal, it becomes wide and deep enough to be navigable, and several marinas line the banks of the stream, now more than wide, at Kingston just above its mouth.\n\nRising below the col between Rocky Mountain and Balsam Cap, the Rondout Creek flows generally southerly down the slopes of Rocky Mountain into a narrow valley, receiving tributary Picket Brook on the left and three unnamed streams from the slopes of Peekamoose Mountain to the right. A mile or two from its source, it reaches some private lands and its first road, Peekamoose Road (Ulster County 42). It has dropped in its first two miles. It turns to the southwest to follow a wider valley, known informally as Peekamoose Gorge. Most of the land surrounding the creek is part of New York's Forest Preserve, \"forever wild\" and thus undeveloped. The rocky stream boasts several popular swimming holes, one of which is known as Blue Hole for the greenish tone of the deep water within. South of the small outlet stream from Peekamoose Lake, it is crossed and then followed by Peekamoose Road, which at first runs high above the creek but then close by it.\n\nAlong here it receives several tributaries from the right — Buttermilk Falls Brook, with its eponymous waterfall near its mouth, High Falls Brook and Bear Hole Brook — most of them rising, like the Rondout itself, in the Slide Mountain Wilderness Area to the west. To the east is another Forest Preserve management unit, the Sundown Wild Forest. Some unnamed tributaries come from here. Because of the protected areas on both sides of the creek and the ease of public access, this area has become one of the Catskills' popular trout streams, and fly-fishermen can be seen here during the season.\n\nIt crosses under Peekamoose Road, here also carrying the Long Path hiking trail, again just north of a popular camping area in the small Peekamoose Wild Forest, and then passes the hamlet of Sundown and widens slightly as a floodplain develops alongside. The land along the creek is now largely in private hands, and there is little public access to it as it crosses into Sullivan County.\nAfter crossing under NY 55A, it widens into the reservoir just below Grahamsville and begins flowing more to the east-southeast. Routes 55 and 55A bracket the reservoir to the south and north respectively. One-third of the way along the reservoir's length, it crosses back into Ulster County. Now at an elevation of , the creek resumes at the site of the former hamlet of Lackawack, leaving the Catskill Park, now headed eastwards, in a rocky, wider streambed through some slightly more development.\n\nIt follows closely alongside Route 55, deviating from it only when it turns north to Honk Lake, another impoundment. Past here it crosses under 55 again and comes into Napanoch. After crossing under US 209 and receiving the Ver Nooy Kill it bends northeast, paralleling the Shawangunk Ridge and the edge of the Catskill Plateau.\n\nThe creek, here wider and deeper, forms the bed of a widening valley as it continues northeast past Eastern Correctional Facility, where the first remnant of the canal, an empty ditch next to an old railroad station, can be found alongside. The creek continues towards Kerhonkson, where Route 55 and US 44 cross over. US 209 continues paralleling the Rondout towards High Falls, as it begins to curve to the east around the northern end of the ridge.\n\nHere, it goes over the spectacular waterfall that gives the community its name, just below NY 213. These were the subject of controversy in recent years, since they were considered both a popular swimming hole and an attractive nuisance. The local fire department, which owned the land, had to sell it to keep its liability insurance premiums affordable, and the new owner has posted the property for the same reason.\n\nAround the north end of the Shawangunks, it receives as tributaries many of the streams of the Minnewaska State Preserve: Peters Kill, Stony Kill and Coxing Kill. It begins to curve more to the east again. Route 213 replaces Route 209 as the Rondout's paralleling road, with the canal's empty ditch running next to both along the way to Rosendale, the next settlement, which grew up around the canal and, later, a local cement industry that used the creek to get its product to market.\n\nHere it crosses under Route 213 and NY 32 in a gravel-lined flood control channel, but returns to a more natural bed shortly afterwards to flow beneath the New York State Thruway. In the wooded areas east of the Thruway, the Wallkill River, its flow attenuated by Sturgeon Pool just upriver, joins in from the south. The Rondout turns north, then east again, crossing Route 213 again. At Creeklocks the last lock and the end of the canal are still visible.\nIn Kingston itself it widens and flows under a pair of bridges, the historic Kingston–Port Ewen Suspension Bridge, which carried US 9W until the construction of the neighboring John T. Loughran Bridge. The city's West Strand neighborhood along the waterfront has been rejuvenated in recent years and many boats can be seen moored at docks here on summer weekends. Old shipbuilders' factories line the northern bank, and one of them has been converted into the Hudson River Maritime Museum. After a slight curve through swampier, less developed lowlands in the Kingston Point neighborhood, the Rondout empties into the Hudson at Rondout Lighthouse, just opposite Rhinecliff.\n\nThe early Dutch settlers realized the value of the creek for their colonial ambitions. However, the contention that a trading post or fort was established at the mouth of the Rondout in the early part of the 17th century is thoroughly debunked in Marc B. Fried's The Early History of Kingston and Ulster County, NY, pp. 3–14 and 155-61. The first non-Native structure at this location was undoubtedly the house of settler Christoffel Davits in 1653, and a fort was built here by the colonial government in 1660. The local Native Americans likewise frequented the area. In 1652, an Englishman, Thomas Chambers, became the first to acquire a land deed from the Indians, nearby, along the Esopus Creek (which has a vast expanse of good farmland), and thus began the genesis of present-day Kingston. The Rondout's role in the area's early settlement was as a port for the settlement that was made along the Esopus Creek [The Early History of Kingston, chapter 2]\n\nSettlement did slowly progress inland, but it was not until well after American independence that the Rondout would become economically important. In the early 1820s two Philadelphia businessmen realized the immense profits that could be made if they could find a way to get the mostly unmined high-quality anthracite coal from undeveloped Northeastern Pennsylvania to the lucrative markets of New York City. Railroads had not yet been perfected, so they saw the possibility of a canal running from Honesdale, Pennsylvania, to the Hudson at what was then the village of Rondout. In 1828 they obtained a charter for their company to do this, and the Delaware and Hudson Canal was opened a few years later. Coal was transferred from canal barges to river ships at Rondout, and it became a boomtown quickly. The canal remained a prosperous operation until late in the 19th century when rail transportation finally became more affordable, and ended its days in 1904 after a brief period carrying Rosendale cement. The former terminal port area for the canal is now Kingston's Rondout-West Strand Historic District, listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, the stream would find another important use. Naturalist John Burroughs had anticipated it when he explored the upper headwaters with a friend early in the century, writing in his essay \"A Bed of Boughs\" of the purity of the stream's waters and its benefits for both man and fish:\n\nStarting in 1915 with Ashokan Reservoir, New York City had been expanding its water supply system with reservoirs in the Catskills. In 1937 it began construction of Merriman Dam near Lackawack, which would soon be flooded forever to allow the growing city to tap the pure waters Burroughs had written about. Those waters began to reach city taps in 1951, and the reservoir itself was completed three years later. Today, via the Delaware Aqueduct, and the connections it has via the Neversink Aqueduct to the Neversink, Pepacton and Cannonsville reservoirs to the west supplementing the upper Rondout's drainage, it supplies half the city's daily water draw.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256452", "title": "It's in Our Hands", "text": "It's in Our Hands\n\n\"It's in Our Hands\" is a song by Icelandic recording artist and songwriter Björk, released as the first and only single from her first greatest hits album \"Greatest Hits\" (2002). Like her previous work, the song was written by her and co-produced by her along with Matmos. Musically, \"It's in Our Hands\" is an electronic song that is influenced by glitch music, abstract sounds, ambient and synthpop. The song received favorable reviews from many music critics and reached number 37 in the United Kingdom.\n\n\"It's in Our Hands\" is mostly distinctive for its usage of \"bubbling keyboards and clicks.\" The song relies heavily on a sample taken from Gigi Masin's song \"Clouds\" from the album \"Les Nouvelles Musiques De Chambre\" (1989).\n\n\"PopMatters\"s Kila Packett said that in the song \"Björk's distinctly broken voice dances nakedly across the canvas like a newborn child—virginal and sensually full of life. Beautifully chimed ticks, scratches, clangs and lush melodic vibrations support her breathy voice. With layers and layers of nicely timed loops, rings, and jingles she has concocted a stereophonic world of audible feasting.\"\n\n\"It's in Our Hands\" received favorable reviews from music critics. Heather Phares from AllMusic called the song \"lovely\" saying \"the lovely \"It's in Our Hands,\" help compensate for the omissions about which fans could potentially complain.\" to which she referenced the lack of other tracks on her greatest hits album. While commenting on the omitting of most of Bjork's successful songs on the compilation, Chris Ott from \"Pitchfork\" said \"A few stellar long-players like \"Headphones\" and \"The Anchor Song\" also fall by the wayside, but it may be worth whatever sacrifice for the bubbling keyboards and clicks behind her latest single \"It's in Our Hands\" [...]\" Sal Cinquemani from Slant Magazine said that this song along with \"Play Dead\" were the only good songs on the album due to the absence of many other good tracks from the compilation. Scott Plagenhoef from \"Stylus Magazine\" said \"On the hits collection, the crumbs for the completist include two singles mixes—the sublime “All Is Full of Love” and four-to-the-floor “Violently Happy”—a wide released for her John Barryesque David Arnold collaboration, “Play Dead,” and a new song, the gorgeous “It’s in Our Hands.” The well-chosen hits package is the best Björk primer and the place to go for casual fans. Whether it offers enough reason for her die-hard fans to purchase it is less certain.\"\n\nThe music video, directed by Spike Jonze, features a very pregnant Björk shot at night with a night-vision camera amongst bushes. Her image is transposed against close-ups of flowers, plants, and bugs to make her appear as if she is smaller than them. There are also shots of underwater scenes interspersed throughout the video.\n\nA second video was directed by Lynn Fox and set to the Soft Pink Truth remix of \"It's in Our Hands\". The remix and its video received certain attention.\n\nUK CD1\n\nUK CD2\n\nUK/EU DVD\n\nEU CD\n\nJP CD\n\n12\"\n\"It's in Our Hands\", being the only single released from \"Greatest Hits\", was normally played at the end of same era concerts, but existed in two different versions. One was seemingly identical to the album version, but featured an Inuit version of the children's song \"Paddycake\", whereas the other version was actually a dance remix by the Soft Pink Truth. This version is especially popular amongst fans and has been described as \"spending a long winter at home (\"Vespertine\") and then having a discoball drop out of your ceiling\".\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"It's in Our Hands\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2256453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256453", "title": "Nothhelm of Sussex", "text": "Nothhelm of Sussex\n\nNoðhelm, or Nunna for short, was King of Sussex, apparently reigning jointly with Watt, Osric, and Æðelstan.\n\nKelly noted the names of rulers in Sussex starting with Aethel- and Os- and suggested they might have been relatives. She also referred to the King list of Hwicce in this respect and its similarity. Queen Eafe was an Hwiccean princess (Bede) and married to Aethelwalh. Following Anglo-Saxon naming patterns (A-S genealogies and the observation of Kelly), King Aethelwalh could be said to have been an older relative of King Aethelstan and Queen Aethelthryth; Aethelstan and Aethelthryth could be said to have been older kinsfolk of King Aethelberht (of the South Saxons). Slaughter (\"Rulers of the South Saxons before 825\") contends that Aethelthryth was Nothhelm's wife. Following the same comments from Kelly, it could also be said that Alderman Osric of Hwicce might have been an ancestor of Alderman Osric of Sussex and Bishop Osa of Selsey and that Kings Osmund and Oslac might have been younger members of the same family. On the same basis (re: genealogy of the later House of Wessex for comparison) Ealdberht, who rebelled against King Ine in 722 and 725 (A-S Chronicles), could have been a contemporary and relative of Aethelberht. This could point to Nothhelm having died in 722 and a bid by Ealdberht, known to have been a dissident (A-S Chronicles), to become a king in Sussex. King Watt is not heard of after circa 700 (cartulary evidence), indicating that he might have died at about this time. \n\nIn 692 Noðhelm granted land to his sister Noðgyð (Nothgyth). He was styled \"Nothelmus rex Suthsax’\" in the body of the charter, but he signed it as \"Nunna rex Sussax’\". Nothgyth was granted land to build a minster, and in the charter it states that she promised to be Bishop Wilfrid's nun and to go on a pilgrimage. In these early years a Christian example certainly needed to be set, for it was during the 690s that Cuthman established his mission at Steyning, otherwise known as Cuthman's Port, to convert the South Saxons from their heathenry. This was in spite of Wilfrid's conversion of Sussex in the previous decade. Moreover, there was the martyrdom of St Lewinna, killed by pagans c. 690 probably at Alfriston. Noðhelm’s last surviving charter, in which he was called \"Nunna rex Suthsax’\", is dated 714, probably in error for 717, so his reign began in or before 692 and ended in or after 717. In this charter, witnessed by King Aethelstan and Queen Aethelthryth, Nothhelm expressed the wish to be buried at Church Norton. He is mentioned by the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" as fighting for his kinsman Ine, King of Wessex, against Geraint, King of the Britons, in the year 710. Many scholars are of the opinion that the main battle was fought at Langport in Somerset, where King Geraint of Dumnonia was slain (Armes Prydain). Another important event during Nothhelm's reign was the establishment of the Diocese of Selsey for the South Saxons, probably in 705 (Kelly). Until this development Sussex had come under the See of Winchester (Kelly). 705 is also the earliest date (Kelly) for Nothhelm's charter allowing four hides to be granted at Peppering to Berhfrith. This man was to build a church at Peppering where prayers could to be said for the king. \n\nTwo of his charters were witnessed <and signed?> by Cœnred, King of Wessex. Concerning one of these, strangely dated 775, Barker (1947) commented: \n\nBut Kelly (1998) concluded that this charter \"is without doubt a forgery, and not an innocent tenth-century copy of a genuine eighth-century charter. The incarnation date is impossible for the donor and beneficiary, and for the witnesses to the charter. Birch's suggested emendation to 725 is still unsatisfactory, since it is too late for Bishop Eadberht and does not agree with the indication\". Hence it is wrong to extend Noðhelm's reign to 725 on the authority of this charter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256460", "title": "WTGS", "text": "WTGS\n\nWTGS, virtual channel 28 (UHF digital channel 26), is a Fox-affiliated television station licensed to Hardeeville, South Carolina, United States, serving southern South Carolina's Lowcountry and southeastern Georgia's Coastal Empire, including Savannah. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group. WTGS' transmitter is located on Fort Argyle Road/SR 204 in western unincorporated Chatham County, Georgia. The station shares studios with Savannah-licensed ABC affiliate and former sister station WJCL (channel 22, now owned by Hearst Television) in the \"Savannah Morning News\" building on Chatham Parkway in Savannah.\n\nThe station signed-on March 22, 1982 as the market's first general entertainment Independent outlet. It became a charter affiliate with Fox on October 9, 1986. Even then, it still operated technically as an independent station as Fox only aired a late night talk show at first before gradually adding nights of programming until it expanded to a whole week in 1993. Bluenose Broadcasting sold WTGS to California-based Parkin Broadcasting in May 2007 for $17.5 million. The station was previously owned by L.P. Media Inc., an affiliated company of Lewis Broadcasting which owned WJCL. Since Lewis' sale of WTGS and WJCL in 1999, the two outlets have been bought, sold, and refinanced twice. In fact in the most recent sale in 2007, WTGS was sold for $2 million less than its sale price in 1999 with WJCL.\n\nSince the station's sale to L.P. Media in the early-1990s, WTGS has been a sister outlet to WJCL. That station was most recently sold to New Vision Television. While owned-and-operated as a separate entity from WJCL, the station maintained facilities on Independence Boulevard/US 278/SC 141 in Hardeeville. On October 28, 2010, it was announced the two outlets would combine operations with the \"Savannah Morning News\" and be relocated to the newspaper's facility on Chatham Parkway in Savannah. The stations began broadcasting at their new location on October 4, 2011. WTGS and WJCL originally operated out of studios on Abercorn Street in Savannah.\n\nOn May 7, 2012, LIN TV Corporation announced that it will acquire New Vision Television for $330.4 million and the assumption of $12 million in debt. Along with the outright ownership of WJCL, the agreement includes the acquisition of New Vision's shared services agreement with PBC Broadcasting (who is also transferring the licenses of the PBC-owned stations to Vaughan Media), giving LIN operational control of WTGS. On October 2, the FCC approved the sale to LIN TV. The transaction was completed that October 12.\n\nDuring Super Bowl XLVIII, WTGS notably aired a two-minute long advertisement by local personal injury lawyer Jamie Casino, which featured a thriller-styled retelling of how he stopped representing \"cold-hearted villains\" to avenge the shooting death of his brother Michael Biancosino in 2012, culminating with Casino digging through a grave with a sledgehammer. The ad gained media attention following the game as a viral video, and while the station did not provide exact numbers, a WTGS spokesperson stated that the ad was its most expensive advertising sale in history.\n\nOn March 21, 2014, LIN Media entered into an agreement to merge with Media General in a $1.6 billion deal. Because Media General already owned NBC affiliate WSAV-TV (channel 3), the companies were required to sell either WSAV or WJCL to another station owner in order to comply with FCC ownership rules as well as planned changes to those rules regarding same-market television stations which would prohibit sharing agreements. On August 20, 2014, Media General announced that it would keep WSAV and sell WJCL to Hearst Television, with certain assets of WTGS, along with WJAR in Providence, Rhode Island and WLUK-TV and WCWF in Green Bay, Wisconsin, going to Sinclair Broadcast Group in exchange for KXRM-TV and KXTU-LD in Colorado Springs and WTTA in Tampa Bay. Sinclair will also acquire the right to purchase other WTGS assets from WTGS Television LLC. The sale was completed on December 19.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWTGS discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 28, on February 17, 2009, the original target date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate (which was later pushed back to June 12, 2009). The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 27 to channel 28.\n\nSyndicated programming on WTGS includes \"Family Feud\", \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\", and \"The Real\", among others.\n\nThrough a news share agreement established in 1996, WJCL produces a nightly prime time newscast on WTGS (currently known as \"WJCL News at 10 on Fox 28\"). For a while, this station also simulcasted WJCL's \"Good Morning Show\" on weekdays (from 5 until 7) but that broadcast was ultimately dropped at some point in time. On March 16, 2009, WJCL became the first outlet in Savannah to upgrade local newscasts to high definition and the nightly news on WTGS was included. This station also once offered a weekday morning program (airing from 8 until 9) known as \"a.m. ALIVE!\".\n\nOn October 28, 2010, it was announced WJCL and WTGS would combine operations with the \"Savannah Morning News\" and be relocated to the newspaper's facility on Chatham Parkway in Savannah. The stations began broadcasting at their new location on October 4, 2011. As of October 2013, WTGS has competition to its newscast with another local broadcast airing on CW affiliate WGSA and MyNetworkTV/MeTV affiliate WSAV-DT2. That program is simulcasted on those two outlets and only airs on weeknights. In April 2014, WJCL expanded its weekday morning show to air for an additional hour on WTGS (from 7 until 8). In addition to its main studios, WJCL maintain a physical presence in South Carolina's Lowcountry with a bureau on Fording Island Road in Hilton Head.\n\nOn June 1, 2016, WTGS began producing its in-house 10 p.m. broadcast, taking over the responsibility from WJCL. The newscast is produced, technically directed, and anchored at its sister station WPDE-TV in Myrtle Beach/Florence, South Carolina. All news reports and weather duties are handled with local reporters assigned to Savannah to cover the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256463", "title": "Asian studies", "text": "Asian studies\n\nAsian studies is the term used usually in North America and Australia for what in Europe is known as Oriental studies. The field is concerned with the Asian people, their cultures, languages, history and politics. Within the Asian sphere, Asian studies combines aspects of sociology, history, cultural anthropology and many other disciplines to study political, cultural and economic phenomena in Asian traditional and contemporary societies. Asian studies forms a field of post-graduate study in many universities.\n\nIt is a branch of area studies, and many Western universities combine Asian and African studies in a single faculty or institute, like SOAS in London. It is often combined with Islamic studies in a similar way. The history of the discipline in the West is covered under Oriental studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256469", "title": "Friedrich Karl Ludwig, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck", "text": "Friedrich Karl Ludwig, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck\n\nFriedrich Karl Ludwig of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck (20 August 1757 – 24 April 1816) was the ninth and penultimate Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck. Friedrich Karl Ludwig was the son of Prince Karl Anton August of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck and his wife Countess Charlotte of Dohna-Schlodien.\n\nFriedrich Karl Ludwig was born in Königsberg, East Prussia. He joined the Prussian Army in 1777 upon the request of King Frederick the Great. By 1781 he was a staff officer in the Regiment von Schlieben and by 1787 he commanded a grenadier battalion based in Königsberg. He assisted in the suppression of the 1794 Kościuszko Uprising and was Governor of Kraków in 1795. He retired from Prussian service as a lieutenant general in 1797 and spent the rest of his life improving agriculture in Holstein. He died in Wellingsbüttel Manor, now part of Hamburg.\n\nHe was a recipient of the Order of the Elephant, Order of St. Alexander Nevsky, Order of the Red Eagle, and the Order of Saint Hubert.\n\nFriedrich married Countess Friederike of Schlieben (28 February 1757 – 17 December 1827) on 9 March 1780 in Königsberg. At the time, the marriage was not looked upon favorably because the Schlieben family was not an ancient noble family. Friedrich and Friederike had three children:\n\n\nFriedrich was succeeded as duke by his son, Friedrich Wilhelm, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256475", "title": "Wilbur Cooper", "text": "Wilbur Cooper\n\nArley Wilbur Cooper (February 24, 1892 – August 7, 1973) was an American starting pitcher in Major League Baseball who played most of his career for the Pittsburgh Pirates. A four-time winner of 20 games in the early 1920s, he was the first National League left-hander to win 200 games. He established NL records for left-handers – second only to Eddie Plank among all southpaws – for career wins (216), innings pitched (3466⅓) and games started (405); all were broken within several years by Eppa Rixey. His career earned run average of 2.89 is also the lowest of any left-hander with at least 3000 innings in the NL. He still holds the Pirates franchise records for career victories (202) and complete games (263); he also set club records, since broken, for innings (3201), strikeouts (1191), and games pitched (469).\n\nCooper was born in Bearsville, West Virginia, and his family moved to Waterford, Ohio when he was a boy. He began his professional career in 1911 with a Marion, Ohio minor league team partially owned by future U.S. President Warren G. Harding; some reports suggested that Harding was the person who recommended Cooper to the Pirates, although he pitched for another minor league team before reaching the majors. In his first start with Pittsburgh in , he pitched a shutout against the St. Louis Cardinals. In he set a team record, still unbroken, with a 1.87 earned run average. He won at least 17 games each year from through , peaking with seasons of 24, 22 and 23 wins from 1920 to 1922, and led the league in starts and complete games twice each, and in wins, innings and shutouts once each. He worked quickly in his starts, often not getting the signal from his catcher until he had already begun his windup. Also known as an excellent fielder, in he became the only pitcher in major league history to begin two triple plays in a single season (on July 7 and August 21), and in 1924 he picked off a record seven runners at third base; that year the Pirates finished within three games of first place, the closest he would come to a championship.\n\nIn October 1924 Cooper was traded to the Chicago Cubs, along with Charlie Grimm and Rabbit Maranville, in a decidedly unpopular six-player deal; he was greatly disappointed to leave the Pirates, and never pitched as effectively again. In , while Pittsburgh won the NL pennant for the first time since 1909, he surpassed Rube Marquard for the NL career innings record for left-handers; the following year, he broke Marquard's league record for career starts. In June he was picked up by the Detroit Tigers, and he ended his major league career after eight games with the team, though he played in the minor leagues through 1930. Over his career, he was 216–178 with a 2.89 ERA in 517 games, and struck out 1252 batters in 3480 innings. In addition to his NL career records for left-handers in wins, starts and innings, he also ranked second among league southpaws to Marquard in strikeouts (1250) and games pitched (509), second to Ted Breitenstein in complete games (279), and second to Nap Rucker in shutouts (35). His Pirates team records for innings and strikeouts were later surpassed by Bob Friend, and his record for games pitched was broken by teammate Babe Adams in 1926. Cooper, who batted right-handed, was also a fine hitter, and teammate Pie Traynor recalled that he would often bat in the #8 slot when he was starting; in 1924, he batted .346 in 104 at bats. He had a career .239 average with 6 home runs and 106 RBI.\n\nCooper died of a heart attack at age 81 in Encino, California, and was buried on the Forest Lawn Memorial Park (Hollywood Hills).\n\n"}
{"id": "2256476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256476", "title": "WSCG (TV)", "text": "WSCG (TV)\n\nWSCG, virtual channel 34 (UHF digital channel 35), is a TCT Network-operated television station licensed to Baxley, Georgia, United States, serving southeastern Georgia's Coastal Empire (including Savannah) and southern South Carolina's Lowcountry. Owned by Winemiller Television, LLC, it is a sister station to Beaufort, South Carolina-licensed low-powered Court TV affiliate WSCG-LD, channel 14 (and its Savannah-licensed translator WGCB-LD, channel 36). Radiant Life Ministries, a sister company to Tri-State Christian Television, operates full-power WSCG under a local marketing agreement (LMA); an outright sale of the station is pending approval by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). WSCG and WSCG-LD share studios on Sams Point Road in Beaufort; the full-power station's transmitter is located on Fort Argyle Road/SR 204 in unincorporated western Chatham County, Georgia.\n\nThe station signed on as WUBI on May 1, 1992 and aired an analog signal on UHF channel 35. It was an independent station at first but joined The WB in 1995 and became known as \"WB 34\". The station affiliated with UPN in early 1997 as \"UPN 13\" (using the station's cable channel for branding) after ABC affiliate WJCL originally carried UPN as a secondary affiliate. From 1997 until 1998, The WB's programming was only seen on cable and satellite providers in the Baxley and Savannah areas via the national feed of Chicago-based superstation WGN-TV. From 1998 onwards, WGN was displaced on those providers by a cable-only WB-affiliated station using the fictional call letters \"WBVH\" (known on-air as \"WB 15\") as a member of The WB 100+ Station Group.\n\nDuring the analog era, WGSA's transmitter was located on the western fringe of the Savannah market and was too far away to provide most of the area with a good signal. As a result, it was seen in Savannah itself on Class A repeater WGSA-CA. That repeater was originally W34BO and was assigned in mid-November 1992 on channel 34 but the frequency proved problematic. It became WUBI-LP on channel 38 in late-April 1996 but there were still reception problems. It became WGSA-LP on channel 50 in mid-September 1998 with a further upgrade to Class A (-CA) status in August 2001. The WGSA-CA license was canceled by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on February 3, 2015, due to the station having been silent since May 2, 2012.\n\nIn January 2006, it was announced that The WB and UPN would end operations in September 2006 to form The CW, a combination of the best programs from both networks. It was made public on April 23 that WGSA would affiliate with The CW. In response to this announcement, Comcast removed \"WBVH\" from its channel lineup. Its successor, The CW Plus, affiliated with WGCW-LP, a low power station co-owned with WGSA on channel 38 and available exclusively on Comcast channel 240 as part of their digital lineup. WGCW was also available over-the-air via WGSA's second digital subchannel until September 11, 2016.\n\nWGSA had a modified construction permit for digital television on channel 35 which made it high-power for the first time and put the station's transmitter site just west of Savannah. On September 28, 2007, the \"Savannah Morning News\" reported after years of being the only local station Comcast rebroadcast from an over-the-air signal, WGSA had a fiber-optic cable placed into their master control connecting directly to the cable company giving the station a much clearer signal.\n\nOn April 1, 2016, it was announced that WGSA would lose its CW affiliation to the second digital subchannel of WSAV-TV on September 12 of that year. Following a Chapter 11 bankruptcy auction in September 2017, Lowcountry 34 Media, LLC (operated by Jeff and Janet Winemiller) agreed to buy the station from Southern TV Corporation for $1.2 million. Lowcountry 34 Media had reserved the call sign WSCG for assignment when it took control February 1, 2018. WSCG resumed broadcasting April 1, 2018 under new ownership.\n\nOn May 21, 2019, it was announced that Lowcountry 34 Media would sell WSCG to HC2 Holdings for $2.6 million. The sale received FCC approval on July 2, 2019; however, Winemiller Television filed a notice of non-consummation of the purchase on November 7. Subsequently, on January 28, 2020, Lowcountry 34 Media announced it would sell the station to Tri-State Christian Television affiliate company Radiant Life Ministries for $3 million. Following the closure of the purchase, which is expected to occur during the spring or summer of 2020, channel 34 will convert into an owned-and-operated station of the TCT Network; this would result in WSCG becoming the first full-power religious station in the Savannah market. (Religious programming in the market has historically been offered by low-power stations including WHDS-LD [channel 32.1], a repeater of Atlanta-based WATC-DT, and two now-defunct LPTVs: TBN station WDID-LP [channel 26], which went silent in August 2015 and had its license canceled by the FCC in February 2017, and SonLife Broadcasting Network affiliate WXSX-CA [channel 46], which had its license canceled in May 2019.)\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWSCG (as WGSA) shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 34, on February 17, 2009, the original target date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate (which was later pushed back to June 12, 2009). The station's digital signal broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 35.\n\nIn addition to its main signal, WSCG operated two digital translators.\n\nThe two former translators now operate independently as WSCG-LD and WGCB-LD, respectively, with WSCG-LD broadcasting its own programming and WGCB-LD acting as its translator. WGSA's signal was also repeated by WGCW-LP in Savannah, Georgia. WGCW-LP's license was cancelled by the Federal Communications Commission effective February 16, 2017, due to having been silent since September 12, 2016.\n\nIn-early October 2013, WGSA established a news share agreement with NBC affiliate WSAV-TV, channel 3 (at the time owned by Media General). The arrangement resulted in a prime time newscast debuting on this station. Known on-air as \"WSAV News 3 at 10\", the program was seen for thirty minutes on weeknights. It was effectively \"moved\" from previously airing at 7 p.m. on MyNetworkTV/MeTV outlet WSAV-DT2 (now a CW affiliate). With the switch to 10 o'clock, the show later broadcast in high definition on WGSA and was seen through a standard definition simulcast on WSAV-DT2. The newscast was also streamed live on WSAV's website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256478", "title": "Spencer G. Lucas", "text": "Spencer G. Lucas\n\nSpencer George Lucas is an American paleontologist and stratigrapher, and curator of paleontology at the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science. His main areas of study are late Paleozoic, Mesozoic and early Cenozoic vertebrate fossils, stratigraphy, and continental deposits, particularly in the American Southwest. His research has taken him on field trips to northern Mexico, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, and Georgia, and he conducted extensive field and museum research in China in the 1980s and 1990s. He has written more than 500 scientific contributions (about 25-percent are articles in peer-reviewed journals), three books, and has co-edited 14 books.\n\nIn 2007, some publications by Lucas and associates at the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science came under scrutiny after allegations that information was improperly taken from the unpublished and in-press work of graduate students not on his team. Formal complaints were made to the New Mexico Department of Cultural Affairs regarding publications on a new genus of aetosaur (a type of armored prehistoric reptile from the Triassic), and a reinterpretation of another aetosaur's armor. In July 2008, the Ethics Committee of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology concluded that the matter could not be resolved in favor of either side.\n\nIn 2012, he co-authored a paper describing the world's smallest tetrapod footprints, found at Joggins, Nova Scotia.\n\nLucas was a master-level chess player (New Mexico state champion in 1973 and 1974). He gave up chess, for the most part, in the mid-1970s to focus on his academic career.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256481", "title": "Chairs Missing", "text": "Chairs Missing\n\nChairs Missing is the second studio album by English rock band Wire. It was released in August 1978. The album peaked at number 48 in the UK Albums Chart.\n\nAlthough it features some of the minimalist punk rock of the band's debut \"Pink Flag\", it features more developed song structure (taking some cues from 1970s prog-rock, psychedelia, and art rock), keyboard and synthesizer elements brought in by producer Mike Thorne, and a broader palette of emotional and intellectual subject matter. The title is said to be a British slang term for a mildly disturbed person, as in \"that guy has a few chairs missing in his front room\". The single \"Outdoor Miner\" was a minor hit, peaking at number 51 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nIn their retrospective review, Steve Huey of AllMusic gave the album five stars out of five and wrote \"The arty darkness of \"Chairs Missing\", combined with the often icy-sounding synth/guitar arrangements, helps make the record a crucial landmark in the evolution of punk into post-punk and goth, as well as a testament to Wire's rapid development and inventiveness.\" BBC Music called the album a \"glorious avant-pop coup\" and (referring to the 2006 edition of the album) \"the most satisfying of the three reissues [the others being \"Pink Flag\" and \"154\"].\" In 2004 \"Pitchfork\" listed \"Chairs Missing\" as 33rd best album of the 1970s. In 2013 \"NME\" listed the album as the 394th greatest album of all time.\n\nIn 2004 the US record label Words-on-Music released \"A Houseguest's Wish\", a CD tribute album to the band consisting solely of 19 different versions of the \"Chairs Missing\" track \"Outdoor Miner\".\n\nCredits adapted from the 2018 Special Edition. \n\nAll music written by Colin Newman, except where noted. All lyrics written by Graham Lewis, except where noted.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>The bonus tracks on the 1989 and 1994 reissues were removed from the 2006 remastered reissue because they, according to the band, didn't honour the \"conceptual clarity of the original statements\".\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of the 2018 Special Edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256484", "title": "PAC Cresco", "text": "PAC Cresco\n\nThe PAC Cresco is a turboprop-powered derivative of the FU-24 PAC Fletcher aerial topdressing aircraft, manufactured by the Pacific Aerospace Corporation in Hamilton, New Zealand. The Cresco was superseded by the P-750XSTOL in the early 21st century but in 2019 it was announced a modified version was to return to production.\n\nThe Cresco is a low-wing monoplane which, like the Fletcher but unlike most topdressers, has tricycle undercarriage and places the cabin forward of the hopper, at the leading edge of the wing - which gives the pilot of the Cresco a good field of vision. The high-lift wing has pronounced dihedral on the outer span. The prototype Cresco (ZK-LTP) had an all-moving tailplane, but was lost when the tailplane separated in flight, (the pilot parachuting to safety). Subsequent aircraft have had conventional tails.\n\nSales of the Cresco were not as impressive as those of the piston-engine powered Fletcher, with only 39 examples being built before production was terminated. The Cresco has been sold in several countries and has pioneered new utility roles not explored by the Fletcher. Although used primarily to spread superphosphate fertiliser, the Cresco is also used in the utility role, especially as a skydiving platform, where its fast rate of climb () has made it popular, and as a firefighting water bomber, a role it can perform with little alteration from its standard agricultural layout. One aircraft has been converted for aeromagnetic survey. A disadvantage in the utility role is the low internal volume available for the relatively high-powered engine.\n\nThe Cresco is normally flown by a single pilot, but has a second seat in all versions. It can carry nine sky divers. Usual powerplant is a Pratt & Whitney Canada PT6-34AG.\n\nThe PAC 750XL, a utility aircraft was derived from the Cresco, and retains its high-lift wing. As of January 2019 120 PAC 750XL's have been produced and it remains in high demand as an uncompromising utility aircraft able to operate in hot and high conditions.\nOn 17 December 2019 Pacific Aerospace posted on Facebook an announcement by CEO Mark Crouch that the type would return to production as the Cresco II, with some modifications regarding pilot safety and comfort, for an unnamed New Zealand customer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256490", "title": "Simon Lennox-Boyd, 2nd Viscount Boyd of Merton", "text": "Simon Lennox-Boyd, 2nd Viscount Boyd of Merton\n\nSimon Donald Rupert Neville Lennox-Boyd, 2nd Viscount Boyd of Merton (born 7 December 1939) is a British peer.\n\nThe son of Alan Lennox-Boyd, 1st Viscount Boyd of Merton, Lord Boyd was educated at Eton and graduated from Christ Church, Oxford in 1962, with a Bachelor of Arts and in 1966 with a Master of Arts. He was deputy chairman of Arthur Guinness & Sons between 1981 and 1986.\n\nLord Boyd of Merton married Alice Mary Clive (born March 24, 1942), daughter of the writer Lady Mary Clive, on 24 July 1962. They had four children:\n\n\nLord Boyd of Merton lived at Ince Castle in Cornwall until 2018, when it was sold.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256504", "title": "TCP Westwood", "text": "TCP Westwood\n\nTCP Westwood (TCPW) is a sender-side-only modification to TCP New Reno that is intended to better handle large bandwidth-delay product paths (large pipes), with potential packet loss due to transmission or other errors (leaky pipes), and with dynamic load (dynamic pipes).\n\nTCP Westwood relies on mining the ACK stream for information to help it better set the congestion control parameters: Slow Start Threshold (ssthresh), and Congestion Window (cwin). In TCP Westwood, an \"Eligible Rate\" is estimated and used by the sender to update ssthresh and cwin upon loss indication, or during its \"Agile Probing\" phase, a proposed modification to the well-known Slow Start phase. In addition, a scheme called Persistent Non Congestion Detection (PNCD) has been devised to detect persistent lack of congestion and induce an Agile Probing phase to expeditiously utilize large dynamic bandwidth.\n\nThe resultant performance gains in efficiency, without undue sacrifice of fairness, friendliness, and stability have been reported in numerous papers that can be found on The TCP WESTWOOD Home Page. Significant efficiency gains can be obtained for large leaky dynamic pipes, while maintaining fairness. Under a more appropriate criterion for friendliness, i.e. \"opportunistic friendliness\", TCP Westwood is shown to have good, and controllable, friendliness.\n\nTCP Westwood plus is an evolution of TCP Westwood, in fact it was soon discovered that the Westwood bandwidth estimation algorithm did not work well in the presence of reverse traffic due to ack compression. The TCP Westwood+ version is implemented in the Linux kernel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256519", "title": "Brett Cullen", "text": "Brett Cullen\n\nPeter Brett Cullen (born August 26, 1956) is an American actor who has appeared in numerous films and television series.\n\nCullen was born August 26, 1956, in Houston, Texas, the son of Catherine and Lucien Hugh Cullen, an oil industry executive. He graduated from Madison High School in Houston in 1974, subsequently attending the University of Houston from which he graduated in 1979. His alma mater awarded him a Distinguished Alumni Award in April 2012.\n\nCullen has given great credit to his highly acclaimed acting mentor and University of Houston professor, Cecil Pickett, who also mentored such Houston-born actors as Dennis Quaid, Randy Quaid and Brent Spiner. Cullen and Dennis Quaid's close friendship, which continues to this day, dates back to the 1970s; it is Cullen who introduced Dennis Quaid to his current wife, Kimberly Buffington, at a dinner in Austin, Texas. \n\nCullen played Dan Fixx in the 1980s CBS drama \"Falcon Crest\" for two seasons (1986–88) and Sam Cain in the ABC western series \"The Young Riders\" for one season (1989–90). In 1980, he appeared as the second Gideon Chisholm in the last nine episodes of the CBS western miniseries \"The Chisholms\". In the four earlier episodes, the Gideon Chisholm role was played by Brian Kerwin. Cullen was the lead actor as Ned Logan in the short-lived \"Legacy\", which lasted for just one season (1998–99). On the series \"The West Wing\" Cullen played Ray Sullivan, a fictional former State Attorney General and governor of West Virginia and the Republican nominee for Vice President.\n\nHis guest appearances on TV include: \"The Incredible Hulk\", \"Tales from the Crypt\", \"M*A*S*H\", \"V\", \"Matlock\", \"\", \"Ally McBeal\", \"Walker, Texas Ranger\", \"Once and Again\", \"Without a Trace\", \"Cold Case\", \"The Mountain\", \"Monk\", \"\", \"NCIS\", \"Desperate Housewives\", \"Pepper Dennis\", \"Criminal Minds\", \"Lost\", \"Ghost Whisperer\", \" Private Practice\", \"Ugly Betty\", and \"Friday Night Lights\". In 2009, he had a recurring role in the ABC Family television series \"Make It or Break It\".\n\nHe played one of the CAPCOMs in \"Apollo 13\" and real-life astronaut David Scott in the HBO miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\".\n\nIn 1994, Cullen played a small role in Kevin Costner's \"Wyatt Earp\". Subsequent film roles included Jamie Johnson in \"Something to Talk About\", aspiring composer/hired escort Bryan in \"The Hired Heart\" 1997, the spoiled quarterback Eddie Martel in \"The Replacements\" (2000), Charlie Martin in the TV film version of \"On Golden Pond\", Nancy's father Carson Drew in the TV film \"Nancy Drew\", and Barton Blaze (father of Johnny Blaze / Ghost Rider) in the 2007 film \"Ghost Rider\".\n\nIn 2011, he played stepfather to Selena Gomez's character in the romantic comedy \"Monte Carlo\", and in 2012, appeared as a congressman in the \"Batman\" film \"The Dark Knight Rises\". He also played Tom Eckert, father of protagonists Jed and Matt, in the remake of \"Red Dawn\" (a role played in the original 1984 film by Harry Dean Stanton).\n\nCullen has found steady work in numerous television roles for many years. In addition to guest-starring roles in dozens of series, in 1983 he played Bob Cleary in the miniseries \"The Thorn Birds\". In 1997, he was cast as Adam in a three-episode story arc on \"Suddenly Susan\" called \"Love and Divorce American Style\". The following year, he played love interest Luke Barton in the short-lived series \"The Simple Life\" opposite Judith Light. Later in 1998, the UPN television network gave him the starring role of family patriarch Ned Logan in the post-Civil War drama \"Legacy\", which lasted 18 episodes before cancellation.\n\nAfter 2000, he played small recurring roles in ABC's \"Once and Again\", the low-rated series \"The Mountain\", and as a detective in two episodes of \"Desperate Housewives\". Cullen was awarded a meatier part on \"The West Wing\" in 2005–06, when he played West Virginia Governor and Vice Presidential candidate Ray Sullivan. Later in 2006, he played a recurring role on \"Pepper Dennis\", which was cancelled after its first season as well. He played a short-lived love interest of Vanessa Williams' Wilhelmina Slater on \"Ugly Betty\" in early 2007, and followed that up with a story arc as dad Walt Riggins on \"Friday Night Lights\". Although his recurring roles never lasted more than a few episodes, Cullen made the most of parts in the ongoing series \"Lost\", \"Damages\", and \"The Gates\" between 2007–10.\n\nFrom 2011–16, Cullen played the flashback character Nathan Ingram on the hit series \"Person of Interest\". He also plays Mark Keeler, father of Olympic gymnast hopefuls Payson and Becca Keeler, on the ABC Family series \"Make It or Break It\".\n\nOn February 8, 2011, Cullen was named the official spokesman for Houston Works which helps Houston residents with job training and placement, scholarships, consulting, technical initiatives focusing on science, technology, engineering and mathematics and summer job programs along with Youth Summits.\n\nIn 2013, Cullen was cast in the television series \"Devious Maids\", and in 2014 Cullen had recurring roles on the television series \"Revenge\", \"Criminal Minds\", and \"Under the Dome\". He also starred in the film \"The Last Rescue\".\n\nIn 2019, Cullen played Thomas Wayne in the film \"Joker\".\n"}
{"id": "2256522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256522", "title": "Wang Ming-Dao", "text": "Wang Ming-Dao\n\nWang Mingdao () (July 25, 1900 – July 28, 1991) was an independent Chinese Protestant pastor and evangelist imprisoned for his faith by the Chinese government from 1955 until 1980. He has been called the \"Dean of the House Churches.\"\n\nWang's personal name was \"Yong-shung\" () until 1920, when he \"unconditionally submitted to God\" and formally changed his name to \"Mingdao\" () which means approximately \"Testify to the Way.\"\n\nWang was born in the foreign legation quarter of Beijing in 1900 while it was under siege of the Boxers. His early life was one of extreme poverty and repeated illness; but he had an inquiring mind and did well at a London Missionary Society school. He later said his poverty had been something of a spiritual advantage because there were many sins that took money to commit. At first Wang hoped to become a great political leader, and he put a picture of Abraham Lincoln on his wall to remind himself of his goal.\n\nConverted to Christianity at fourteen, Wang came to believe \"that all kinds of sinful practices in society had their exact counterparts in the church.\" He decided that the church \"needed a revolution\" and that God had entrusted to him the mission of bringing it about. In 1919 Wang became a teacher at a Presbyterian mission school in Baoding, a hundred miles south of the capital, but was dismissed in 1920 when he insisted on being baptized by immersion. His mother and sister thought his behavior so peculiar that they believed him mentally ill, and Wang himself later admitted that the \"persecution\" he had received from others was in part the result of his own immaturity.\n\nIn 1923, after a good deal of personal Bible study but no formal theological training, Wang moved towards a more mature understanding of the Protestant doctrine of justification by faith. In February 1925, he began holding religious meetings in his home in Peking, meetings which eventuated in the founding of the Christian Tabernacle, a church which by 1937 had its own building seating several hundred, and which was one of the largest evangelical churches in China during the 1940s. Wang also had an itinerant ministry throughout China, visiting twenty-four of the twenty-eight provinces and taking the pulpit in churches of thirty different denominations. Wang was often absent from his own church for six months of the year. In 1926, Wang began publishing a religious newspaper, \"Spiritual Food Quarterly\" ().\n\nWang believed both that church and state should be separate and that Christians should not be \"yoked together with unbelievers.\" When the Japanese occupied Peking during World War II, they insisted that all churches join in a Japanese organized federation of churches. Wang refused on a number of occasions. Despite threats of various kinds, he was not arrested, and his church was allowed to continue to hold services.\n\nWhen the Communists gained control of China, Wang believed that the new government might indeed allow the religious freedom it had promised. Nevertheless, after the Maoists won the Chinese Civil War, the government pressured churches that had been started by Western missionaries to unite in denouncing Western imperialism. Wang was pressured but refused on the grounds that his church had never had any connection with missionaries.\n\nIn August 1955, Wang was arrested for refusing to join the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM), the state-controlled church. A few months earlier Wang had written a long article attacking the Three-Self Committee headed by Wu Yaozong as a group composed of modernist unbelievers with whom true Christians should have nothing to do. Wang, his wife, and eighteen church members, were imprisoned, and the Christian Tabernacle was closed. After signing a confession, making a humiliating plea for mercy from those he had previously denounced as \"false prophets,\" and promising to participate in the TSPM, Wang was released from prison. Then after recovering from a possible nervous breakdown, Wang recanted, was rearrested in 1957, and was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1963. After the United States reestablished diplomatic relations with China in 1972, human rights organizations began to pressure China to release its political prisoners. When the Chinese government attempted to release Wang in 1979, he refused (like St. Paul in Acts 16: 35-40) to leave until his name had been cleared. In 1980 the prison tricked Wang into leaving, in Wang's words \"not released but...forced out by deception.\"\n\nAfter Wang's release he received numerous visitors to his tiny apartment in Shanghai, including foreigners from Europe, North America, and Asia. The sheer volume of visitors made Chinese security officers nervous, especially since Wang made frank statements about his past treatment by the government. Wang remained unapologetic, and when a member of the Three-Self Church sent him a donation, Wang sent it back.\n\nBetween 1987 and 1989, Wang's physical and mental abilities noticeably declined. In July 1991, Wang was diagnosed with blood clots on his brain, and he died on July 28, followed by his wife's death in 1992. As one authority has noted, despite Wang's old age and declining influence, he had \"remained an unrivaled symbol of uncompromising faith until his death.\"\n\nIn 1928, Wang (through what might be called semi-arrangement) married Liu Jingwen, the much younger daughter of a Protestant pastor in Hangzhou. They experienced a long and happy marriage and had a son, Wang Tianzhe, who survived them; but their temperaments were remarkably dissimilar. Wang was obsessive about details, whereas his wife was (in his words) \"only concerned about the general effect,\" \"happy-go-lucky,\" and \"very forgetful.\" Wang could be hasty to the point of rashness, and he also frequently failed to express proper sympathy or sensitivity. Jingwen was exceptionally patient and considerate of others, but she stunned Wang by correcting him in public, taking the view that since he had spoken unwisely in front of others, she had the duty to correct him before others as well. Wang recalled that after twenty years of instruction from his wife, he had made \"a measure of progress,\" but he also warned readers of his autobiography that Jingwen \"should not necessarily be taken as a model in this respect.\" Wang's sermons also reflected changes in gender relations that occurred during the early Republican period, and he preached about marriage, concubinage, and the place of woman in the family.\n\nWang Mingdao believed in the inerrancy of the Bible, the depravity of man, and justification by faith. He criticized shortcomings of both Chinese and missionary churches, emphasizing that Christians should live holy lives. Wang likened himself to the prophet Jeremiah who had attacked social corruption and false prophets, and Wang especially opposed purveyors of liberal theology such as Western missionaries and the YMCA, which he said had destroyed the faith of young people.\n\nWang founded the Christian Tabernacle, which emphasized \"the practical aspects of the Christian life.\" Wang believed that the greatest responsibility of church leaders was to help Christians \"tread the path of holiness.\" He often refused baptism to converts until they had proved that their Christianity was more than a \"profession of their lips.\" An obsessively orderly man, Wang's advice included admonitions against spitting, flirting, brawling, and chewing on raw garlic. Conversely, he advised Christians to be timely, wear proper attire, and observe traffic rules. Although the Pentecostal preacher who had immersed Wang tried to have him speak in tongues, Wang balked at making repetitive nonsense sounds, and he was repelled by the \"indecorous behavior of some Pentecostals who 'danced, clapped, and shouted wildly' during revival meetings.\"\n\nWang never took the title \"pastor,\" he permitted no choir, and his church had no liturgy. He rarely allowed anyone but his immediate fellow workers to preach from his pulpit, fearing that other preachers might harbor heretical ideas or be living lives \"full of deceit, covetousness, lewdness, envy, pride and selfishness.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256524", "title": "Andrew V. McLaglen", "text": "Andrew V. McLaglen\n\nAndrew Victor McLaglen (July 28, 1920 – August 30, 2014) was a British-born American film and television director, known for\nWesterns and adventure films, often starring John Wayne or James Stewart.\n\nMcLaglen was born in London, the son of British-American actor Victor McLaglen and his wife, Enid Lamont, who moved to Hollywood in the early 1920s, shortly after his birth. He was from a film family that included eight uncles and an aunt, and he grew up on movie sets with his parents, as well as John Wayne and John Ford. After working as an assistant director on a few smaller films, Ford gave him an assistant director job on the 1952 film \"The Quiet Man\".\n\nAfter several more assistant director jobs, McLaglen directed his first film, \"Man in the Vault\" (1956), which was followed by \"Gun the Man Down\" (1956), a western B movie with James Arness, Angie Dickinson and Harry Carey Jr. Both were produced by John Wayne's Batjac Productions. He went on to work extensively in television directing, prolifically directing episodes of \"Perry Mason\" (7), \"Gunslinger\" (5), \"Rawhide\" (6), and then 116 episodes of \"Have Gun – Will Travel\", \"The Lieutenant\" (4), \"The Virginian\" (2), and 96 episodes of \"Gunsmoke\".\n\nHe returned to films, directing \"Shenandoah\" (1965) and \"The Rare Breed\" (1966), both with James Stewart; the war story \"The Devil's Brigade\" (1968) with William Holden, as well as the westerns \"Bandolero!\" co-starring Stewart and Dean Martin and \"Something Big\" starring Martin.\n\nMcLaglen went on to direct \"Mitchell\" (1975) with Joe Don Baker and a trio of adventure films, \"The Wild Geese\" (1978), \"North Sea Hijack\" (1979) and \"The Sea Wolves\" (1980), each of which featured Roger Moore. He later specialized in war or action films, his last being \"Return from the River Kwai\" (1989). He also worked many times with John Wayne in such films as \"McLintock!\" (1963), \"Hellfighters\" (1968), \"The Undefeated\" (1969), \"Chisum\" (1970), and \"Cahill U.S. Marshal\" (1973).\n\nMcLaglen later moved to Friday Harbor, San Juan Island, Washington State, directing plays for San Juan Island Community Theater.\n\nMcLaglen and his first wife, Margarita Harrison, had one child: Sharon McLaglen Lannan (born 1944). He and his second wife, actress Veda Ann Borg, had one child: Andrew Victor McLaglen II (August 3, 1954 – January 16, 2006). He and his third wife, Sally Pierce, had two children, Josh and Mary McLaglen.\n\nAndrew V. McLaglen died August 30, 2014, age 94, in Friday Harbor, Washington.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256533", "title": "Tongzhou District, Beijing", "text": "Tongzhou District, Beijing\n\nTongzhou District (, alternate spellings \"Tungchow\" \"Tungchou\" (T'ung-chou), or Tong County during 1914–1997) is a district of Beijing. It is located in southeast Beijing and considered the eastern gateway to the nation's capital. Downtown Tongzhou itself lies around east of central Beijing, at the northern end of the Grand Canal (on the junction between the Tonghui Canal and the Northern Canal) and at the easternmost end of Chang'an Avenue. The entire district covers an area of , or 6% of Beijing's total area. It had a population of 673,952 at the 2000 Census, and has seen significant growth and development since then, growing to a population of 1,184,000 at the 2010 Census. The district is subdivided into four subdistricts, ten towns, and one ethnic township.\n\nTongzhou was founded in 195 BC during the Western Han Dynasty under the name of Lu (路) County, although there is evidence for human settlement in the Neolithic. At the start of the Eastern Han Dynasty the character Lu by which it was known was altered by the addition of a water radical to become Lu (潞). In 1151 under the Jin dynasty Lu County was renamed Tongzhou, roughly meaning 'the place for passing through', in recognition of its importance as the land and water approach to Beijing.\n\nIn July 1937, subsequent to the infamous Marco Polo Bridge Incident, Tongzhou became another site of determined Chinese resistance. In the Tongzhou Mutiny troops of the nominally Japanese-puppet East Hopei Army rebelled and came to the aid of hard-pressed Kuomintang troops, and attacked the Japanese garrison. In the fall of Tongzhou to the Nationalists, many civilians were murdered and abused as well as captured Japanese military personnel.\n\nThe place name changed to Tong County () when the area was placed under the new municipal region of Beijing in 1914. It again reverted to \"Tongzhou\" when the area was upgraded in 1997 to a district.\n\nOn 11 July 2015, Tongzhou became the second administrative seat of Beijing as a \"sub-administrative center\" for the municipality. Numerous local government departments will be moved to Tongzhou to reduce crowding within the city center of Beijing.\n\nIn 2017, the regional GDP of the district was 75.8 billion yuan, with GDP per capita at 50.3 thousand yuan.\n\nTongzhou District borders the Beijing districts of Shunyi, Chaoyang and Daxing, Wuqing District of Tianjin Municipality, and Langfang City (both the Sanhe City−Dachang County−Xianghe County exclave and Guangyang District) of Hebei province, and is 12 miles from Tiananmen Square and 10 miles from Beijing Capital International Airport.\n\nTongzhou is situated on the North China Plain with an average elevation of . Its climate belongs to the mild temperate zone, with distinct seasons including hot summers and freezing winters. Dust storms are common. It has an annual mean temperature of . and of rainfall. Several large rivers, among them the Wenyu, the Liangshui and Chaobai flow through the district.\n\nTongzhou District is divided into six subdistricts, ten towns, and one ethnic township. Two of the towns of which carry the \"area\" () label.\n\nDowntown Tongzhou is connected to downtown Beijing by Jingtong Expressway and Batong Line, Beijing Subway. Beijing's Fifth and Sixth Ring Road are roughly equidistant from Tongzhou's CBD. Highways lead to Shenyang, Harbin and Tianjin/Tanggu. A seventh ring road, a sixth subway line, a Beijing-Shanghai high-speed railway and a Beijing-Tianjin shuttle are under construction.\n\nTongzhou is currently served by three metro lines operated by Beijing Subway:\n\n\nThere are seven industrial zones with a total area of in Tongzhou, focusing on manufacturing and high-tech industries. Downtown Tongzhou is earmarked for redevelopment into a comprehensive central business district with an emphasis on consumer retail. In agriculture, the district emphasizes on horticulture, fruit-farming, seed-growing and aquatics. The district government is currently promoting Tongzhou's position at the head of the Grand Canal to attract tourists to its Grand Canal Cultural Park. \n\nThe Songzhuang artists' village, where many Chinese contemporary artists live and work, is located in the Tongzhou District.\nCanal Business District is under construction. The Beijing branch of central government owned state enterprises and the Beijing government owned state enterprises will move to Tongzhou. Canal Business District plans to develop industrial clusters of headquarters economy and wealth management.\n\nGallerry of the construction site of Canal Business District:\n\nTongzhou has good education facilities including 113 kindergartens, 141 primary schools, 51 high schools and many adult education colleges. It also boasts the Beijing Materials Institute, Beijing University of Technology and the Beijing Institute of Music. Its hospitals include a specialist tuberculosis treatment center and a hospital specializing in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nPrivate schools include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2256539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256539", "title": "Casillas, Guatemala", "text": "Casillas, Guatemala\n\nCasillas is a town and municipality in the Guatemalan department of Santa Rosa. It serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The town's population is 7698 (2018 census) and the spoken language is Spanish.\n\nNearby villages include El Jute, Minas, Guadalupe, Chapas, San Juan Tapalapa, El Palmar. The nearest town is Nueva Santa Rosa.\n\nThe population is mainly Roman Catholic and the town's festivities to honour the \"Cristo Negro\" take place from January 12 to January 16. The fair consists of many events, including dances, a rodeo, and carnival rides.\n"}
{"id": "2256544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256544", "title": "Prince Karl Anton August of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck", "text": "Prince Karl Anton August of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck\n\nPrince Karl Anton August of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck (10 August 1727, in Marburg – 12 September 1759, in Stettin) was the son of Peter August, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck and Princess Sophie of Hesse-Philippsthal.\n\nOn 30 May 1754, Anton (as he was known) married Countess Frederica Charlotte of Dohna-Schlodien in Leistenau (3 July 1738 - 21 April 1785) in Königsberg. The couple had one child:\n\nAnton would have inherited the dukedom of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck had it not been for his early death of wounds received at the Battle of Kunersdorf. His father Peter outlived him, so the dukedom was passed on from Peter to Anton's only son, Friedrich.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256553", "title": "Margarethe Cammermeyer", "text": "Margarethe Cammermeyer\n\nMargarethe \"Grethe\" Cammermeyer (born March 24, 1942) served as a colonel in the Washington National Guard and became a gay rights activist. \n\nBorn in Oslo, Norway, she became a United States citizen in 1960. In 1961 she joined the Army Nurse Corps as a student. She received a B.S. in nursing in 1963 from the University of Maryland. At the University of Washington School of Nursing, she earned a master's degree in 1976 and a Ph.D. in 1991.\n\nShe had a 15-year marriage to a man and they had four sons. She divorced in 1980. In 1988, when she was 46, she met the woman who later became her wife, Diane Divelbess.\n\nIn 1989, responding to a question during a routine security clearance interview, she disclosed that she is a lesbian. The National Guard began military discharge proceedings against her. On June 11, 1992, she was honorably discharged. Cammermeyer filed a lawsuit against the decision in civil court. In June 1994, Judge Thomas Zilly of the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington ruled that her discharge and the ban on gays and lesbians serving in the military were unconstitutional. She returned to the National Guard and served as one of the few openly gay or lesbian people in the U.S. military while the \"don't ask don't tell\" policy was in effect, until her retirement in 1997.\n\nA television movie about Cammermeyer's story, \"Serving in Silence\", was made in 1995, with Glenn Close starring as Cammermeyer. Its content was largely taken from Cammermeyer's autobiography of the same name.\n\nAfter retirement, Cammermeyer ran for the United States Congress in Washington's 2nd congressional district in 1998. She won the Democratic primary, but lost in the general election to Republican incumbent Jack Metcalf.\n\nIn June 2010, she was appointed to the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services, a committee which is appointed by the United States Secretary of Defense and which reports to the United States Department of Defense.\n\nThe Point Foundation announced plans to honor Cammermeyer with its Point Legend Award in April 2011.\n\nIn 2012, after same-sex marriage was legalized in Washington state, Cammermeyer and her wife Diane Divelbess became the first same-sex couple to get a license in Island County.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256554", "title": "Peter August, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck", "text": "Peter August, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck\n\nPeter August Friedrich, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck (7 December 1697 – 22 March 1775) was a Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck. He was the fifth and youngest son of Frederick Louis, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck and his wife Duchess Louise Charlotte of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg.\n\nBorn in Königsberg, Brandenburg-Prussia, Peter August became Governor General of Reval (Tallinn), Governor of Estonia, and a Field Marshal in the Russian Imperial Army. He died in Reval.\n\nHe was only the \"titular\" duke, because he did not inherit the domain of Beck. It had been inherited by his father's older brother, Duke August (1652–1689), and nephew Frederick William I (1682–1719), and was then sold by the latter's widow to Peter August's older brother, Duke Frederick William II (1687–1749), in 1732. But he re-sold it in 1745 to Baroness Magdalena von Ledebur-Königsbrück. Thus, by the time that Peter August became the head of this cadet branch of the Danish royal dynasty, he was \"Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck\" in name only.\n\nHe is the male line ancestor of Margrethe II of Denmark, Harald V of Norway and Charles, Prince of Wales.\n\nPeter August married Princess Sophie of Hesse-Philippsthal, the daughter of Philip, Landgrave of Hesse-Philippsthal and his wife Countess Katharina Amalie of Solms-Laubach, at Rinteln on 5 September 1723. Sophie died on 8 May 1728 at age thirty-three. Peter August and Sophie had two sons and one daughter:\n\n\nHe married secondly Countess Natália Nikolaievna Golovine, granddaughter of Count Fyodor Golovin, daughter of Count Nicholas Fedorovich Golovin and his wife Sophie Nikitichna Pushkin, on 15 March 1742. The couple had two sons and one daughter:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256557", "title": "Julius Jacobson", "text": "Julius Jacobson\n\nJulius Jacobson (1922 – March 8, 2003) was an American socialist writer and editor who edited \"Anvil,\" \"New International,\" and \"New Politics\", all publications in the Third Camp tradition of socialism, a democratic Marxist tradition sometimes called \"Shachtmanite\" after its significant theorist, Max Shachtman.\n\nJacobson came from an East European Jewish immigrant family in New York City. The family was politically leftist and he was politically active at a very young age, first joining the Communist Party's Young Communist League, but soon leaving that group for the Young People's Socialist League of the Socialist Party, where he became a Trotskyist and met his wife Phyllis Jacobson.\n\nDrafted into military service during World War II, he saw combat in Europe and participated in the liberation of Paris. While in Europe, he participated in contact between European and American Trotskyists.\n\nAn early ally of Max Shachtman and Hal Draper, he followed them out of the Socialist Workers Party and with them was one of the founding members of the Workers Party, later known as the Independent Socialist League, eventually becoming editor of its journal \"New International\".\n\nLike Hal Draper, Jacobson was opposed to the merger of the ISL into the Socialist Party of America and to Shachtman's drift toward the right politically. Unlike Draper, he did not turn his energies toward creating a new socialist group, but rather into the creation of an independent journal, \"New Politics\", in 1961, together with Phyllis Jacobson. He remained active as a writer and editor of \"New Politics\" up until his death in 2003.\n\nIn addition to his work published in \"Anvil\", \"New International\" and \"New Politics\", Jacobson contributed to the following books: \"The American Communist Party. A critical history, 1919-1957\" (pub 1957 with Irving Howe and Lewis Coser), \"The Negro and the American Labor Movement\" (1968), \"Soviet Communism and the Socialist Vision\" (1972) and \"Socialist Perspectives\" (1983, with Phyllis Jacobson).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256563", "title": "Haley Paige", "text": "Haley Paige\n\nHaley Paige (December 30, 1981 – August 21, 2007) was a Mexican American pornographic actress.\n\nPaige entered the adult entertainment industry while living in San Diego, when she was 19, after answering a newspaper advertisement for nude modeling. At the time, she had been working at Blockbuster and said that she needed extra money to pay her rent.\n\nIn 2006, she made her directorial debut with \"Virgin Territory\" for Smash Pictures. Prior to her participation in adult cinema, she worked as a Green Party aide. She reportedly hoped to become a psychologist or sex therapist after her film career was over.\n\n\nPaige married pornographic director Inkyo Volt Hwang (more commonly known as Chico \"Wanker\" Wang) on August 2, 2007, in Las Vegas.\n\nOn August 21, 2007, Hwang brought Paige to Mee Memorial Hospital in King City, California. She was without a pulse and apneic, and died in the emergency room later that day at the age of 25. Her death was ruled suspicious due to allegations that Hwang had pistol whipped Paige.\n\nThe next day, Hwang was arrested on suspicion of possessing a stolen vehicle and booked under suspicion of murder, but he was released on August 24 with no charges filed.\n\n\"Adult Video News\" reported that there was a \"circulated rumor that Haley died of a heroin overdose.\" A spokesman for the Monterey County Coroner's Office stated that Paige did not have any track marks. Sgt. Steve Miller disclosed that Hwang was \"implicated\" in her death.\n\nThe toxicology screen later came back negative for everything but a minimal amount of methadone. According to the Monterey County Sheriff's Coroner Division (who prepared her autopsy report), the cause of death was undetermined, but even a small amount of methadone could be lethal depending on a person's prior drug history.\n\nHwang was found dead in a room at an Economy Inn in Morgan Hill, California, on September 29, 2007. His death was \"not being considered suspicious\", according to Morgan Hill police investigators, who also stated that he was likely headed north due to the investigation in King City. The Santa Clara County coroner reported that Hwang overdosed on methadone in an apparent suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256565", "title": "Antony Head, 1st Viscount Head", "text": "Antony Head, 1st Viscount Head\n\nAntony Henry Head, 1st Viscount Head, (19 December 1906 – 29 March 1983) was a British soldier, Conservative politician and diplomat.\n\nHead was the son of Geoffrey Head and Ethel Daisy, daughter of Arthur Flower, and was educated at Eton and the Royal Military College, Sandhurst.\n\nA career soldier, Head was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 15th/19th The King's Royal Hussars on 30 August 1926. He later joined the Life Guards, serving through the Second World War and achieving the rank of brigadier. He was awarded the Military Cross (MC) on 20 December 1940.\n\nHead was elected Conservative MP for Carshalton in 1945. He served as Secretary of State for War from 1951 to 1956 and as Minister of Defence (with a seat in the cabinet) from 1956 to 1957, in the administrations of Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden. He was sworn of the Privy Council in 1951 and in 1960 he was raised to the peerage as Viscount Head, of Throope in the County of Wiltshire. He was later High Commissioner to Nigeria from 1960 to 1963 and High Commissioner to Malaysia from 1963 to 1966. He was knighted as a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG) in the 1961 New Year Honours and promoted to be Knight Grand Cross (GCMG) in 1963.\n\nLord Head married Lady Dorothea Louise (29 April 1907 – 1987), daughter of Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 9th Earl of Shaftesbury, on 23 July 1935. They had four children:\n\n\nLord Head died in March 1983, aged 76, and was succeeded in the viscountcy by his eldest son, Richard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256566", "title": "Frederick Louis, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck", "text": "Frederick Louis, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck\n\nFrederick Louis of Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck (; 6 April 1653 – 7 March 1728) was a Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck and field marshal of the Prussian Army. He was the son of August Philipp, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck and Countess Marie Sibylle of Nassau-Saarbrücken.\n\nFrederick Louis was born in Beck (now part of Löhne), Principality of Minden, Brandenburg-Prussia. He was only the \"titular\" duke, because he did not inherit the domain of Beck. It had been inherited by Duke Frederick William I, the son of his elder brother, Duke August, in 1689. Duke Frederick William I was killed in the Battle of Francavilla in Sicily in 1719, leaving a widow, \"née\" \"Doña\" Maria Antonia Isnardi di Castello, Contessa di Sanfré (1692–1762), and two minor daughters. Maria Antonia shared administration of Beck with her mother-in-law, Duchess Hedwig Louisa of Schleswig-Holstein-Beck (\"née\" Countess of Lippe-Buckeburg-Schaumburg).\n\nIn 1671 Frederick Louis became a cornet in the cavalry regiment von Eller in the army of Brandenburg-Prussia. In 1675 he participated in the Battle of Fehrbellin as a Rittmeister. The following year he was a colonel in the Holstein dragoons. Frederick Louis was named lieutenant general and Governor of Wesel in 1690. Three years later he was appointed commanding general of the Duchy of Prussia.\n\nOn 17 January 1701 Frederick Louis received the Order of the Black Eagle from the new King Frederick I of Prussia and shortly afterward was named Statthalter of East Prussia and Governor of Königsberg. During the War of the Spanish Succession, he participated in the Battle of Oudenarde in 1708, the Battle of Malplaquet in 1709, and the sieges of Lille, Mons, and Tournai. Frederick Louis was promoted to field marshal in 1713. The duke also secured neutrality for East Prussia during much of the Great Northern War. He died in Königsberg and was buried alongside his wife in Königsberg Cathedral.\n\nOn 1 January 1685 in Augustenburg, Frederick Louis married Louise Charlotte of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg, daughter of Ernest Günther, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg and Augusta of Glücksburg. They had several children:\n\nFrederick Louis was succeeded as duke by his eldest son, Frederick William II (1687–1749) (whose only son, Duke Frederick William III, died in the Battle of Prague in 1757), and eventually by his younger sons, Charles Louis (1690–1774), and Peter August (1697–1775).\n\nIn 1732, Frederick William II would purchase Beck from Maria Antonia, re-uniting the ducal title and ducal lands. But the latter only remained in the family until sold again in 1745.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256569", "title": "Shire of Aurukun", "text": "Shire of Aurukun\n\nThe Shire of Aurukun is a local government area in Far North Queensland, Australia. The shire covers part of western Cape York Peninsula, the most northerly section of the Australian mainland.\n\nIt covers an area of , and has existed as a local government area since 1978.\n\nAccording to the earliest records, Cape Keerweer, located on the Gulf of Carpentaria coast, was the first site where Europeans wished to settle in Australia. A Dutch ship with Captain Willem Janszoon was the first recorded Dutch landing at Cape Keerweer. Captain Janszoon wanted to build a city at the site but the exploitative action of his crew led to a fight between the local Aboriginal people and the sailors. It resulted in the killing of various crew members and the ship had to leave.\n\nThe territory of the Shire of Aurukun was previously an Aboriginal reserve administered under the Queensland \"Aboriginals Protection and Restriction of the Sale of Opium Act 1897\" by the Presbyterian Church. The Aurukun Mission was established in 1904 and Aboriginal people from all over Cape York were relocated there.\n\nIn 1978, the land was taken over by the Queensland Government, who enacted the Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act 1978, proclaimed the Shire of Aurukun and granted to it Aboriginal Land Lease No.1. An elected Aboriginal council lasted just one month and an administrator was appointed. The State's media at the time generally was of the opinion that bauxite revenues were a major factor in the Government's decision making on the issue.\n\nIn the 1990s, an elected council once again took charge.\n\nThe Shire of Aurukun includes the following settlement:\n\n\nThe Aurukun Shire Council operate the Wik Mungkan Indigenous Knowledge Centre in Aurukun.\n\nThe population of the Shire of Aurukun, along with Cook, Torres and Mornington, have been singled out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), who conduct the quinquennial census, as particularly difficult to measure accurately. Reasons for this include cultural and language barriers, transport and geographical spread of the population, who are mostly located in isolated communities. As such, all figures are likely to be lower than the actual population on the census date.\n"}
{"id": "2256572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256572", "title": "Alexander Lernet-Holenia", "text": "Alexander Lernet-Holenia\n\nAlexander Lernet-Holenia (Vienna, October 21, 1897 — July 3, 1976) was an Austrian poet, novelist, dramaturgist and writer of screenplays and historical studies who produced a heterogeneous literary opus that included poetry, psychological novels describing the intrusion of otherworldly or unreal experiences into reality, and recreational films.\n\nLernet-Holenia was born in 1897 as Alexander Marie Norbert Lernet to Alexander Lernet (an ocean liner officer) who had married his mother Sidonie (née Holenia) shortly before his birth. He attached his mother's maiden name to his family name only when he was formally adopted by Carinthian relatives of his mother (whose aristocratic family had lost most of its wealth after the war) in 1920. In July 1915 Alexander finished high-school in Waidhofen an der Ybbs and took up Law studies at the University of Vienna, but volunteered for the Austro-Hungarian army in September 1915 and fought in World War I from 1916 onward, serving in the eastern battle theatres and ending the war as a lieutenant. During his service time he first took to poetry, and became a protégé of Rainer Maria Rilke in 1917. \n\nAfter the war Lernet-Holenia became a full-time writer and published his first volume of poetry, \"Pastorale\", in 1921 and his first drama, \"Demetrius\", in 1925. \n\nLernet-Holenia participated in the Invasion of Poland as a reactivated and drafted lieutenant of the reserve, an experience on which he based his 1941 novel \"Die Blaue Stunde (The Blue Hour)\" which after the war became known under the title \"Mars im Widder (Mars in Aries).\" It has been called \"the only Austrian resistance novel\" because the plot features an ideologically troubled central character, hints at the existence of active political opposition, and because the Nazi government banned and quarantined the first edition of the book.\n\nAlthough Lernet-Holenia made himself a lucrative business as a popular screenplay writer during the Third Reich, he was one of the few accomplished Austrian authors who kept his distance from National Socialism, and refused to endorse the Nazi political system or to participate in its notorious blood and soil literary efforts. However, to stay in business he had to make arrangements with the regime, which included becoming chief dramaturgist at the \"Heeres-Filmstelle\" (the audiovisual media center of the Wehrmacht in Berlin, charged with producing propaganda films for military cinemas) after the Polish campaign. Robert Dassanowsky has stated that \"[Lernet-Holenia's] early actions in the Reich were confused, appearing to vacillate between naiveté and the often clumsy, often shrewd acts of a survivalist ... a unique but not incomprehensible position.\" Lernet-Holenia became more outspoken as the war progressed. After his removal from his public position in 1944 he escaped service on the Eastern combat theatre through contrived illness and the help of the resistance network.\n\nBeing politically untainted, Lernet-Holenia's public recognition rose steeply once again after World War II, and he became an icon of the Austrian culture scenery. The year 1948 alone saw the casting of three films based on his novels, starring prominent actors such as Maria Schell and Attila Hörbiger. Together with Friedrich Torberg (and later with Günther Nenning) he co-edited the intellectual culture magazine \"Forum\" beginning in 1957. In 1969 he was elected president of the Austrian section of the PEN Club but resigned in 1972 in protest when the Nobel Prize was awarded to Heinrich Böll, whom Lernet-Holenia regarded as a supporter of the Red Army Faction. \n\nAlexander Lernet had married Lernet-Holenia's mother (the widow Baroness Sidonie Boyneburgk-Stettfeld) only shortly before his birth. Rumors that attributed biological fatherhood to a Habsburg archduke were perpetuated by biographers throughout his life and afterwards but were never substantiated. \n\nIn 1923 Alexander Lernet-Holenia — originally a Protestant — converted to the Roman Catholic faith. He was married to Eva Vollbach and lived with her in St. Wolfgang im Salzkammergut from 1926 until 1951 when the couple moved to Vienna. From 1952 until his death, he lived in state apartments in the imperial Hofburg Palace. Lernet-Holenia remained an outspoken political conservative and aristocratic elitist throughout his life, an attitude that brought him into increasing conflict with the leftist cultural scenery of the 1960s, earned him a reputation as the \"difficult old man of Austrian literature,\" and pushed him into increasing isolation during his final years. \n\nHe died of lung cancer in 1976, two years after publishing his last novel \"Die Beschwörung (The Conjuration)\" under the pseudonym G. T. Dampierre. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256577", "title": "Doug Stone", "text": "Doug Stone\n\nDoug Stone (born Douglas Jackson Brooks; June 19, 1956) is an American country music singer and actor. He debuted in 1990 with the single \"I'd Be Better Off (In a Pine Box)\", the first release from his 1990 self-titled debut album for Epic Records. Both this album and its successor, 1991's \"I Thought It Was You\", earned a platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America. Two more albums for Epic, 1992's \"From the Heart\" and 1994's \"More Love\", are each certified gold. Stone moved to Columbia Records to record \"Faith in Me, Faith in You\", which did not produce a Top Ten among its three singles. After suffering a heart attack and stroke in the late 1990s, he exited the label and did not release another album until \"Make Up in Love\" in 1999 on Atlantic Records. \"The Long Way\" was released in 2002 on the Audium label (now part of E1 Music), followed by two albums on the independent Lofton Creek Records.\n\nStone has charted twenty-six singles on Hot Country Songs, with his greatest chart success coming between 1990 and 1995. In this timespan, he had eight No. 1 singles on the Hot Country Songs charts including: \"In a Different Light\", \"A Jukebox with a Country Song\", \"Too Busy Being in Love\", and \"Why Didn't I Think of That\". He is known for his neotraditionalist country sound and his frequent recording of ballads.\n\nStone was born as Douglas Jackson Brooks on June 19, 1956, in Marietta, Georgia. His mother, who was also a country music singer, taught him how to play guitar when he was five. When he was seven years old, his mother placed him onstage to open for Loretta Lynn. His mother and father later divorced, and afterward, he moved to live with his father. He found additional work singing as a teenager: first at local skating rinks, and then at local bars, and later as one member of a short-lived trio; in addition, he and his father worked as mechanics to make ends meet. He also built a recording studio in his house, while performing in local clubs. By 1982, Stone was suffering from depression brought on by his musical career, when a friend introduced him to Carie Cohen, who would later become his second wife. He played various local venues, and was discovered by a record label manager while singing at a Veterans of Foreign Wars hall. The manager asked him for demos, which she then sent to Epic Records. He chose to record under the name Doug Stone, so as to avoid confusion with Garth Brooks. Record producer Doug Johnson played three tunes for Epic Records producer Bob Montgomery, who disliked the first two that he heard but enjoyed the third one. Through Montgomery's assistance, Stone signed with Epic in 1989, thus becoming the only artist that Montgomery ever signed without seeing perform live.\n\nStone's self-titled debut album was released in 1990 with Johnson as producer. Mac McAnally, Mark O'Connor, Paul Franklin, Brent Rowan, and Willie Weeks were among the session musicians on it. Contributing songwriters included David Lee Murphy, Larry Boone, Randy Boudreaux, A.L. \"Doodle\" Owens, and Keith Palmer, who would later chart two singles for Epic in 1991. Its first single, \"I'd Be Better Off (In a Pine Box)\", spent twenty-five weeks on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs charts and peaked at No. 4. In addition, the single was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Country Song, and the album was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for U.S. shipments of one million copies. The album's next two singles were both Top Ten singles as well: \"Fourteen Minutes Old\" at No. 6 and \"These Lips Don't Know How to Say Goodbye\" at No. 5. Following these songs was \"In a Different Light\", co-written by Dickey Lee, which became Stone's first number 1 on \"Billboard\". Stone received three music award nominations in 1991: the Horizon Award (now New Artist Award) from the Country Music Association, Star of Tomorrow from Music City News, and Top New Male Vocalist from the Academy of Country Music.\n\nBrian Mansfield gave \"Doug Stone\" a four-and-a-half star rating out of five in his review for Allmusic. His review praised \"I'd Be Better Off\" in particular, calling the song a \"towering expression of self-pity that most singers could spend a career trying to top,\" also saying that Stone \"came close\" to matching that song's quality in the album's ballads.\n\n\"I Thought It Was You\", his second album, was released in August 1991. Also certified platinum, it produced three more chart singles: the No. 4 title track, followed by the number 1 \"A Jukebox with a Country Song\" and \"Come In Out of the Pain\" at No. 3. \"A Jukebox with a Country Song\" spent two weeks at number 1, thus becoming his only multi-week number 1 single. Stone co-wrote the track \"The Feeling Never Goes Away\" with Kim Williams and Phyllis Bennett, and then-labelmate Joe Diffie co-wrote \"Burning Down the Town\". Alanna Nash of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the album an \"A\", saying that it contained \"sex-and-smolder ballads\" comparable to Conway Twitty. Mansfield was less favorable, saying that Stone \"seems to wallow in sorrow\".\n\nIn early 1992, Stone began experiencing dizziness and pain in one of his arms. He also began feeling chest pains which he initially thought were heartburn. After feeling disoriented at a concert in Oregon, he canceled an appearance at the Academy of Country Music telecast. He then underwent quadruple bypass surgery at Centennial Medical Center to alleviate four severe arterial blockages near his heart which had initially gone undiscovered by doctors. Following the surgery, Stone changed his diet and began exercising, in addition to touring in support of his third album, \"From the Heart\", released that August. The album's title was seen by many music writers, including Irwin Stambler and Grelun Landon of \"Country Music: The Encyclopedia\", as ironic in the wake of Stone's heart surgery.\n\nWith a gold certification for shipments of 500,000 copies, \"From the Heart\" produced two more number 1 singles in \"Too Busy Being in Love\" and \"Why Didn't I Think of That\". The other two singles were \"Warning Labels\" and \"Made for Lovin' You\", at No. 4 and No. 6 respectively. The latter had previously been recorded by both Dan Seals and Clinton Gregory. Mansfield thought that \"From the Heart\" was more consistent than Stone's previous two albums, saying that his \"voice is at its pain-wracked best\" on \"Warning Labels\" and that \"The heart references take on a special meaning given the open-heart surgery that preceded this album\". Nash criticized the album as \"sappy, lightweight tales of infatuation and starry-eyed courtship\". One month after \"From the Heart\", Stone released a Christmas album titled \"The First Christmas\". Although this album produced no singles, \"Sailing Home for Christmas\" was made into a music video. Stone was nominated in both 1992 and 1993 for Star of Tomorrow by Music City News, and Top Male Vocalist from the Academy of Country Music, winning the former award in 1993. He toured in 1992 with Patty Loveless, Lynyrd Skynyrd, and Hank Williams, Jr.\n\nHis fourth album, \"More Love\", was released in November 1993. Unlike his previous albums, Stone co-produced with James Stroud, except on the track \"Dream High\", which Stroud produced with Tom Bahler and Bruce Swedien. It also included different session musicians than his previous albums, such as guitarist Dann Huff and backing vocalist Curtis Wright. Its lead-off single was \"I Never Knew Love\", which spent two weeks at No. 2 on the country singles charts and accounted for his only entry on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, where it peaked at No. 81. The album's next two singles were the No. 4 \"Addicted to a Dollar\" and the title track, which Stone wrote with Gary Burr, at No. 6. Tom Roland of \"New Country\" magazine criticized the album for \"continu[ing] to mine the drippy side of Stone\" through \"manipulative\" ballads, but cited \"Addicted to a Dollar\" and \"Love, You Took Me by Surprise\" as being \"tougher\" than Stone's previous works.\n\nStarting in June 1994, Stone discovered that he was having breathing problems which were affecting his singing. He consulted throat doctors at Vanderbilt University's medical center, who failed to find any problems in his throat, while a second consultation revealed a lump in his left nostril. Upon its discovery, Stone feared that it might be cancer, and that it would put an end to his career. As a result, Stone quit smoking, although the lump was later discovered not to be cancerous and was successfully removed. While Stone was undergoing treatment, his \"Greatest Hits, Vol. 1\" compilation was released in late 1994. Also receiving a gold certification, the album comprised nine of his previous hits and the new song \"Little Houses\", which debuted on the charts in October 1994 and peaked at No. 7 in early 1995. After its release, Stone made his acting debut in the 1995 film \"Gordy\", in which he starred as Luke McAllister, a struggling musician. The movie's soundtrack featured four songs from \"More Love\": \"More Love\", \"That's a Lie\", \"Wishbone\", and \"Dream High\", as well as two other songs that Stone performed: \"The Heart I Broke\" and \"I Could Always Count on You\".\n\nAlso in 1995, parent company Sony Music Entertainment chose to move Stone from the Nashville division of Epic Records to that of Columbia Records. This decision was made to give Stone a new promotional team. His only Columbia album, \"Faith in Me, Faith in You\", was released in March of that year, with Stroud again serving as co-producer. This album's three singles were comparatively less successful than his previous singles, with none reaching Top 10: the title track peaked at No. 13, followed by \"Sometimes I Forget\" at No. 41 (his first single to miss the Top 40) and \"Born in the Dark\" at No. 12. Stone suffered a nearly-fatal heart attack in December 1995 and a mild stroke in 1996, reducing his ability to record and tour. Stone would later remark that he was \"lucky\" to have survived his health issues in this timespan. One of his few performances in this timespan was at a show in Dollywood, a theme park owned by Dolly Parton, in mid-1996. His last charting single for Columbia was \"Gone Out of My Mind\", which he recorded for the multi-artist compilation album \"A Tribute to Tradition\" in 1998.\n\nStone signed with Atlantic Records and released \"Make Up in Love\" in 1999 under the production of Wally Wilson. A more pop-oriented album than his previous ones, the album produced a minor Top 20 hit in its title track. Its next singles were a cover of R.B. Greaves's 1969 single \"Take a Letter Maria\", which Stone took to number 45, and \"Surprise\", which spent only one week on the country charts, at number 64. Also included on the album were a duet with Leslie Satcher titled \"The Heart Holds On\", and the Bobby Braddock-penned \"The Difference Between a Woman and a Man\", which was later recorded by Josh Turner on his 2003 debut album \"Long Black Train\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine gave the album a mixed review, saying that \"Since Stone's voice is pleasant, the music is often pleasant, but it's hardly memorable.\" Andy Turner of \"Country Standard Time\" was more favorable, saying that it \"does not come off 'too country for country' yet is still engaging largely because of Stone's voice — soft with built-in teardrops.\" Also in 1999, Stone and Skip Ewing co-wrote \"In the Name of Love\" on the only album released by female country duo Redmon & Vale.\n\nIn December 1999, Stone was aboard an airplane which skidded off a snowy runway at O'Hare Airport in Chicago; there were no injuries. Stone began piloting ultra-light airplanes as a hobby in 1999 and 2000. In March 2000, he suffered a broken left ankle, cracked rib, concussion, and bruised kidney after crashing his plane in Robertson County, Tennessee, and was briefly hospitalized before he resumed touring. Stone later said that the accident made him decide to quit flying planes. After the September 11, 2001 attacks, rumors circulated that Stone had been on one of the hijacked planes; a spokeswoman for the singer confirmed that he was at home with his family that day.\n\nStone signed to Audium Entertainment in 2002 and recorded \"The Long Way\". This album included seven new songs and acoustic re-recordings of \"More Love\", \"Born in the Dark\", and \"I'd Be Better Off\". One of the original songs on it was \"POW 369\", which was later recorded by Darryl Worley. Stewart Mason thought that it was \"not nearly as suffocatingly slick\" as Stone's previous albums, but questioned its commercial success. His next album did not come out until 2005, when he signed to the independent label Lofton Creek Records, recording the album \"In a Different Light\". The album included a cover of \"Georgia on My Mind\", which was the first single, and re-recordings of \"In a Different Light\" and \"Why Didn't I Think of That\". A second album for Lofton Creek, \"My Turn\", followed in 2007. It was led off by the single \"Nice Problem\". William Ruhlmann praised this album for having \"a timeless country feel\", also saying that \"Stone sings with as much fervor and sincerity as ever.\" Ken Tucker of \"Billboard\" wrote that \"He sounds as good as ever and his music is still relevant\".\n\nIn 2013, Stone toured with Bryan White and Shenandoah as part of the \"Reliving the 90s Tour\". He also returned to acting, with roles in the films \"When the Storm God Rides\" and \"The Story of Bonnie and Clyde\".\n\nStone married his second wife, Carie Cohen, in 1982. The couple separated in July 1994, and Cohen filed for divorce two months later, accusing Stone of excessive drinking and infidelity. He married Beth Snyder in December 1996 after being engaged to her for a year. As of 2005, he had one daughter, Baili, with Beth, and four children from his previous marriages: daughter Michelle and son Daniel from his first marriage, son Chanse and daughter Kala from his marriage to Cohen, Stone split from Snyder in late 2006 and returned to his Georgia home.\n\nOn March 29, 2015, Stone married fiddler Jade Jack in Oklahoma. Doug and Jade have a daughter, Bristol Gail Brooks, born April 14, 2016.\n\nStone is known primarily for his neotraditionalist country sound, his baritone singing voice, and emphasis on ballads. In \"Country Music: A Biographical Dictionary\", Richard Carlin describes him as \"a solid country crooner whose style is reminiscent of Merle Haggard.\" Steve Huey of Allmusic wrote that Stone \"made his name as a lonesome baritone balladeer, though he's also adept at hard uptempo country.\" Zell Miller, author of \"They Heard Georgia Singing\", wrote that Stone has \"established himself as a mellow country crooner who is known as 'Mr. Sensitive'\" and \"the Dean Martin of country music because of his unique flair for communicating the fragility of a broken heart with his delicate baritone voice and laid-back style.\"\n\nKurt Wolff of \"Country Music: The Rough Guide\" described Stone's musical style less favorably. He wrote that Stone seemed \"schizophrenic. Half his reputation was established with self-deprecating downers like 'I'd Be Better Off (In a Pine Box)', but then he'd just as easily turn around with a schmaltzy love song like 'Too Busy Being in Love'.\" He compared \"I'd Be Better Off\" and \"Warning Labels\" favorably to Haggard as well, and thought that the change of producers on \"More Love\" gave him a \"much beefier sound\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256579", "title": "Changping District", "text": "Changping District\n\nChangping District (), formerly Changping County (), is a district situated in the suburbs of north and northwest Beijing.\n\nChangping county and Jundu county which administered the area were established in Han dynasty. Changping was incorporated into Jundu when the Northern Wei dominated, however, the condition was reversed since the Eastern Wei. The county was promoted as Changping subprefecture had jurisdiction over Miyun, Shunyi and Huairou, in the era of Zhengde during Ming dynasty. These three counties were transferred to Shuntian Prefecture in the era of Yongzheng during Qing dynasty. Changping became a county again after Xinhai Revolution, and it was transferred to Beijing from Hebei in 1956.\n\nChangping District, covering an area of , contains two subdistricts of the city of Changping and 15 towns (five of which are suburbs of Beijing) with total population of 1.83 million (2012), a rapid increase from the 614,821 recorded in the 2000 census. About from the city center, Changping is renowned for its numerous scenic spots and tourist facilities, like Datangshan museum. It is rich in natural resources, mineral products, and rural products.\n\nThe urban area of Changping (116,961 in subdistricts) has an area of and an estimated population of 130,000. Other major urban areas are Nankou (70,000) and Yangfang (40,000).\n\nThere are 8 subdistricts and 14 towns with 4 towns of which carry the \"area\" () label in the district:\n\nIn 2017, the regional GDP of the district is 83.97 billion yuan, with GDP per capita at 40.7 thousand yuan.\n\n\nChangping is served by four metro lines operated by Beijing Subway and one commuter line operated by Beijing Suburban Railway (BCR). Changping District is connected to the Beijing Subway System via Lines 5, 8, 13 and the Changping line. The Northern terminus of Changping line is Changping Xishankou, while at the other end the Changping line connects to Line 8 at Zhuxinzhuang and terminates at Xi'erqi on Line 13 in Haidian District. Moreover, Tiantongyuan has three stations on Line 5, while Huilongguan has three stations on Line 13 (Longze, Huilongguan, Huoying). Line 8 also contains five stations that lie in Changping District, one of which being the aforementioned Huoying. Future expansion will see the Changping line acquire seven more stations to the south, terminating on (the currently under construction) Line 12, as well as offering transfers to Line 15 and Line 10.\n\n\n\n\nPublic schools:\n\nPrivate schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256589", "title": "El Paso (song)", "text": "El Paso (song)\n\n\"El Paso\" is a country and western ballad written and originally recorded by Marty Robbins, and first released on \"Gunfighter Ballads and Trail Songs\" in September 1959. It was released as a single the following month, and became a major hit on both the country and pop music charts, reaching No. 1 in both at the start of 1960. It won the Grammy Award for Best Country & Western Recording in 1961, and remains Robbins' best-known song. It is widely considered a genre classic for its gripping narrative which ends in the death of its protagonist, its shift from past to present tense, haunting harmonies by vocalists Bobby Sykes and Jim Glaser (of the Glaser Brothers) and the eloquent and varied Spanish guitar accompaniment by Grady Martin that lends the recording a distinctive Tex-Mex feel. The name of the character Feleena was based upon a schoolmate of Robbins in the fifth grade; Fidelina Martinez.\n\nMembers of the Western Writers of America chose \"El Paso\" as one of the Top 100 Western songs of all time.\n\nThe song is a first-person narrative told by a cowboy in El Paso, Texas, in the days of the Wild West. The singer recalls how he frequented \"Rosa's Cantina\", where he became smitten with a young Mexican dancer named Feleena. When the singer notices another cowboy sharing a drink with \"wicked Feleena\", out of jealousy he challenges the newcomer to a gunfight. The singer kills the newcomer, then flees El Paso for fear of being hanged for murder or killed in revenge by his victim's friends. In the act of escaping, the singer commits the additional and potentially hanging offense of horse theft (\"I caught a good one, it looked like it could run\"), further sealing his fate in El Paso. Departing the town, the singer hides out in the \"badlands of New Mexico.\"\n\nThe song then fast-forwards to an undisclosed time later - the lyrics at this point change from past to present tense - when the singer describes the yearning for Feleena that drives him to return, without regard for his own life, to El Paso. He states that his \"love is stronger than [his] fear of death.\" Upon arriving, the singer races for the cantina, but is chased and fatally wounded by a posse. At the end of the song, the singer recounts how Feleena has come to his side and he dies in her arms after \"one little kiss\".\n\nThere have been three versions of Robbins' original recording of \"El Paso\": the original full-length version, the edited version, and the abbreviated version, which is an alternate take in stereo that can be found on the \"Gunfighter Ballads\" album. The original version, released on a 45 single record, is in mono and is around 4 minutes and 38 seconds in duration, far longer than most contemporary singles at the time, especially in the country genre. Robbins' longtime record company, Columbia Records, was unsure whether radio stations would play such a long song, so it released two versions of the song on a promo 45: the full-length version on one side, and an edited version on the other which was nearer to the three-minute mark. This version omitted a verse describing the cowboy's remorse over the \"foul evil deed [he] had done\" before his flight from El Paso. The record-buying public, as well as most disc jockeys, overwhelmingly preferred the full-length version.\n\n\"El Paso\" frequently was performed by the Grateful Dead in concert. The song entered the band's repertoire in 1969, and remained there until the band's demise in 1995; in total, it was performed 389 times. It was sung by rhythm guitarist Bob Weir, with Jerry Garcia contributing harmony vocals. On the album \"Ladies and Gentlemen... The Grateful Dead\", Bob Weir introduces the song as the Dead's \"most requested number\".\n\nThe alternative country band Old 97's covered the song, changing the time signature from 3/4 to 4/4. Their cover appears on as well as the \"King of the Hill\" original TV soundtrack.\n\nGrady Martin released an instrumental version in 1965 on his \"Instrumentally Yours\" album.\n\nEl Paso has also been recorded by Max Stalling, Michael Martin Murphey, Tom Russell, The Mills Brothers, and Jason and the Scorchers.\n\nAfter Lolita and her Western Trio had a hit in the US with Seemann (Deine Heimat ist das Meer) she recorded a German version of El Paso which contributed to a long series of bi-national songs such as \"Wenn der Sommer Kommt\" and two songs which would top the U.S. country charts thirteen years later as performed by Marie Osmond \"Lieber Jonny, Komm doch Wieder\" and \"Das einsame Haus in Waikiki\".\n\nA parody version, \"El Pizza\" by H.B. Barnum, was a radio hit in 1960. It moved the action to Azusa, California, where Rosa's Cantina became a pizza place where Feleena worked as a waitress.\n\nHomer and Jethro also parodied the song in their \"El Paso - Numero Dos\". When the singer asks for directions to Rosa's Cantina, a cab driver tells him to \"ask Marty Robbins, 'cause he's the hombre who made up the song\". The singer encounters a woman named \"Velveeta\" and asks her where she had been all his life; \"she answered, 'Most of it I wasn't born'\".\n\nBlaine L. Reininger, a founding musician of San Francisco band Tuxedomoon, included this song on his 1989 solo album \"Book of Hours\".\n\nIn the late 1980s a modified version of \"El Paso\" (Miners Fight) became known as the official fight song of the University of Texas at El Paso Miners.\n\nRobbins wrote two songs that are explicit sequels to \"El Paso\", one in 1966, one in 1976.\n\nIn 1966, Robbins recorded \"Feleena (From El Paso)\", telling the life story of Feleena, the \"Mexican girl\" from \"El Paso\", in a third-person narrative. This track was over eight minutes long. Robbins wrote most of it in Phoenix, Arizona, but went to El Paso seeking inspiration for the conclusion.\n\nBorn in a desert shack in New Mexico during a thunderstorm, Feleena runs away from home at 17, living off her charms for a year in Santa Fe, New Mexico, before moving to the brighter lights of El Paso to become a paid dancer. After another year, the narrator of \"El Paso\" arrives, the first man she did not have contempt for. He spends six weeks romancing her and then, in a retelling of the key moment in the original song, beset by \"insane jealousy\", he shoots another man with whom she was flirting. \n\nHer lover's return to El Paso comes only a day after his flight (the original song suggests a longer time frame before his return) and as she goes to run to him, the cowboy motions to her to stay out of the line of fire and is shot; immediately after his dying kiss, Feleena shoots herself with his gun. Their ghosts are heard to this day in the wind blowing around El Paso: \"It's only the young cowboy showing Feleena the town\".\n\nIn 1976 Robbins released another reworking, \"El Paso City\", in which the present-day singer is a passenger on a flight over El Paso, which reminds him of a song he had heard \"long ago\", proceeding to summarize the original \"El Paso\" story. \"I don't recall who sang the song,\" he sings, but he feels a supernatural connection to the story: \"Could it be that I could be the cowboy in this mystery...,\" he asks, suggesting a past life. This song reached No. 1 on the country charts. The arrangement includes riffs and themes from the previous two El Paso songs. Robbins wrote it while flying over El Paso in, he reported, the same amount of time it takes to sing--four minutes and 14 seconds. It was only the second time that ever happened to him; the first time was when he composed the original \"El Paso\" as fast as he could write it down. Robbins intended to do one more sequel, “The Mystery of Old El Paso\", but he died in late 1982 before he could finish the final song.\n\nAn establishment named Rosa's Cantina operates in El Paso and claims to be the namesake of the fictional saloon but \"historians of the area are skeptical\"\n\nIn his 1980 TV special \"Comedy Is Not Pretty\", comedian Steve Martin spoofs the song in a skit acting out the plot with comedic elements such as riding a Shetland Pony and elephant, and having a supporting cast of chimpanzees.\n\nThe series finale of the TV Show \"Breaking Bad\" contained several references to the song. The title of the episode, “Felina” is an anagram of the word “Finale” but is also a more authentically Mexican spelling of the name of the woman in the song. In the opening scene, the song plays on the stereo of a stolen car. Several plot points of the episode can also be seen as mirroring elements of the story in the song. The episode revolves around a wanted man (Walter White) returning to a place where he could be captured or killed to see someone he cares for. Later, he also dies from a bullet wound echoing the lines “something is dreadfully wrong for I feel a deep burning pain in my side.” In somewhat of a reversal, the character is returning to his home in New Mexico as opposed to the cowboy who had been hiding out in “the badlands of New Mexico.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2256591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256591", "title": "August Philipp, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck", "text": "August Philipp, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck\n\nAugust Philipp, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck (11 November 1612 – 6 May 1675) was a Danish-German prince and member of the House of Oldenburg. After acquiring the estate of Beck in Westfalen in 1646, he took the title of Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck.\n\nAugust Philipp was born in 1612 in Sonderburg, Duchy of Schleswig (now Sønderborg, Denmark) as the fifth son of Alexander, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg and Dorothea of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen. In 1633, at the age of 21, he emigrated to Germany.\n\nHe married Marie Sibylle of Nassau-Saarbrücken, daughter of William Louis, Count of Nassau-Saarbrücken on 12 April 1651 in Beck.\n\nAugust died in Beck and was succeeded as duke first by his oldest son, August, and later by his second son, Frederick Louis. His daughter Sophie Louise married Frederick (1638-1684), son of Otto, Count of Lippe-Brake. His other daughter Dorothea Amalia married Count Philipp Ernest (1659–1753), son of Philip I, Count of Schaumburg-Lippe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256595", "title": "Noname Jane", "text": "Noname Jane\n\nNoname Jane is an American pornographic actress. In the majority of the pornographic films in which she appeared, she used the stage name Violet Blue. In October 2007, a lawsuit brought by the author of the same name charged that Jane had adopted the author's name and persona, prompting Jane to change her stage name to Violetta Blue, and then to Noname Jane, in response to an injunction in the case.\n\nJane was born in Aberdeen, Washington and she is of Cherokee, Dutch, English, and French descent. She stated that she began \"messing around with boys\" at around age 7 and that she had sexual intercourse for the first time at age 13 while her parents were out playing bingo. She began studying magick and witchcraft at the age of 16 and was initiated into Ordo Templi Orientis, a Thelemic religious organization, at age 21.\n\nPrior to making pornographic films, she claimed, in an interview, to have worked as a stripper in Salt Lake City, UT, and she only started acting in pornographic movies in Los Angeles after pornographic magazines were not interested in her. She appeared in over 300 pornographic films under the name \"Violet Blue\", several of which were produced by Wicked Pictures and Vivid Entertainment. The films became popular in Japan, and she performed in two pornographic films with Japanese men. She was represented by the Gold Star Modeling talent agency.\n\nIn April 2005, Noname Jane announced that in May, she would return to her home state of Washington and that her husband would stay in Los Angeles to continue working for pornographer Stoney Curtis. Her mother had bought a house for her to live in. She expressed that she wanted to help care for her sick father and to give her son a healthier environment. Jane announced that she would continue to be represented by Gold Star Modeling, and she also said, \"I'll be anxious to come back and visit my porn valley friends so let me know when you have me in mind for a project.\"\n\nIn August 2006, Noname Jane announced by email that she would no longer perform in pornographic scenes with men, stating her reasons as a desire to be monogamous with her boyfriend, Dick Danger. She gave birth to her second child, a girl whom she named \"Clover\", in May 2007. She also hosts an Internet radio show called \"Recipes for Sex\" on KSEX. In July 2007, she announced a \"memorabilia sale\", offering the clothing she had worn and sex toys that she had used in photo shoots and films.\n\nIn January 2009, Noname Jane announced on her Myspace blog that she would resume working with male talent. In August 2010, Noname Jane announced on her MySpace blog that she would only be performing with one male actor, Dick Danger, and that, in spite of her earlier announcement, she had not subsequently worked with any other male talent.\n\nIn October 2007, author Violet Blue filed suit in federal court alleging trademark violation and dilution, as well as unfair business practices with author Blue's persona and belatedly-trademarked name being used. The pornographic actress had used the name since 2000 and was financially unable to properly defend herself. The court issued a preliminary injunction that forced her to stop using the name \"Violet Blue\" or anything confusingly similar; the stage name Noname Jane was adopted instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256597", "title": "Safe-life design", "text": "Safe-life design\n\nIn safe-life design, products are intended to be removed from service at a specific design life.\n\nSafe–life is particularly relevant to simple metal aircraft, where airframe components are subjected to alternating loads over the lifetime of the aircraft which makes them susceptible to metal fatigue. In certain areas such as in wing or tail components, structural failure in flight would be catastrophic.\n\nThe safe-life design technique is employed in critical systems which are either very difficult to repair or whose failure may cause severe damage to life and property. These systems are designed to work for years without requirement of any repairs.\n\nThe disadvantage of the safe–life design philosophy is that serious assumptions must be made regarding the alternating loads imposed on the aircraft, so if those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, cracks may commence prior to the component being removed from service. To counter this disadvantage, alternative design philosophies like fail-safe design and fault-tolerant design were developed.\n\nOne way the safe–life approach is planning and envisaging the toughness of the mechanisms in the automotive industry. When the repetitive loading on mechanical structures intensified with the advent of the steam engine, back in the mid-1800s, this approach was established (Oja 2013). According to Michael Oja, “Engineers and academics began to understand the effect that cyclic stress (or strain) has on the life of a component; a curve was developed relating the magnitude of the cyclic stress (S) to the logarithm of the number of cycles to failure (N)” (Oja 2013). The S-N curve because the fundamental relation is in safe life designs. The curve is reliant on many conditions, including the ratio of maximum load to minimum load (R-ratio), the type of material being inspected, and the regularity at which the cyclic stresses (or strains) are applied. Today, the curve is still consequential by experimentally testing laboratory specimens at many different continuous cyclic load levels, and detecting the number of cycles to failure (Oja 2013). Michael Oja states that, “Unsurprisingly, as the load decreases, the life of the specimen increases” (Oja 2013). The practical limit of experimental challenges has been due to frequency confines of hydraulic-powered test machines. The load at which this high-cycle life happens has come to be recognized as the fatigue asset of the material (Oja 2013).\n\nThe safe–life design philosophy is applied to all helicopter structures. In the current generation of Army helicopters, such as the UH-60 Black Hawk, composite materials make up as great as 17 percent of the airframe and rotor weight (Reddick). Harold Reddick states that, “With the advent of major helicopter composite structures R&D projects, such as the Advanced Composite Airframe Program (ACAP), and Manufacturing Methods and Technology (MM&T) projects, such as UH-60 Low Cost Composite Blade Program, it is estimated that within a few years composite materials could be applied to as much as 80% of the airframe and rotor weight of a helicopter in a production program” (Reddick). Along with this application it is the essential obligation that sound, definitive design criteria be industrialized in order that the composite structures own high fatigue lives for economy of ownership and good damage tolerance for flight safety. Safe-life and damage-tolerant criteria are practical to all helicopter flight critical components (Reddick).\n\nOja, Michael (2013-03-18). \"Structural Design Concepts: Overview of Safe Life and Damage Tolerance\". \"Vextec.com | Reducing Life Cycle Costs From Design To Field Service\". Retrieved 2019-06-11.\n\n\"Fatigue (material)\", \"Wikipedia\", 2019-06-04, retrieved 2019-06-11\n\nReddick, Harold. \"Safe-Life and Damage-Tolerant Design Approaches for Helicopter Structures\" (PDF). \"NASA\". Retrieved June 11, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256616", "title": "World Press Photo", "text": "World Press Photo\n\nWorld Press Photo Foundation is an independent, non-profit organization based in Amsterdam, Netherlands. Founded in 1955, the organization is known for holding an annual press photography contest. Since 2011, World Press Photo has organized a separate annual contest for journalistic multimedia productions, and, in association with Human Rights Watch, the annual Tim Hetherington Grant.\n\nA primary objective of the organization is to support professional photojournalism on a wide international scale through the World Press Photo Academy. It aims to stimulate developments in photojournalism, encourage the transfer of knowledge, help develop high professional standards in visual journalism and promote a free and unrestricted exchange of information. It organizes a number of educational projects throughout the world: seminars, workshops and the annual Joop Swart Masterclass.\n\nAn annual awards ceremony is held in the Oude Kerk in Amsterdam. After the contest, the prizewinning photographs are assembled into a travelling exhibition. A yearbook presenting all prizewinning entries is published annually in six languages.\n\nIn addition to selecting the World Press Photo of the Year, the contest determines winners in the following other categories: Spot News, General News, People, Sports, Contemporary Issues, Daily Life, Portraits and Nature.\n\nNew York-based photographer Spencer Platt of Getty Images won in 2006. His picture showed a group of young Lebanese driving through a South Beirut neighborhood devastated by Israeli bombings. The picture was taken on 15 August 2006, the first day of the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah when thousands of Lebanese started returning to their homes.\n\nIn 2007, a total of 4,460 professional photographers from 124 countries entered 78,083 images in the competition. The winner was the British photographer Tim Hetherington.\n\nIn 2008, Anthony Suau, of USA, won the World Press Photo of the Year for the second time (the first was in 1987).\n\nAmit Sha'al of Israel won third prize in 2011 in the category of Arts and Entertainment: Stories. During an exhibit in Lebanon that year, World Press Photo was asked to remove Sha'al's photos because, according to the General Security Directorate, Lebanon and Israel were \"in a state of war.\" WPP refused to censor the Israeli artist and shut down the exhibit ten days ahead of schedule.\n\nIn November 2017, the World Press Photo Foundation held its largest US exhibition ever, in Washington, DC's Dupont Circle’s Dupont Underground art space.\n\nSince 1994 World Press Photo has organised the Joop Swart Masterclass, where photojournalists who are considered notable are selected to mentor a group of young photographers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256627", "title": "Warship Support Agency", "text": "Warship Support Agency\n\nThe Warship Support Agency (WSA) was a non-executive agency within the Defence Logistics Organisation (DLO) of the UK Ministry of Defence from 2001 to 2005.\n\nIt was created on 1 April 2001 from the amalgamation of the Naval Bases and Supply Agency and the Ship Support Agency and had its headquarters initially in Bath, England, but later moved to the MoD Abbey Wood site in Bristol. As well as project teams the WSA operated the three naval bases in Portsmouth, Plymouth and on the Clyde. In 2003 the department was placed under the superintendence of the Deputy Chief of Defence Logistics. The WSA was amalgamated in 2005 as part of a major restructuring exercise and became part of the Defence Logistics Organisation.\n\nIncluded:\n\nIncluded:\n\nAt various times included:\n"}
{"id": "2256632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256632", "title": "New Politics (magazine)", "text": "New Politics (magazine)\n\nNew Politics is an independent socialist journal founded in 1961 and still published in the United States today. While it is inclusive of articles from a variety of left-of-center positions, the publication is historically associated with a \"Neither Washington Nor Moscow!\" Third Camp, democratic Marxist perspective, placing it typically to the left of the social democratic views in the journal \"Dissent.\"\n\nJulius and Phyllis Jacobson were the founders and longtime co-editors of the journal, which had a political center of gravity reflective of their youthful formative experience in the Independent Socialist League of the 1940s and 1950s. During the Cold War, \"New Politics\" espoused the idea that socialism is indissoluble from democracy and freedom and argued strongly against totalitarian Communist states and authoritarian visions of socialism as corruptions of and departures from the socialist ideal. The journal is perhaps best known for having published the seminal article by Hal Draper, \"The Two Souls of Socialism,\" in 1966. It was also the first English-language publication to publish articles by the dissident Polish socialists Jacek Kuroń and Karol Modzelewski.\n\nThe first series of \"New Politics\" ran from 1961 through 1976, after which it ceased publication for a decade. The journal was restarted in 1986 and has been in print ever since, publishing two issues per year.\n\nThe current co-editors are Saulo Colón, Dan La Botz, Nancy Holmstrom, Jason Schulman, and Julia Wrigley, and its editorial board members are Barry Finger, Thomas Harrison, Michael Hirsch, Micah Landau, Scott McLemee, Stephen R. Shalom, Bhaskar Sunkara, Lois Weiner, and Reginald Wilson. For many years Joanne Landy of the Campaign for Peace and Democracy was a member of the editorial board until her death in 2017.\n\nContributors have included Michael Albert, Bettina Aptheker, Stanley Aronowitz, Elaine Bernard, Janet Biehl, Ian Birchall, Murray Bookchin, Johanna Brenner, Stephen Eric Bronner, Paul Buhle, Eric Chester, Tony Cliff, Noam Chomsky, Bogdan Denitch, Hal Draper, Martin Duberman, Martin Glaberman, Robin Hahnel, Herbert Hill, Doug Ireland, Staughton Lynd, Sidney Lens, Nelson Lichtenstein, Michael Löwy, Manning Marable, Sean Matgamna, Paul Mattick, Kim Moody, Christopher Phelps, Adolph Reed, David Roediger, Saskia Sassen, Jane Slaughter, Immanuel Wallerstein, Stan Weir, Cornel West, B. J. Widick, Ashley Dawson, Ellen Willis, Kevin B. Anderson, Dan Georgakas, Patrick Bond, Sharon Smith, Christian Parenti, David Bacon, Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor, Gilbert Achcar and Howard Zinn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256633", "title": "Bharat Rakshak", "text": "Bharat Rakshak\n\nBharat Rakshak (\"Defenders of India\") is a website devoted to discussing India's military affairs. It was started and is run by military enthusiasts.\n\nBharat Rakshak was started in April 1997 by bringing together the individual websites of Indian Defence enthusiasts. The website was officially launched on 1 July 1997 by Seetal Patel and Rupak Chattopadhyay. While the concept of Open Source intelligence, as defined by the United States intelligence community, is still evolving in India, Bharat Rakshak has been cited as a website that could be held in the same category as its western counterparts. The forum has many members with experience in Indian Armed Forces and defence technology firms.\n\nThe site gained some notoriety in December 2007, when it was cited for leaking the Official War Histories written by the Indian Ministry of Defence (MoD) that had remained classified for sometime.\n\n\nOn 15 August 2000, Bharat Rakshak launched a sister website called Amar Jawan. The Amar Jawan website is dedicated to the personnel of India's Armed Forces; it means \"Immortal Soldier\" in Hindi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256635", "title": "Baldwin S-12", "text": "Baldwin S-12\n\nThe Baldwin S-12 was a diesel-electric locomotive intended for use in yard switching. Utilizing a turbocharged 6-cylinder version of the powerful 606A diesel prime mover, S-12s were known for their \"lugging\" power, despite being temperamental. Like most Baldwin switchers, the S-12 had AAR Type-A switcher trucks in a B-B wheel arrangement. 451 units were built between 1951 and 1956, when Baldwin left the locomotive market.\n\nBaldwin made a number of switchers with similar dimensions and body styles. The first body style, used in VO models, had a slightly pointed nose with a round radiator opening. The second and third body style, almost indistinguishable and used interchangeably, had a flat nose and rectangular radiator opening. Various exhaust stacks were used, and are not an effective spotting feature, except that turbocharged models always had one large stack offset to the side.\n\nThe VO-660 was built between April 1939 and May 1946. It was powered by a naturally aspirated six cylinder engine rated at . 142 were built. Baldwin replaced the VO-660 with the model DS-4-4-660 in 1946.\n\nThe VO-1000 was built between January 1939 and December 1946. It was powered by a naturally aspirated eight cylinder engine rated at . Some had the Batz truck originally developed by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway as a leading truck for steam locomotives. 548 VO-1000s were built.\n\nThe DS-4-4-660 was built between 1946 and 1949. It replaced the VO-660 as the low power companion to the DS-4-4-1000 models. 139 were built.\n\nThe DS-4-4-1000 was a model built between 1946 and 1951. The first units (56 locomotives) were powered by an 8-cylinder normally aspirated prime mover, but from 1948 a change was made to a 6-cylinder turbocharged engine. A total of 502 were built.\n\nAt least six intact examples of the S-12 are known to survive at railroad museums. SMS Lines operates S-12 #301 at the Penn Warner industrial park at Morrisville, Pennsylvania. One unit that was converted from a Baldwin DS-4-4-1000 is in service on the Whitewater Valley Railroad.\n\nOnly three intact examples of the VO-660 are known to survive, one of which was sold by the Altoona Railroaders Memorial Museum to SMS Lines to be repaired and put back into operation. The others are Pickens Railway #2, built in 1946, and Wyandotte Terminal 103, at the Illinois Railway Museum\n\nThere are at least eight intact examples of the VO-1000 that are known to survive, most of which are owned by museums or historical societies. A former SLSF unit that was repowered by EMD is owned by the Northwestern Pacific Railroad in Schellville, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256638", "title": "The Wire (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)", "text": "The Wire (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)\n\n\"The Wire\" is the 42nd episode of the television series \"\", the 22nd episode of the . This was the first episode that dealt with Garak's past.\n\nAt his weekly lunch date with Julian Bashir, Garak appears to be having severe headaches, but refuses to allow Bashir to help. He later hears Garak discussing a deal with Quark. The next day, Garak collapses in pain after drinking heavily, and Bashir takes him to the infirmary.\n\nBashir finds that Garak has an implant of some sort in his brain. He and Constable Odo observe Quark trying to order a piece of Cardassian biotechnology, which turns out to be classified by the Obsidian Order, the feared Cardassian intelligence agency. \n\nGarak eventually reveals to Bashir that the implant was given to him by the former head of the Obsidian Order, . It was designed to make him resistant to torture, but he has been using it to cope with the pain of living in exile, becoming addicted to it; and it is now breaking down from overuse. Garak claims he deserves his punishment and tells how he once destroyed a ship containing 98 Cardassians, including his aide, Elim.\n\nBashir turns the implant off, and Garak becomes extremely agitated. He explains that rather than killing Elim, he was exiled for releasing a group of Bajoran children he was supposed to interrogate. After expressing disdain for his friendship with Bashir, Garak again loses consciousness. \n\nEven with the implant off, Garak is still dying. Bashir considers turning the implant back on to save him. Garak refuses, and decides to tell Bashir the \"truth\": Elim was not Garak's aide but his childhood friend. The two were both powerful men in the Obsidian Order until Garak tried to frame Elim for releasing Bajoran prisoners, but Elim beat Garak to the punch and Garak was exiled.\n\nBashir seeks out Enabran Tain to ask for his help. Tain tells Bashir that if he were truly Garak's friend he would allow Garak to die; however, he agrees to give Bashir the information needed to counteract the effects of the implant. Before departing, Bashir asks Tain what truly became of Elim. Tain laughs and explains that Elim is Garak's first name.\n\nAfter recovering, Garak resumes his weekly lunches with Bashir. He says he has heard a strange rumor: Odo thinks Garak was once a member of the Obsidian Order. Pressed for \"real answers\", Garak tells the doctor that all his stories have been true - especially the lies.\n\nIn 2014, Gizmodo ranked \"The Wire\" as the 49th best episode of the \"Star Trek\" franchise, out of over 700 episodes made by that time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256640", "title": "Charles Brandon, 3rd Duke of Suffolk", "text": "Charles Brandon, 3rd Duke of Suffolk\n\nCharles Brandon, 3rd Duke of Suffolk (1537/1538 – 14 July 1551), known as Lord Charles Brandon until shortly before his death, was the son of the 1st Duke of Suffolk and the \"suo jure\" 12th Baroness Willoughby de Eresby.\n\nHis father had previously been married to Mary Tudor, sister of King Henry VIII. Following Mary's death, he had married Lady Willoughby de Eresby, who had been originally intended as the bride of his son Henry.\n\nIn 1541, Lord Charles Brandon and his older brother Lord Henry Brandon had their miniatures painted by Hans Holbein the Younger.\n\nHe died of the sweating sickness one hour after the same disease claimed his elder brother Henry (who had succeeded their father as 2nd Duke of Suffolk in 1545), and because of this holds the record for the shortest tenure of a British peerage. (The 2nd Baron Stamp may claim a shorter tenure, but merely through a legal fiction.) Suffolk died without issue and his title became extinct. They died at the Bishop of Lincoln's Palace, Buckden, in the village of Buckden near Huntingdon, Huntingdonshire, where they had fled in an attempt to escape the epidemic.\n\nA solemn celebration of the funerals of the two Dukes, called a 'Month's Mind', was held on 22 September 1551 with all the funeral equipment in duplicate. The humanist intellectuals Thomas Wilson and Walter Haddon wrote a life of Suffolk and his older brother shortly after their death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256643", "title": "Proposed directive on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights", "text": "Proposed directive on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights\n\nThe European Union (EU) directive on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights (2005/0127/COD) was a proposal from the European Commission for a directive aimed \"to supplement Directive 2004/48/EC of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights (Civil enforcement)\" (\"Source: Justification for the proposal, COM(2005) 276 final, July 12, 2005\"). The directive was proposed on July 12, 2005 by the Commission of the European Communities.\n\nBeing the second directive on the enforcement of \"intellectual property rights\", it is commonly called IPRED2 (Second Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Directive). The first directive on the enforcement of Intellectual property rights, Directive 2004/48/EC deals with civil enforcement of intellectual property rights (\"IPRED1\"). IPRED1 was hastily passed before the Fifth Enlargement of the European Union of May 1, 2004 and did originally include criminal sanctions provisions, but this rather controversial part was omitted in order to be able to meet the deadline of May 1, 2004.\n\nAs announced in Official Journal C 252 of 18 September 2010 the European Commission decided to withdraw the proposal for a directive. Criminal sanctions for enforcement of intellectual property rights are therefore not currently formally proposed, even if it is part of the EU acquis since the Lisbon Treaty.\n\nThis proposed directive incriminates infringements of intellectual property rights. It deals with intentional infringements on a commercial scale or aiding, abetting or inciting to the infringements.\n\nThe proposed directive applies to \"such intellectual property rights as are provided for in Community legislation and/or national legislation in the Member States\". No definition is provided in the original draft and in that form, the Directive would apply to any intellectual property right. Subsequent readings of the Directive have included clarifications. Examples of such expressly included rights are \"sui generis\" rights of database makers or trademark rights.\n\nThe Directive, in its first draft, includes patent violation, traditionally a civil issue. This would possibly have far-reaching consequences for the EU economy as the risk of criminal prosecution for violating patents when new products or new functions are included is great. Moreover, traditionally, a large majority of all patent disputes are settled out of court before civil infringement disputes continue. The bill also includes a provision which would allow intellectual property holders to assist the police in an investigation, which cedes great power from the state to a patent-holder to threaten rivals with imprisonment, rather than a civil suit alone.\n\nThe Parliament has, in subsequent reading, excluded patents from the scope of the Directive.\n\nThe Directive applies to \"willful, commercial or intentional\" violations of trademark or copyright laws. An amendment that would have limited the directive to commercial activity done with the intent to earn a profit was rejected. Instead, consumers will be criminally liable if their behavior is not for \"personal and not for profits purposes\" and was done for the purpose of obtaining \"an economic advantage\".\n\nAccording to some, IPRED2 does not seem to be a particularly well drafted Directive. The number of amendments passed and adopted in subsequent readings is unusual, as is evident from the drafting process. The definitions, usually contained in the preamble or the beginning articles, were missing until subsequent readings. Originally about commercial piracy and counterfeit goods only, in its present form it includes any violation of Intellectual Property rights.\n\nThe criticism voiced by EFF, FFII, Law Society of England and Wales, the Dutch Parliament, and others includes:\n\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation has pointed out that criminal law is poorly suited for regulation of intellectual property law and that IPRED2 presents a risk to industry and innovation.\n\nAccording to the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII), it is impossible not to violate software patents, and the IPRED 2 directive threatens most of Europe's software developers with imprisonment.\n\nIn July 2006, the Dutch parliament wrote a letter to EU Commissioner Frattini with a thorough legal analysis of the proposed directive, concluding that the subject-matter of the proposed directive definitely falls outside the European Community’s competence (as defined in the EU treaties).\n\n"}
{"id": "2256654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256654", "title": "Iterative deepening A*", "text": "Iterative deepening A*\n\nIterative deepening A* (IDA*) is a graph traversal and path search algorithm that can find the shortest path between a designated start node and any member of a set of goal nodes in a weighted graph. It is a variant of iterative deepening depth-first search that borrows the idea to use a heuristic function to evaluate the remaining cost to get to the goal from the A* search algorithm. Since it is a depth-first search algorithm, its memory usage is lower than in A*, but unlike ordinary iterative deepening search, it concentrates on exploring the most promising nodes and thus does not go to the same depth everywhere in the search tree. Unlike A*, IDA* does not utilize dynamic programming and therefore often ends up exploring the same nodes many times.\n\nWhile the standard iterative deepening depth-first search uses search depth as the cutoff for each iteration, the IDA* uses the more informative formula_1, where formula_2 is the cost to travel from the root to node formula_3 and formula_4 is a problem-specific heuristic estimate of the cost to travel from formula_3 to the goal.\n\nThe algorithm was first described by Richard Korf in 1985.\n\nIterative-deepening-A* works as follows: at each iteration, perform a depth-first search, cutting off a branch when its total cost formula_1 exceeds a given \"threshold\". This threshold starts at the estimate of the cost at the initial state, and increases for each iteration of the algorithm. At each iteration, the threshold used for the next iteration is the minimum cost of all values that exceeded the current threshold.\n\nAs in A*, the heuristic has to have particular properties to guarantee optimality (shortest paths). See Properties below.\n\n path \"current search path (acts like a stack)\"\n\nLike A*, IDA* is guaranteed to find the shortest path leading from the given start node to any goal node in the problem graph, if the heuristic function is admissible, that is\n\nfor all nodes , where is the true cost of the shortest path from to the nearest goal (the \"perfect heuristic\").\n\nIDA* is beneficial when the problem is memory constrained. A* search keeps a large queue of unexplored nodes that can quickly fill up memory. By contrast, because IDA* does not remember any node except the ones on the current path, it requires an amount of memory that is only linear in the length of the solution that it constructs. Its time complexity is analyzed by Korf \"et al.\" under the assumption that the heuristic cost estimate is \"consistent\", meaning that\n\nfor all nodes and all neighbors of ; they conclude that compared to a brute-force tree search over an exponential-sized problem, IDA* achieves a smaller search depth (by a constant factor), but not a smaller branching factor.\n\nRecursive best-first search is another memory-constrained version of A* search that can be faster in practice than IDA*, since it requires less regenerating of nodes.\n\nApplications of IDA* are found in such problems as planning.\n"}
{"id": "2256657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256657", "title": "Uttam Mohanty", "text": "Uttam Mohanty\n\nUttam Mohanty is an Ollywood actor in India. He has to his credit more than 135 Odia films to date and has acted in 30 Bengali films and in the only Hindi film Naya Zaher.\n\nUttam Mohanty was born at Mayurbhanj in Odisha. His grandfather settled in Baripada 150 years ago. He completed his early education from M.K.C High School & M.P.C. college of Baripada, where he actively participated in drama and plays. As a child he was very naughty which brought fresh complaints from outside. After matriculation he joined Maharaja Purnachandra College for intermediate in science. During his college days he was inclined more towards acting. He always tried to play the lead part in dramas. He was equally passionate to sports like badminton and table tennis. After completing graduation in commerce he went to Ludhiana for chartered accountancy. Thereafter he stayed with his elder brother, the late Arun Ku. Mohanty, in Kolkata for some time, enrolled in a chartered accountancy course there. Till now he is closely associated with Baripada.\n\nKnowing that a film named \"Abhiman\" was being made in Baripada, he returned home with a hope of trying his luck in films. Though there were many contenders for the lead role, the director Sadhu Meher had a special interest in his capability and looks. He was selected. Co-actress Rita Chand was also debuting in that film. On the day of shooting he turned up to the set well-dressed with best possible suits available. Sadhu told him to take the make-up of a poor guy. He was sent again to come back with old and dirty clothes and without make-up. The 1977 film was a box office hit.\n\nUttam now opted seriously for being an actor, and slowly stabilised his position in the Oriya film industry. While staying in Kolkata he got an offer from director Dhir Biswal for his upcoming film titled \"Gouri\". Later that role was given to Prasanta Nanda. The next film he did was \"Pati Patni\" opposite Mahasweta Ray. Then a streak of films like \"Nijhum ratira sathi\", \"Chinha Achhinha\", \"Ramayana\", Tapasya, Ram Balram happened. By the time he was established as a romantic star.Uttam Mohanty was especially adored for his effortless naturalism in front of the camera and a distinctively urbane charisma that broke free from the prototypical Oriya screen hero of the past. He went on to form successful screen pairs with many leading ladies like Rita Chand, Sujata Ananda, Tandra Roy, Mahasweta Ray, Deepa Sahu, Subhra Pati, Aparajeeta, Baisali, Sangeeta Das even Rachana Benerjee and other non oriya actress. Often hailed as the one-man industry, Uttam Mohanty dominated Oriya cinema for three decades. The eighties was the best time of his career. Many Ollywood films of the 1980s had Uttam Mohanty in them, and he dominated the Oriya film industry. He excelled in all kinds of roles: Romantic, Village Lad, Character. Abhiman, Danda Balunga, Bhakta Salabega are even remembered today for his stupendous acting. He also worked in around 30 Bengali films and one Hindi film - \"Naya Jahar\", opposite Satabdi Roy.\n\nIn the early eighties he played in almost 20 movies opposite leading actress Mahasweta Ray (Rasmi Ray). Though they fell in love and decided to marry, the love did not last long, and the pair separated. \"Palatak\" (1985) was their last film. Again the pair was hit in 1988 by Prashanta Nanda in the film of \"Ja Devi Sarbavutesu\". Later both came in lot of films in nineties. Over fifty of his films are opposite Aparajita Mohanty, his wife. They first appeared together in \"Astaraga\" (1982), and married on 17 May 1987 in Municipality Guest House, Bhubaneswar. Other heroines who have acted opposite him include Anita, Sujata, Tandra, Deepa, Baisali, Subhra Pati, and Rachana Bannerje.\n\nAfter 1995 he got more character roles due to his age. In films like \"Jashoda\", \"Subhadra\", Kalamanika he did character roles. In the later period of his career he also took television roles. Serials like 'Je Pakhi Ude Jete Dura', 'Sara Akash', Panatakani and 'Uttaradayi' are most popular. His role as Bikhu bhai in Sara Akash is memorable. His Hindi serials include Palash and Bengali serial bideshini Bohu. His has also contributed to music albums and Bhajaans.\n\nUttam Mohanty now lives in Bhubaneswar. Currently, he is working for Oriya tele-serials and movies, and interested in enhancing his knowledge in the area of politics. He and Aparajita Mohanty have a son named Babushan Mohanty who has established himself as one of the leading Ollywood heroes post 2010 era.\n\nUttam Mohanty is the only star in the Oriya cinema horizon to have been at the top for nearly two decades, dominating the Oriya film industry throughout the 80's and 90's. His rural fan base led him to do many films which had rustic story lines and from which intellectuals shied away. Many critics and fellow actors and seniors have often expressed in public podium that during the commercially dry days of early nineties of Oriya cinema, when the Oriya film industry was under heavy financial stress, it was Uttam Mohanty's efforts and charm which saved the day. He is in demand among off-mainstream filmmakers as well. He has won many Oriya filmfare awards and prizes as a best actor. A number of societies and institutes have honored him as a living legend of Ollywood cinema.\n\n\n2009 – Pagala Karichi Paunji Tora\n\n2009 – Tu Mori Pain\n\n2009 – Ailare Odia Pua\n\n2009 – Romeo – The Lover Boy\n\n2007 – Tumaku Paruni Ta Bhuli\n\n2007 – Mu Tate Love Karuchi\n\n2007 – Ae Jugara Krushna Sudama\n\n2005 – Bazi\n\n2005 – Om Shanti Om\n\n2005 – Agni Parikshya\n\n2002 – Sei Jhiati\n\n2002 – Samaya Kheluchi Chaka Bhaunri\n\n2002 – Dharma Sahile Hela\n\n2001 – Mo Kola To Jhulana\n\n2001 – Baazi\n\n1999 – Maa Pari Kie Haba\n\n1999 – Kala Chakra\n\n1998 – Sahara Jaluchi\n\n1998 – Rupa Gaanra Suna Kania\n\n1997 – Raghu Arakhita\n\n1997 – Nari Bi Pindhi Pare Rakta Sindura\n\n1997 – Lakhe Siba Puji Paichi Pua\n\n1996 – Sakala Tirtha To Charane\n\n1996 – Pua Mora Bhola Shankar\n\n1995 – Rakata Kahiba Kie Kahara\n\n1994 – Pacheri Uthila Majhi Duaru\n\n1994 – Naga Jyoti\n\n1994 – Akuha Katha\n\n1993 – Dadagiri\n\n1993 – Bhagya Hate Dori\n\n1993 – Sukher Swarga\n\n1992 – Sukha Sansara\n\n1992 – Naga Panchami\n\n1992 – Maa\n\n1992 – Bhisma Pratigyan\n\n1992 – Badshah\n\n1991 – To Binu Anya Gati Nahi\n\n1991 – Kapala Likhan\n\n1991 – Akuha Katha\n\n1991 – Bastra Haran\n\n1991 – Mukti Tirtha\n\n1991 - Aama Ghara Aama Sansara\n\n1991 – Naya Zaher (Hindi)\n\n1990 – Bidhira Bidhan\n\n1990 – Nua Bhauja\n\n1990 – Panchu Pandav\n\n1990 – Kandhei\n\n1990 – Raja Rani\n\n1990 – Ja Devi Sarba Bhuteshu\n\n1990 – Sasti\n\n1990 – Topae Sindura Di Topa Luha\n\n1989 – Thakura Achhanti Chau Bahaku\n\n1989 – Paradeshi Chadhei\n\n1989 – Nyaya Anyaya\n\n1989 – Hasa Luha Bhara Duniya\n\n1989 – Daiba Daudi\n\n1988 – Pua Mora Kala Thakura\n\n1988 – Papa Punya\n\n1988 – Kanyadana\n\n1988 – Bada Bhauja\n\n1988 – Jahaku Rakhibe Ananta\n\n1988 – Thili Jhia Heli Bohu\n\n1987 – Tunda Baida\n\n1987 – Suna Chadhei\n\n1987 – Phula Chandan\n\n1987 – Michha Mayara Sansara\n\n1987 – Anyaya Sahibi Nahi\n\n1987 – Golamgiri\n\n1987 – Aei Ta Duniya\n\n1987 – Chaka Akhi Sabu Dekhuchi\n\n1987 – Badhu Nirupama\n\n1986 – Paka Kambal Pot Chhata\n\n1986 – Jor Jar Mulak Tar\n\n1986 – Aei Ama Sansara\n\n1986 – School Master\n\n1986 - Sata kebe Luchi rahena\n\n1986 – Sahari Bagha\n\n1985 – Sankha Sindura\n\n1985 – Samay Bada Balaban\n\n1985 – Puja Phula\n\n1985 – Palatak\n\n1985 – Mamata Mage Mula\n\n1985 – Jaga Hatare Pagha\n\n1985 – Chaka Bhaunri\n\n1984 – Janani\n\n1984 – Jai Phula\n\n1983 – Ram Rahim\n\n1983 – Jhiatie Sita Pari\n\n1983 – Abhilasha\n\n1982 – Jwain Pua\n\n1982 – Dekh Khabar Rakh Najar\n\n1982 – Baje Bainshi Nache Ghungura\n\n1982 – Astaraga\n\n1981 – Debajani\n\n1981 – Arati\n\n1981 – Akshay Trutiya\n\n1978 – Ram Balaram\n\n1979 – Nijhum Ratira Sathi\n\n1979 – Chinha Achinha\n\n1978 – Ramayan\n\n1978 – Danda Balunga\n\n1978 – Sarapancha Babu\n\n1978 – Sankha Mahuri\n\n1978 – Pati Patni\n\n1978 – Kabi Samrat Upendra Bhanja\n\n1977 – Abhimaan\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256669", "title": "James Fox (engineer)", "text": "James Fox (engineer)\n\nJames Fox, (fl. 1780–1830), machine tool maker, was originally a butler in the service of the Rev. Thomas Gisborne, of Foxhall Lodge, Staffordshire. He had a strong interest in handicraft and his employer not only encouraged him, but enabled him to set up in business on his own account.\n\nThe growth and extension of the cotton, silk, lace and hosiery trades, in the district of Derby, created a great demand for skilled machine-makers and provided Fox with opportunities and he soon found ample scope for employment. His lace machinery became celebrated, and he supplied it largely to the neighbouring town of Nottingham; he also obtained considerable employment from the great firms of Arkwright and Strutt –– the founders of the modern cotton manufacture. Fox became celebrated for his lathes, which were of excellent quality, and besides making for British demand, he exported much machinery abroad, to France, Russia and Mauritius. Fox is also said at a very early period to have invented a screw-cutting machine, an engine for accurately dividing and cutting the teeth of wheels, and a self-acting lathe, but details are obscure.\n\nFox made one of the first planing machines, reportedly in 1814 but the priority between Fox, Matthew Murray of Leeds and Richard Roberts of Manchester has not yet been established due to the secrecy of the makers.\n\nFox's business at Derby was carried on by his sons and was active into the final third of the 19th century, but the later history is not known.\n\nFox machine tools were illustrated in contemporary literature and some survive as museum pieces in Birmingham and in Norway. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256685", "title": "Huairou District", "text": "Huairou District\n\nHuairou District () is situated in northern Beijing about 50 kilometers from the city center (about a 1½ to 2 hour drive).\n\nIn 1995 during the United Nation's 4th World's Women Conference in Beijing, the Civil Society community was forced to meet in the Huairou district, an hour from the official proceedings, leading to a great deal of discontent, as many of the non-governmental actors present felt marginalized. In a tent at the Civil Society Village established especially for poor, grassroots women at the conference (organized by GROOTS International), the Huairou Commission, a registered non-governmental organization with a global secretariat in Brooklyn, NY, was established to ensure that grassroots women would have a voice at subsequent UN conferences and in other development processes.\n\nAlso in 1995, film industry began to develop in Yangsong, a town in the southeast of Huairou. China Film Group Corporation built its studio in Huairou in 2005.\n\nHuairou District covers an area of , 90 percent of which is mountainous area. Because of its 69% forest cover, the district is known as the natural \"oxygen bar\" of Beijing. In addition, it boasts a rich combination of plant, animal and tourism resources. Therefore, Huairou is of great importance to Beijing in ensuring the environmental quality and the ecosystem of the capital city.\n\nThere are 2 subdistricts, 12 towns with 3 towns of which carry the \"area\" () label, and 2 ethnic townships in the district:. Huairou's urban area (112,662 in township) has an estimated area of and an estimated population of 90,000.\n\nIts major agricultural products are chestnuts, walnuts, hawthorns, sweet pears, and apricots.\n\nThe Great Wall of China runs through the district and some of the choicest tourist sections are located in the district. The portion known as Mutianyu is one of the most popular sections of the Great Wall for tourists. The Lakeside Great Wall in Huanghuacheng village, Jiuduhe is another tourist section known for the proximity of the Great Wall to man-made reservoir and even parts of the Great Wall are submerged under the lake water.\n\nAnother tourist attraction is Hong Luo Mountain on which the Hong Luo Temple is located.\n\nFilm-related attractions are aggregated in Yangsong, including China Film Group studio, Stellar Megamedia studio and Beijing Vintage Car Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256686", "title": "Robert L. Carroll", "text": "Robert L. Carroll\n\nRobert \"Bob\" Lynn Carroll (May 5, 1938 – April 8, 2020) was an American–Canadian vertebrate paleontologist who specialised in Paleozoic and Mesozoic amphibians and reptiles.\n\nCarroll was an only child and grew up on a farm near Lansing, Michigan. He was introduced to paleontology by his father shortly after his fifth birthday, and by the time he was eight he had decided he wanted to be a vertebrate paleontologist. In that same year he received as a Christmas present the left femur of an \"Allosaurus\", courtesy of Edwin H. Colbert, whom his father had told about his interest. In his teen years his parents took him on many fossil hunting trips to Wyoming and South Dakota. \"Allosaurus\" was discovered by Edwin Harris Colbert at the year 1942 in Wyoming.\n\nAfter high-school, he went to Michigan State University, where he received a BSc in 1959, majoring in Geology. From there he went to Harvard University where he studied biology and palaeontology under Alfred Sherwood Romer. His thesis dealt with the Dissorophidae, a group of Paleozoic amphibians that are often considered the closest relatives of present day amphibians, although they may also be stem-tetrapods.\n\nAfter obtaining his Ph.D., he held a two-year postdoctoral fellowship at Redpath Museum at McGill University in Montréal, and then at the Natural History Museum in London. During this time he studied tetrapod remains from the Pennsylvanian lycopod “tree stumps” at Joggins, Nova Scotia (a variety of temnospondyls, microsaurs, and basal amniotes). Most of this material was collected and first studied by Sir William Dawson, the first Principal of McGill University, in the nineteenth century.\n\nReturning from London, in 1964 Carroll joined the permanent staff of McGill University as curator of vertebrate paleontology at the Redpath Museum. He was appointed Strathcona Professor of Zoology in 1987. From 1985 to 1991 he was director of the Redpath Museum.\n\nIn June 2019, Carroll was appointed a Member of the Order of Canada.\n\nCarroll died on April 8, 2020 in Westmount, Quebec, due to complications from COVID-19. He was survived by Anna DiTuri, a retired business school teacher, and his one child, David and granddaughter Juliette.\n\nCarroll was the author or co-author of a large number of scientific papers on fossil vertebrates, as well as a number of important monographs, textbooks and more general books. His areas of research included the origins of terrestrial vertebrates, the origin and early evolutionary radiation of amniotes, the origin and interrelationships of the Lissamphibian groups, the anatomy and relationship of Paleozoic and Mesozoic amphibians and reptiles, large scale patterns and processes of vertebrate evolution, and the use of Mesozoic marine reptiles as a model for investigating factors controlling the patterns and rates of evolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256688", "title": "Wages of Sin", "text": "Wages of Sin\n\nWages of Sin is the fourth studio album by the Swedish melodic death metal band Arch Enemy. It is the first Arch Enemy album to feature the vocals of Angela Gossow. It is also the first album they use Standard-C tuning, which they still use today. It was released on 25 April 2001 in Japan, but the European and American releases were delayed to 18 March 2002.\n\n\"Wages of Sin\" was well received by most critics, who praised the new singer Angela Gossow. Blake Jessop of \"Blistering\" said that she handles the vocals on the album expertly. But he wrote that \"while less diverse than Liiva, the diminutive German's more traditional death metal style gives \"Wages\" an uncommonly brutal, if slightly less creative air.\" Jessop also states the album \"musically, it is predictably brilliant\". Dennis of \"Lords of Metal\" said that \"the female vocals by Angela Gossow are a remarkable performance\" and that it was a big improvement compared to the former singer Johan Liiva. \nJeff of \"Metal Storm\" stated that \"with \"Wages of Sin\", Arch Enemy delivers to us one of the best albums of the year 2002 and proves us by the same opportunity that girls are not relegated to only sing in atmospheric and gothic metal.\" Ty Brookman and Jon Eardley of Metal Review was surprised with the Gossow vocals. Brookman commented that when he heard that Arch Enemy would a female singer, his first reaction was \"career suicide\", but after to listen to the album, he changed his mind stating that \"Gossow delivers a vocal tirade that rivals any male vocalist.\" Brookman praised the band, however, he said about the album that there are elements that seem lacking in a few places. Eardley said that this album has \"one of the best vocal performances of 2001\" and that it \"is a true masterpiece.\" Chris Flaaten of \"Chronicles of Chaos\" wrote that \"the album has their best production to date and variety is abundant\" and that the band found what they needed in Gossow. Despite Serge Regoor of \"Archaic Magazine\" states that her voice sounds great, he comments that \"actually the vocals are much better too, but they are still not as good compared to the guitarwork.\" Haavard Holm of \"Tartarean Desire\" praised the band writing that it \"has capacities beyond the normal\" and stated that \"\"Wages of Sin\" is simply so well done in all ways, that it will be hard for any band to overcome this album in this genre.\" Another critic of \"Tartarean Desire\", Vincent Eldefors praised the singer Angela Gossow stating that she is one of the best lead vocalists in extreme metal along ex-Opera IX Cadaveria. Adam Bregman of Allmusic wrote that Gossow \"is just the right touch to add to a band who ranks among metal's most progressive and unique outfits.\"\n\nBlabbermouth.net's Borivoj Krgin praised the production of the album calling it \"most impressive production job out of all the Arch Enemy albums.\" El Cid of Metal Rules praised the band stating that \"this is arpeggio heaven amongst other things, the drumming is tight, the bass is excellent and the guitars are simply magnificent.\" Jeff of \"Metal Storm\" liked of quality of the production and praised the songs and the musicians calling it of \"simply excellent\" and \"simply brilliant\", respectively. He said that \"the Amott brothers are certainly among the best guitarists of today's metal scene.\"\n\n\"Wages of Sin\" won a \"Burrn!\" magazine award in the category Best Album.\n\nThe first pressing of this album contained a bonus CD, titled \"A Collection of Rare & Unreleased Songs from the Arch Enemy Vault\". These songs feature the band's previous vocalist, Johan Liiva.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256692", "title": "R. Sankar", "text": "R. Sankar\n\nR. Sankar (30 April 1909 – 7 November 1972) was the third Chief Minister of Kerala from 1962 to 1964. He was also the Deputy Chief Minister of the State from 1960 to 1962. Sankar apart as a politician is known as a statesman, administrator, orator, educationist, writer and editor.\n\nHe was born to Raman and Kunjaliamma on 30 April 1909 in Kuzhikkalidavaka village in Puthoor, Kollam district. He did his formal education in the Puthoor Primary School and later continued in an English School in Kottarakkara. In 1924, he joined Maharajas College (present University College) to gain a degree in Chemistry. He was supported financially for his education by a wealthy relative, as his father could not afford the expenses. He also worked as a teacher for a short span of time before he moved to the Government Law College, Thiruvananthapuram in 1933.\n\nHis appointment as principal of Sivagiri High School made him associate with the activities of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam. He talked about the social injustice prevalent in those days, particularly the discriminatory attitude shown towards backward class communities, and also equal opportunities for backward classes.\n\nHaving started public life as a teacher and lawyer, he was drawn to freedom movement and became an active member of the Indian National Congress in Travancore State. After India’s independence he focused his attention on strengthening the Congress party\n\nLater, he took a break from the Congress party and began to work in the SNDP Yogam. During his long association with the SNDP Yogam of over 13 years, he served as its General Secretary for over a span of 10 years and President and Chief of the SN Trust. Under his leadership the SNDP Yogam gave emphasis to the field of education and started many educational institutions. SNDP Yogam celebrated its Golden Jubilee year while Sankar was the General Secretary in 1953. As part of a year-long celebration he organised an Exhibition in Kollam which is marked in the history of the State as 'SNDP Kanaka Jubilee' \nSankar returned to the Congress and was elected to the Travancore State Assembly in 1948. He also became the member of the Travancore-Cochin State Assembly from 1949 to 1956. Sankar was member of the Constituent Assembly and also member of the Franchise and Delimitation Commission and the Reforms Committee constituted after the introduction of the Responsible Government.\n\nHe led the Congress party as Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President during the \"Vimochana Samaram\" (Liberation Struggle) in 1958. The Congress won the elections in 1960 under R. Sankar’s leadership. Though Congress gained majority of seats in the Elections of 1960 to the Kerala Legislative Assembly, Pattom Thanupillai of the Praja Socialist Party was given the Chief Ministership (CM) and Sankar became the Deputy Chief Minister in the Pattom Thanupillai ministry. He handled the portfolio of Finance from 1960 to 1962 when he was the Deputy CM.\n\nR. Sankar became the Chief Minister of Kerala when Pattom Thanupillai was appointed as Governor of Punjab State. He was in the chair from 26 September 1962 to 10 September 1964. He had to resign and dismiss the Government under his leadership when a No-confidence motion was passed in the Assembly. He brought about many economic reforms while handling the finance portfolio. He served as the Chairman of the Committee of Privileges from 1960 to 1964.\n\nSankar died at the age of 63 on 7 November 1972. The Assembly paid its homage to him on 13 November 1972.\n\nR. Sankar contested to the general elections held in 1965 to Kerala Legislative Assembly but was defeated. He thus took back from active politics and concentrated in starting and implementing Educational Institutions for SNDP Yogam by settling back in Kollam. At that time he started the Sree Narayana Medical Mission under the SN Trust for giving away free treatment. The first hospital under the mission was started in Kollam, the hospital is also known on his name 'Sankars Hospital' which is now a multispeciality hospital. The body of Sankar was also laid to rest in the Hospital compound as a tribute to his service. \nHe was the President of the Committee which erected the statue of poet Kumaranasan in Thiruvananthapuram\n\n"}
{"id": "2256694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256694", "title": "Daxing District", "text": "Daxing District\n\nDaxing District () is a district of Beijing, covering the southern suburbs of the city. It borders the Beijing districts of Tongzhou to the east/northeast, Fangshan to the west, Fengtai to the northwest, and Chaoyang to the northeast, as well as Hebei province to the south.\n\nDaxing District was upgraded from a county to a district with the approval from the State Council on April 30, 2001. Covering an area of with a population of 671,444, Panggezhuang in Daxing is famous for its watermelons.\n\nThere are 5 subdistricts, 14 towns with 5 towns of which carry the \"area\" () label in the district, and one development area:\n\nLocated in the south of Beijing, the area is not as affluent as those that most visitors to Beijing are familiar with, such as Xidan and Guomao. Much of the industry in Daxing is related to distribution of food and consumer goods to service Beijing. There are many self-built communities casually created by the residents themselves, mostly of whom have moved in from the countryside.\n\nThe Beijing Municipal Administration of Prisons operates the following correctional facilities in the district:\n\nXiabu Xiabu has its headquarters in Daxing District.\n\nThere are two major universities located in Daxing District, the Beijing Institute of Petrochemical Technology and the Beijing Institute of Graphic Communication. Both of them are headquartered in Qingyuan (清源), and have its branch in Kangzhuang (康庄). Qingyuan and Kangzhuang are planned as a university town in Daxing District. The Yang Guang Qing School of Beijing is also located in the district.\n\nThe Chinese government voted in 2009 that Daxing would be the location of the Beijing Daxing International Airport. The airport was opened in September 2019.\n\nDaxing is currently served by two metro lines of the Beijing Subway:\n\n\nDanxing's Camps by Andrew Malone. August 16, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2256698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256698", "title": "Theodore Roethke Memorial Poetry Prize", "text": "Theodore Roethke Memorial Poetry Prize\n\nThe Theodore Roethke Memorial Poetry Prize is an American poetry prize given once every three years since being established in 1967.\n\nThe Theodore Roethke Memorial Poetry Prize has been offered in Saginaw, Michigan, since 1965. It is now administered by Saginaw Valley State University. This prize is sometimes confused with the Poetry Northwest Theodore Roethke Poetry Prize and the Theodore Roethke Memorial Poetry Readings held annually at the University of Washington in Seattle.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256702", "title": "Alexander, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg", "text": "Alexander, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg\n\nAlexander, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg (20 January 1573 – 13 May 1627), was a Danish nobleman.\n\nAlexander was born in Sønderborg (German: \"Sonderburg\") in Schleswig, the third son of John II, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg and Elisabeth of Brunswick-Grubenhagen. Because his elder surviving brother chose Ærø as his seat, Alexander received Sønderborg upon their father's death and was in practice its second duke. Alexander died in Sønderborg.\n\nAlexander married Dorothea of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen, daughter of John Günther I, Count of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen, on 26 November 1604 in Oldenburg. They had eleven children:\n\n"}
{"id": "2256710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256710", "title": "Buncheong", "text": "Buncheong\n\nBuncheong ware, or \"Punch'ong\", is a form of traditional Korean stoneware, with a bluish-green tone. Pots are coated with a white slip, and decorative designs are painted on using an iron pigment. The style of stoneware arose in the 14th century and continues today.\n\nBuncheong ware developed from the earlier Goryeo celadon inlay technique called \"sanggam\" and rapidly distinguished itself. The style emerged in the early Joseon dynasty, largely replacing the style of celadon in common use. In contrast to the refined elegance of Goryeo celadon, buncheong is designed to be natural, unassuming, and practical. However, it all but disappeared from Korea after the 16th century due to the popularity of Joseon white porcelain.\n\nThrough a series of cultural and economic circumstances, Buncheong wares in its heyday were exported to Japan by practitioners of the Japanese tea ceremony. After they were adopted by the Japanese tea masters, they started to influence Japanese ceramics. And from Japan, Buncheong spread widely and became known as Mishima pottery.\n\nIn the 20th century, elements of Buncheong influenced many artists seeking insight into Asian ceramic traditions, and Buncheong continues to inspire artists to this day. Today, some Korean artists are working in stoneware with Buncheong techniques. The development of Buncheong is described in the 2011 book \"Korean Buncheong Ceramics from Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art\", published to accompany the exhibition \"Poetry in Clay\" in New York and San Francisco.\n\nThe National Museum of Korea houses a large collection of Buncheong ware, as well as the Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art in Seoul.\n\nBuncheong is characterised by the use of a dark, iron bearing clay, white slip for decoration and a clear glaze. Decorations can be white slip brushed on, drawing through white slip to reveal the dark body, iron oxide pigments applied with a brush and other methods all employing white slip on the dark body.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256717", "title": "Gwangju Metro Line 1", "text": "Gwangju Metro Line 1\n\nGwangju Metro Line 1 is a rapid transit line in Gwangju, South Korea, operated by the Gwangju Metropolitan Rapid Transit Corporation (GRTC, or Gwangju Metro). It connects Nokdong Station in Dong-gu at its eastern terminus to Pyeongdong Station in Gwangsan-gu in the west, via the central business district and Gwangju Airport. On maps, it is designated by teal (●).\n\nThe line began operations in 2004, making Gwangju the fifth South Korean city with a rapid transit system.\n\n\nAs of 2012 Line 1 consists of twenty stations. The section between Sotae and Nokdong operates as a separate shuttle.\n\nThe Gwangju City Government has a plan to extend the current Line 1 southward to Hwasun and northward to Naju. Recently, the Presidential Committee on Balanced National Development promised to include the Line 1 extension in its '5+2 extensive economic zone' project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256735", "title": "John II, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg", "text": "John II, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg\n\nJohn the Younger or John of Denmark (; ; 25 March 1545 – 9 October 1622) was the Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg.\nJohn was born in Haderslev as the fourth child (third son) of King Christian III of Denmark and his wife, Dorothea of Saxe-Lauenburg. His elder brother, King Frederick II of Denmark, allotted him a portion of Schleswig-Sonderburg (today Danish Sønderborg) as his ducal seat. He acted actively in the Danish government, for example supporting his sister-in-law, the Queen, when his nephew, Christian IV of Denmark, was underage. There were plans for him to marry the Dowager Queen in 1588 or 1589, repudiating his second, young wife. John died in Glücksburg.\n\nJohn married twice. Firstly, he married in Kolding on August 19, 1568 Elisabeth of Brunswick-Grubenhagen (20 March 1550 Salzderhelden – 11 February 1586 Østerholm), daughter of Ernest III, Duke of Brunswick-Grubenhagen. They had the following children:\n\nSecondly, he married on 14 February 1588 Princess Agnes Hedwig of Anhalt (12 March 1573 Dessau – 3 November 1616 Sønderborg), and they had the following children:\n"}
{"id": "2256737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256737", "title": "Miyun District", "text": "Miyun District\n\nMiyun District () is situated in northeast Beijing. It has an area of and a population of 460,800 (2010 Census).\n\nMiyun was one of the places where Warlord Feng Yuxiang stationed his troops in preparation of the Beijing Coup of 1924.\nIn the 1930s, Miyun District was occupied by the Imperial Japanese Army and became part of the area controlled by the East Hebei Autonomous Council, a puppet state of Japan. The Japanese occupation was challenged, however, when a local Taoist priest managed to incite Miyun's peasantry. As member of the Yellow Sand Society, he garnered followers and convinced them that they could become immune to gunfire through magical rituals that he performed. Thus highly motivated, the peasants launched a rebellion in July 1936 and defeated an East Hopei Army unit that was sent to suppress them. Nearby Imperial Japanese Army forces were consequently mobilized against the insurgents. By September, the uprising was defeated and about 300 of Miyun's Yellow Sand rebels had been killed or wounded in the fighting.\n\nThere are 3 subdistricts, 17 towns, and 1 township which carry the \"area\" () label in the district. The urban area centers on Gulou Subdistrict, and has an estimated population of 124,500.\n\nMiyun contains the easternmost point of Beijing Municipality, bordering the Beijing districts of Pinggu to the southeast, Shunyi to the southwest and Huairou to the west as well as Hebei province to the due north and east. The Miyun Reservoir, a major source of water for the city of Beijing, is also located in the county.\n\nA popular tourist attraction in Miyun district is Simatai, a section of the Great Wall. Another is Nanshan Ski Resort, one of the largest in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256739", "title": "C. H. Mohammed Koya", "text": "C. H. Mohammed Koya\n\nC. H. Mohammad Koya (15 July 1927 – 28 September 1983), known as C. H., full name Cheriyan Kandi Muhammad Koya, was an Indian politician and journalist who served as the eighth Chief Minister of Kerala from 12 October to 1 December 1979. \n\nA longtime Secretary of the Indian Union Muslim League, he is the only Muslim to be chosen as the Chief Minister of Kerala (1979). As the Minister of Education (Kerala), from 1967 to 1977, C. H. championed the progress of the education of Muslim community in Kerala.\n\nCheriyan Kandi Muhammad Koya was born in 1927 at Atholi, in northern Kerala, to Payampunathil Ali Musliyar and Mariyumma. \n\nC. H. co-founded the Muslim Students Federation, or the M. S. F., while a school student in Calicut Zamorin's College. He helped to receive prominent Muslim League leader Liaquat Ali Khan in 1945. C. H. joined the \"Chandrika\" newspaper, the official organ the Muslim League, in 1946. Though only having Intermediate education, C. H. worked his way from Sub-Editor to the Editor of \"Chandrika\" by 1949.\n\nC. H. was first elected to Kerala Assembly in the 1957 legislative elections. He went on to hold several key Kerala cabinet posts (Deputy Chief Minister, Minister for Education, Home Affairs Minister, and Minister for Finance) under a number of Chief Ministers (E. M. S. Namboodiripad, C. Achutha Menon, K. Karunakaran, A. K. Antony, and P. K. Vasudevan Nair) in the following decades. In 1962 (1962–67) and in 1973 (1973–77), he was elected to the Parliament of India. He was a Member in Kerala University Senate and served as Chairman, Governing Body, REC, Calicut.\n\nC. H. died on 28 September, 1983 while serving as Deputy Chief Minister of Kerala. He was aged just 56 at the time of his death.\n\nC. H. was known as a \"fiery and eloquent orator\" and was described by scholar R. E. Miller as \"grassroots star of the Mappila community\" and the \"ranking hero of Muslim youth\" in Kerala. He also acted as a \"bridge-builder\" among various social and religious groups of Kerala.\n\n\nAs the Minister of Education (Kerala), C. H. championed the progress of the Mappila community in secular education, but also advocated higher standards in the 'Arabic Colleges' (Kerala 'Arabic Colleges' are the equivalent of north Indian madrasas).\n\n\n\nSpeaker (independent)\n\n\nMinister for Education\n\n\nMinister for Education and Home\n\n\nMinister for Education and Home\n\n\nMinister for Finance and Education\n\n\nMinister for Education\n\n\nMinister for Education\n\n\nChief Minister of Kerala – 12 October to 1 December 1979 (Koya Ministry)\n\nDeputy Chief Minister of Kerala \n\n\nDeputy Chief Minister of Kerala\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256745", "title": "Primera Divisió", "text": "Primera Divisió\n\nThe Lliga Nacional de Fútbol, also known as Primera Divisió (First Division) or Campionat de Lliga, is the top football league for Andorra.\n\nThe league was launched in 1995 sponsored by the local federation (Andorran Football Federation) which was created just one year before, in 1994. Until then the clubs played since 1970 an amateur league without a structure or affiliation with any official institution. After the UEFA and FIFA affiliation in 1996 the Andorran clubs are able to compete in the UEFA competitions. Until 2015 the league was known as \"Lliga Grup Becier\" and during 2016 \"Lliga Grup Sant Eloi\". It was renamed in 2017 as Lliga Multisegur Assegurances for sponsorship reasons.\n\nAll the teams in the league play in the same stadiums owned by the federation. The same occurs in all other Andorran competitions, such as Copa Constitució and Supercopa.\n\nFC Andorra, one of the major clubs in the country based in Andorra la Vella have never played in this league. They play in the Spanish league system, because they are registered with the Royal Spanish Football Federation, but the team is mostly composed of players with Andorran nationality.\n\nThe eight clubs that play in the league play each other twice in the same venue. After the first 14 rounds, the best four teams play a competition between them to decide the Andorran champion (\"play off per al títol\"), while the other four play to avoid relegation (\"play off pel descens\"). The last placed of the relegation round is relegated to Segona Divisió, the second highest football league in Andorra, while the penultimate classified play a two-legged relegation play-off against the runners-up of Segona Divisió. The number of teams of \"Primera Divisió\" has changed throughout the league's history:\n\n\nThe winner of the league win a place in the UEFA Champions League while the runners-up of the league and the Cup winner win a place in the UEFA Europa League.\n\nThe Andorran Football Federation organizes the matches of \"Primera Divisió\" and \"Segona Divisió\" in the stadiums owned by the local federation. Also the federation distributes the stadiums and fields for the training sessions for each team. Since the 2016–17 season, FC Encamp is the only club that has its own stadium (✚), located in Prada de Moles (Camp de Futbol d'Encamp). Until 2016 the Camp d'Esports d'Aixovall hosted former matches of \"Primera Divisió\" and \"Segona Divisió\".\n\nBold: indicates clubs currently playing in the top division.<br>\n\nThe All-time Primera Divisió table is an overall record of all match results, points, and goals of every team that has played since its inception in 1995. The table is accurate as of the end of the 2018–19 season. Teams in bold are part of the 2018–19 Primera Divisió. Play-offs games are not included.\n\nLeague or status at 2016–17 season:\n"}
{"id": "2256750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256750", "title": "Katse Dam", "text": "Katse Dam\n\nThe Katse Dam, a concrete arch dam on the Malibamat'so River in Lesotho, is Africa's second largest double-curvature arch dam. (The Tekezé Dam, completed in early 2009, is now Africa's largest double curvature dam). The dam is part of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, which will eventually include five large dams in remote rural areas. The dam is just below the confluence of the Bokong River, which forms the western arm of the Katse reservoir.\n\nThe potential of the project was identified by the South African civil engineer Ninham Shand (now Aurecon) as a possible means to supplement the water supply to South Africa. The World Bank arranged a treaty between the governments of South Africa and Lesotho, allowing the project to proceed.\n\nThe dam was built by a consortium of Bouygues, Concor, Group 5, Hochtief, Impregilo, Kier Group and Sterling International. The dam was completed in 1996 and the reservoir filled with water by 1997. The total cost of the project was US$8 billion. Katse Airport was constructed southeast of the dam to facilitate access to the project.\n\nThe mass of water gave rise to induced seismicity. Farmers who lost land to the project have had trouble re-establishing new livelihoods. There is little arable land in the mountains to replace all that was lost, and efforts to help them with new livelihoods have by no means been as successful as the engineering works. A local group has documented the project's human legacy in the rural communities directly affected by the project, and the environmental and human-rights NPO, International Rivers, produced a detailed account of the effects. \n\nAs mitigation of the loss of habitat, plant rescue missions were conducted in the area to be flooded, and Katse Botanical Gardens was established to house and propagate the plants rescued.\n\nWater from the dam first travels through a , diameter tunnel, exiting at a hydroelectric station near Muela. The dam's high elevation allows a gravity flow water delivery system to South Africa, in addition to hydroelectric power for Lesotho, and was a prime reason behind the choice of site.\n\nWater delivery officially began on 22 January 1998. The dam currently supplies about of water to South Africa, which pays Lesotho $35 million per year, plus a variable royalty based on calculated water usage benefits.\n\nIn recent years, water from the scheme has also been discharged into the Mohokare (Caledon) River to provide water to Lesotho's capital Maseru in times of shortages. The new dams have filled as anticipated and discharge of water from the dams into the downstream rivers continues in a scheme devised to preserve ecological balances. This discharged water flows to the Senqu (Orange) River, and while preserving the ecological \"status quo\", it benefits only those communities along the rivers. Schemes to provide water supplies to displaced Highlands farmers have not been very successful.\n\nThe dam project has also been a source of widespread corruption, which is not uncommon with large dam projects. The Lesotho courts have taken the unusual step of prosecuting the large companies involved in the scandal in addition to the Lesotho bureaucrat who took the bribes. Thus far, there have been a number of convictions and at least one company debarred by the World Bank for its role in the scandal.\n\nThe intake tower is located approximately north of Katse Dam and has been designed to accommodate which was the maximum transfer originally envisaged for full implementation of the LHWP. The intake tower is in diameter and high to accommodate the large range in reservoir storage elevation as well as to facilitate the draw-off at four distinct lake levels. This will enable the quality of the transferred water to be controlled at all times. Due to the position and design of the intake tower, there is a certain volume of water in the reservoir that cannot be accessed via the transfer tunnels. This dead storage is approximately , with the result that the effective live storage behind Katse Dam is reduced from the total storage capacity of 1,950 million m³ to 1,520 million m³.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256752", "title": "Yanqing District", "text": "Yanqing District\n\nYanqing District (), formerly known as Yanqing County before 2015, is a subdivision of the municipality of Beijing located northwest of the city proper of Beijing. The district consists of 11 towns and 4 rural townships, and borders the Beijing districts of Huairou to the east and Changping to the south as well as the Hebei counties of Huailai to the west and Chicheng to the north. The district will host alpine skiing, bobsled, luge and skeleton during the 2022 Winter Olympics.\n\nThere are 3 subdistricts, 11 towns, and 1 township in the district.\n\nThe urban area of Yanqing is composed of , , and , with a population that exceeds 100,000. The urban area has a central business district and exhibition center.\n\nThe district is rich in historical sites and outdoor attractions.\n\nThe most visited attraction of Yanqing is Badaling, a restored section of the Great Wall, that is highly popular with tourists. Badaling Remnant (Shixiaguan) and Shuiguan sections of the Great Wall in Yanqing are to the west and east respectively of the highly popular Badaling and receive spillover visitors especially during peak periods.\n\nOne of the most popular day-trips for residents of Beijing is the Longqing Gorge located in the village of Gucheng in the district. The scenic area features a canyon filled at the bottom with a reservoir from a nearby man made dam, providing short boat cruises along the dramatic landscape of narrow peaks.\n\nThe remnants of a 1,000 year old cliff dwelling community date back to the Tang Dynasty are found at Guyaju Ruins near the village of Dongmenying. Archaeologists are uncertain about the origins of Guyaju. One theory holds that the Kumo Xi, a steppe tribe, carved from the rocks the halls and hundreds of dwellings that form a fortress community in the caves.\n\nAnother historical attraction is the town of Yongning. The town square tower was restored in the 2000s and there is a Gothic Revival Catholic church from the 19th century.\n\nThe Jingbao Railway, Daqin Railway, and China National Highway 110 pass through the district.\n\nYanqing is currently served by one commuter railway line operated by Beijing Suburban Railway (BCR). Line S2 (both the main and branch lines) starts from Huangtudian railway station in Changping District and stops at the following stations in Yanqing:\n\n"}
{"id": "2256753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256753", "title": "Premio Bancarella", "text": "Premio Bancarella\n\nThe Premio Bancarella is an Italian literary prize established in 1953; it is given in Pontremoli every year, the last Saturday or the last Sunday in July.\n\nAt first, six books are selected and award the \"Premio Selezione Bancarella\", then the booksellers establish the winner with their vote. The awarding of the prize take place in the last evening.\n\nAt present, Premio Bancarella is at the 54th edition.\n\nThe Premio Bancarella della Cucina, inaugurated in 2006, is awarded by the Fondazione Città del Libro together with the Accademia Italiana della Cucina and is intended to promote the gastronomic traditions and heritage of Italy.\n\nOther prizes assigned in Pontremoli together with Bancarella are: Premio Bancarellino and Premio Bancarella Sport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256755", "title": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Icha", "text": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Icha\n\nTerritory located in present-day Benin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256760", "title": "Viaduct Harbour", "text": "Viaduct Harbour\n\nViaduct Harbour, formerly known as Viaduct Basin, is a former commercial harbour on the Auckland waterfront that has been turned into a development of mostly upscale apartments, office space and restaurants. It is located on the site of a formerly run-down area of the Freemans Bay / Auckland CBD waterfront in Auckland City, New Zealand. As a centre of activity of the 2000 America's Cup hosted by the Royal New Zealand Yacht Squadron, the precinct enjoyed considerable popularity with locals and foreign visitors.\n\nDesigned along the line of the basins common in London, the Viaduct Basin was so-called because of a failed scheme by the Auckland Harbour Board in the early years of the 20th century. As the size of ships was increasing dramatically, rather than build new wharves or dredge the harbour channels, it was proposed that cargo ships moor out in the Waitematā Harbour channel and be unloaded into \"lighters\", small barges that would then ferry the goods to shore via the specially built wharves in the new \"Viaduct Lighter Basin\". The shipping companies refused to co-operate and forced the Harbour Board to engage in dredging and the construction of new wharves.\n\nThis left the partially completed lighter basin without a real purpose, so it was used to berth the various fishing boats and thus tidy up the appearance of the Auckland waterfront further east. Next to the Lighter Basin a fish market and various warehouses were constructed, including Turners & Growers Ltd, the city's main produce wholesalers. The far side of the area was connected by a mechanical bridge that was able to be raised to allow passage into the basin to the fishing vessels which used it.\n\nTimber mills had occupied the edges of Freeman's Bay prior to the construction of the Lighter Basin and Victoria Park; these continued to be a feature of the area for most of the 20th century along with other industries such as foundries, many of which were associated with ship building in one way or another.\n\nThe redevelopment of the Lighter Basin as the Viaduct Harbour in the late 1990s as a mixed-use area of apartments and restaurants has had uneven success. Some of the resulting buildings are considered very handsome, and the area was provided with a good selection of public and semi-public spaces. A colourful array of working boats and yachts, some of them available for charter, moor in the basin itself. The Auckland City Council initiated a program of public artworks for the area.\n\nHowever some of the new residents of the area objected to the use of the public spaces for events on the grounds of noise, so the attractive and expensive hard landscaping is less used than originally intended. As the area was designed as a setting for ongoing use by large crowds of people as it saw during the America's Cup in 2000, the spaces look very empty and bland without these people.\n\nThe success of the hospitality quarter has become problematic as well. Some local residents have objected to the high prices charged by the restaurants and shops. As it is adjacent to the National Maritime Museum, the Tepid Baths pools, and the stylish Princes Wharf development, the Viaduct Harbour continues to be a popular attraction for Auckland residents and tourists, but there are ongoing noise and security issues connected with the local venues and eateries.\n\nThe local apartment-owners are described as a relatively affluent and somewhat older demographic, with many using their apartments only as their \"city home\" while living on places like Waiheke Island during the weekend. Residents complained that few residents know each other, and that a community spirit was mostly absent in the spanking new quarter, at least in the immediate years after development.\n\nAdjacent to the area are the National Maritime Museum, the Tepid Baths pools, Victoria Park and the stylish Princes Wharf development. The Auckland CBD and main waterfront areas lie directly to the east of the development, while the Northern Motorway - a short distance to the west - allows motorised connection to places beyond.\n\nAuckland City, in its plans to transform the 'Tank Farm' (a large industrial wharf area further to the west) into residential and/or park areas, stated that it will be vital to secure the western viaduct area in public ownership (as the eastern edge already is), so that the area can be managed as a single regional facility. This would require securing the America's Cup bases plus the remaining ports areas to allow public access around the entire viaduct harbour.\n\nA 2003 proposal to rename the Viaduct Harbour to 'Blake Harbour' (for Sir Peter Blake, a famous New Zealand yachtsman) was not successful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256770", "title": "Architects of Iran", "text": "Architects of Iran\n\nTraditionally, Iranian architects were known as \"Mi'mars\".\n\nThe Persian dictionary of \"Mo'in\" defines Mi'mar as:\n\n\nClassical words \"Banna\", \"Mohandes\", \"Ostad\", and \"Amal\" which appear in classical manuals and references of Islamic architecture.\n\nAlthough many scholars do not recognize the Mimar and the Architect to historically be the same, they do agree that their responsibilities overlap extensively. In this list, they are taken to be the same.\n\nThe list is in chronological order and selectively spans the Islamic age based on available records. There is little, if any, record of the numerous masters of architecture that built some of the early Islamic and pre-Islamic world's wonders of Iran. It is unknown who built the palaces of Bishapur, Firouzabad, Persepolis, Susa, or the many other spectacular ancient edifices of Greater Iran. No record of their names exists. Only the ruins of what they built give us a faint indication of what masters must have walked the face of this earth eons ago.\n\nMany of the structures remaining today possibly had more than one architect working on them. Only one is mentioned in the following list, and only their most famous work is mentioned. The list also contains the names of builders whom exact dates have been attributed to their buildings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor a full comprehensive list of Iranian architects from antiquity up to the modern age, refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2256773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256773", "title": "FC Rànger's", "text": "FC Rànger's\n\nFC Rànger's is an Andorran football club based in Andorra la Vella. The team currently plays in Segona Divisió.\n\nThe club was founded in 1981, but they only started playing in Andorran leagues in 1999. After two years in the Andorran Second Division, they played for the first time in the Campionat de Lliga in the 2001–02 season. After the promotion, FC Rànger's started a growing career, and after finishing second in 2005, they won the league title the two subsequent years, 2006 and 2007.\n\nFC Rànger's made their first time appearance in European competitions, playing the UEFA Intertoto Cup in the summer of 2005, being eliminated by Sturm Graz by 6–1 in aggregate. The home match ended with a 1–1 draw, scored by Norberto Urbani. After winning the Andorran championship, they qualified for the UEFA Cup, where they were eliminated in the First round by FK Sarajevo. FC Rànger's became the first Andorran team to compete in the UEFA Champions League by qualifying for the 2007–08 season. However, their stay was short-lived as they were eliminated in the first qualifying round after a 5–0 aggregate loss to Sheriff Tiraspol over two rounds played on 17 July and 25 July 2007.\n\nAt the end of the 2008–09 season the team was relegated. After two seasons in Segona Divisió the team finished second in the 2010–11 season and was promoted (promotion-ineligible Lusitanos B finished champion). In the 2011–12 season FC Ranger's finished 8th in Primera Divisió being relegated again to Segona Divisió where it has remained since then.\n\n\n\n\"As of 10 February, 2015.\"\n\n\"As of December, 2008.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2256776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256776", "title": "Tobacco Dock", "text": "Tobacco Dock\n\nTobacco Dock is a Grade I listed warehouse located in the East London district of Wapping, and thereby the London Borough of Tower Hamlets. Part of the famous London Docks and designed by John Rennie, a Scottish civil engineer and architect responsible for the pre-1970 Waterloo Bridge, it was completed in 1812 and primarily served as a store for imported tobacco, hence the name. For many years economic activity in the area fluctuated due to the succession of World War I and World War II, and although Wapping seemed to be entering a new period of prosperity, both London Docks and St. Katherine's Docks had closed by 1969. \n\nSince London Docklands closed its doors to seaborne trade the warehouse and surrounding areas fell into dereliction until it was turned into a shopping centre which opened in 1989. Unfortunately, due to the early 1990s recession during that time it was forced to close two years later. In 2003 English Heritage placed it on their at risk register which put a stopper in the plans of many developers to attempt a rejuvenation of the former London Docklands site. For two decades Tobacco Dock stood empty, and although it served a number of uses during this time such as a barracks for military personnel providing security to the 2012 London Olympics, nothing quite compared to the glory days of its former purpose.\n\nHowever, in 2012 it experienced a total makeover as it was reborn as an events and conferencing space for up to 10,000 people by the company Tobacco Dock London. In addition to this, it also houses a number of offices and co-working spaces also operated by Tobacco Dock London, although the site and building itself are owned by Kuwaiti investment company Messila House.\n\nThe London Dock Company was initially established in January 1796 by a group of merchants, shippers and bankers and upon the drawing up of plans for The London Docks the company negotiated a 21 year monopoly on the management of vessels carrying rice, tobacco, wine and brandy. This excluded those coming from the East and West Indies, which were managed by the East India Trading Company.\n\nThe vaults beneath the tobacco warehouses resembled the crypts of a Gothic cathedral, \"with chamfered granite columns under finely-executed brick groins, connected with a 20 acre 'subterranean city' for the storage of wines and spirits, where they could mature at a stable temperature of 15.5°C\".\n\nIn Victorian England it was possible to obtain a permit from The London Dock Company to visit the vaults, although women were not admitted after 1pm and wine merchants provided visitors with tasting orders that allowed them to sample the various wines, brandies, spirits and ports that were in storage. Now only four of the original vaults survive. \"Later, from the 1860s, the ground floor of the warehouse was predominantly used for wool, furs and skins – hence the name 'Skin Floor' – and cork and molasses\". In his \"Being Notes of Common Life and Pastoral Work in Saint James's, Westminster and in Saint Georges'-in-the-East\" the Reverend Harry Jones, Rector of Saint Georges'-in-the-East (Smith Elder & Co, London 1875) noted that an army of about three hundred cats were 'employed' to control the number of rats in the Dock.\nThe former street side entrance to The London Docks was from Ratcliffe Highway which is now known simply as The Highway; due to it being a Roman road it was well suited for its usage as a trading centre for the port. Although, it was rather notorious for prostitution and other nefarious activities as many of the sailors coming in from their long voyages were single men looking for drink and a woman, with plenty of cash to spare and the taverns and brothels along its length provided for their every need. In 1600 John Stow described it as \"a continual street, or filthy straight passage, with alleys of small tenements or cottages builded, inhabited by sailors and victualers\". One such shop along Ratcliffe was German born wild animal trader Charles Jamrach's 'Jamrach's Animal Emporium', which also served as a museum.\n\nJamrach also owned a menagerie in Betts Street and a warehouse in Old Gravel Lane, Southwark; he was a leading importer, breeder and exporter of animals, selling to noblemen, zoos, menageries and circus owners, and buying from ships docking in London and nearby ports, with agents in other major British ports, including Liverpool, Southampton and Plymouth, and also in continental Europe. In 1857 a wild Bengal tiger escaped from its box as it was waiting to be loaded into its new den and carried off a young boy of around nine years of age who tried to stroke it. Upon his command, on of Jamrach's men Brough a crowbar and struck the tiger three times until it released the boy. However, it was only stunned and jumped up again once Jamrach pried the boy from its jaws; so, after a final blow Jamrach and his men managed to return the tiger to its den largely unharmed. Hospital reports showed that the boy was unharmed yet Jamrach offered his father, a tailor, £50 in compensation 'for the alarm he had sustained'. Despite this he sued Jamrach for damages which ended up costing £300: £60 for the father and £240 for the lawyers. Jamrach eventually sold the tiger to Mr. Edmonds of Wombell's menagerie for £300, who made a fortune by exhibiting it as the tiger that swallowed a child. \n\nAt the north entrance of Tobacco Dock there now stands a bronze sculpture of a boy standing in front of a tiger to commemorate the incident..\n\nThe name Tobacco Dock comes from its original use as a warehouse built to store tobacco and other valuable imports from the New World. It made up part of The London Docks for which plans were first proposed in 1800 when the London Dock Act was passed authorising the building of a wet dock in Wapping, the initial cost of the docks was £4 million. Whilst the majority of the wet dock was built on drainage fields, many houses as well as the former site of the Raine's Foundation School were demolished to make way for warehouses, offices and quays, one of such warehouses is now Tobacco Dock. This resulted in many people being made homeless due to a compulsory purchase order being made for the land by the London Dock Company. Part of the St. John's Churchyard was also used in the creation of the docks, resulting in a need to rebury some of the dead. In Harper's New Monthly Magazine it was written that The London Docks were made up of more than one hundred acres with space for more than five hundred ships, and warehouses capable of holding two hundred and thirty four thousand tons of goods, with the capital of the company alone exceeding four million pounds.\n\nAlthough the homes built for dock staff on the Pier Head are a classic example of late Georgian architecture, most specifically of the Regency era, the dock itself deterred would be thieves with its prison-like design. \n\nOne of the most notable features of Tobacco Dock that can be seen from the outside are the high walls surrounding the whole structure, costing £65,000. They are a result of the strict storage and import laws relating to tobacco and liquor, which were (and still are) subjected to excise duty; hence, it was required that they be kept in bonded warehouses with strict security measures. Another reason for the virtually impenetrable walls was defence; piracy was rampant in the 19th century and professional bandits such as The River Pirates, the Night Plunderers, the Scuffle-Hunters and the Mud Larks patrolled the waters and ports in search of a victim. Due to massive congestion on the river there was often around 1,800 boats moored in a space meant for 500.\n\nThis thievery may have influenced the decision to hire Daniel Asher Alexander - who was the principal architect of both Dartmoor Prison and Maidstone Prison - to design The London Dock, as well as act as the principle surveyor. \n\n'The Great Tobacco Warehouse' was also known as the Queen's Warehouse; hence, the furnace at the centre of it earned the moniker of 'The Queen's Tobacco Pipe' as it was used to burn defective tobacco and other unusable goods as well as those which had not had their duty paid. John Timbs' \"Curiosities of London\" (1867) records:\nIn 1990 the structure was converted into a shopping centre at a cost of £47 million; it was the intention of the developers to create the \"Covent Garden of the East End\", however the scheme was unsuccessful and it went into administration. This is likely due, in part, to the fact that Tobacco Dock is not in a major retail area and has only moderately good public transport access. Since the mid-1990s the building was almost entirely unoccupied, with the only tenant being a sandwich shop, and a plan to convert it into a factory outlet did not come to fruition.\n\nFortunately in 2003, English Heritage placed Tobacco Dock on the Buildings at Risk Register to prevent inappropriate development and decay due to neglect, although at this time it was already a listed building. A meeting was arranged in 2004 to discuss the building with its owners, the Kuwaiti investment company Messila House, to ensure the survival of the historic structure. An English Heritage spokesman commented: \"we see Tobacco Dock as a future priority because it is too large and important a site to be left standing empty. It is one of the most important buildings in London and if brought back into use it would reinvigorate the whole area\". In 2005 the owners announced that they were working on a mixed-use scheme for Tobacco Dock which could incorporate a four-star hotel, shops, and luxury apartments. As of July 2012, the upper areas of the complex were still accessible to the general public whilst the majority of the lower areas were cordoned off.\n\nTobacco Dock is regularly used for large corporate and commercial events. In early 2004, part of the building was used as the studios of the Channel 4 reality television show \"Shattered\". Several film première after-parties have also been held there. Scenes in the sixth episode of the 2008 BBC drama \"Ashes to Ashes\" were filmed at Tobacco Dock, which was set in 1981 despite the centre only being developed for its failed use as a shopping centre in 1990. In February 2011 the complex was used to hold the Secret Cinema event for \"The Red Shoes\".\n\nIn 1980 the upper floor of Tobacco Dock was used as the filming location for the music video \"Messages\" by the band Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark.\n\nIn the summer of 2012 the Ministry of Defence used Tobacco Dock as temporary accommodation for 2,500 soldiers deployed to guard the Olympic Games in London.\n\nIn November 2013 and 2014 it was used to host RuneFest 3 and 4 respectively, an event celebrating \"RuneScape\", the online Role-playing video game.\n\nSince 2014, the British Academy Games Awards were held every spring as part of EGX Rezzed.\n\nLarge ticketed dance events have been held regularly since 2014, organised by LWE, and hosting up to 5,000 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256779", "title": "Code Unknown", "text": "Code Unknown\n\nCode Unknown () is a 2000 film directed by Michael Haneke. Most of the story occurs in Paris, France, where the fates of several characters intersect and connect.\n\n\"Code Unknown\" is composed of unedited long takes filmed in real time, cut only when the perspective within a scene changes from one character's to another's in the middle of the action. A special edition of the film was released on Blu-ray in 2015 by The Criterion Collection. The film is inspired by the life of the french novelist and war reporter Olivier Weber.\n\n\"Code Unknown\" is a co-production among France, Germany and Romania.\n\nThe film features several different storylines, all of which intersect periodically throughout the film.\n\nThe film begins with a brief prologue. We see a young girl in a white room standing near a wall. She crouches near the wall, then stands. Then we see individual children each making a gesture in sign language for a single word. These alternate with the first girl shaking her head. The words include, for instance, Alone, Hiding place, Bad Conscience, Sad, Imprisoned. {All of these words might be understood as reflecting ideas that form part of the following film.} After the title is shown, the film's opening scene features a brief encounter with four of the main characters: Anne Laurent (Juliette Binoche) is an actress working in Paris, and she walks briefly with her boyfriend's younger brother Jean. After they part, Jean throws a piece of garbage at Maria, a homeless woman sitting on the side of the road. Amadou, the child of Malian immigrants, witnesses this and confronts Jean. The two fight, and eventually Amadou and Maria are both taken to a police station for questioning. Amadou is released presumably shortly after, though we learn that he was held, beaten and shamed, but Maria is deported to her native Romania and she reconnects with her family there.\n\n\n\"Code Unknown\" holds a 74/100 on Metacritic, based on 13 critics. Rotten Tomatoes reports 74% approval among 50 critics, with an average score of 7.01/10. The site's consensus reads: \"Though challengingly cryptic at times, \"Code Unknown\" still manages to resonate.\"\n\n\"Code Unknown\" screened in competition at the 2000 Cannes Film Festival. Cinematographer Jürges was nominated for the \"Golden Frog\" at the Camerimage awards.\n\nThe film received votes from two critics and four directors, including Ruben Östlund, in the 2012 \"Sight & Sound\" polls of the world's greatest films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256784", "title": "The Killer in Me", "text": "The Killer in Me\n\n\"The Killer in Me\" is the 13th episode of the seventh and final season of the television series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\".\n\nGiles prepares to take all of the Potentials – except Kennedy, who's sick with the flu – on a trip to the desert to meet the First Slayer. Buffy goes to check on Spike, who's chained in the basement. They chat about the girls being gone and Spike's decision to stay chained up until they know the First Evil is through with him. Suddenly, Spike begins to writhe in pain as his chip fires without provocation.\n\nBuffy talks with Willow in the kitchen about Spike's chip and what little they actually know about it. Willow then goes upstairs to bring Kennedy some tea. When Willow walks into the room, she finds that Kennedy is not actually sick, and is instead dressed for a \"mission\" which she says requires Willow's assistance. The mission turns out to be drinks at The Bronze. Back in the basement, Buffy checks on Spike again and they talk about the potential causes of the chip's glitches. Buffy realizes that she is going to have to contact the people who implanted the chip in the first place: The Initiative. Buffy tries, but fails, to reach Riley Finn on the telephone; Spike's chip continues to fire at random intervals.\n\nWillow and Kennedy finish their drinks and then return to Revello Drive. Back in their room, Kennedy gives Willow an end-of-date kiss, with a surprising effect: Willow takes on the appearance of Warren Mears. Panicking, Willow rushes downstairs; on seeing her, the others recoil, partly because they know that the First Evil has appeared to Andrew as Warren. Buffy hits \"Warren\", showing that \"he\" cannot be the First (who is incorporeal). When Willow threatens to tell some embarrassing old stories about Xander, the gang provisionally accept her claim.\n\nWillow goes off to try to break the spell; Kennedy tags along. Spike's chip fires again. Buffy and Spike go to the Initiative's abandoned base to look for the painkilling drugs that were used on Spike during his captivity there three years before, when the chip was implanted, and for documentation on the chip.\n\nRobson, a Watcher, telephones Buffy's house from England and reports that Giles may have been killed by a Bringer (as seen in the ending of \"Sleeper\"). The Scoobies become alarmed when none of them can remember seeing Giles touch anything since his return; no one has hugged him, nor seen him carry anything, and he is not driving the car to the desert. Xander, Anya, Dawn, and Andrew all go to the desert to find Giles and, in the case of danger, stop him from hurting the Potentials.\n\nWillow and Kennedy go to meet with the Wiccan group at the University of California-Sunnydale, which now includes Amy. Willow tries to run away as she realizes she's not just looking like Warren, she's becoming him. Kennedy tries to follow, but Willow puts up a magical barrier to keep her away. Buffy and Spike wander through the remains of the Initiative, finding many dead soldiers and demons (\"Primeval\").\n\nInside the Initiative, Buffy and Spike are attacked by a demon. During the fray, Buffy is wounded by the demon and when Spike tries to help, his chip fires and renders him ineffectual. The demon grabs Spike and drags him off into the darkness. Kennedy returns to the lecture hall to find Amy packing up supplies; the rest of the group is gone. Amy comments on Kennedy's concern for Willow, and draws Kennedy's suspicion when she mentions that Kennedy is a Potential, a fact that neither Kennedy or Willow had mentioned.\n\nWillow, increasingly dominated by the Warren persona, goes to buy a gun, of the same model that killed Tara and wounded Buffy (\"Seeing Red\"). Out in the desert, Giles is tackled to the ground by Xander and the others. They are all pleased to find that he has a solid form and thus is not the First Evil – nor dead.\n\nBack at the abandoned Initiative facility, Buffy battles with and finally kills the demon that attacked her and Spike. As she crouches down by Spike to see if he is okay, lights turn on, revealing a group of soldiers. Their leader explains that Riley received Buffy's message, and they are there to help Spike. An examination confirms that Spike's chip is killing him. It is up to Buffy to decide whether to repair the chip or remove it.\n\nKennedy confronts Amy, accusing her of causing the \"Warren\" problem. Amy reveals that she put a hex on Willow, whose effect is determined by the victim's subconscious. She did it because Willow murdered a man and remained beloved – crowning Amy's envy of Willow's relatively easy successes in magic. Amy then teleports Kennedy to the backyard of Buffy's house, where Willow/Warren starts to reenact his attack on Buffy that resulted in Tara's death, but Kennedy talks Willow down. Willow tearfully explains that when Kennedy kissed her she let go of Tara's memory for a moment, making her truly dead. Then Kennedy kisses Willow again, and the spell ends. The two go into the house together.\n\nEach scene with Willow/Warren was filmed twice - once with Alyson Hannigan playing Willow and again with Adam Busch as Warren. Which actor performed the scene first depended upon how \"Willow\" Warren was supposed to be. That is, when Willow first changes into Warren she acts more or less like Willow; in these early scenes Hannigan would act first so that Busch could somewhat mimic her performance. In later scenes when Warren's personality is more prominent Busch would act first. Because of this decision to use both actors, filming the Willow scenes took much longer than usual. In an interview with the BBC, Elizabeth Anne Allen says, \"everything had to be so exact.\" She explains that if Alyson or Adam \"gestured or moved their head differently from the other person, they had to do the take over again. So that one scene took us a day and a half to shoot.\"\n\nAnthony Stewart Head was not allowed to touch anything while onscreen for several episodes prior to this one, in order to set up the suspicion that Giles might actually be the First. According to the DVD commentary for this episode, this was apparently quite a pain for all involved. When asked why he set up this misdirection, Joss Whedon says it was \"to make people wonder. Just to have a little fun in the sense of pulling a mystery... an exercise, something to spice things up.\" Whedon wanted to play off the \"creepy\" idea that \"we don't know where the bad guy is, we don't know where he's coming from. Our trusted mentor could be the bad guy.\"\n\nIn the DVD commentary, director David Solomon notes that Iyari Limon had to do a lot of kissing in this episode. He says she joked that her lips hurt after having to do long kisses with both Alyson Hannigan and Adam Busch.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256787", "title": "Britomart Transport Centre", "text": "Britomart Transport Centre\n\nBritomart Transport Centre is the public transport hub in the central business district of Auckland, New Zealand, and the northern terminus of the North Island Main Trunk railway line. It combines a railway station in a former Edwardian post office, extended with expansive post-modernist architectural elements, with a bus interchange. It is at the foot of Queen Street, the main commercial thoroughfare of Auckland city centre, with the main ferry terminal just across Quay Street.\n\nThe centre was the result of many design iterations, some of them being substantially larger and including an underground bus terminal and a large underground car park. Political concerns and cost implications meant that those concepts did not proceed. However, at the time of its inception in the early 2000s the centre was still Auckland's largest transport project ever, built to move rail access closer to the city's CBD and help boost Auckland's low usage of public transport. It is one of the few underground railway stations in the world designed for use by diesel trains.\n\nInitially seen as underused and too costly, it is now considered a great success, heading for capacity with the growing uptake of rail commuting. Limitations on further patronage are primarily due to the access tunnel from the east which provides only two rail tracks, and the lack of a through connection via a rail link to the North Shore or to the Western line via a tunnel, which would change it into a through station. A tunnel to the Western Line is now under construction, as part of the City Rail Link project.\n\nBritomart is on reclaimed land in the middle of what was once Commercial Bay. It is named after Point Britomart, a former headland at Commercial Bay's eastern end. In the 1870s and 1880s the headland was levelled and used to fill in Commercial Bay in order to extend the railway line to the bottom of Queen Street.\n\nAuckland Railway Station moved west from its original 1873 site to Britomart in 1885 and remained there after the Post Office was built on the Queen Street frontage in 1911. In 1930 the station was relocated 1.2 km east to Beach Road and the former station site became a bus terminal in 1937 and a car park in 1958.\n\nMany proposals were made to locate the station back in the CBD, most notably in 1973 and 1987, with the 1970s proposal of the Mayor of Auckland, Dove-Myer Robinson, envisaging an underground station at Britomart and a tunnel loop, but that was stopped by the Muldoon National Government, which claimed it was unjustified and too costly. In 1995, Auckland City Council purchased the old Post Office building (PostBank offices closed in 1988, though some postal services remained open beyond that year) and proposed to redevelop the area as a transit centre.\n\nEarly designs called for both the bus terminal and the railway to be underground, but these plans were scrapped as consultation showed that buses were preferred above ground by both users and operators, and projected costs soared, partly due to the difficulties with potential water ingress. The developer eventually defaulted on contractual deadlines, and the project failed.\n\nIn 1998, a cheaper option was decided on, partly after a consultation process with stakeholders and citizens. The architectural design was chosen via a competition. It used part of Queen Elizabeth II Square and surrounding streets as a bus terminal, with the existing dilapidated bus terminal redeveloped to incorporate both bus services and a pedestrianised area. When nearby Quay Street was realigned in the late 1990s, a tunnel was built (completed in 2000) to provide the underground railway link. Bus services using the old bus terminal were diverted to other locations in June 2001.\n\nDesigned by California architect Mario Madayag in collaboration with local Auckland architects Jasmax, construction of Britomart commenced in October 2001, with structural design having been provided by OPUS. It involved 14 km of piling, some being 40 m long and driven 16 m into the underlying bedrock, mainly to provide good earthquake protection, and to futureproof the area for potential later construction of buildings on top of the station. 200,000 cubic metres were excavated for the station, and 40,000 cubic metres of concrete poured. Approximately of new rail track was built, of which half was in a cut and cover tunnel. The station has a site area of 5.2 ha and includes 236 m² retail area.\nThe main chamber of Britomart is one of the best interiors in New Zealand and shows the influence of the main hall of the Austrian Postal Savings Bank building by Otto Wagner.\n\nThe station opened to passengers on 7 July 2003, with the official opening on 25 July 2003 by Sir Edmund Hillary and government ministers. Services to the Beach Road terminus ceased, except for some peak-time commuter services and excursion trains using the former Platform 4 (originally Platform 7), renamed 'The Strand'. The commuter services ceased after a few months.\n\nCost over-runs and differing tastes made the centre politically controversial, the design often being described as a large hole in the ground, both literally and figuratively. Despite this and a NZ$204 million price tag, it has won numerous design awards and is internationally recognised for its innovative but heritage-sympathetic architecture. The main source of contention was the relatively great expense of this public transport development in the Auckland Region, where for many decades the focus had been on private vehicle ownership and travel.\n\nInitial plans included underground pedestrian walkways to Queen Elizabeth II Square, the nearby downtown ferry terminal and the main shopping street of Queen St. Due to cost over-runs only the short walkway under Queen Street to the square was built, the other two being dropped in favour of a sizeable rain-proof canopy that ran from the square's above-ground exit northward toward the ferry terminal and southward toward the Queen Street-Customs Street intersection.\n\nThe underground walkway was closed to pedestrians from 29 March 2016 in order to facilitate preliminary works for the City Rail Link. In April and May 2016, the canopy was dismantled and removed from the site, and on 28 May 2016 the Downtown Shopping Centre was closed and fenced off for demolition.\n\nA major commercial building was built over the eastern approach tunnel in the late 2000s, at the eastern edge of the plaza behind the centre.\n\nIn January 2017, the Britomart station building was closed and access between it and platforms was blocked off. A new, temporary Britomart station building was opened at the rear of the building, with new stairways and the retention of elevator and escalator access to the platforms. This building will be in use for three years. The former building is being refurbished and strengthened in preparation for tunnelling under it for City Rail Link services.\n\nTo enable the digging of the trench works required for the CRL, the Downtown Shopping Centre was closed on 28 May 2016 and by 23 November had been demolished. It will be replaced with a 36-storey skyscraper which will include a new shopping centre in the lower levels. Auckland Council and proprietors Precinct Properties struck a deal to include tunnels for the City Rail Link directly underneath the premises.\n\nThe station is designed to serve up to 10,500 passengers during the peak hour as a terminus. Capacity increases will probably not be possible without turning Britomart into a through station, with a tunnel underneath Auckland CBD (see City Rail Link section below).\n\nThe station has five platforms, and is constrained by the 9.3 m width of the 426 m long double-track access tunnel. Early forecasts predicted that while double-tracking of the surrounding rail network would improve peak time train congestion, the capacity of the corridor would not be reached until about 2020. Growth in train patronage and increased services resulted in the tunnel being at maximum capacity from 2011, almost 10 years earlier than predicted. Because of the capacity restrictions, a proposed Hamilton-Auckland commuter train service would have gone to The Strand Station some 1.5 km to the east.\n\nIn its early days, Britomart was criticised because it was built on a scale and level of grandeur that was well in excess of the capacity and patronage of the rail network. Auckland Regional Council transport committee chairwoman Catherine Harland acknowledged that \"Britomart opened ahead of its time\", raising public expectations that could not be fulfilled at the time due to the state of the rail network.\n\nPatronage on Auckland's rail network increased from 2.5 million journeys in 2003 to just over 14.2 million in July 2015, and by April 2017 had reached 19 million journeys.\n\nIt was announced on 17 May 2007 that electrification of Auckland's rail network would proceed. Installation of overhead wires began later, with Auckland Transport (initially ARTA) purchasing new electric units to replace the diesel trains. The project was expected to be completed in 2013.\n\nBritomart was officially electrified on 31 March 2014, with New Zealand's Prime Minister, John Key, flipping the switch in a commemorative ceremony. The first electric passenger services began running four weeks later, between Britomart and Onehunga on the Onehunga Line on 28 April 2014.\n\nFrom July 2015, all suburban trains serving Britomart were operated by AM Class EMUs, leaving the thrice-weekly Northern Explorer as the only diesel service using the station. By December 2015, the station required a $600,000 upgrade to its diesel extraction fans and Auckland Transport requested that KiwiRail, the operator of the Northern Explorer, fund the upgrade if they wished to continue serving the station. KiwiRail decided that the cost was not justifiable and from 21 December 2015 they ceased serving Britomart and relocated their Auckland terminus to The Strand Station, in the east of the CBD.\n\nPlans for a tunnel southward underneath the CBD to Mt Eden and even to Morningside were debated for nearly a century. With Britomart in operation since 2003, the tunnel would allow trains to run through the station rather than having to reverse out over the same set of tracks.\n\nOn 5 March 2008 ARTA said that it had begun preliminary planning for a 3.5 km tunnel which would most likely be travelling under Albert Street and serving three underground stations: one near Wellesley Street (linking to Aotea Square), one in the Karangahape Road / Pitt Street area, and one near Upper Symonds Street in Newton. At the southern end, the line would link to a redeveloped station at Mt Eden.\n\nOriginal estimates for the cost of the CRL were at around $1 billion, taking 5–7 years to plan and build. In August 2014 it was announced that the station at Newton had been dropped in favour of an upgraded station at Mt Eden. In 2015, enabling works for CRL construction began. Main works began in 2018.\n\nFollowing completion of the CRL, Britomart will no longer be a terminal station. Platforms 5 and 1 will be the through platforms, while platforms 2–4 will remain terminating platforms.\n\nA proposed alternative to the City Rail Link (CRL) to increase capacity was the duplication of the existing eastern Britomart approach tunnel. This would have required a new twin track tunnel approximately 500 metres long to be constructed parallel to the existing twin-track tunnel, resulting in four tracks from Quay Park Junction and retaining Britomart as a terminus. Estimated costs were $150 million to $200 million, with 4–5 years to plan and build. Such a project would have allowed the same capacity increase as the CRL at approximately one sixth to one fifth the cost, but without any of the additional benefits that the two new CRL underground stations or the more direct route to the Western Line will provide.\n\nInitially seen as an inferior, but cheaper and more politically acceptable alternative to the CRL tunnel, the duplicate eastern approach also gained favour as a stop gap implementation due to the comparatively short build time. Even if planning had commenced immediately, the CRL might not have become operational until several years after the maximum capacity of the existing corridor was reached. Moreover, while seen as an alternative to the CRL through connection tunnel, the duplicate eastern tunnel would not have precluded it from being built.\n\nA feature that came into operation in 2011 in time for the 2011 Rugby World Cup and allowed an increase in capacity of the existing tunnel is 'bi-directional signalling', which allows a train to leave on the same track on which it entered – freeing it from having to cross over other tracks which may not be safely clear of other trains. In 2019, funding was agreed to restore a five-year commuter train trial between Papakura and Hamilton, with a one-seat journey to Britomart being the eventual aim.\n\nTransdev operates the Auckland suburban rail network on behalf of Auckland Transport. This includes the electrified lines west to Swanson and south to Onehunga, Manukau and Papakura, plus the diesel shuttle service between Papakura and Pukekohe.\n\nIn July 2015, it was reported that the number of trains able to enter and leave Britomart was 20 per hour. On a typical weekday inter-peak, eleven trains leave Britomart per hour, comprising:\n\nBritomart is a major interchange between trains, buses and ferries. It is the terminus for many bus routes, including the SkyBus services to and from Auckland Airport and the Northern Express NX1 route along the Northern Busway to and from Albany and the Hibiscus Coast. The frequent CityLink bus service passes nearby on Queen and Customs Streets and the InnerLink bus services stop at Britomart.\n\nOther buses depart from stops on surrounding streets, some of which are up to a block away from the station. Until early 2016, buses arrived at and departed from Queen Street in front of the station building, but that portion of Queen Street is currently closed to vehicular traffic while trench works for the City Rail Link take place.\n\nAcross Quay Street from the station is the Auckland Ferry Terminal, which is the main hub for Auckland's ferry system. There are ferry services to suburbs including Devonport, Birkenhead and Half Moon Bay, as well as to islands in the Hauraki Gulf such as Waiheke Island and Rangitoto Island.\n\nThe Chief Post Office was registered as a Category I heritage building by Heritage New Zealand on 11 July 1986, with registration number 101.\n\nAwards that the centre has received:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256790", "title": "Macaranga", "text": "Macaranga\n\nMacaranga is a large genus of Old World tropical trees of the family Euphorbiaceae and the only genus in the subtribe Macaranginae (tribe Acalypheae). Native to Africa, Australasia, Asia and various islands of the Indian and Pacific Oceans, the genus comprises over 300 different species. It was first described as a genus in 1806, based on specimens collected on the Island of Mauritius.\n\n\"Macaranga\" is noted for being recolonizers. \"Macaranga\" species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including \"Endoclita malabaricus\". \"Macaranga\" species often form symbioses with ant (Formicidae) species (particularly \"Crematogaster\" ants of the subgenus \"Decacrema\") because they have hollow stems that can serve as nesting space and occasionally provide nectar. The trees benefit because the ants attack herbivorous insects and either drive them away or feed on them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256795", "title": "Tax evasion", "text": "Tax evasion\n\nTax evasion is the illegal evasion of taxes by individuals, corporations, and trusts. Tax evasion often entails taxpayers deliberately misrepresenting the true state of their affairs to the tax authorities to reduce their tax liability and includes dishonest tax reporting, such as declaring less income, profits or gains than the amounts actually earned, or overstating deductions.\n\nTax evasion is an activity commonly associated with the informal economy. One measure of the extent of tax evasion (the \"tax gap\") is the amount of unreported income, which is the difference between the amount of income that should be reported to the tax authorities and the actual amount reported.\n\nIn contrast, tax avoidance is the legal use of tax laws to reduce one's tax burden. Both tax evasion and avoidance can be viewed as forms of tax noncompliance, as they describe a range of activities that intend to subvert a state's tax system, although such classification of tax avoidance is not indisputable, given that avoidance is lawful, within self-creating systems.\n\nIn 1968, Nobel laureate economist Gary Becker first theorized the \"economics of crime\", on the basis of which authors M.G. Allingham and A. Sandmo produced, in 1972, an economic model of tax evasion. This model deals with the evasion of income tax, the main source of tax revenue in developed countries. According to the authors, the level of evasion of income tax depends on the detection probability and the level of punishment provided by law.\n\nThe literature's theoretical models are elegant in their effort to identify the variables likely to affect non-compliance. Alternative specifications, however, yield conflicting results concerning both the signs and magnitudes of variables believed to affect tax evasion. Empirical work is required to resolve the theoretical ambiguities. Income tax evasion appears to be positively influenced by the tax rate, the unemployment rate, the level of income and dissatisfaction with government. The U.S. Tax Reform Act of 1986 appears to have reduced tax evasion in the United States.\n\nIn a 2017 study Alstadsæter et al. concluded based on random stratified audits and leaked data that occurrence of tax evasion rises sharply as amount of wealth rises and that the very richest are about 10 times more likely than average people to engage in tax evasion.\n\nCustoms duties are an important source of revenue in developing countries. Importers attempt to evade customs duty by (a) under-invoicing and (b) misdeclaration of quantity and product-description. When there is ad valorem import duty, the tax base can be reduced through under-invoicing. Misdeclaration of quantity is more relevant for products with specific duty. Production description is changed to match a H. S. Code commensurate with a lower rate of duty.\n\nSmuggling is import or export of products by illegal means. Smuggling is resorted to for total evasion of customs duties, as well as for the import and export of contraband. Smugglers do not pay duty since the transport is covert, so no customs declaration is made.\n\nDuring the second half of the 20th century, value-added tax (VAT) emerged as a modern form of consumption tax throughout the world, with the notable exception of the United States. Producers who collect VAT from consumers may evade tax by under-reporting the amount of sales.\nThe US has no broad-based consumption tax at the federal level, and no state currently collects VAT; the overwhelming majority of states instead collect sales taxes. Canada uses both a VAT at the federal level (the Goods and Services Tax) and sales taxes at the provincial level; some provinces have a single tax combining both forms.\n\nIn addition, most jurisdictions which levy a VAT or sales tax also legally require their residents to report and pay the tax on items purchased in another jurisdiction. This means that consumers who purchase something in a lower-taxed or untaxed jurisdiction with the intention of avoiding VAT or sales tax in their home jurisdiction are technically breaking the law in most cases.\n\nThis is especially prevalent in federal countries like the US and Canada where sub-national jurisdictions charge varying rates of VAT or sales tax.\n\nIn liberal democracies, a fundamental problem with inhibiting evasion of local sales taxes is that liberal democracies, by their very nature, have few (if any) border controls between their internal jurisdictions. Therefore, it is not generally cost-effective to enforce tax collection on low-value goods carried in private vehicles from one jurisdiction to another with a different tax rate. However, sub-national governments will normally seek to collect sales tax on high-value items such as cars.\n\nDennis Kozlowski is a particularly notable figure for his alleged evasion of sales tax. What started as an investigation into Kozlowski's failure to declare art purchases for the purpose of evading New York state sales taxes eventually led to Kozlowski's conviction and incarceration on more serious charges related to the misappropriation of funds during his tenure as CEO of Tyco International.\n\nThe level of evasion depends on a number of factors, including the amount of money a person or a corporation possesses. Efforts to evade income tax decline when the amounts involved are lower. The level of evasion also depends on the efficiency of the tax administration. Corruption by tax officials make it difficult to control evasion. Tax administrations use various means to reduce evasion and increase the level of enforcement: for example, privatization of tax enforcement or tax farming.\n\nIn 2011 HMRC, the UK tax collection agency, stated that it would continue to crack down on tax evasion, with the goal of collecting £18 billion in revenue before 2015. In 2010, HMRC began a voluntary amnesty program that targeted middle-class professionals and raised £500 million.\n\nCorrupt tax officials co-operate with the taxpayers who intend to evade taxes. When they detect an instance of evasion, they refrain from reporting it in return for bribes. Corruption by tax officials is a serious problem for the tax administration in many less developed countries.\n\nTax evasion is a crime in almost all developed countries, and the guilty party is liable to fines and/or imprisonment. In Switzerland, many acts that would amount to criminal tax evasion in other countries are treated as civil matters. Dishonestly misreporting income in a tax return is not necessarily considered a crime. Such matters are handled in the Swiss tax courts, not the criminal courts.\n\nIn Switzerland, however, some tax misconduct (such as the deliberate falsification of records) is criminal. Moreover, civil tax transgressions may give rise to penalties. It is often considered that the extent of evasion depends on the severity of punishment for evasion.\n\nProfessor Christopher Hood first suggested privatization of tax enforcement to control tax evasion more efficiently than a government department would., and some governments have adopted this approach. In Bangladesh, customs administration was partly privatized in 1991.\n\nAbuse by private tax collectors (see tax farming below) has on occasion led to revolutionary overthrow of governments who have outsourced tax administration.\n\nTax farming is an historical means of collection of revenue. Governments received a lump sum in advance from a private entity, which then collects and retains the revenue and bears the risk of evasion by the taxpayers. It has been suggested that tax farming may reduce tax evasion in less developed countries.\n\nThis system may be liable to abuse by the \"tax-farmers\" seeking to make a profit, if they are not subject to political constraints. Abuses by tax farmers (together with a tax system that exempted the aristocracy) were a primary reason for the French Revolution that toppled Louis XVI.\n\nPre-shipment inspection agencies like Société Générale De Surveillance S. A. and its subsidiary Cotecna are in business to prevent evasion of customs duty through under-invoicing and misdeclaration.\n\nHowever, PSI agencies have cooperated with importers in evading customs duties. Bangladeshi authorities found Cotecna guilty of complicity with importers for evasion of customs duties on a huge scale. In August 2005, Bangladesh had hired four PSI companies – Cotecna Inspection SA, SGS (Bangladesh) Limited, Bureau Veritas BIVAC (Bangladesh) Limited and INtertek Testing Limited – for three years to certify price, quality and quantity of imported goods. In March 2008, the Bangladeshi National Board of Revenue cancelled Cotecna's certificate for serious irregularities, while importers' complaints about the other three PSI companies mounted. Bangladesh planned to have its customs department train its officials in \"WTO valuation, trade policy, ASYCUDA system, risk management\" to take over the inspections.\n\nCotecna was also found to have bribed Pakistan's prime minister Benazir Bhutto to secure a PSI contract by Pakistani importers. She and her husband were sentenced both in Pakistan and Switzerland.\n\nA network of banks, stock traders and top lawyers has obtained billions from the European treasuries through suspected fraud and speculation with dividend tax. The five hardest hit countries have lost together at least $62.9 billion. Germany is the hardest hit country, with around €31 billion withdrawn from the German treasury. Estimated losses for other countries include at least €17 billion for France, €4.5 billion in Italy, €1.7 billion in Denmark and €201 million for Belgium.\n\nA paper by economists Annette Alstadsæter, Niels Johannesen and Gabriel Zucman, which used data from HSBC Switzerland (“Swiss leaks”) and Mossack Fonseca (“Panama Papers”), found that \"on average about 3% of personal taxes are evaded in Scandinavia, but this figure rises to about 30% in the top 0.01% of the wealth distribution... Taking tax evasion into account increases the rise in inequality seen in tax data since the 1970s markedly, highlighting the need to move beyond tax data to capture income and wealth at the top, even in countries where tax compliance is generally high. We also find that after reducing tax evasion—by using tax amnesties—tax evaders do not legally avoid taxes more. This result suggests that fighting tax evasion can be an effective way to collect more tax revenue from the ultra-wealthy.\"\n\nHMRC, the UK tax collection agency, estimated that in the tax year 2016–17, pure tax evasion (i.e. not including things like hidden economy or criminal activity) cost the government £5.3 billion. This compared to a wider tax gap (the difference between the amount of tax that should, in theory, be collected by HMRC, against what is actually collected) of £33 billion in the same year, an amount that represented 5.7% of liabilities. At the same time, tax avoidance was estimated at £1.7 billion (this does not include international tax arrangements that cannot be challenged under the UK law, including some forms of base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS)).\n\nIn 2013, the Coalition government announced a crackdown on economic crime. It created a new criminal offence for aiding tax evasion and removed the requirement for tax investigation authorities to prove \"intent to evade tax\" to prosecute offenders.\n\nIn 2015, Chancellor George Osborne promised to collect £5bn by \"waging war\" on tax evaders by announcing new powers for HMRC to target people with offshore bank accounts. The number of people prosecuted for tax evasion doubled in 2014/15 from the year before to 1,258.\n\nIn the United States of America, Federal tax evasion is defined as the purposeful, illegal attempt to evade the assessment or the payment of a tax imposed by federal law. Conviction of tax evasion may result in fines and imprisonment.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has identified small businesses and sole proprietors as the largest contributors to the tax gap between what Americans owe in federal taxes and what the federal government receives. Small businesses and sole proprietorships contribute to the tax gap because there are few ways for the government to know about skimming or non-reporting of income without mounting significant investigations.\n\nThe IRS estimates that the 2001 tax gap was $345 billion and for 2006 it was $450 billion.\nA study of the 2008 tax gap found a range of $450–$500 billion, and unreported income to be about $2 trillion, concluding that 18 to 19 percent of total reportable income was not being properly reported to the IRS.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256801", "title": "Zophah", "text": "Zophah\n\nZophah is one of the descendants of Issachar, one of the sons of the Patriarch Jacob, as found in First Chronicles 7:35-36, in the Hebrew Bible:\n\nA wiki list of Biblical names says it means \"viol; honeycomb\". While the patriarchs of ancient Israel did not have viols, but this is the word King James' translators used.\n"}
{"id": "2256808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256808", "title": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Ketu", "text": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Ketu\n\nThe state of Ketu is located in present-day Republic of Benin.\n\nIn the Yoruba language, the word \"oba\" means king or ruler. It is also common for the rulers of the various Yoruba domains to have their own special titles. In Ketu the Oba is referred to as the Aleketu of Ketu\n\n! width=\"18%\"|Tenure\n! width=\"40%\"|Incumbent\n! width=\"20%\"|Notes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256810", "title": "Chuiyangliu", "text": "Chuiyangliu\n\nChuiyangliu is a residential community () administrated by Shuangjing subdistrict (双井街道办事处), and is located in Chaoyang District of Beijing, China.\n"}
{"id": "2256814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256814", "title": "Multipath I/O", "text": "Multipath I/O\n\nIn computer storage, multipath I/O is a fault-tolerance and performance-enhancement technique that defines more than one physical path between the CPU in a computer system and its mass-storage devices through the buses, controllers, switches, and bridge devices connecting them.\n\nAs an example, a SCSI hard disk drive may connect to two SCSI controllers on the same computer, or a disk may connect to two Fibre Channel ports. Should one controller, port or switch fail, the operating system can route the I/O through the remaining controller, port or switch transparently and with no changes visible to the applications, other than perhaps resulting in increased latency.\n\nMultipath software layers can leverage the redundant paths to provide performance-enhancing features, including dynamic load balancing, traffic shaping, automatic path management, and dynamic reconfiguration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256822", "title": "Kimiko Hahn", "text": "Kimiko Hahn\n\nKimiko Hahn (born July 5, 1955) is an American poet and distinguished professor in the MFA program of Queens College, CUNY. Her work frequently deals with the reinvention of poetic forms and the intersecting of conflicting identities.\n\nKimiko Hahn was born in Mount Kisco, New York on July 5, 1955. Her parents are both artists. Her mother, Maude Miyako Hamai, was a Japanese American from Maui, Hawaii; her father, Walter Hahn, was a German American from Wisconsin. They met in Chicago, where Walter was a friend of notable African-American author, Ralph Ellison.\n\nHahn grew up in Pleasantville, New York, and between 1964 and 1965, the Hahns later lived in Tokyo, Japan. As a teen, she became involved in the New York City Asian American movement of the 1970s. Zhou Xiaojing has commented that her racially mixed background influenced \"her profound understanding of the politics of the body\" as seen in her poetry (113). In the U.S., her Asian appearance made some schoolmates \"called her Chinese or Japanese, never regarding her as an American like them. Yet when she went to Japan … her schoolmates [there] called her American or 'gaijin'\" (113).\nHahn received a bachelor's degree in English and East Asian Studies from the University of Iowa and an M.A. in Japanese Literature from Columbia University. She is a distinguished professor at Queens College, CUNY and has also taught at New York University, Sarah Lawrence College, and University of Houston.\n\nHer sister is Tomie Hahn, a performer and ethnologist. Hahn is married to true crime writer Harold Schechter. She has two daughters, Miyako Tess and Reiko Lily, from a previous marriage to Ted Hannan.\n\nThe major themes of Hahn's poetry explores Asian American female desire and subjectivity. The judges' citation from the Pen/Voelcker Award noted: \"With wild courage Kimiko Hahn's poems voyage fearlessly into explorations of love, sexuality, motherhood, violence, and grief and the way gender inscribes us.\"\n\nHer poetry draws from feminist works of Hélène Cixous, Luce Irigaray, and Adrienne Rich, more canonical American poets such as T.S. Eliot and William Carlos Williams poetic experimentations, as well as Japanese culture and literature. The title of \"The Narrow Road to the Interior\" (W.W. Norton, 2006), for instance, is drawn from Bashō's \"Oku no Hosomichi.\" In an interview with Laurie Sheck for Bomb, Hahn discussed how she combines a variety of genres in her work, including Japanese forms, such as zuihitsu in her poetry collection, \"The Narrow Road to the Interior\": \"The Japanese view it [zuihitsu]as a distinct genre, although its elements are difficult to pin down. There's no Western equivalent, though some people might wish to categorize it as a prose poem or an essay. You mentioned some of its characteristics: a kind of randomness that is not really random, but a feeling of randomness; a pointed subjectivity that we don't normally associate with the essay. The zuihitsu can also resemble other Western forms: lists, journals. I've added emails to the mix. Fake emails...The technique of collage is really compelling to me. Letter writing, diary form—real and invented—I like to use within the zuihitsu itself.\"\n\nHer poems were first published in \"We Stand Our Ground: Three Women, Their Vision, Their Poem\"s, which she co-created with Gale Jackson and Susan Sherman. Since then, she has authored multiple collections of poetry, including \"Toxic Flora\" (2010),\"The Narrow Road to the Interior\" (2006), \"The Artist's Daughter\" (2002), \"Mosquito and Ant\" (1999), \"Volatile\" (1998), \"The Unbearable Heart\" (1995), and \"Earshot\" (1992).\n\nThe latter, \"Earshot\", received the Theodore Roethke Memorial Poetry Prize and an Association of Asian American Studies Literature Award. In 1996, her poem \"Possession: A Zuihitsu\" (originally published in \"Another Chicago Magazine\") was included in the anthology the Best American Poetry, and \"The Unbearable Heart\" received an American Book Award. Other honors for her work include the Lila Wallace–Reader's Digest Writer's Award,the Shelley Memorial Prize, and the PEN/Voelcker Award. She has received fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts, Guggenheim Foundation, and the New York Foundation for the Arts.\n\nAside from poetry, Hahn has written for film such as the 1995 two-hour HBO special, \"Ain't Nuthin' But a She-Thing\" (for which she also recorded the voice-overs); and most recently, a text for \"Everywhere at Once,\" Holly Fisher's film based on Peter Lindbergh's still photos and narrated by Jeanne Moreau. The latter premiered at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival and presented at the 2008 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\n\nSelected Broadsides\nWith Gale Jackson and Susan Sherman\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256823", "title": "Whittier, North Carolina", "text": "Whittier, North Carolina\n\nWhittier is an unincorporated community in Jackson and Swain counties in the western part of the U.S. state of North Carolina. Whittier is located on the Tuckasegee River, between Bryson City downstream to the west, and Dillsboro upstream to the southeast.\n\nFounded in 1881 by Clark Whittier when he purchased 60,000 acres (240 km²) of land in the area, it was incorporated as a town from 1887 to 1933. The town declined following the collapse of the lumber industry during the Great Depression.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256825", "title": "Crazy in Love", "text": "Crazy in Love\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" is a song recorded by American singer Beyoncé featuring American rapper Jay-Z from Beyoncé's debut solo studio album \"Dangerously in Love\" (2003). It was released as the album's lead single on May 18, 2003 through Columbia Records and Music World Entertainment. Both artists wrote and composed the song in collaboration with Rich Harrison and Eugene Record; the former also produced it with Beyoncé. Using samples from The Chi-Lites's 1970 song \"Are You My Woman (Tell Me So)\", \"Crazy in Love\" is a contemporary R&B and pop love song that incorporates elements of hip hop, soul, and 1970s-style funk music. Its lyrics describe a romantic obsession that causes the protagonist to act out of character.\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" was a number-one hit in the United States and United Kingdom, and reached the top ten in various other countries worldwide. Music critics praised the hook, Jay-Z's contribution, and Beyoncé's assertive delivery of the lyrics. VH1 declared it the greatest song of the 2000s decade, while \"Rolling Stone\" ranked it at number 118 on their list of the 500 greatest songs of all time in 2010, and in 2018, declared the song the greatest song of the 21st century so far. At the 46th Annual Grammy Awards (2004), \"Crazy in Love\" won Grammy Awards for Best R&B Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration.\n\nThe song's accompanying music video features Beyoncé in various dance sequences. It won three awards at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards, and its director, Jake Nava, won the Music Video Production Association award for Best R&B Video in 2004. Since 2003, \"Crazy in Love\" has been a staple in Beyoncé's live performances and concert tours. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) recognized \"Crazy in Love\" as one of the most performed songs of 2004. Artists including David Byrne have covered the song, and it has been used in various television shows and other media.\n\nBy July 2002, Beyoncé had already recorded several songs which would appear on \"Dangerously in Love.\" Columbia Records planned to release the album in October 2002; however, the release was postponed several times to capitalize on the success of American rapper Nelly's 2002 single \"Dilemma,\" which features Beyoncé's former Destiny's Child member Kelly Rowland. These delays allowed Beyoncé to record more songs for the album.\n\nBefore meeting Beyoncé, Rich Harrison had conceptualized the beat of the song. He had sampled the hook's instrumentation from the 1970 song \"Are You My Woman? (Tell Me So),\" which had originally been written and composed by Eugene Record, frontman of the Chicago-based vocal group The Chi-Lites. When Harrison first played the beat to his friends, they could not \"dig it,\" and this made him realize that he had conceived something special, which people would appreciate better after hearing the whole record. Thus Harrison decided not to market the selection, and instead, he waited for the right artist to record it: \"I had it in the chamber, I had not really shopped it much, because sometimes you do not want to come out of the bag before it's right. People do not really get it and you will leave them with a foul taste in their mouth.\"\n\nHarrison was pleasantly surprised when he got a call from Beyoncé, who was working on one of the most anticipated albums of the year. However, things did not turn up according to his plans the following day, as he was late and was still suffering the effects of a hangover. When Harrison played the sample to Beyoncé in the studio, the singer initially had doubts about the \"sound so full of blaring fanfare;\" it seemed too retro and according to her, no one used horn riffs in the 21st century. Nevertheless, Beyoncé became friendlier to the sample, much to Harrison's delight, and gave him two hours to write and compose the song while she went out.\n\nHarrison confessed that it was not easy for him to come up with the lyrics to \"Crazy in Love\" in that length of time. But two hours later, he had written the verses, and the hook, in spite of being hung over. Harrison had also made provision for a backing track; he played all the instruments on the track. The bridge was written by Beyoncé, who was inspired by looking at herself in the mirror; as she was not wearing matching clothes and her hair was untidy, she kept saying, \"I'm looking so crazy right now.\" Harrison sang back to her and said, \"That's the hook.\" It also inspired the title of the song. After that Beyoncé had filled up the middle eight, she came up with the catchphrase – \"Uh-oh, uh-oh, you know\" – alongside Harrison.\n\nAmerican rapper Jay-Z became involved late in the song's production. Around 3 a.m., he came to the studio and recorded a rap verse, which he improvised in about ten minutes. The recording of \"Crazy in Love\" took place nearly three months following the meeting of Beyoncé with Harrison.\n\nAccording to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Music Publishing, \"Crazy in Love\" is an R&B and pop love song, composed in the key of D-minor and F-major. It incorporates 1970s-style funk, hip hop, and contains influences of soul. As commented by Robert Webb of \"The Independent,\" the old soul influences in the song seem to have been derived from the horn hook, which samples the 1970 song \"Are You My Woman? (Tell Me So).\" Having a go-go vibe, \"Crazy in Love\" is built on a hip hop beat. Beyoncé told \"The Sunday Herald\" that the beat is \"so hard that it makes your heart hurt.\" The song's tempo is a moderate 100 beats per minute, in common time. Beyoncé's vocal range spans around one and a half octaves in the song, from the low note of A to the high note of F. \"Crazy in Love\" uses two major chords, B♭ and G, a minor third apart. One of the main vocal riffs uses the traditional cowbell rhythm often found in samba music. Lisa Verrico of \"The Times\" magazine, wrote that \"Crazy in Love\" makes use of big drums and bits of brass.\n\nAccording to Natalie Nichols of the \"Los Angeles Times,\" the lyrics of \"Crazy in Love\" reference a state of romantic obsession. Beyoncé said that the song talks \"about how, when you are falling in love, you do things that are out of character and you do not really care because you are just open.\" Anthony DeCurtis of \"Rolling Stone\" wrote that \"Crazy in Love\" has \"such a cauldron of energy,\" that Beyoncé sounds \"loose and sexy,\" gripped by emotions she \"can neither understand nor control.\" The lyrics are composed in the traditional verse-chorus form. Jay Z opens the song with a brief spoken verse-rap, containing the lyrics: \"Yes! So crazy right now. Most incredibly, it's your girl, B. It's your boy, Young. You ready?\" After Beyoncé delivers the \"uh-oh, uh-oh\" catchphrase, Jay Z continues the monologue. Beyoncé begins the first verse, followed with the whistle-backed chorus. She repeats the \"uh-oh, uh-oh\" phrase, leading to the second verse. The chorus follows, giving way to the second verse-rap which contains the lyrics: \"Jay Z in the range, crazy and deranged [...] I been iller than chain smokers, how you think I got the name 'Hova', I been real and the game's over\". The song continues to the bridge, singing: \"I'm not myself, lately I'm foolish, I don't do this, / I've been playing myself, baby, I don't care / 'Cuz your love's got the best of me, / And baby, you're making a fool of me, / You got me sprung and I don't care who sees.\" She then sings the chorus again and the song fades out with the horns.\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" was released to rhythmic contemporary, contemporary hit radio, and urban contemporary radios in the United States on May 18, 2003. The single was first released for digital download via iTunes Store in the United Kingdom and in the United States on May 20, 2003. Notably, the song was also fairly successful as a ringtone among cell phone users across the United States. The song was released as a CD single in Ireland and Switzerland, and as a digital EP in Germany on June 20, 2003. \"Crazy in Love\" was released as a maxi single in Germany on June 30, 2003 and in Australia on July 15, 2003 along with the song's accompanying music video. The song was issued on DVD and CD single in the United Kingdom on June 30, 2003. \"Crazy in Love\" was released as a digital EP in several European countries, including Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden on July 8, 2003. This digital EP was also available in Canada and Ireland on July 8, 2003. On July 22, 2003, two remixes – one from Rockwilder and the other from Adam 12 – were released in the United States.\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" was lauded by contemporary music critics, who complimented the horn lines and the guest appearance of Jay-Z. Many of them called it the Summer Anthem of 2003. Tim Sendra of AllMusic described the song as a \"stunning pop masterpiece\", while Stephen Thomas Erlewine of the same website called it \"deliriously catchy\". Darryl Sterdan of Jam! noted the \"Crazy in Love\" is \"instantly addictive horn lines\". Anthony DeCurtis of \"Rolling Stone\" wrote: \"'Crazy in Love' ... roars out of the speakers on the strength of a propulsive horn sample and the charged presence of her pal, Jay-Z.\" Ben Ratliff of \"Blender\" magazine called the song an \"itchy [and] eager-to-please\" one. Marc Anthony Neal of PopMatters called the \"uh-oh, uh-oh\" phrase catchy. MTV News considered \"Crazy in Love\" to be the \"proudest moment\" of \"Dangerously in Love\". Similarly, Allison Stewart of \"The Washington Post\" called it the best song on the album, praising its instrumentation, harmonies, and the rap verse of Jay Z. This was echoed by Kelefa Sanneh of \"The New York Times\" who wrote that \"Crazy in Love\" is the best one on the album thanks to its \"simplicity, irresistible combination of triumphant horns and a wicked hip-hop beat\". She added that \"[Beyoncé's] vocals – as deft and accurate as ever – convey none of the giddy rush that the lyrics describe.\" Likewise, Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine wrote the lyrical arrangement, the music structure and the guest vocals by Jay Z all contributed in making \"Crazy in Love\" a wonderful resume for Beyoncé.\n\nRob Fitzpatrick of \"NME\" called \"Crazy in Love\" a \"head-nodding [and] body-rocking funk-soul genius\" and wrote that it is \"a 100 per cent, stone-cold, dead-cert classic\". He complimented Beyoncé's vocals, describing them as \"genuinely, hip-grindingly fruity\". \"Los Angeles Times\" writer Natalie Nichols noted that \"sexy dance tunes as the vintage funk-flavored 'Crazy in Love'\" made \"Dangerously in Love\" a great album. Neil Drumming of \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote that the song has a \"fresh sound\". Spence D. of IGN Music wrote that Beyoncé rides the \"infectious rhythm\" with grace and mid-range seductively. He added, \"As [it] can be expected, the track bumps when Jay drops his distinctive uptown flavor. While other rap-meet-R&B tracks often fall flat, this one works well as Beyoncé and Jay's verbals play nicely against one another.\" Lisa Verrico of \"The Times\" wrote that Jay Z performed a \"decent rap\", however, \"Beyoncé and the beats save the day\" and that \"Crazy in Love\" was a departure for Beyoncé from Destiny's Child.\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" magazine ranked \"Crazy in Love\" forty-seven in its list of The 100 Greatest Summer Songs. The song was also ranked as the Best Song of 2003 from NME, Mojo, Nöjesguiden, Rockdelux, Dotmusic, Playlouder and Magic The song was listed at number three on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of the 50 Best Songs of the 2000s Decade in 2009, and as the one-hundred-and-eighteenth greatest song of all time on the magazine's list of the 500 greatest songs of all time (2010), as well as ranking it at number two on the list Singles of the Year, and at number three on their 100 Best Songs of the 2000s list, writing: \"The horns weren't a hook. They were a herald: Pop's new queen had arrived.\". In 2018, the song topped \"Rolling Stone\" list on \" 100 Greatest Songs of the Century – So Far\". The song also placed at number one on the Singles of the Decade by The Times Literary Supplement and 75 Best Singles of the Decade by The Observer. \"NME\" staff voted \"Crazy in Love\" the best song of the 2000s, calling it \"a dancefloor-destroying howitzer of a pop song.\", also ranking it at number nineteen on their list of five hundred best songs of all time. The song was ranked at number four on Pitchfork Media's list of The Top 500 Tracks of the 2000s, number seven on \"The Daily Telegraph'\"s list of the best songs of the decade and number six on \"Slant\"s list of the 100 Best Singles of the Decade. In September 2011, VH1 ranked \"Crazy in Love\" number one on its list of The 100 Greatest Songs of the 2000s. In October 2011, to mark \"NME\"s fifteenth birthday, its staff members selected the one-hundred-and-fifty tracks \"that have meant the most to [them] over the site's lifetime\", placing \"Crazy in Love\" at number sixteen. In 2012, the song was ranked at number twenty-two on \"Billboard\"s list of \"Top 50 'Love' Songs of All Time\". In 2013, John Boone and Jennifer Cady of E! placed the song at number one on their list of ten best Beyoncé's songs, writing: \"It's the song that started it all. The definitive best Beyoncé jam is her first, complete with a guest spot by now-husband Jay Z, a killer hook and a chorus of horns that you have to dance to. Literally have to, Pavlovian conditioning-style.\" In a 2013 list of Jay Z's 20 Biggest \"Billboard\" Hits, \"Crazy in Love\" was ranked at number one. On July 5, 2013, \"NME\" magazine named \"Crazy in Love\" \"the Best Pop Song of the Century\". \"Q\" ranked the song at number fifty-nine on their list of 1001 Best Songs Ever. It was also ranked at number two on \"The Village Voice\"s list Pazz + Jop 2003.\n\nIn 2004, \"Crazy in Love\" was nominated for three Grammy Awards in the categories of Best R&B Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration, which it won, and Record of the Year, which it did not win. A remix of \"Crazy in Love\", known as \"Krazy in Luv\" (Maurice's Nu Soul Mix), won the award Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical for its remixer, Maurice Joshua. \"Crazy in Love\" was also recognized at the 2004 ASCAP Pop Music Awards Awards as one of the Most Performed Songs and its publisher, EMI, received the Publisher of the Year award. \"Vibe\" magazine's VIBE Awards recognized the song for Coolest Collaboration in 2003. In Europe, \"Crazy in Love\" won the Best Song award at the 2003 MTV Europe Music Awards. \"Crazy in Love\" won the awards for Best R&B/Urban Track and Best Pop Dance Track at the 22nd Annual International Dance Music Awards in 2003. It was recognized by Beyoncé's peers in the urban markets, and won the award for Best Collaboration at the BET Awards, where it also received a nomination in the Viewers Choice Awards category in 2004. \"Crazy in Love\" was nominated at the 36th NAACP Image Awards for the Outstanding Song award and for Favorite Song at the 2004 Kids' Choice Awards.\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" was a commercial success in the United States, debuting at number fifty-eight on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Although it hadn't yet been released to retail stores, the single gained much attention and reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 based on heavy rotation alone. The same week it reached number one, \"Dangerously in Love\" debuted on the \"Billboard\" 200 at number one on July 12, 2003. Substantial airplay, and later in retail, gains of \"Crazy in Love\" allowed it to dominate the chart, spending eight consecutive weeks at number one on the Hot 100, making it Beyoncé's first number one single in her solo career. According to Nielsen SoundScan, \"Crazy in Love\" was the most downloaded song in the United States for four consecutive weeks in July 2003. \"Crazy in Love\" spent fifteen weeks in the top ten, twenty-six weeks in the top fifty, and twenty-seven weeks on the chart in total. The song was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in 2004 while its mastertone was also certified gold two years later. \"Crazy in Love\" was the fourth biggest hit of 2003 in the United States. By October 6, 2010, \"Crazy in Love\" had sold 47,000 physical units in the United States. \"Crazy In Love\" also has the distinction of being the first number-one single on \"Billboard's\" inaugural Hot Dance Airplay Chart, which debuted on August 16, 2003, where it spent seven weeks at the top spot.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Beyoncé became the third female artist to top the UK Singles Chart and UK Albums Chart simultaneously, following Mariah Carey in 1994 and Kylie Minogue in 2001. Including her career with Destiny's Child, \"Crazy in Love\" became Beyoncé's third number one single in the United Kingdom and was the only song to top the charts the United Kingdom and the United States simultaneously in 2003. The single spent three weeks at number one in the United Kingdom and fifteen weeks in the top hundred. As of July 2013, it has sold 510,000 units in the country. \"Crazy in Love\" reached number one on the Irish Singles Chart, where it spent eighteen weeks. In Australia, \"Crazy in Love\" peaked at number two on the ARIA Singles Chart and was certified platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) with sales of over 70,000 units. It also peaked at number two on the New Zealand Singles Chart, and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ). \"Crazy in Love\" reached top ten throughout Europe, including Austria, the Belgian territories of Flanders and Wallonia, Denmark, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland.\n\nThe music video of \"Crazy in Love\", released in May 2003, was directed by Jake Nava and filmed in downtown Los Angeles. In \"MTV Making of the Video\" 2003 documentary, Beyoncé described the video's conception: \"[It] celebrates the evolution of a woman. It is about a girl who is at the point of a relationship. She realizes that she is in love, she is doing stuff she would not normally do but she does not care. It does not matter she is just crazy in love.\"\n\nThe opening sequence of the video features Jay-Z as a passenger in a car speeding along Mission Road in Los Angeles, where he encounters Beyoncé, standing in the middle of the road, at the Fourth Street bridge. Beyoncé performs in various dance sequences, beginning with her wearing a white tank top, denim blue shorts, and red high-heels. She performs an elaborate solo dance on a riser. The scene shifts to a gold set with a mock photo shoot, before moving into a scene with dancers detailing Beyoncé and dancing against a wall while wearing caps and full length pants. Jay Z appears and ignites a line of petrol leading to a car parked under the bridge, which explodes in flames. Jay Z performs his rap in front of the burning car, and Beyoncé dances beside him, wearing an exotic silk print over a fur coat, before kicking the valve off a fire hydrant. She continues to dance while the water is flying everywhere. The video ends with Beyoncé and her dancers wearing vibrant Versace dresses in front of a large fan. Their outfits contrast with the neutral colors of the background, the video. Carmit Bachar, then a member of The Pussycat Dolls, is one of the dancers.\n\nThe music video received acclaim by music critics. Cynthia Fuchs, writing for PopMatters commented that the photo shoot scene uses the routine used by Jennifer Lopez in the video for \"Jenny from the Block\" (2002) with hot lights, scary makeup, and inclusion of many shots of legs. She wrote that: \"Beyoncé's body becomes its undeniable emblem. Tom Moon of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" wrote that Beyoncé shakes every inch of her famously photogenic goddess frame.\"\n\nThe music video won three awards at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards in the categories of Best Female Video, Best R&B Video, and Best Choreography. It however lost to Good Charlottes \"Lifestyles of the Rich & Famous\" in the Viewer's Choice category. Director Nava also won a Music Video Production Association award for the Best R&B Video in 2004. During the same year, the video won the Best Collaboration award at the 2004 MTV Video Music Awards Japan, where it was also nominated for the Best Female Video award. \"Crazy in Love\" was nominated at the 36th NAACP Image Awards for the Outstanding Music Video award. It won the Best International Video award at the 2004 MuchMusic Video Awards. The song is also recognized as the Best Selling Mobile Ringtone in the United Kingdom for 2003 In 2014, \"The Guardian\" writer Michael Cragg included the clip for \"Crazy in Love\" in his list of the ten best music videos by Beyoncé. He offered high praise for it, saying \"Aware of how much of a statement the song was, the video is a checklist of icon-making visuals, from the locations... the dance moves... to the part where she makes bubble blowing look like the sexiest thing a human could do.\"\n\nBeyoncé first performed \"Crazy in Love\" with Jay Z at the 2003 BET Awards. They also performed the song during the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. She sang the song in a medley, with the pre-recorded vocals of Sean Paul on \"Baby Boy\" (2003). \"Crazy in Love\" was included on the set list for most of Beyoncé's concert tours. The song was the closing track of her Dangerously in Love World Tour that began in late 2003.\nOn February 8, 2004, Prince appeared at the 46th Annual Grammy Awards with Beyoncé. In a performance that opened the show, they performed a medley of \"Purple Rain\", \"Let's Go Crazy\", \"Baby I'm a Star\", and Beyoncé's \"Crazy in Love\". Beyoncé performed \"Crazy in Love\" live at the 2004 BRIT Awards February 17, 2004. Monique Jessen And Todd Peterson wrote that she, \"...lit up the stage with her performance of \"Crazy in Love\", wearing a white Roberto Cavalli dress and nearly half a million dollars worth of diamonds. The pop diva, appearing onstage in a puff of smoke, stopped midway through the song to pull up her top before walking away with the best international female solo artist award.\" Beyoncé and Jay Z also performed \"Crazy in Love\" at The Prince's Trust Urban Music Festival at Earls Court in London on May 31, 2004.\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" was the first song on Beyoncé's set list on The Beyoncé Experience in Los Angeles and the I Am... Tour at several venues, including the Odyssey Arena in Belfast, the O2 Arena in London, and in Athens and Sydney. On August 5, 2007, Beyoncé performed the song at Madison Square Garden in New York City. Beyoncé emerged in a sparkling silver dress with a long train. She walked to the front of the stage, did a couple of snaps of her neck and then started singing \"Crazy in Love\". She climbed a staircase where her all-female band and three backup singers were positioned. The staircase moved forward in two places; top part moved while the bottom poked out more. At the top of her staircase, she removed her train and returned to the main stage. Her backup singers followed and danced with Beyoncé. After \"Crazy in Love\", Beyoncé performed a short rendition of Gnarls Barkleys \"Crazy\" (2006), singing: \"Who do you, who do you think you are? / Ha, ha, ha, bless your soul.\"\n\nShaheem Reid of MTV News wrote: \"There are few (very few) ladies out there who can really sing, a lot who can dance, a lot more who look good — but really no other who can combine all three and add iconic star power like Miss Beyoncé, arguably the best all-around stage performer in the game right now.\" Jon Pareles of \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"Beyoncé needs no distractions from her singing, which can be airy or brassy, tearful or vicious, rapid-fire with staccato syllables or sustained in curlicued melismas. But she was in constant motion, strutting in costumes (most of them silvery), from miniskirts to formal dresses, flesh-toned bodysuit to bikini to negligee.\" Frank Scheck of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote: \"Her performance of 'Crazy in Love' featured some surprising arrangements that gave the material freshness\". Performances of \"Crazy in Love\" were included on her live albums \"The Beyoncé Experience Live\" (2007), and the deluxe edition of \"I Am... World Tour\" (2010). Beyoncé performed \"Crazy in Love\" wearing a pink fringe dress at a concert at Palais Nikaïa in Nice, France, on June 20, 2011, in support of her album \"4\", and at the 2011 Glastonbury Festival on June 26, 2011.\n\nIn August 2011, Beyoncé performed \"Crazy in Love\" during her revue show 4 Intimate Nights with Beyoncé. She performed a slowed-down, jazzier version of the song and danced with a similar routine to the one in the music video. During the ITV special \"A Night With Beyoncé\" which aired on December 4 in the United Kingdom, Beyoncé performed \"Crazy in Love\" to a selected crowd of fans. In May 2012, she performed the song during her revue in Atlantic City, New Jersey, United States' entertainment resort, hotel, casino and spa, Revel. During the performance, Jay-Z did not appear on stage but his pre-recorded voice was heard. Dan DeLuca of noted that the song was one of the \"beat-savvy booty-shaking workouts\" performed during the revue. Jim Farber of \"New York Daily News\" wrote that \"The first, and last parts of the show stressed the steeliest Beyoncé, told in bold songs\" like \"Crazy in Love\". A writer of Black Entertainment Television noted that, \"She dazzled fans with an assortment of high-energy performances of her upbeat hits like... 'Crazy in Love.'\" Beyoncé also performed the song at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show held on February 3, 2013. In July 2013, while placing Beyoncé at number 33 on their list of 50 Best Live Musicians, the writers of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine noted that the performance of \"Crazy in Love\" was a highlight during her live shows with the singer \"expertly poppin' her booty\".\n\nSeveral artists have recorded cover versions of \"Crazy in Love\". In 2003, Irish singer-songwriter Mickey Joe Harte recorded an acoustic rendition of \"Crazy In Love\" for the charity album \"Even Better Than the Real Thing Vol. 1\". Alternative rock band Snow Patrol recorded the song during a BBC session with Zane Lowe. Snow Patrol's version was released as a B-side to the single \"Spitting Games\", on the compilation \"Cosmosonica – Tom Middleton Presents Crazy Covers Vol. 1\" and Snow Patrol's compilation album \"Up to Now\". Ross Langager of PopMatters noted that their cover \"sparks an initial chuckle of recognition but soon after becomes more than a bit unfortunate\". David Byrne closed his concert at the Hollywood Bowl on June 27, 2005 with a samba-tinged version of \"Crazy in Love\". In 2007, American alternative rock band Switchfoot produced a rock version that was released as part of Yahoo!'s CoverArt series. Switchfoot produced a video for their cover version. Nashville-based indie quintet Wild Cub performed a version of the song in June 2014 for \"The A.V. Club\" A.V. Undercover series.\n\nBritish band The Magic Numbers performed \"Crazy in Love\" on the Australian radio station Triple J, and recorded it for the Starbucks (Hear Music) compilation album, \"\" (2007). Tracy Bonham covered the song with guitar and violin accompaniment, for her 2007 album \"In The City + In The Woods\". British close harmony trio The Puppini Sisters covered \"Crazy in Love\" for their 2007 album \"The Rise and Fall of Ruby Woo\"; this was remixed by the electronica jazz outfit The Real Tuesday Weld. Indie artist Dsico recorded an electronic cover of the song. In 2009, Pattern Is Movement recorded a cover of \"Crazy in Love\", which they claimed was inspired by Anohni's version; this cover was included on their September 4, 2009 Daytrotter session. Antony and the Johnsons released an orchestral version of the song as the b-side to their 2009 single \"Aeon\". Indie singer-songwriter Eden recorded a cover version of \"Crazy in Love\" for his final extended play (EP) under the EDEN Project alias.\n\nGerman group The Baseballs covered the song in rockabilly style for their debut album \"Strike! Back\" in August 2010. \"Crazy in Love\" was performed live on \"Australian Idol\" during the first season by winner Guy Sebastian on the Final 2 showdown in 2003. A jazz version was performed during the fourth season by runner-up Jessica Mauboy on the Final 6 Big Band show in 2006. In June 2008, Mauboy performed \"Crazy in Love\" on \"Indonesian Idol\" with some eliminated contestants. \"Singapore Idol\" contestant Maia Lee performed \"Crazy in Love\" on the show. In March 2012, Swing Republic released their electro swing cover version which also ended up featuring on their album released the same year entitled Midnight Calling. In June 2012, Robin Thicke and Olivia Chisholm covered the song during the show \"Duets\". Kate Kroll of \"Rolling Stone\" gave a negative review for Chisholm's performance, saying that \"Her voice sounded thin, and she just can't seem to shake that Stepford Wife stare.\" Emeli Sandé and The Bryan Ferry Orchestra recorded a cover of the song which was included on \"The Great Gatsby\" (2013). Upon hearing a preview of the song, Randall Roberts of the \"Los Angeles Times\" commented that the cover was the best song on the album sang with a \"surprising, simmering urgency\". Kyle Anderson of \"Entertainment Weekly\" also wrote that the swing cover of \"Crazy in Love\" was one of the highlights on the album. On October 21, 2013, Third Degree covered \"Crazy in Love\" on the fifth season of \"The X Factor Australia\", and on May 4, 2014, C Major covered the song on the third series of \"The Voice Australia\". In 2015, Monica Michael covered the song on \"The X Factor UK\". Filipina actress Denise Laurel covered the song while impersonating Beyoncé, based on her performance at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show on \"Your Face Sounds Familiar\", in which Laurel won the season.\n\nIn 2002, Beyoncé signed a contract with Pepsi, and appeared on several of its advertising campaigns, one of which featured \"Crazy in Love\" as background music. After winning the Best Collaboration Awards for \"Crazy in Love\" at the 2004 BET Awards, Beyoncé dedicated the award to the show's host, comedian Mo'Nique, who parodied the choreography from the \"Crazy in Love\" video with six equally voluptuous female dancers. \"Crazy in Love\" was included on the official soundtrack albums of the following films: \"\" (2004), \"White Chicks\" (2004), \"Taxi\" (2004), \"Good Luck Chuck\" (2007), \"Gayby\" (2012), and \"Love, Rosie\" (2014), as well in the tenth season of Brazilian soap opera \"Malhação\". In 2009, the cast of \"Glee\" performed a mash up of the songs \"Hair\" from the musical \"Hair\" and \"Crazy in Love\" in season one, episode eleven \"Hairography\". A parody of the song is also used in the Disney Channel's show \"That's So Raven\", in the episode \"Hizzouse Party\". It was featured on the video games \"Karaoke Revolution Party\" and \"Just Dance 2\". On the eleventh series of \"Dancing on Ice\", Gemma Collins and Matt Evers performed to the song on the first week of the competition.\n\nIn 2008, the track was used on a commercial for Playhouse Disney France.\n\nIn 2019, the track was used as the ending of the \"Bed, Bath and Beyonce\" sketches on the 2019 reboot of Nickelodeon's All That sketch-comedy series.\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" has various remixes, including the Rockwilder remix, Maurice Joshua's Nu Soul remix, and Juniors World remix. These versions appeared on the single releases of \"Crazy in Love\" under an alternative spelling, \"Krazy in Luv\". The Rockwilder remix slows down the beat and makes the song deeper and funkier with chopped up horn samples and sparkling synth textures. Maurice's Nu Soul Remix speeds up the beat, taking it from hip-hop to house territory. A version of the song included on Asian special edition of \"Dangerously in Love\" features a rap in Mandarin Chinese performed by American-Taiwanese singer Vanness Wu, instead of Jay Z's performance.\n\n\"Crazy in Love\" was re-recorded by Beyoncé for the film \"Fifty Shades of Grey\" (2015) and used for its trailer which was released on July 24, 2014. This slowed-down version was produced by Boots with violin arrangements by Margot, both of whom worked on Beyoncé's self-titled fifth studio album (2013), and unlike the original, doesn't feature Jay-Z. Margot said: \"It inspires me to work on other artists' songs [because] it pushes my boundaries in a direction that I wouldn't necessarily come up with. Obviously I know how 'Crazy in Love' goes, but I knew there was the possibility her vocals would be different. It's almost more vulnerable and beautiful this way, because you \"do\" do crazy things when you fall in love. To hear the mood reversed and flipped makes it even more powerful.\"\n\nThe track was then officially released through iTunes Store on September 4, 2015. The single cover artwork is a black and white version of the original single cover. The rendition was performed for the first time during the 2015 Budweiser Made in America Festival on September 5, 2015. It was included on the setlist of The Formation World Tour, alongside the original version.\n\nRecording and management\n\nPersonnel\n\n!scope=\"col\" colspan=\"3\"| Mobile\n\n"}
{"id": "2256844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256844", "title": "Carathéodory's theorem (conformal mapping)", "text": "Carathéodory's theorem (conformal mapping)\n\nIn mathematics, Carathéodory's theorem is a theorem in complex analysis, named after Constantin Carathéodory, which extends the Riemann mapping theorem. The theorem, first proved in 1913, states that the conformal mapping sending the unit disk to the region in the complex plane bounded by a Jordan curve extends continuously to a homeomorphism from the unit circle onto the Jordan curve. The result is one of Carathéodory's results on prime ends and the boundary behaviour of univalent holomorphic functions.\n\nThe first proof of Carathéodory's theorem presented here is a summary of the short self-contained account in ; there are related proofs in and .\n\nClearly if \"f\" admits an extension to a homeomorphism, then ∂\"U\" must be a Jordan curve.\n\nConversely if ∂\"U\" is a Jordan curve, the first step is to prove \"f\" extends continuously to the closure of \"D\". In fact this will hold if and only if \"f\" is uniformly continuous on \"D\": for this is true if it has a continuous extension to the closure of \"D\"; and, if \"f\" is uniformly continuous, it is easy to check \"f\" has limits on the unit circle and the same inequalities for uniform continuity hold on the closure of \"D\".\n\nSuppose that \"f\" is not uniformly continuous. In this case there must be an ε > 0 and a point ζ on the unit circle and sequences \"z\", \"w\" tending to ζ with |\"f\"(\"z\") − \"f\"(\"w\")| ≥ 2ε. This is shown below to lead to a contradiction, so that \"f\" must be uniformly continuous and hence has a continuous extension to the closure of \"D\".\n\nFor 0 < \"r\" < 1, let γ be the curve given by the arc of the circle | \"z\" − ζ | = \"r\" lying within \"D\". Then \"f\" ∘ γ is a Jordan curve. Its length can be estimated using the Cauchy–Schwarz inequality:\n\nHence there is a \"length-area estimate\":\n\nThe finiteness of the integral on the left hand side implies that there is a sequence \"r\" decreasing to 0 with formula_3 tending to 0. But the length of a curve \"g\"(\"t\") for \"t\" in (\"a\", \"b\") is given by\n\nThe finiteness of formula_3 therefore implies that the curve has limiting points \"a\", \"b\" at its two ends with |\"a\" – \"b\"| ≤ formula_3, so this difference tends to 0. These two limit points must lie on ∂\"U\", because \"f\" is a homeomorphism between \"D\" and \"U\" and thus a sequence converging in \"U\" has to be the image under \"f\" of a sequence converging in \"D\". Since ∂\"U\" is a homeomorphic image of the circle ∂\"D\", the distance between the two corresponding parameters ξ and η in ∂\"U\" must tend to 0. So eventually the smallest circular arc in ∂\"D\" joining ξ and η is defined and, by uniform continuity, the diameter of its image τ tends to 0. Together τ and \"f\" ∘ γ form a simple Jordan curve. Its interior \"U\" is contained in \"U\" by the Jordan curve theorem for ∂\"U\" and ∂\"U\": to see this, notice that \"U\" is the interior of ∂\"U\", as it is bounded, connected and it is both open and closed in the complement of ∂\"U\"; so the exterior region of ∂\"U\" is unbounded, connected and does not intersect ∂\"U\", hence its closure is contained in the closure of the exterior of ∂\"U\"; taking complements, we get the desired inclusion. The diameter of ∂\"U\" tends to 0 because the diameters of τ and \"f\" ∘ γ tend to 0. Hence the diameter and the area of \"U\" tend to 0.\n\nNow if \"V\" denotes the intersection of \"D\" with the disk |\"z\" − ζ| < \"r\", then \"f\"(\"V\") = \"U\". Indeed, the arc γ divides \"D\" into \"V\" and a complementary region; \"U\" is a connected component of \"U\" \\ \"f\" ∘ γ, as it is connected and is both open and closed in this set, so under the conformal homeomorphism \"f\" the curve \"f\" ∘ γ divides \"U\" into \"U\" and\na complementary region \"U\"′, one of which equals \"f\"(\"V\"). Since the areas of \"f\"(\"V\") and \"U\" tend to 0, while the sum of the areas of \"U\" and \"U\"′ is fixed, it follows that \"f\"(\"V\") = \"U\".\n\nSo the diameter of \"f\"(\"V\") tends to 0. On the other hand, passing to subsequences of (\"z\") and (\"w\") if necessary, it may be assumed that \"z\" and \"w\" both lie in \"V\". But this gives a contradiction since |\"f\"(\"z\") − \"f\"(\"w\")| ≥ ε. So \"f\" must be uniformly continuous on \"U\".\n\nThus \"f\" extends continuously to the closure of \"D\". Since \"f\"(\"D\") = \"U\", by compactness \"f\" carries the closure of \"D\" onto the closure of \"U\" and hence ∂\"D\" onto ∂\"U\". If \"f\" is not one-one, there are points \"u\", \"v\" on ∂\"D\" with \"u\" ≠ \"v\" and \"f\"(\"u\") = \"f\"(\"v\"). Let \"X\" and \"Y\" be the radial lines from 0 to \"u\" and \"v\". Then \"f\"(\"X\" ∪ \"Y\") is a Jordan curve. Arguing as before, its interior \"V\" is contained in \"U\" and is a connected component of \"U\" \\ \"f\"(\"X\" ∪ \"Y\"). On the other hand, \"D\" \\ (\"X\" ∪ \"Y\") is the disjoint union of two open sectors\n\"W\" and \"W\". Hence, for one of them, \"W\" say, \"f\"(\"W\") = \"V\". Let \"Z\" be the portion of ∂\"W\" on the unit circle, so that \"Z\" is a closed arc and \"f\"(\"Z\") is a subset of both ∂\"U\" and the closure of \"V\". But their intersection is a single point and hence \"f\" is constant on \"Z\". By the Schwarz reflection principle, \"f\" can be analytically continued by conformal reflection across the circular arc. Since non-constant holomorphic functions have isolated zeros, this forces \"f\" to be constant, a contradiction. So \"f\" is one-one and hence a homeomorphism on the closure of \"D\".\n\nTwo different proofs of Carathéodory's theorem are described in and . The first proof follows Carathéodory's original method of proof from 1913 using properties of Lebesgue measure on the circle: the continuous extension of the inverse function \"g\" of \"f\" to ∂\"U\" is justified by Fatou's theorem on the boundary behaviour of bounded harmonic functions on the unit disk. The second proof is based on the method of , where a sharpening of the maximum modulus inequality was established for bounded holomorphic functions \"h\" defined on a bounded domain \"V\": if \"a\" lies in \"V\", then\n\nwhere 0 ≤ \"t\" ≤ 1, \"M\" is maximum modulus of \"h\" for sequential limits on ∂\"U\" and \"m\" is the maximum modulus of \"h\" for sequential limits on ∂\"U\" lying in a sector centred on \"a\" subtending an angle 2π\"t\" at \"a\".\n\nIntuitively, Carathéodory's theorem says that compared to general simply connected open sets in the complex plane C, those bounded by Jordan curves are particularly well-behaved.\n\nCarathéodory's theorem is a basic result in the study of \"boundary behavior of conformal maps\", a classical part of complex analysis. In general it is very difficult to decide whether or not the Riemann map from an open set \"U\" to the unit disk \"D\" extends continuously to the boundary, and how and why it may fail to do so at certain points.\n\nWhile having a Jordan curve boundary is \"sufficient\" for such an extension to exist, it is by no means \"necessary \". For example, the map\n\nfrom the upper half-plane H to the open set \"G\" that is the complement of the positive real axis is holomorphic and conformal, and it extends to a continuous map from the real line R to the positive real axis R; however, the set \"G\" is not bounded by a Jordan curve.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256851", "title": "Ribbon microphone", "text": "Ribbon microphone\n\nA ribbon microphone, also known as a ribbon velocity microphone, is a type of microphone that uses a thin aluminum, duraluminum or nanofilm of electrically conductive ribbon placed between the poles of a magnet to produce a voltage by electromagnetic induction. Ribbon microphones are typically bidirectional, meaning that they pick up sounds equally well from either side of the microphone.\n\nIn a moving-coil microphone, the diaphragm is attached to a light movable coil that generates a voltage as it moves back and forth between the poles of a permanent magnet. In ribbon microphones, a light metal ribbon is suspended between the poles of a magnet. As the ribbon vibrates, a voltage is induced at right angles to both the ribbon velocity and magnetic field direction and is picked off by contacts at the ends of the ribbon. Ribbon microphones are also called \"velocity microphones\" because the induced voltage is proportional to the velocity of the ribbon and thus of the air particles in the sound wave, unlike in some other microphones where the voltage is proportional to the displacement of the diaphragm and the air.\n\nOne important advantage that the ribbon microphone had when it was introduced is that its very lightweight ribbon, which is under very little tension, has a resonant frequency lower than 20 Hz; in contrast to the typical resonant frequency of the diaphragms in contemporary high quality microphones which used other technology. The typical resonant frequency of those microphones is within the range of human hearing. So even the very early commercially available ribbon microphones had excellent frequency response throughout the nominal range of human hearing (20 Hz to 20 kHz for a young adult). \n\nThe voltage output of older ribbon microphones is typically quite low compared to a dynamic moving coil microphone, and a step-up transformer is used to increase the voltage output and increase the output impedance. Modern ribbon microphones do not suffer from this problem due to improved magnets and more efficient transformers and have output levels that can exceed typical stage dynamic microphones.\n\nRibbon microphones were once delicate and expensive, but modern materials make certain present-day ribbon microphones very durable, and so they may be used for loud rock music and stage work. They are prized for their ability to capture high-frequency detail, comparing very favorably with condenser microphones, which can often sound subjectively \"aggressive\" or \"brittle\" in the high end of the frequency spectrum. Due to their bidirectional pick-up pattern, ribbon microphones may be used in pairs to produce the Blumlein Pair recording array. In addition to the standard bidirectional pick-up pattern, ribbon microphones can also be configured to have cardioid, hypercardioid, omnidirectional, and variable pattern .\n\nAs many mixers are equipped with phantom power in order to enable the use of condenser microphones, care should be taken when using condenser and ribbon microphones at the same time. If the ribbon microphone is improperly wired, which is not unheard of with older microphones, this capability can damage some ribbon elements; however, improvements in designs and materials have made those concerns largely inconsequential in modern ribbon microphones.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Drs. Walter H. Schottky and Erwin Gerlach co-invented the first ribbon microphone. By turning the ribbon circuit in the opposite direction, they also invented the first ribbon loudspeaker. A few years later, Dr. Harry F. Olson of RCA started developing ribbon microphones using field coils and permanent magnets. The RCA Photophone Type PB-31 was commercially manufactured in 1931, greatly impacting the audio recording and broadcasting industries. Condenser microphones at the time could not compare to its frequency response. Radio City Music Hall employed PB-31s in 1932. The following year, the 44A came on the scene. Its tone and pattern control helped reduce reverberation. Many RCA ribbon models are still in use and valued by audio engineers.\n\nThe BBC-Marconi Type A was an iconic ribbon microphone produced by the BBC and Marconi between 1934 and 1959. Also of note is the ST&C Coles 4038 (or PGS – pressure gradient single), designed by the BBC in 1954 and still used for some applications to this day. Its historical uses varied from talks to symphony concerts, and it is regarded as a delicate, fine traditional microphone.\n\nAround 2002, relatively inexpensive ($80 – $200) ribbon microphones manufactured in China and inspired by the RCA-44 and older Soviet Oktava ribbon microphones became available.\nIn 2007, microphones employing ribbon elements made of strong nanomaterials became available, offering orders of magnitude improvement in signal purity and output level.\n\nThe ribbon microphone is an electrically simple design with no active circuitry; it is possible to build one from a kit, or with basic tools and materials. The acoustic complexity of ribbon microphones is comparable to other types of air coupled transducers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256856", "title": "H. Owen Reed", "text": "H. Owen Reed\n\nHerbert Owen Reed (June 17, 1910 – January 6, 2014) was an American composer, conductor and author.\n\nReed was raised in rural Odessa, Missouri, where his first exposure to music was his father's playing of the old-time fiddle (accompanied by his mother at the piano).\n\nReed was married twice, for nearly fifty years to Esther, who proceeded him in death; and for 31 years to Mary, who traveled the world with him and survived him. He had two daughters, three step-children, fifteen grandchildren, and twenty-two great-grandchildren.\nReed was an avid fisherman and world traveler.\n\nIn addition to his childhood with musically inclined parents, he was also attracted to the popular piano music of the 1920s (such as the novelty piano tunes of Zez Confrey), as well as his family's player piano, which played popular tunes. He studied piano with Odessa's only piano teacher, Mrs. Felts, who attempted to interest him in the music of Bach and Beethoven.\n\nIn 1937 he enrolled at the Eastman School of Music (studying composition with Howard Hanson and Bernard Rogers, conducting with Paul White, musicology with Howard Gleason, and music theory with Allen I. McHose), receiving a Ph.D. in composition in 1939. In 1942, at the Berkshire Music Center (Tanglewood), Massachusetts, he studied composition with Bohuslav Martinů, and contemporary music with Aaron Copland, Leonard Bernstein and Stanley Chappel. In the summer of 1947, he studied composition with Roy Harris at Colorado Springs, Colorado, and also attended lessons with Arnold Schoenberg.\n\nH. Owen Reed joined the faculty of Michigan State College in 1939. His career at MSU lasted for nearly 40 years. Reed retired from MSU in 1976. Upon his retirement, MSU granted the title of Professor Emeritus unto Reed. In addition to teaching courses on composition at MSU, Reed as also a member of a faculty ensemble called the \"Geriatric Six.\"\n\nMany of Reed's students have gone on to fame as composers and arrangers, including Loris Chobanian, Clare Fischer, David Gillingham, Adolphus Hailstork, and David Maslanka.\n\nJust as Béla Bartók investigated the traditional music of Eastern Europe, North Africa, and Turkey, using these as inspirations for his own original works, Reed similarly devoted much study to the traditional music of North America. Many of his works feature material derived from the Mexican, Native American, Anglo-American and African American cultures, blended with contemporary idioms.\n\nReed's music is published by G. Schirmer, Warner Brothers, Ballerbach Music, Harrock Hall Music, Triplo Press, Allyn & Bacon, Boosey & Hawkes, Edwin A. Fleisher, EMI Mills, Neil A. Kjos, Ludwig and H. O. Reed Music.\n\nIn addition to his compositions, Reed published eight books on the subjects of musical composition and music theory. His scores, recordings, correspondence, and other papers have been deposited in the Michigan State University Manuscript Collection, in the Special Collections Unit of the Michigan State University Libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256858", "title": "Gerzeh culture", "text": "Gerzeh culture\n\nThe Gerzeh culture, also called Naqada II, refers to the archaeological stage at Gerzeh (also Girza or Jirzah), a prehistoric Egyptian cemetery located along the west bank of the Nile. The necropolis is named after el-Girzeh, the nearby present day town in Egypt. Gerzeh is situated only several miles due east of the oasis of Faiyum.\n\nThe Gerzeh culture is a material culture identified by archaeologists. It is the second of three phases of the prehistoric Nagada cultures and so is also known as Naqada II. The Gerzeh culture was preceded by the Amratian culture (\"Naqada I\") and followed by the Naqada III (\"protodynastic\" or \"Semainian culture\").\n\nSources differ on dating, some saying use of the culture distinguishes itself from the Amratian and begins circa 3500 BC lasting through circa 3200 BC. Accordingly, some authorities place the onset of the Gerzeh coincident with the Amratian or Badari cultures, i.e. c.3800 BC to 3650 BC even though some Badarian artifacts, in fact, may date earlier. Nevertheless, because the Naqada sites were first divided by the British Egyptologist Flinders Petrie in 1894, into Amratian (after the cemetery near el-Amrah) and \"Gerzean\" (after the cemetery near Gerzeh) sub-periods, the original convention is used in this text.\n\nThe Gerzeh culture lasted through a period of time when the desertification of the Sahara had nearly reached its state seen during the late twentieth century.\n\nThe primary distinguishing feature between the earlier Amratian and the Gerzeh is the extra decorative effort exhibited in the pottery of the period. Artwork on Gerzeh ceramics features stylised animals and environment to a greater degree than the earlier Amratian artwork. Further, images of ostriches on the pottery artwork possibly indicate an inclination these early peoples may have felt to explore the Sahara desert.\n\nSome symbols on Gerzeh pottery resemble traditional Egyptian hieroglyphs, which were contemporaneous with the proto-cuneiform script of Sumer. The figurine of a woman is a distinctive design considered characteristic of the culture.\n\nDistinctly foreign objects and art forms entered Egypt during this period, indicating contacts with several parts of Asia. Scientific analysis of ancient wine jars in Abydos has shown some there was some high-volume wine trade with the levant during this period. Objects such as the Gebel el-Arak knife handle, which has patently Mesopotamian relief carvings on it, have been found in Egypt, and the silver which appears in this period can only have been obtained from Asia Minor.\n\nLapis lazuli trade, in the form of beads, from its only known prehistoric source – Badakhshan in northeastern Afghanistan – also reached ancient Gerzeh. Other discovered grave goods are on display here.\n\nBurial sites in Gerzeh have uncovered artifacts, such as cosmetic palettes, a bone harpoon, an ivory pot, stone vessels, and several meteoritic iron beads, Technologies at Gerzeh also include fine ripple-flaked knives of exceptional workmanship. The meteoritic iron beads, discovered in two Gerzean graves by Egyptologist Wainwright in 1911, are the earliest artifacts of iron known, dating to around 3200 BC (see also Iron Age).\n\nOne burial uncovered evidence of dismemberment in the form of decapitation.\n\nThe end of the Gerzeh culture is generally regarded as coinciding with the unification of Egypt, the Naqada III period.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256866", "title": "Jacques-Marie-Frangile Bigot", "text": "Jacques-Marie-Frangile Bigot\n\nJacques Marie Frangile Bigot (1818–1893) was a French naturalist and entomologist most noted for his studies of Diptera. Bigot was born in Paris, France, where he lived all his life, though he had a small house in Quincy-sous-Sénart, Essonne. He became a member of the Entomological Society of France in 1844, and his first paper was published in its Annals in 1845, as was most of his later work. Bigot was a prolific author, and, like Francis Walker, his work was the subject of much later criticism.\nBigot's collection of exotic (extra-European) Tabanidae and Syrphidae was purchased by George Henry Verrall, who gave it to the Natural History Museum in London. The exotic Asilidae and all his European Diptera were presented to the Hope Department of Entomology of Oxford University. The Coleoptera and Hemiptera were presented to the Entomological Society of France by A. P. Mauppin in 1899.\n\n\nA complete list of Bigot's works is given by Evenhuis, N.L. 2003. The complete bibliography of scientific works of Jacques-Marie-Frangille Bigot. \"Zootaxa\" 210: 1-36 and the genera erected by Bigot are discussed in Evenhuis, N.L. & Pont, A.C. (2004): The Diptera Genera of Jacques-Marie-Frangile Bigot. \"Zootaxa\" 751: 1-94; Auckland.\n\nAnother French entomologist specializing in Lepidoptera, Louis Bigot (publishing 1963 to present), should not be confused.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256868", "title": "Ashland High School (Ohio)", "text": "Ashland High School (Ohio)\n"}
{"id": "2256871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256871", "title": "Parakala Matha", "text": "Parakala Matha\n\nThe Bramhatantra Swatantra Parakala Matha is a Vaishnava monastery (matha) established in Karnataka. It was the first medieval era monastery of the Vadakalai denomination within Vaishnavism tradition of Hindu society. Sri Sri Sri Brahmatantra Swatantra Parakala Matha was first established by Sri Sri Sri Brahmatantra Swatantra Jeeyar, a disciple of Sri Vedanta Desika Swamin.\n\nThe Matha got the name \"Parakala\" after Sri Tirumangai Alvar who is also known as Sri Parakalan. The Matha has its headquarters in Mysore. The Matha has had a close relationship with the monarchs of Mysore Kingdom since 1399, which is why the Mysore Palace is housed just next to the Matha. The kings of Mysore hold the Matha as their official gurukul. Even now, the royal lineage has a close relationship with the Matha. All royal ceremonies are even today monitored by the Matha.\n\nParakala Matha is among the organizations that follow Sri Vedanta Desika as the torch bearer of Sri Ramanuja's teachings. The others are Ahobila Matha, Sri Srirangam Andavan Ashramam and Sri Poundarikapuram Andavan Ashramam.\n\nThere have been 36 seers (heads) so far. The head of this Matha is the hereditary Acharya of the Mysore Royal Family. The Hayagriva idol worshiped here is said to be handed down from Vedanta Desika.\n\nThe Acharya Parampara of Sri Parakala Matha is as follows:\n"}
{"id": "2256879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256879", "title": "HOK (firm)", "text": "HOK (firm)\n\nHOK, formerly Hellmuth, Obata + Kassabaum, is an American design, architecture, engineering and urban planning firm, founded in 1955.\n\nAs of 2018, HOK is the largest U.S.-based architecture-engineering firm and the fourth-largest interior design firm. The firm maintains more than 1,700 professional staff across a network of 24 offices and is active in all major architectural specialties. Its senior leaders are located in several different locations across the world.\n\nHOK was established in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1955. The firm's name is derived from the surnames of its three founding partners: George F. Hellmuth, Gyo Obata and George Kassabaum, all graduates of the School of Architecture at Washington University in St. Louis. The design firm started with 26 employees and its three founders.\n\nThe practice's first building designs were schools in St. Louis suburbs, and St. Thomas Aquinas High School in Florissant was the first private/parochial school designed by the firm. Another prominent school they designed was the Saint Louis Priory School. By the mid-1960s, the firm was winning commissions across the United States and began to open additional offices, starting with San Francisco in 1966 for the design of a library at Stanford University and Dallas in 1968 for the master planning and design of Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. Also in 1968, HOK launched its interior design practice. HOK also expanded into Washington, DC, after winning the commission to design the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum. In 1973, HOK established a presence in New York by acquiring Kahn & Jacobs, designers of many New York City skyscrapers. By the 1970s, the firm was operating internationally and in 1975 the firm was named as architect of the $3.5 billion King Saud University in Riyadh, at the time the single largest building project in the world. In 1979, George Kassabaum was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate Academician.\n\nIn 1983, HOK formed HOK Sport Venue Event, which became a leader in designing sport stadiums, arenas and convention centers. In January 2009, the Board of HOK Group, Inc. and managers of HOK Sports Facilities, LLC transferred ownership of HOK Sport to leaders of that practice. The company became an independent firm, and rebranded itself as Populous.\n\nHOK's first office outside the United States opened in Hong Kong in 1984. In 1987, the firm opened a London office and then, in 1995, expanded this London practice by merging with renowned UK architectural practice Cecil Denny Highton. In November 1994, HOK acquired Caudill Rowlett Scott based in Houston, Texas, adding offices in Houston and Atlanta. HOK established its first offices in Canada (Toronto and Ottawa) in 1997 with the acquisition of Urbana Architects.\n\nIn 2004, George Hellmuth's nephew, William Hellmuth, was named president of the firm.\n\nBy 2007, international work represented more than 40% of HOK's annual revenue.\n\nIn 2008, HOK opened an office in Mumbai, India. In 2010, it established an office in Seattle, Washington.\n\nIn 2012, HOK Chairman Bill Valentine retired after 50 years with the firm. HOK Chief Executive Officer Patrick MacLeamy, FAIA, assumed the role of chairman.\n\nIn 2013, HOK acquired the New York and Shanghai offices of hospitality design firm BBG-BBGM, creating one of the largest interior design firms. BBG-BBGM's office in Washington, D.C. continues to operate as BBGM.\n\nIn 2014, ORO Editions published “HOK Tall Buildings,” a 300-page book exploring the design of the contemporary high-rise.\n\nOn January 13, 2015, HOK announced that it had completed its acquisition of 360 Architecture, a 200-person, Kansas City-based firm specializing in the design of stadiums, ballparks, arenas, recreation and wellness centers, and mixed-use entertainment districts. The acquisition enabled HOK to launch a new global Sports + Recreation + Entertainment design practice and to open new offices in Kansas City and Columbus, Ohio.\n\nOn May 15, 2015, the firm announced a multi-year partnership with the United Soccer League (USL) in the United States to lead a stadium development, design and standards initiative to help house all USL clubs in soccer-specific stadiums across North America by the end of the decade.\n\nIn January 2016, HOK announced that Bill Hellmuth, the firm's president, would succeed Patrick MacLeamy as CEO, effective April 19, 2016.\n\nIn April 2017, HOK announced that Carl Galioto, FAIA, had been appointed president, with former president and current CEO Bill Hellmuth assuming the role of chairman.\n\nIn 1983, HOK introduced HOK Draw, computer-aided drafting software products that specialized in conceptual architectural design. In the early 2000s, HOK began using Building Information Modeling (BIM) to streamline the design and construction process. In 2012, Building Design + Construction ranked HOK the No. 1 BIM Architecture Firm. In 2013, \"DesignIntelligence\" magazine, based in part on the firm's leadership in buildingSMART and BIM, ranked HOK the No. 1 Design Firm for Technology Expertise.\n\nHOK is a leader in sustainable design. Professionals in the firm authored one of the industry's most respected resources on the topic, \"The HOK Guidebook to Sustainable Design,\" originally published in 2000 by John Wiley & Sons. A second edition of the book was published in 2005. In September 2008, to better integrate nature's innovations into the design of buildings, communities and cities worldwide, HOK announced an alliance with the Biomimicry Group, co-founded by Janine Benyus. In 2010, HOK and energy and daylighting consultant The Weidt Group completed design of Net Zero Court, a 170,735-square-foot, market-rate, zero-emissions class A commercial office building in St. Louis.\n\nIn 2013, HOK and Biomimicry 3.8 released the Genius of Biome report, a textbook for how to apply biomimicry design principles.\n\nIn 2015, for the sixth consecutive year, the \"DesignIntelligence\" journal ranked HOK as a leader in sustainable and high-performance design\". HOK currently has more than 750 LEED, BREEAM and WELL credentialed professionals and more than 300 green certified projects under various rating systems worldwide.\n\nUnited States: Atlanta; Chicago; Columbus, OH; Dallas; Houston; Kansas City; Los Angeles; New York; Philadelphia; St. Louis; San Francisco; Seattle; Summit, NJ; Tampa, FL; Washington, D.C.\n\nCanada: Calgary, Ottawa, Toronto\n\nAsia Pacific: Beijing, Hong Kong, Shanghai\n\nEurope: London. Also leads European Architects Network (EAN) - affiliated firms in Amsterdam, Brussels, Madrid, Milan, Paris and Rome\n\nIndia: Mumbai\n\nMiddle East: Dubai\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256880", "title": "List of government schools in New South Wales", "text": "List of government schools in New South Wales\n\nThe New South Wales Department of Education and Communities (DEC) is a department of the Government of New South Wales. In addition to other responsibilities, it operates primary and secondary schools throughout the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256887", "title": "Chapala, Jalisco", "text": "Chapala, Jalisco\n\nChapala () is a town and municipality in the central Mexican state of Jalisco, located on the north shore of Lake Chapala, Mexico's largest freshwater lake. According to the 2015 census, its population is 50,738 for the municipality. The municipality includes about 11,000 in the town of Ajijic.\n\nChapala is 28 miles (45 km) south-southeast of Guadalajara, on Mexican Federal Highway 44. It is located at 20°20' North, 103°10' West.\n\nAlthough there are several theories as to the origin of the city's name, the most likely is that it comes from Chapalac, the name of the last chief of the Nahuatl-speaking indigenous people of the region. Chapala became an official municipality on September 10, 1864, by decree of the Jalisco State Congress.\n\nDuring the First World War, in 1915, Norwegian speculators intended to make Chapala a luxury resort town. A railway was to be built, with separate carriages for black and white people. In addition to the railway, the speculators would also provide two motor vessels to trafficate the lake with connections to the other small towns at the lake shore. A first class hotel was to be built, as well as an automobile club with attached casino. An extensive dam, 8 kilometers long to provide dry land with plots for luxury dwellings. What the shareholders in the company, \"Compania di Fromento di Chapala\" received, was only photographs of railway carriages and locomotives. See the book; Gullfeber by Kr.Fr.Brøgger, published in Oslo 1932.\n\nIn the late 1940s the American writer Tennessee Williams settled in Chapala for a while to work on a play called \"The Poker Night\", which later became \"A Streetcar Named Desire\". As Williams explains in his essay \"The Catastrophe of Success,\" Chapala offered him an ideal place to work, \"a remote place among strangers where there is good swimming.\"\n\nSince the 1960s, Chapala has been frequented by both Mexican and international tourists. Among the area's cultural attractions is mariachi music, which originated in the state of Jalisco. While many fine mariachi bands have been based in Chapala, the most famous groups are based in larger cities nearby. The most famous mariachi in Mexico is Mariachi Vargas de Tecalitlán, founded in the late 19th century in the southern Jalisco city of Tecalitlán, but now based in Mexico City. Although mariachi music is believed to have originated in the town of Cocula, the greatest concentration of mariachis can be found in the city of Guadalajara, located about 30 miles north of Chapala; it is considered the city that most epitomizes the external concept of Mexico propagated by the international mass media (characterized by \"charros\", tequila, sombreros, and mariachis). A worldwide mariachi festival is held there each fall, mariachis from throughout the world (including Europe and Asia) regularly participate.\n\nTony Burton describes early tourism in his book “Lake Chapala through the ages: an anthology of traveller’s tales.” Chapala, along with its namesake lake, is well established as a weekend getaway destination primarily for inhabitants of the city of Guadalajara. Most of the area's expatriate population (originating primarily from the United States and Canada) reside not in the city proper but in and around Ajijic, a village of approximately 11,000 inhabitants located approximately 5 miles west of Chapala. Many of these residents stay for a long time, and some try to make Chapala like \"home.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2256889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256889", "title": "Ishana", "text": "Ishana\n\nIshana (Sanskrit: ईशान, IAST: Īśāna), is a deity in Indian mythology and guardian of the northeast direction.\n\nAccording to the Vaastu Shastra, it is auspicious in for homes and offices to be situated in the northeast. North is the direction wealth resides, associated with Kubera, while East is the direction where knowledge resides, associated with Indra. For this reason, Ishana symbolizes the culmination of both knowledge and wealth.\n\nĪśāna is one of the twelve devas who guard the directions. He is a chief among the gods of Paranirmitavaśavarti, the sixth heaven of the kāmadhātu. \n\nAccording to the Ainōshō, there is a theory that this deity is synonymous with Pāpīyas as well as the Shinto deity Izanagi. The Jinnō Shōtōki also states that there is a theory that the names of Japan's primordial creator gods Izanagi and Izanami are the same as the Sanskrit names Īśāna and Īśānī.\n\nĪśānī is Īśāna's consort. According to the Secret Storehouse Records (祕藏記) she is flesh white in color and wields a spear.\n\nĪśāna is often depicted with three eyes and having a fierce expression.\n"}
{"id": "2256897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256897", "title": "9K115 Metis", "text": "9K115 Metis\n\nThe 9K115 Metis (; NATO reporting name AT-7 Saxhorn) is a man-portable, tube launched, SACLOS wire-guided anti-tank guided missile of the Soviet Union. It is considered the Soviet counterpart to the American M47 Dragon ATGM.\n\nThe relatively small AT-7 missile was generally underpowered compared to contemporary armored threats, and consequently it was little-exported and little used in combat.\n\nThe missile was developed by the Tula KBP. It is very similar to the 9K111 Fagot in external appearance (having three main fins); however, the missile is much lighter—primarily because of the reduced fuel load, which reduces the maximum range to .\n\nDuring the 1980s, an upgraded version of the missile was developed—the \"Metis-M\" 9M131 (sometimes labelled \"Metis-2\"). Fired from the same launcher, the new missile is much larger and heavier, with an increased range and a larger warhead. The NATO designation for this missile is AT-13 Saxhorn-2.\nThe missile was introduced into the Soviet Army in 1979 to supplement the 9K111 Fagot at company level. The system is lighter than the Fagot system, due to a less complicated tripod launcher and a lighter missile.\n\nIn Russian service, the Metis is deployed with motor rifle companies, with three launchers per company. The missile is operated by a two-man team; the gunner carries the 9P151 launching post and one missile, his assistant carries an additional three missiles. The AT-7 can be operated by one man if needed.\n\nThe export prices of the missile and firing post in 1992 were:\n\n\nThe missile is fired from the 9P151 launching post, which has a simple tripod for support. It can also be fired from the shoulder, but this apparently requires more skill on the part of the operator. The launching post weighs . The missile is launched from the tube by a booster rather than the gas generator used on the 9K111 Fagot system, despite both missiles being designed by the same design bureau. The 9S816 guidance system is powered by a thermal battery attached to the launch tube shortly before launch and the missile itself is remotely powered along the guidance wires.\n\nThe missile can be launched from an enclosed space, such as a building or cave, but requires at least behind the launcher, and a total internal volume of at least . The missile has a short minimum range of and can engage targets moving at up to .\n\nThe missile's warhead is a single HEAT shaped charge that can penetrate 460 mm of armor.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256905", "title": "Michael Mullen", "text": "Michael Mullen\n\nMichael Glenn Mullen, (born October 4, 1946) is a retired United States Navy admiral, who served as the 17th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from October 1, 2007, to September 30, 2011.\n\nMullen previously served as the Navy's 28th Chief of Naval Operations from July 22, 2005, to September 29, 2007. He was only the third officer in the Navy's history to be appointed to four different four-star assignments; the other appointments being the Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Europe and Commander, Allied Joint Force Command Naples from October 2004 to May 2005, and as the 32nd Vice Chief of Naval Operations from August 2003 to August 2004. As Chairman, Mullen was the highest-ranking officer in the United States Armed Forces. He retired from the Navy after over 42 years of service. Since 2012, Mullen has been a visiting professor at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.\n\nMullen was born on October 4, 1946, in Los Angeles, the eldest of five children of Mary Jane (Glenn), who worked as an assistant to comedian Jimmy Durante, and Hollywood press agent John Edward \"Jack\" Mullen. He attended St. Charles Borromeo Church School in North Hollywood , and graduated from Notre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks in 1964. Mullen then attended the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis and was classmates with former Commandant of the Marine Corps Michael Hagee, former Chief of Naval Operations Jay L. Johnson, former Secretary of the Navy and Senator from Virginia Jim Webb, National Security Council staff member during the Iran–Contra affair Oliver North, former Director of National Intelligence Dennis C. Blair, and NASA administrator Charles Bolden. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1968.\n\nAs a junior officer, he served in various leadership positions aboard , , and . He has commanded three ships: the gasoline tanker , the guided missile destroyer , and the guided missile cruiser ; and has also commanded Cruiser-Destroyer Group Two from . Mullen's last command at sea was as Commander, U.S. Second Fleet/Commander, NATO Striking Fleet Atlantic (COMSTRIKFLTLANT).\n\nIn 1985, Mullen graduated from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, with a Master of Science degree in Operations Research, and in 1991, he attended the six-week Harvard Business School Advanced Management Program.\n\nMullen served as Company Officer and Executive Assistant to the Commandant of Midshipmen at the U.S. Naval Academy. He also served in the Bureau of Naval Personnel as Director, Chief of Planning and Provisions, Surface Officer Distribution and in the Office of the Secretary of Defense on the staff of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation. On the Chief of Naval Operations' staff, Mullen served as Deputy Director and Director of Surface Warfare and as Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Resources, Requirements, and Assessments (N8). He was the 32nd Vice Chief of Naval Operations from August 2003 to October 2004.\nMullen was recognized by his peers in 1987 with the Vice Admiral James Bond Stockdale Award for Inspirational Leadership skill. He is one of 53 naval officers to be recognized by this award since its inception in 1980.\n\nAs Commander, Allied Joint Force Command Naples, Mullen had operational responsibility for NATO missions in the Balkans, Iraq, and the Mediterranean. As Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Europe, he was responsible for providing overall command, operational control, and coordination of U.S. naval forces in the European Command area of responsibility. He assumed these duties on October 8, 2004, and was relieved of them upon his becoming Chief of Naval Operations.\n\nOn October 29, 2006, the \"Honolulu Advertiser\" published an op-ed by Mullen that defined the concept of the 1,000-ship navy. However Admiral Gary Roughead, Mullen's successor as Chief of Naval Operations, rejected Mullen's concept in favor of a more inclusive vision that includes non-governmental organizations and cooperation with non-allied countries.\n\nOn June 8, 2007, Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates announced that he would advise President George W. Bush to nominate Mullen to succeed General Peter Pace as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Bush announced the nomination formally on June 28, 2007.\n\nOn August 3, 2007, the United States Senate confirmed Mullen as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Mullen was sworn in on October 1, 2007. Upon taking office, Mullen became the first naval officer to hold the Chairman's position since Admiral William J. Crowe, who served as Chairman prior to the enactment of the Goldwater-Nichols Act in 1986, and who was the immediate predecessor to Army general and later United States Secretary of State Colin Powell.\n\nOn March 18, 2009, Gates recommended to President Barack Obama that Mullen be re-nominated for a second term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs. He was unanimously confirmed by the Senate on September 25, 2009 and began his second term on October 1, 2009.\n\nOn February 2, 2010, Mullen and Gates said that they fully supported President Obama's decision to end the \"Don't ask, don't tell\" policy, which prevented openly gay people from serving in the military. \"It is my personal belief that allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly would be the right thing to do,\" Mullen said at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. \"No matter how I look at the issue...I cannot escape being troubled by the fact that we have in place a policy which forces young men and women to lie about who they are in order to defend their fellow citizens. For me, it comes down to integrity—theirs as individuals and ours as an institution.\"\n\nDuring Mullen's Senate confirmation hearings for his first term nomination as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mullen identified political progress in Iraq as a critical component of Iraq policy. He noted that, \"there does not appear to be much political progress\" in Iraq. He also said, \"If [the Iraqis] aren't making progress in [the political] realm, the prospects for movement in a positive direction are not very good. Failure to achieve tangible progress toward [political] reconciliation requires a strategic reassessment.\" Mullen further told the Senate that the United States needs to \"bring as much pressure on [Iraq's political leaders] as [the U.S.] possibly can.\"\n\nRegarding the length and scope of the U.S. involvement in Iraq, Mullen told the Senate that while he does not envision permanent U.S. bases in Iraq, \"vital interests in the region and in Iraq require a pragmatic, long-term commitment that will be measured in years, not months.\"\n\nPresident Obama, Secretary of Defense Panetta and Admiral Mullen provided the certification required by the Act to Congress on July 22, 2011. Implementation of repeal was completed 60 days later, so that DADT was no longer policy as of September 20, 2011.\n\nIn a speech at Kansas State University, Mullen outlined his views about the best application of military force in present times. He characterized most wars, such as World War II, as wars of attrition, where the reduction or elimination of enemy forces signaled victory. He characterized the Cold War as an issue of containment. In characterizing the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, he described them as \"a fight against a syndicate of Islamic extremists led by al-Qaeda and supported by a host of both state and non-state actors\", citing the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan as their \"epicenter\".\n\nMullen outlined three principles about the \"proper use of modern military forces\":\n\n\nBoard Leadership\n\nMullen now serves as Advisory Board Chair for BlueVoyant – a cybersecurity company based in New York that has raised over $207.5 million.\n\nMullen also serves as an Honorary Director on the Board of Directors at the Atlantic Council.\n\nPresident Obama nominated General Martin Dempsey as the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on Memorial Day 2011. Dempsey had only been sworn in as army chief of staff the previous month. On September 30, 2011, Mullen officially retired from the military when his term as chairman ended.\n\nIn December 2012, one year into his retirement, Mullen was in the news again, for having been the target of computer hacking, a situation that led to subsequent FBI investigations. In 2013, Mullen joined the board of General Motors.\n\nOn July 11, 2013, Mullen was put on the Board of Directors of Sprint Nextel Corp directly after a buyout from SoftBank, one of Japan's largest cellular companies. In 2016, Mullen joined the Advisory Board of Afiniti, an American unicorn big data and artificial intelligence business.\n\nMullen was vetted by Michael Bloomberg to be his running mate in the 2016 presidential election, but Bloomberg decided against running.\n\nIn an interview with ABC News on December 31, 2017, Mullen stated his belief that the United States was close to a nuclear war with North Korea.\n\nIn 1987, Mullen was awarded the Vice Admiral James Bond Stockdale Award for Inspirational Leadership.\nIn 2009 the U.S. veterans group Soldier On awarded Admiral Mullen the first Soldier On Award, created for them by sculptor Andrew DeVries. The Soldier On Award recognizes individuals whose leadership and actions have advanced the goal of ending veteran homelessness.\n\nIn 2010, Mullen was appointed an Honorary Officer of the Order of Australia.\n\nAn auditorium was dedicated in his name March 1, 2012, before a graduation ceremony at the Surface Warfare Officers School in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nMullen is married to Deborah and together they have two sons, John “JMuls” Mullen and Michael Edward Mullen. Both attended the US Naval Academy.\n"}
{"id": "2256908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256908", "title": "Animal X (band)", "text": "Animal X (band)\n\nAnimal X is a Romanian band awarded at MTV Europe Music Awards, with more than 10 years of musical experience. Their eight studio albums include such hits as \"N-am crezut\", \"Pentru ea\", \"Mai mult ca oricand\", \"Sa pot ierta\", \"Baieti derbedei\", \"Balada\", and \"Nisip purtat de vant\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256911", "title": "Forest of Dean Sculpture Trail", "text": "Forest of Dean Sculpture Trail\n\nThe Forest of Dean Sculpture Trail is a point of interest in the Forest of Dean in the county of Gloucestershire, England.\n\nThe Sculpture Trail links several different site-specific sculptures commissioned for the forest. It is open from dawn to dusk every day of the year, with no admission charge. There are currently 16 sculptures, made from various materials. A further 12 are no longer visible, or have been decommissioned due to safety reasons, or are returning to the forest floor. The complete trail is 7 kilometers (4.5 mi); shorter routes of 3.5 kilometers (2.2 mi) and 4.8 kilometers (3 mi) visit a selection of the sculptures.\n\nAn estimated 300,000 people visit each year.\n\nCommissioning commenced in 1986, originally in partnership with Arnolfini, Bristol's flagship contemporary art gallery, and following the establishment of the Trail has resulted in the presentation of more than 20 permanent sculptures, almost all of international significance, alongside temporary residencies and public events. The early sculptures were commissioned to be site-responsive and to interpret the forest, and the Trust adheres to this very particular strategy, which is what makes the Dean very different from other Sculpture Trails in the country.\n\nSculptures include Kevin Atherton's 15 foot by 10 foot stained glassed window \"Cathedral\" which hangs high in the canopy over the heads of walkers. Additional commissions include Neville Gabie’s \"Raw\", a giant cube assembled from the entire mass of an oak tree, and acclaimed works by David Nash, Peter Randall-Page, Cornelia Parker and Annie Cattrell at crucial early stages in their careers.\n\nThe Forest of Dean Sculpture Trust continues to raise funds to commission additional works. The Trust (FODST) manages the Sculpture Trail, located at Beechenhurst, near Coleford in Gloucestershire, in partnership with the Forestry Commission in the Forest of Dean. The Trust is a registered charity and has a long record of commissioning sculpture and related temporary projects that are specific to the forest environment.\n\nIn February 2015, the Trail announced major new investment for a series of artworks due to be installed in the summer of 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256919", "title": "Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls", "text": "Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls\n\n\"Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls\" is the ninth episode of the second season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 22nd episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on August 19, 1998. The episode was written by series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, along with Nancy M. Pimental, and directed by Parker.\n\nIn the episode, the Sundance Film Festival is moved to South Park, but it badly affects Mr. Hankey. Meanwhile, Chef tries his luck to make some money, as many visitors come to the town, by selling his new sweet treats, his chocolate salty balls.\n\nPark City, Utah is in the midst of the Sundance Film Festival. Sundance's founder, Robert Redford, has decided that Park City has become too commercialized by the annual migration of the Hollywood jet set, so he decides to move the festival to South Park, Colorado. The Sundance Festival relocates to South Park, which is immediately deluged by Hollywood tourists. In school, Mr. Garrison gives the students an assignment to see one independent film during the festival and write a report on it. Chef sets up a sales stand at the festival for his fudge cookie recipes.\n\nAt night, as Kyle uses the restroom, he hears Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo calling to him from the toilet. Kyle persuades Stan, Cartman, and Kenny to help him find Mr. Hankey; they enter the sewer system to look for him. They soon find Mr. Hankey, who tells Kyle that the influx of all the Hollywood tourists, with their health-food diets, has disrupted the ecosystem of the sewer, which has made him deathly ill.\n\nKyle and the others appear before a film's showing, and Kyle pleads with the Hollywood visitors to understand that their presence is causing the death of his friend Mr. Hankey. However, they all think Kyle is trying to pitch a script, and they offer film deals. One agent approaches Cartman to buy the rights to Kyle's story; he readily agrees. A film is produced overnight, starring Tom Hanks as Kyle and a monkey as Mr. Hankey. The South Park locals are beginning to tire of the festival, seeing that it is causing the town to become overrun with commercialism and Hollywood kitsch. However, Redford plans to sue the whole the town if they go through with ending the festival; he then reveals to his wife, Phyllis, that he will make all small towns overrun with Hollywood culture, since he cannot escape it, so he wants to inflict it on everyone else. By this time, Cartman realizes he's been cheated out by the agent and only receives three dollars from the two million dollars the Mr. Hankey movie made and Stan promptly calls Cartman a sell-out; not to be outdone, Cartman then starts selling shirts of Tom Hanks with the monkey-version of Mr. Hankey.\n\nKyle tries to show Mr. Hankey to the crowd, but Mr. Hankey is pale and near death. Chef feeds Mr. Hankey one of his Chocolate Salty Balls, causing him to return to life. Stan, Kyle, Chef, and Mr. Hankey approach Redford as he is on a podium to announce the return of the film festival the next year. After he ignores their pleas to relocate the festival, Mr. Hankey makes a passionate speech about film festivals - instead of catering to the glamor of Hollywood, they should focus more on giving new-coming filmmakers a chance and actually enjoy the films. Infuriated, Redford throws Mr. Hankey against a wall, killing him; Chef revitalizes Mr. Hankey once again. He then causes the sewers to erupt over South Park, causing Redford and Phyllis' car to fill with feces, drowning them, and all the tourists flee the town. With the town saved (albeit covered in excrement), the boys reflect on Mr. Hankey's message and admit that while a few independent films are great, \"most of them suck ass.\" As for Cartman, he feels that being a sell-out was positive for him because he wouldn't hang out with \"poor-ass losers\" like his friends and leaves with the money he earned selling shirts.\n\nA soundtrack album, titled \"\", was released in 1998, during the broadcast run of the second season. It comprises songs featured in and related to the series, including \"Chocolate Salty Balls\", performed by Isaac Hayes as Chef, from this episode.\n\nCartman refers to independent films as being about \"gay cowboys eating pudding\". This episode aired seven years before the independent film \"Brokeback Mountain\" was released in 2005, but one year after the publication of the short story of the same name by Annie Proulx in 1997. In an interview with the Associated Press in October 2005, series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone responded to questions about the prophetic statement by Cartman. Parker quipped, \"...if there’s pudding eating in there, we’re going to sue\", and Stone claimed, \"No [we're not prophets], but Cartman is. [Laughs] We went to Sundance a lot in the mid-to-late ’90s, and you could just tell it was going toward gay cowboydom.\"\n\nAll 18 episodes of the second season, including \"Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls\", were released on a DVD box set on June 3, 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256924", "title": "Capacitor-input filter", "text": "Capacitor-input filter\n\nA capacitor-input filter is a filter circuit in which the first element is a capacitor connected in parallel with the output of the rectifier in a linear power supply. The capacitor increases the DC voltage and decreases the ripple voltage components of the output. The capacitor is often referred to as a smoothing capacitor or reservoir capacitor. The capacitor is often followed by other alternating series and parallel filter elements to further reduce ripple voltage, or adjust DC output voltage. It may also be followed by a voltage regulator which virtually eliminates any remaining ripple voltage, and adjusts the DC voltage output very precisely to match the DC voltage required by the circuit.\n\nDuring the time the rectifier is conducting and the potential is higher than the charge across the capacitor, the capacitor will store energy from the \ntransformer; when the output of the rectifier falls below the charge on the capacitor, the capacitor will discharge energy into the circuit. Since the\nrectifier conducts current only in the forward direction, any energy discharged by the capacitor will flow into the load. This results in output of a DC voltage upon which is superimposed a waveform referred to as a sawtooth wave. The sawtooth wave is a convenient linear approximation to the actual\nwaveform, which is exponential for both charge and discharge. The crests of the sawtooth waves will be more rounded when the DC resistance of the transformer secondary is higher.\n\nA ripple current which is 90 degrees out of phase with the ripple voltage also passes through the capacitor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256928", "title": "Sean Yates", "text": "Sean Yates\n\nSean Yates (born 18 May 1960) is an English former professional cyclist and directeur sportif.\n\nYates competed at the 1980 Summer Olympics, finishing sixth in the 4,000m individual pursuit. As an amateur in 1980, he won the British 25-mile individual time trial championship, and took the national record for 10-mile time trials with 19m 44s.\n\nAs an amateur Yates rode for Athletic Club Boulogne-Billancourt in Paris, Europe's most successful sports club with fellow British riders John Herety and Jeff Williams. Yates first race for the ACBB was the Grand Prix de Saint-Tropez which he won by riding off the front of the peloton. Yates won fifteen races in total for the ACBB and also finished third in the prestigious individual time trial Grand Prix des Nations which was won by Martial Gayant. Yates had developed a reputation as a strong time trialist and for an incredible turn of speed and power. He turned professional in 1982 for Peugeot riding alongside Graham Jones, Phil Anderson, Robert Millar and Stephen Roche. He stayed with Peugeot for six seasons and became British professional individual pursuit champion in 1982 and 1983.\n\nIn 1988 riding for Fagor, he won the sixth stage of the Tour de France, a 52 km time-trial, beating Roberto Visentini by 14 seconds and Tony Rominger by 23 seconds. That year he also won a stage at the Vuelta a España, Paris–Nice, Midi-Libre and finished fourth overall in the Tour of Britain.\n\nIn 1989 he joined the American team, 7-Eleven and took two stages and overall victory in the Tour of Belgium, won the Grand Prix Eddy Merckx and finished second in Gent–Wevelgem. In 1991 Yates then moved to Motorola, where he rode with Lance Armstrong. During stage six of the 1994 Tour de France Yates got into a breakaway and took the overall lead by one second over Gianluca Bortolami. He became only the third Briton to wear the yellow jersey. He wore it for one day and after Bradley Wiggins won the 2012 Tour De France he sold it to him; this has become Wiggins' most prized possession in his collection.\n\nYates retired in 1996 having competed in 12 Tours, completing nine; 45th was his best placing overall.\n\nYates spent much of his 15-year career as a domestique. He was powerful on flat stages and noted as a descender of mountains. For a rouleur Yates climbed very well for his weight.\n\nIn 1989, Yates tested positive for anabolic steroids in a doping test in the first stage of Torhout-Werchter. However, his 'B' sample did not confirm the 'A' sample and Yates was subsequently cleared because it was accepted that a labelling error must have occurred and the tested sample was not his.\n\nFollowing the report in October 2012 from the US Anti-Doping Agency that detailed organised doping in the US Postal/Discovery Channel teams, Yates insisted on BBC Radio 5 Live that he saw nothing suspicious during his six years working alongside Lance Armstrong.\n\nAfter retiring in 1996, Yates became manager of the Linda McCartney Racing Team, which competed at the Giro d'Italia. After the team's collapse in 2001, Yates helped set up the Australian iteamNova but left after funds ran out. After six months out of cycling, he joined Team CSC-Tiscali before moving to Discovery, in 2005, at the invitation of Lance Armstrong. In June 2007, Yates was manager of Team Discovery a USA team and, in 2008, went on to manage riders on the Astana cycling team.\n\nIn 2009, he was signed up as director of the newly formed Team Sky, a British-based team intent on providing Britain's first Tour de France winner. Yates spent three years as the team's lead Director Sportif and, in 2012, presided over Bradley Wiggins victories in Paris–Nice, Tour de Romandie, Critérium du Dauphiné, Tour de France and the Olympic Time Trial. However, his race support during the 2012 Tour de France was heavily criticised by Mark Cavendish who described Yates as \"cold, uninspiring and miserly in praise.\"\n\nIn October 2012, he left the employment of Team Sky and retired from cycling, with the \"Daily Telegraph\" reporting that Yates had been forced to quit after admitting involvement in doping, meaning he did not meet the team's zero tolerance stance on doping. Both Sky and Yates denied that his exit was linked to the team's new requirement that all employees sign a declaration pledging no previous involvement in doping.\n\nAfter a year away from the sport, in October 2013 it emerged that Yates had agreed to take the position of directeur sportif for the NFTO team from the 2014 season. Subsequently, Yates clarified that this role would be limited to the first three rounds of the Premier Calendar and the Tour Series. He is also involved in coaching the Catford CC-Equipe Banks under-23 team, which includes his son Liam on its roster. In November 2014 he was announced by Team Tinkoff-Saxo as one of their sports directors for the 2015 season.\n\nIn 1997, he won the British 50-mile time-trial championship, and he finished third in the same event in 2005. In May 2007, he said he would not compete as a veteran because of heart irregularities, but he still competes at regional events, primarily in the Southeast. Yates currently plays football for Old St Marys Football Club as a goalkeeper in Amateur Football Combination.\n\nIn 2009, he was inducted into the British Cycling Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256932", "title": "Sullana", "text": "Sullana\n\nSullana is the name of the capital of the Sullana Province, in the north-western coastal plains of Peru on the Chira valley.\n\nSullana is located at 04°53' south latitude and 80°41' west longitude, 38 km north of Piura, the capital of the region.\n\nThe province has a tropical savanna climate and an average temperature of 27 °C degrees. The minimum temperature is 16 °C and the maximum temperature is 38 °C (can go over 42 °C mark if the El Niño phenomenon is present).\n\nThe city is irrigated by the Chira River, the area around the capital city of Sullana is very fertile and there is much lush, tropical vegetation: Coconut palm trees, banana trees, paddy fields, etc. Sullana is an important commercial centre in one of Peru's major cotton-growing areas, along with the San Martín Region and the smaller Tumbes Region. A new sugar cane plantation has been planted nearby to produce maple ethanol for ethanol production.\n\nMigration to Sullana has been intensive, but \"pueblos jóvenes\" (shanty towns) are neither widespread nor conspicuous, as they are in Piura for example. The population in Sullana was 112,770 in 1981, 147,361 in 1993 and c. 162,500 in 2005.\n\nThe Chira valley has always been an important farming area. Before the Spanish Invasion, ethnic groups like the Tallanes, the Mochicas, the Chimú, and finally the Incas had settled here. This region was chosen by the Spaniards to found their first city in this part of the Americas, San Miguel de Tangarara, on July 15, 1532. The Spaniards changed the native farming system and created Repartimientos and Encomiendas.\n\nSullana was founded late in the 18th century, on July 8, 1783, by Bishop Baltazar Jaime Martínez de Compañon y Bufanda and given the name of \"El Principe\" (The Prince).\n\nSullana has good bus connections to the north, to Piura in the south, as well as inland to Ayabaca and to La Tina on the Ecuadorian border.\n\nThe Tren de la Costa is planned.\n\nIn the first week of January the Feria Internacional de los Reyes is celebrated. \nThe Poechos Reservoir, 27 km from the city, offers water sports like water skiing, motor-boating, fishing and swimming.\n"}
{"id": "2256937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256937", "title": "Halang", "text": "Halang\n\nHalang may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2256943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256943", "title": "International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science", "text": "International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science\n\nThe International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science (IAQMS) is an international scientific learned society covering all applications of quantum theory to chemistry and chemical physics. It was created in Menton in 1967. The founding members were Raymond Daudel, Per-Olov Löwdin, Robert G. Parr, John Pople and Bernard Pullman. Its foundation was supported by Louis de Broglie.\n\nOriginally the Academy had 25 regular members under 65 years of age. This was later raised to 30, and then to 35. There is no limit on the number of members over 65 years of age. The members are \"chosen among the scientists of all countries who have distinguished themselves by the value of their scientific work, their role of pioneer or leader of a school in the broad field of quantum chemistry, i.e. the application of quantum mechanics to the study of molecules and macromolecules\". The Academy presently consists of 90 members (as of 2006). The Academy organizes the International Congress of Quantum Chemistry every three years.\n\nThe academy awards a medal to a young member of the scientific community who has distinguished himself or herself by a pioneering and important contribution. The award has been made every year since 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256973", "title": "Retortamonad", "text": "Retortamonad\n\nThe retortamonads are a small group of flagellates, most commonly found in the intestines of animals as commensals, although a free-living species called the \"Chilomastix cuspidata\" exists. They are grouped under the taxon, Archezoa. They are usually around 5-20 μm in length, and all of their small subunit ribosomal RNA gene sequences are very similar to each other. There are two genera: \"Retortamonas\" with two flagella, and \"Chilomastix\" with four. In both cases there are four basal bodies anterior to a prominent feeding groove, and one flagellum is directed back through the cell, emerging from the groove.\n\nThe retortamonads lack mitochondria, golgi apparatus, dictyosomes, and peroxisomes. They are close relatives of the diplomonads, and are placed among the metamonads along with them. Due to the abundant phylogenetic similarities between the two flagellates, since diplomonads do not ancestrally lack mitochondrion, this suggests that retortamonads are also secondarily amitochondriate.\n"}
{"id": "2256975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256975", "title": "David Samuel", "text": "David Samuel\n\nDavid Samuel may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256978", "title": "Hațeg", "text": "Hațeg\n\nHațeg (; ; ) is a town in Hunedoara County, Romania with a population of 9,340. Three villages are administered by the town: Nălațvad (\"Nalácvád\"), Silvașu de Jos (\"Alsószilvás\"), and Silvașu de Sus (\"Felsőszilvás\"). It is situated in the historical region of Transylvania.\n\nIn 1765, while part of the Habsburg controlled Principality of Transylvania, the settlement was completely militarised and integrated into the Second Border Company of the First Border Regiment from Orlat, until 1851, when that unit was disbanded.\n\nȚara Hațegului (the Hațeg Country) is the region around the town of Hațeg. The fossils found in the Hațeg area span over 300 million years of Earth's geologic history, showing tropical coral reefs and volcanic island in the Tethys Sea, dinosaurs, primitive mammals, birds, and flying reptiles (such as \"Hatzegopteryx\", which was named for the region).\n\nHațeg Island was an island during the Cretaceous Period where a dwarf species of sauropod dinosaur, \"Magyarosaurus dacus\", lived until their extinction at the end of the Cretaceous. Baron Franz Nopcsa published articles about these Mesozoic-era archosaurs on Hațeg Island. His studies led to his theory of insular dwarfism, the notion that \"limited resources\" on small islands can lead to a down-sizing of the indigenous vertebrate animals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256979", "title": "Sigrid D. Peyerimhoff", "text": "Sigrid D. Peyerimhoff\n\nSigrid Doris Peyerimhoff (born January 12, 1937, in Rottweil) is a theoretical chemist and Emeritus Professor at the Institute of Physical and Theoretical Chemistry, University of Bonn, Germany.\n\nAfter completing her \"abitur\", Peyerimhoff studied physics at the University of Gießen, completing her degree in 1961 and receiving her doctorate under supervision of Bernhard Kockel in 1963. After researching at the University of Chicago, the University of Washington, and Princeton University, she returned to Germany and gained her habilitation at the University of Gießen in 1967. She became professor for theoretical chemistry at the University of Mainz in 1970, and at the University of Bonn in 1972.\n\nHer contributions have been to the development of \"ab initio\" quantum chemical methods, in particular, multireference configuration interaction, and to their application in many fields of physics and chemistry. Particular emphasis has been given to electronically excited states, molecular spectra and photochemistry. Many studies are on atmospheric molecules and ions, their lifetimes in excited states and decomposition due to radiative and non-radiative processes, and on stability and spectra of clusters.\n\nSome of her students became well known for their contribution to quantum chemistry, including Bernd Engels, Stefan Grimme, Bernd A. Hess, Christel Marian, and Bernd M. Nestmann.\n\nDuring her career, she received several awards and memberships:\n\n\nShe is also a member of the International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science\n\nShe is the author of over 400 original articles in various international journals and coauthor of \"Umweltstandards: Fakten und Bewertungsprobleme am Beispiel des Strahlenrisikos\". Her history of computational chemistry in Germany is of particular note. She edited \"Interactions in Molecules\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256989", "title": "The Lyrics Board", "text": "The Lyrics Board\n\nThe Lyrics Board was an Irish game show hosted by Aonghus McAnally and then by Eurovision Song Contest 1992 winner Linda Martin. In each episode there are two teams. Each team consists of a piano player/team captain who is joined by two celebrities/singers, at either side. A team would choose a number from one to five, from \"the board\", revealing a word. The team would then have to sing a song with that related word to remain in charge of 'the board'. If the team sing the secret song which is on the board, then this team would win a point, with the team with the most points declared as the winners.\n\nTeam captains on the show included former Eurovision winner Paul Harrington, Kyron & The Strangels frontman Kyron Bourke, You're A Star Musical Director Ronan Johnston and Jim Sheridan, keyboard player with the Camembert Quartet. 26 different versions have been produced worldwide.\n\nThe format was revamped for the 2011–2012 season by RTÉ for its TRTÉ strand. The new version of the format was called \"Sing!\" and was presented by former Pop Idol contestant Brian Ormond with former Six member Emma O'Driscoll and Royseven frontman Paul Walsh acting as team captains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256990", "title": "Retortamonas", "text": "Retortamonas\n\n\"Retortamonas\" is a genus of flagellated excavates. It is one of only two genera belonging to the family Retortamonadidae along with the genus \"Chilomastix\". The genus parasitizes a large range of hosts including humans. Species within this genus are considered harmless commensals which reside in the intestine of their host. The wide host diversity is a useful factor given that species are distinguished based on their host rather than morphology. This is because all species share similar morphology, which would present challenges when trying to make classifications based on structural anatomy. Although \"Retortamonas\" currently includes over 25 known species, it is possible that some defined species are synonymous, given that such overlapping species have been discovered in the past. Further efforts into learning about this genus must be done such as cross-transmission testing as well as biochemical and genetic studies. One of the most well-known species within this genus is \"Retortamonas intestinalis\", a human parasite that lives in the large intestine of humans.\n\nRetort- is derived from the Latin re-torqueo – “to twist back” while the Greek term monas- “one unit, single” refers to its singularity. During locomotion the anterior region of the body twists in a clock-wise direction about its axis, propelling the cell to swim forward, and therefore, the body structure often appears twisted.\n\nFirst Discovery of the Genus\n\nThe human parasite \"Retortamonas intestinalis\" was first discovered in 1917 Egypt by Wenyon and O’Connor. This case was reported by a soldier who was diagnosed to be infected with \"Waskia intestinalis\", a species which was later renamed \"Embadomonas intestinalis\" by Chalmers and Pekkola in 1918. Afterwards, both \"Waskia\" and \"Embadomonas\" species were both revised to \"Retortamonas\" by Wenrich in 1932.\n\nModern Research\n\nIn more recent findings, a study on the presence of parasites in the intestinal contents of ostriches conducted by a team in Spain 2001 discovered that this genus infected these birds. This was the first time in history that \"Retortamonas\" was found to be a parasite of the taxon \"Aves\". There is a chance that the \"Retortamonas\" species discovered by this team is one that has already been identified in other hosts, and that other species of birds are also infected.\n\nIn previous studies, it was determined that \"Retortamonas\" species infect a wide range of hosts including mammals, amphibians, reptiles and insects. Since species are classified on host-type, rather than morphology, this gave rise to many species within this genus. This knowledge of the genus parasitizing a wide rage of hosts was used by a team in Asia in 2018 as a tool to assess the phylogeny of \"Retortamonas\" species and determine if overlap of synonymous species exists. Through comparison of \"Retortamonas\" haplotypes of ribosomal RNA subunits and network analysis between mammal-, amphibian-, and insect-infecting species, a discovery about the species was made by the research team. Results showed that while haplotypes from vertebrate-infecting species formed a three-cluster formation, the insect species were separated, in an isolated cluster with \"Chilomastix.\" This indicated insect-infecting species are in fact closer-related to \"Chilomastix\" than they are to other \"Retortamonas\". In addition, it was found that \"Retortamonas\" infecting humans (\"R. intestinalis)\" and other mammals are most likely the same species, and transfer between mammalian hosts likely occurs through zoonotic transmission. Strong evidence showcased this through all mammalian-infecting species grouping together in one monophyphyletic cluster. This discovery is a major piece of evidence towards promoting the reassessment of the current \"Retortamonas\" phylogeny. In addition, it addresses the issue that synonymous species are most likely present. It is possible that the three clusters recognized by the team is a telling piece of evidence that only three species of \"Retortamonas\" exists.\n\nGeographical Distribution\n\n\"Retortamonas\" has a worldwide geographical distribution though presence of infection are commonly found in warmer environments, particularly in \"Retortamonas intestinalis\", suggesting that this is the favourable climate for the genus. The rate of infection of \"Retortamonas\" was found to be higher during the summer months in one study conducted in Spain, supporting this idea. In another parasitological study spanning across multiple areas, \"Retortamonas\" did not show any significant variation in prevalence when tested in rural and urban areas, thus indicating it has no preference between the two environments. However, the study did show overcrowded areas and regions of poorer sanitation act as environmental factors that play a key role in the prevalence of the parasite A lack of sanitation practices often results in a higher probability of exposure to contaminated feces or other objects likely to carry infection, and paired with high-density populations, this can allow for more rapid transmission between individuals.\n\nMicroenvironment\n\n\"Retortamonas\" is adapted to low-oxygen environments, and thus live in such habitats like the intestinal tract of organisms where oxygen levels are extremely low. \"Retortamonas\" trophozoites live within the intestinal tract of its host while cysts are more resilient and can survive in the external environment in habitats such as water, awaiting to be ingested by the next host.\n\nParasitic Hosts\n\n\"Retortamonas\" trophozoites have been found to feed on the intestinal bacteria of a wide variety of vertebrates including mammalian, avian, and amphibian hosts, as well as invertebrates, such as insects. Recent evidence however, suggests that species infecting insects are in fact \"Chilomastix.\"\n\n\"Retortamonas\" has a direct life cycle as it infects a single host without requiring an intermediate or vector to complete its life cycle. Cysts live in the external environment and possess a thickened cyst wall which functions to protect the cell in the harsher habitats during its time away from a host. Cysts are ingested via the fecal-oral route, commonly from contaminated food, water or other materials likely to carry infection. Once in the intestine of its host, cysts undergo excystation into the trophozoite stage that feeds on intestinal bacteria. Each cyst gives rise to only one trophozoite. \"Retortamonas\" trophozoites then multiply asexually through lateral binary fission. Eventually the trophozoites encyst, and the cysts are discharged via feces. The cysts are usually found living in food and water while they wait to be taken up by the next host and continue the spread of transmission via the fecal-oral route.\n\n\"Retortamonas\" feed on intestinal bacteria in the gut of the host. The trophozoites feed by endocytosis with the help of the posterior, vaned flagellum. Movement in a waving-like motion by the flagellum brings food particles inwards, towards the cell. \"Retortamonas\" is then able to engulf them into the cell and form an internal food vacuole. The cyst stage's main function is to survive in the external environment away from the host and spread transmission rather than feeding, coinciding with the fact it has no availability to a food source as it is located away from the intestine of its host.\n\n\"Retortamonas\" is non-pathogenic. Since this genus has not been discovered to cause any disease, it has been classified as a harmless commensal.\n\nInfection is commonly detectable by the presence of cysts or trophozoites in fecal samples. The probability of finding either or both the cyst and trophozoite stage in feces is very low, and often up to thousands of samples are required before detection is achieved. Since this genus does not cause any disease-like symptoms, diagnosis usually only occurs when it is being specifically looked for, such as in studies targeting presence of \"Retortamonas\" in patients. In other cases, it is found in patients who are infected with additional pathogenic parasites and being treated for those symptoms. This is common because transmission via the fecal-oral route is the mode used by many parasites, and so individuals are often infected with multiple species at a time.\n\nThere is no known treatment for infection of this parasite, most likely due to the fact that it is non-pathogenic and requires no intensive medical attention.\n\nTrophozoites\n\nThe trophozoite shape varies among \"Retortamonas\" species. Pyriform, fusiform, and rounded structures have all been found. Many are described to have a blunt anterior region and a pointed posterior, ending in a needle-like tail. A notable difference in cell length among species has also been recognized. All species have an enlarged feeding groove acting as the mouth of the organism and a small nucleus located in the anterior region of the cell body. The feeding groove, located near the nucleus, is divided into two sections; an anterior and a posterior pocket positioned in the upper region and deeper within the cell respectively. \"Retortmonas\" species lack of an axostyle, kinetoplast, and parabasal body. In addition, species of this genus also lack mitochondria, Golgi apparatus, and an undulating membrane, a shared characteristic with the other genus of the family Retortamonadidae. All species of \"Retortamonas\" possess two flagella; one free, anteriorly-directed flagellum, and one posteriorly-directed, vaned, trailing flagellum located in the feeding groove. While in some species the posterior flagellum is confined within the feeding groove, in others it extends far out beyond this oral pouch. The functionality of both the anterior and posterior flagella is consistent across all \"Retortamonas\" species. The anterior flagellum aids in locomotion by moving in a whip-like motion, allowing the cell body to propel forward. The trailing, recurrent flagellum extends out from the feeding groove and is most likely involved only in feeding mechanisms such as ingestion. A single, spherical nucleus is present in the anterior region of the cell body.\n\nCysts\n\n\"Retortamonas\" cysts are pear-shaped, and smaller than the trophozoite. In addition, the cysts are also rounder than trophozoites, having been described as oval-shaped with a rounded posterior while the anterior end tapers only slightly, forming a cap of the cell with a thickened cyst wall. The cysts also contain a distinct anterior nucleus, but the flagella thicken and shorten during encystation, becoming indistinguishable within the cytoplasm.\n"}
{"id": "2256992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256992", "title": "Mauri Kunnas", "text": "Mauri Kunnas\n\nMauri Tapio Kunnas (born 11 February 1950) is a Finnish cartoonist and children's author.\n\nKunnas was born in Vammala. He matriculated in 1969 and graduated from the University of Art and Design in Helsinki as a graphic designer in 1975. He has worked as a political cartoonist in many Finnish newspapers. He is currently living in Espoo with his wife Tarja, children Jenna (1983) and Noora (1987) and their cat.\n\nKunnas is most famous for his numerous children's books, illustrated by himself and featuring anthropomorphic animals. His most famous children's book series is called \"Koiramäki\" (Dog Hill), set in historical Finland, featuring anthropomorphic dogs. His other works include \"Riku, Roope ja Ringo\" (Ricky, Rocky and Ringo), some \"horror\" books and books about Joulupukki.\n\nThe hordes of clothed animals present in his books by the end of the 1970s led people to compare him to Richard Scarry. But as he became more popular and produced even more work the similarities lessened. Kunnas' children's books usually feature some recurring background characters, like Herra Hakkarainen (Mr. Hakkarainen), a sleepwalking goat.\n\nAside of children's books, Kunnas has also drawn a rock and roll parody comic called \"Nyrok City\" for teenagers and adults. The comic parodies 1970s-1980s era rock and roll culture such as The Beatles and The Rolling Stones in a Finnish style. It is one of the few Kunnas works in which the characters are drawn as humans.\n\nDespite his fame, he remembered his origins. Much of the scenic imagery in his work comes from his hometown of Vammala with glimpses of its churches and rustic atmosphere. He also did valuable PR work for the Finnish home of Santa Claus in \"Twelve Gifts for Santa Claus\" (USA 1988), and \"Santa and the Magic Drum\" (Otava 1996).\n\nHe recently worked on a grander scale with \"The Canine Kalevala\", a new version of the classic Finnish epic more accessible to children as well as cultural sidestep in his version of \"The Knights of King Arthur\" featuring cats in Camelot.\n\nHe attributes a large part of his success to his good wife Tarja Kunnas who has worked for twenty years as his assistant doing the painting for her husband's drawings.\n\nIn 2014 he won the \"Vittoria Samarelli Literary Award\" (Castel Goffredo, Italy).\n\n"}
{"id": "2256996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256996", "title": "Jazzercise", "text": "Jazzercise\n\nJazzercise is a dance fitness franchise company founded by Judi Sheppard Missett in 1969 and headquartered in Carlsbad, California, United States. \n\nJazzercise combines dance, strength, and resistance training with popular music for a full-body workout. The company currently has over 8,300 franchisees worldwide in 32 countries.\n\nJudi Sheppard Missett created Jazzercise in Evanston, Illinois in 1969 as a student at Northwestern University. She was teaching at a dance studio and noticed her classes had high dropout rates. Realizing students were attending for physical fitness and not to become highly technically proficient in dance, Shepard Missett began to hold \"just for fun\" classes that began with a jazz warmup. These classes were eventually renamed \"Jazzercise.\" Jazz dance came relatively late into Missett's life-in 1966, just after she graduated from Northwestern University with a degree in theater and dance. She signed up to study with renowned jazz choreographer Gus Giordano at his Evanston studios.\n\n\"(When) I started to study jazz dance technique . . . I thought, `This is for me!' \" she says. She loved the funkiness and the pulsing energy of both the dance style and the music. Giordano invited her to dance in his company and become one of his instructors, which she did. Gus Giordano was a big influence in her life.\n\nSheppard Missett's family moved to Carlsbad, California, where she taught classes in local rec centers. Jazzercise quickly took off in San Diego and Sheppard Missett trained new instructors herself. Many of those first instructors were in military families, so as they moved around the country, and the world, new populations were continually introduced to the program. Initially using VHS videos, Sheppard Missett was able to train franchisees from a distance and began to sell franchise rights for Jazzercise studios across the country.\n\nIn Ron Howard's live-action movie adaptation of \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas,\" the Grinch's schedule has an hour booked for Jazzercise.\n\nIn the episode of \"Taxi\" entitled \"Louie Goes Too Far\", Andy Kaufman (playing Vic Ferrari) suggests to Christopher Lloyd (playing Jim) that he take up Jazzercise as a way of meeting beautiful women.\n\nOn \"The Golden Girls\", Bea Arthur (Dorothy) admits taking up Jazzercise in the episodes \"The Stan Who Came to Dinner\" and \"The Audit\".\n\nIn \"Troop Beverly Hills\", the lead character, Phyllis Nefler, mentions that she hasn't been to Jazzercise in three weeks, after chasing one of her troop members who suddenly runs off during a troop meeting.\n\nIn the \"Futurama\" episode \"Parasite Lost\", the parasitic worms are seen Jazzercising Fry's muscles.\n\nThe \"Flight of the Conchords\" episode \"New Zealand Town\" of their second television series features a song called \"Fashion is Danger\", which is a parody of 1980s music and style, and contains a reference to Jazzercise.\n\n\"Jazzercise Instructor\" is featured as a job in \"The Sims 2\".\n\nIn the third series of \"The Mighty Boosh\", Howard Moon goes to Jazzercise classes.\n\nIn the \"Glee \"episode \"Bad Reputation\", a tape is found of Sue Sylvester Jazzercising to Olivia Newton-John's \"Physical\". In the following season's episode \"Sexy\", Holly Holliday is shown teaching a jazzercise class in which Will Schuester participates.\n\nIn the ABC hit show \"The Goldbergs\", Beverly Goldberg is frequently portrayed referencing or stepping to Jazzercise.\n\nOn the October 9, 2012 episode of \"The Daily Show\", Jon Stewart references Jazzercise in his opening monologue.\n\nIn 2018 alone, Jazzercise has been featured in \"People\" magazine, \"Harper's Bazaar\", and the Netflix series \"GLOW\"\n\nFeatured in fictional Starcourt Mall in season 3 of \"Stranger Things\", where Dustin Henderson and Steve Harrington chase a suspicious looking guy, who turns out to be a Jazzercise instructor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257003", "title": "Twisted Wheel Club", "text": "Twisted Wheel Club\n\nThe Twisted Wheel was a nightclub in Manchester, England, open from 1963 to 1971. It was one of the first clubs to play the music that became known as Northern Soul.\n\nThe nightclub was founded by the brothers Jack, Phillip and Ivor Abadi as a blues and soul live music coffee bar/dance club. The original location of the club was on Brazennose Street, between Deansgate and Albert Square. This was the rhythm and blues mod venue, with Roger Eagle as DJ. The last all-nighter at the Brazennose St. venue was 11 September 1965 with John Mayall's Bluesbreakers (featuring Eric Clapton) headlining. The club, along with Roger Eagle as DJ,then re-located to 6 Whitworth Street opening on Saturday 18 September with The Spencer Davis Group (featuring Steve Winwood) as headliners. This venue was the mostly soul-oriented club with resident Saturday \"All Niter\" DJ Bob Dee compiling and supervising the playlist and utilising the newly developed slip-cueing technique to cue in vinyl records. The Whitworth Street venue was a converted warehouse, with a coffee snack bar on the ground floor and a series of rooms in the cellar. These lower rooms housed the stage, a caged disc jockey area, and the main dance room. Back-lit iron wheels decorated the simple painted brick walls. Ivor Abadi ran the club without an alcohol licence, serving only soft drinks and snacks. There was another Twisted Wheel in Blackpool under the same ownership.\n\nPrior to the opening of the Twisted Wheel, most UK nightclubs played modern popular music, Soul and R&B. The Twisted Wheel DJs and local entrepreneurs imported large quantities of records directly from the United States. Many of the records played at the Twisted Wheel were rare even in the United States; some may only have been released in one city or state. At the time, in addition to records released by larger record companies, there was a huge number of soul releases by a wide variety of artists on a multiplicity of obscure, independent labels.\n\nAll-night sessions were held each Saturday, from 11:00 pm through to Sunday 7:30 am. DJs played new records generally not played elsewhere. However, by 1969 more mainstream songs like Steam's \"Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye\" and Tony Joe White's \"Polk Salad Annie\" were added to the early session playlist. Allnight DJ, Brian \"45\" Philips introduced - Jerry Cook - \"I Hurt on the Other Side\"; Dobie Gray - \"Out on the Floor\"; The Artistics - \"This Heart of Mine\"; Leon Haywood - \"Baby Reconsider\", Earl Van Dyke - \"6 by 6\" and U.S releases on Ric-Tic, Brunswick, Okeh and other obscure labels.\n\nEach week at 2:00 am Soul artists performed live at the club. Junior Walker, Edwin Starr, Oscar Toney Jr., Marv Johnson, Mary Wells, Ike and Tina Turner, Johnny Johnson and the Bandwagon, and Inez and Charlie Foxx were among the many musicians to squeeze onto the tiny stage. Soul fans travelled from all over the UK for the :wikt:all-nighters; some by car, most by train, coach or bus. Singer Chris Rea on his album \"Deltics\" commemorates the club in the song \"Twisted Wheel\". Rea is said to have written this song because of his chagrin at being too young to go on the organised trips to the club's weekend all-nighters from his hometown of Middlesbrough in the mid-1960s.\n\nThe club gained the reputation of playing rare and uptempo soul. Following a visit to the Twisted Wheel in 1970, music journalist Dave Godin noted that the music played at the club, and in northern England in general, was quite different from the music played in London. His description \"Northern Soul\" became the accepted term for this genre and subculture.\n\nThe club shut down in early 1971 because of a bylaw which prevented premises from staying open more than two hours into the following day. The closure of The Twisted Wheel gave the Golden Torch its opportunity to take the Northern Soul crown for the next few years until it too was shut down due to local council opposition. Today its legacy is eclipsed by that of the nearby Wigan Casino.\n\nThe Twisted Wheel was reopened in the 1970s as a fully licensed and expanded venue.\n\nIn the few years before the demolition it was reopened as The Twisted Wheel by Pete Roberts, and enjoyed capacity attendance for its Sunday afternoon sessions, alongside of those sessions there were also all nighters and Friday evening sessions. From 2002, nostalgia soul nights were held in the original Whitworth Street location on the final Friday of every month. These nights featured the original DJ playlists and many original members attended. Two \"Goldmine\" recordings,\"Twisted Wheel\" and \"Twisted Wheel Again\", feature songs from the original DJ playlists. \n\nThe physical structure of the Club was finally removed from the Manchester landscape in 2013 when it was demolished to make way for a hotel. This despite attempts to impress on the City Council the venue's cultural importance. \n\nThe Wheel has relocated to Night People, 105-107 Princess St, Manchester, M1 6DD. The club has 2 rooms with separate sound systems, one of which is solely dedicated to the legacy of the iconic Twisted Wheel, complete with original memorabilia and bare brick arches throughout, giving it the atmosphere that Whitworth St was famous for.\n\nHaving the same music policy of classic 60’s soul and R&B, they have ‘SUNDAY SOUL SESSIONS’ on the 2nd SUNDAY and LAST SUNDAY of every month, recreating those storming times at the Whitworth St club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257004", "title": "List of Archbishops of Crete", "text": "List of Archbishops of Crete\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257018", "title": "Grumman Ag Cat", "text": "Grumman Ag Cat\n\nThe Grumman G-164 Ag Cat is a single-engine biplane agricultural aircraft, developed by Grumman in the 1950s.\n\nThe Ag Cat was the first aircraft specifically designed by a major aircraft company for agricultural aviation, and the first aircraft designed according to the regulations of Civil Aeronautics Manual Part 8, which had been written especially for agricultural aircraft. \n\nIn 1955, Grumman preliminary design engineers Joe Lippert and Arthur Koch proposed the design for a \"purpose built\" crop dusting airplane as a means of fulfilling a pressing need in the agricultural community as well as the perceived need for Grumman to diversify its product lines. The initial market survey indicated that 100 - 200 of this type could be sold each year. Lippert's initial proposal was made under the project name \"Farmair 1000.\" \n\nThe first G-164, which was built by Grumman (N74054), was equipped with a Continental W670 Series 6A-16 powerplant. This ship accomplished its maiden flight on May 27, 1957 with Grumman test pilot Hank Kurt at the controls. This initial flight test consisted of three short familiarization hops with the take-off weight set at 3122 lbs, and the centre of gravity at 31.2%. Flight tests 2 & 3, with test pilot Victor Eble, were accomplished on May 28, 1958 to evaluate the general flight characteristics. A total of 46 test flights were completed by the end of August 1958 with a general finding that this was a well-behaved aircraft with only minor refinements needed before production. \n\nWhen the decision was made to authorize production, Leroy Grumman suggested marketing the aircraft under the name \"The Grasshopper.\" However, Dick Reade suggested \"Ag-Cat,\" following Grumman's naming tradition using the suffix \"-Cat\" in aircraft names (e.g., F4F Wildcat and F6F Hellcat). Mr. Grumman agreed and the Grumman G-164 became the \"Ag-Cat.\" \nLarge military orders prevented the production of the Ag-Cat at Grumman's Bethpage facility. Grumman's Board of Directors chose to subcontract the entire program to the Schweizer Aircraft Company of Elmira, New York. Initial production was through a contract between Schweizer Aircraft Corporation, and Grumman. The first Schweizer-built Ag-Cat, bearing registration number N10200 flew on October 17, 1958 under the control of Schweizer test pilot Clyde Cook. Full production began in January 1959 with Schweizer delivering 12 FAA certified airplanes to Grumman by March 1959. The FAA granted type certification on January 20, 1959.\n\nThe ownership of the Ag-Cat design has changed hands several times. Grumman transferred ownership to its commercial aircraft subsidiary, Grumman American, in 1973. A market feasibility study for a new agricultural aircraft (AgCat X) was completed by Grumman American in 1976. This study indicated that there was a potential market demand for more than 100 aircraft each year. The study also showed that most of the concerns expressed by agricultural aircraft operators were addressed by the AgCat C model. The Grumman American subsidiary, which also owned the Grumman Gulfstream design series, was sold to American Jet Industries in 1978. \n\nFrom initial production through 1981, Schweizer built 2,455 aircraft under contract. In 1981 Schweizer bought the rights to the design and continued production under the name Schweizer Ag-Cat.Schweizer sold the design to Ag-Cat Corp. of Malden, Missouri in 1995. \n\nFive model G-164B aircraft were produced, and registered, before Ag-Cat Corp. entered bankruptcy. One additional aircraft, a G-164BT500, is listed in the FAA registry as having been produced by Ag-Cat Corp., however no tail number was issued. This may have been an upgrade to an existing airframe.\n\nIn February 2001 the design was sold to Allied Ag-Cat Productions Inc. of Walnut Ridge, Arkansas. Allied Ag-Cat are not producing new aircraft although a related company operates a large fleet of Ag-Cats.\n\nThe basic airframe incorporates many safety innovations, including a pressurized cockpit to keep pesticides out, air conditioning and a fuselage structure that is designed to progressively collapse in the event of a collision. Lippert and Koch were recognized for their innovation in agricultural aircraft, being awarded the Puffer Award by Delta Air Lines in 1974.\n\nFloats were approved for the aircraft in the early 1990s in Australia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257026", "title": "Ramus", "text": "Ramus\n\nRamus can refer to: \nPeople:\n"}
{"id": "2257041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257041", "title": "Multireference configuration interaction", "text": "Multireference configuration interaction\n\nIn quantum chemistry, the multireference configuration interaction (MRCI) method consists of a configuration interaction expansion of the eigenstates of the electronic molecular Hamiltonian in a set of Slater determinants which correspond to excitations of the ground state electronic configuration but also of some excited states. The Slater determinants from which the excitations are performed are called reference determinants. The higher excited determinants (also called configuration state functions (CSFs) or shortly configurations) are then chosen either by the program according to some perturbation theoretical ansatz according to a threshold provided by the user or simply by truncating excitations from these references to singly, doubly, ... excitations resulting in MRCIS, MRCISD, etc.\n\nFor the ground state using more than one reference configuration means a better correlation and so a lower energy. The problem of size inconsistency of truncated CI-methods is not solved by taking more references.\n\nAs a result of a MRCI calculation one gets a more balanced correlation of the ground and excited states. For quantitative good energy differences (excitation energies) one has to be careful in selecting the references. Taking only the dominant configuration of an excited state into the reference space leads to a correlated (lower) energy of the excited state. The generally too-high excitation energies of CIS or CISD are lowered. But usually excited states have more than one dominant configuration and so the ground state is more correlated due to: a) now including some configurations with higher excitations (triply and quadruply in MRCISD); b) the neglect of other dominant configurations of the excited states which are still uncorrelated.\n\nSelecting the references can be done manually (formula_1), automatically (all possible configurations within an active space of some orbitals) or semiautomatically (taking all configurations as references that have been shown to be important in a previous CI or MRCI calculation)\n\nThis method has been implemented first by Robert Buenker and Sigrid D. Peyerimhoff in the seventies under the name Multi-Reference Single and Double Configuration Interaction (MRSDCI).\n\nThe MRCI method can also be implemented in semi-empirical methods. An example for this is the OM2/MRCI method developed by Walter Thiel's group. \n\n"}
{"id": "2257043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257043", "title": "Beadlock", "text": "Beadlock\n\nA beadlock or bead lock is a mechanical device that secures the bead of a tire to the wheel of a vehicle. Tires and wheels are designed so that, when the tire is inflated, the tire pressure pushes the bead of the tire against the inside of the wheel rim so that the tire stays on the wheel and the two rotate together. In situations where tire pressure is insufficient to hold the bead of the tire in place, a beadlock is needed.\n\nThere are several styles of beadlocks. For 4-wheel drive vehicles, a ring with a number of bolts around the circumference is used to clamp the tire to the wheel. For motorcycles, a rim lock or bead stopper is a curved plate tightened by a single bolt. For both 4-wheel drive vehicles and motorcycles, a different style of beadlock can be used that is similar to an inner tube which is inflated to press the tire against the wheel.\n\nBead lock may also refer to a product used to secure a swimming pool liner into the pool liner track installed on many above ground pools. It has a wedge shaped edge on the front of the strip. When installing the strip, it inserts just above the pool liner bead. It then locks the liner into the receiving track.\n\nDodge Military trucks had the first beadlocks, called Combat Wheels; The 'combat wheels' were a divided-rim, that used a bolted-on retaining ring replacing the normal split ring wheels. They were designed for quick and easy tire replacement during combat, hence the name.\n\nFirst manufactured for aftermarket racing and off-road applications by Marsh Racing Wheels at Siloam Springs, Arkansas in 1980 but conceived, designed and tested by Marsh Racing Wheels years earlier.\n\nAir pressure within a tire forces its beads against the wheel rim and normally ensures that the tire and rim rotate as a single unit. In general automotive situations, a tire's air pressure is sufficient to withstand dislodging and rim-slip forces experienced during, respectively, hard cornering and acceleration (including negative acceleration or \"braking\"). Low tire pressure therefore poses the hazard of enabling sudden loss of air, loss of control, and even a rollover during hard braking or an evasive maneuver (in addition to generally promoting excessive tire heat and future failure). Modern automotive tires have a soft rubber formulation at the beads to help maintain good rim contact, so special bead-lock means are not required.\n\nHigh traction is desired for tires for automobile dirt track racing, off-road racing, off-road vehicles, and off-road motorcycles, so their tread is therefore coarse. Nevertheless, some riders will lower the tire pressure to cause the tread to spread out and create a larger contact patch. This practice can create a safety hazard, as there may not be enough pressure to adequately secure the tire beads to the wheel. Reactive ground forces push a tire to one side or the other, especially the outside rear tire of a racing vehicle when it is turning in a corner of a track. This could cause a bead of the tire to come off the rim completely, or enough to cause partial loss of air. It is also possible for the tire to have more traction on the ground than there is friction between the tire and rim. In this case the wheel would slip around the tire beads without turning the tire. Beadlocks, of one form or another including adhesive, are therefore used to keep the beads of off-road tires firmly seated and prevent slip, even when inflation pressure is low.\n\nA standard beadlock is designed to clamp the tire bead between an outer and an inner ring. The inner ring may be welded onto a standard wheel increasing wheel width by anywhere from 1½ to 2 inches or may be formed as part of the wheel when the wheel is made in the factory. The outer ring is then bolted onto the inner ring with the bead clamped between them. Anywhere between 16 and 32 bolts at around 10 ft·lbf are used around the circumference of the wheel to keep the clamp tight. The rings and bolts can cause problems with balancing the wheel and tire because all the added weight is on one side. This style is used exclusively for offroad use.\n\nMost standard beadlocks clamp only the outside bead because this is the side that comes unseated most often while off-roading.\n\nAn internal beadlock is very much like an inner tube within the tire that pushes the bead of the tire tight against the wheel. The internal beadlock is inflated via its own valve stem. The side of the beadlock closest to the tread, the \"case\", has a layer of thick fabric, generally polyester, which keeps the beadlock from inflating too far up into the tire. This forces the sides into the tire which compresses the bead of the tire against the wheel.\n\nFor extreme off-road racing, dual beadlocks—one each on the inner and outer sides of the rim—can be used.\n\nAlso referred to as \"simulated beadlocks\". Streetlocks are a decorative element in which the wheel manufacturer casts or machines the appearance of bolt heads into the rim of a wheel. This provides the appearance of beadlocks, but no functional benefits beyond the internal bead seat common to automotive wheels.\n\nMotorcycle tires use a different style of beadlock, also known as a rim lock or bead stopper. Motorcycle tire rim locks clamp both beads at once because the tire is narrow enough to do this conveniently with one device, and also because there is no such thing as an \"inside bead\" or \"outside bead\" on a motorcycle tire. A curved metal plate inside the tire presses both beads outward against the inside of the wheel rim to clamp both beads at once in one localized area. A threaded stem attached to the plate is placed through a hole in the \"well\" of the rim, with the plate inside the tire and the threaded stem on the outside. The rim lock is tightened using either a standard bolt that leaves the threads visible, or a special bolt that covers the threads. The threaded stem or special bolt is visible on the inner surface of the wheel and points towards the axle, just like the valve stem.\n\nFor motorcycle tires, a device similar to the internal beadlock of 4-wheel drive vehicles can be used. A special inner tube is inflated via its own valve stem to high pressure to push the bead of the tire tight against the wheel. Like the rim lock, this clamps both beads at once. The regular valve stem is used to inflate the tire to the desired pressure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257051", "title": "Kpanlogo", "text": "Kpanlogo\n\nKpanlogo is a recreational dance and music form originating from the 1960s among urban youth in Accra, Ghana.\n\nIt was first played by the Ga ethnic group, most of whom live in and around the capital city, Accra, but is now performed and enjoyed throughout the country. It began in the early 1960s as an innovative dance form, influenced by American rock and roll, and giving the younger Ga generations a point of distinction from their elders. Ghanaian master drummer C.K. Ladzekpo states that kpanlogo \"is essentially an urban youth dance-drumming and a symbol of the commitment of a rapidly growing Ghanaian urban neighborhood youth in advocating their perspective in shaping the political vision of post colonial Africa\" (1995: web). The \"kpanlogo\" dance is often performed low to the ground, with bent knees and bent back, and frequently features sexually suggestive motions. Accounts of police seizing musical instruments and detaining performers in its early days have been documented.\n\nThe music accompanying the \"kpanlogo\" dance is drawn from older Ga drumming traditions, such as \"gome\", \"oge\" and \"kolomashie\". \"Kpanlogo\" music uses three types of instruments: \"nono\" (metal bell), \"fao\" (gourd rattle), and \"kpanlogo\" drums. \"Nono\" plays the key pattern or timeline of the music, supported by the \"fao\". It is common to have three \"kpanlogo\" drums in an ensemble, in the roles of \"male voice\", \"female voice\" and \"master drum\".\n\nThe main kpanlogo bell part is one of the most common and oldest key patterns found in sub-Saharan Africa. The bell pattern used in \"kpanlogo\" is the same as the son clave pattern heard in Cuban music and. It is also similar to the \"Bo Diddley beat\" popularized by the U.S. rhythm and blues musician Bo Diddley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257067", "title": "Fabricio Oberto", "text": "Fabricio Oberto\n\nFabricio Raúl Jesús Oberto (; born March 21, 1975) is an Argentine-Italian former professional basketball player. At , he played as a center and power forward. With the LNB club Atenas, in his native Argentina, Oberto began playing professionally in 1993, and later played overseas with teams in Spain and Greece. In 2005, Oberto signed with the San Antonio Spurs, a team of the American National Basketball Association (NBA), and won a championship with the Spurs in 2007. He is also a former member of the senior Argentina national basketball team.\n\nHe was inducted into the FIBA Hall of Fame in 2019.\n\nAt age 17, Oberto went to a trial at Atenas de Córdoba, one of the most important basketball clubs in Argentina, and was selected to start the following year, and started playing professionally later that year. In 1998, after being chosen MVP of the finals of the Argentine league, he transferred to the Greek League club Olympiacos, starting his EuroLeague experience that would take him to the Spanish League's TAU Cerámica a year later. After 3 seasons with TAU, he moved to Pamesa Valencia in 2002.\n\nIn 2005, after voiding his contract with Pamesa, Oberto signed a 3-year, US$7.5 million contract with the San Antonio Spurs of the NBA, where he joined fellow Argentine Manu Ginóbili. He kept with jersey #7, the same kit number he used with the Argentina national basketball team. Oberto was the oldest rookie in Spurs history at the age of 31.\n\nDuring the first year of his NBA stint, Oberto was no longer the key player he had been in Europe, playing less than 9 minutes per game on average. He nonetheless was very satisfied with his role on the Spurs, a perennial championship contender.\n\nIn his second NBA season, Oberto became more of a factor in the Spurs rotation—starting in some games and getting his first double-double on November 8 when he scored 22 points (11/11 field goals) and pulled down 10 rebounds. He also became a pivotal player for the Spurs during the 2006–2007 Western Conference Finals, averaging 31 minutes and 14 points in the first two games of the series. Oberto won an NBA championship with the Spurs in 2007.\n\nOn June 23, 2009, Oberto was traded to the Detroit Pistons as a part of a three-team trade among Pistons, Spurs and the Milwaukee Bucks, which included Richard Jefferson. Then he was immediately waived by the Pistons.\n\nOn August 11, 2009, he was officially signed by the Wizards. Since jersey number 7 was already taken by Andray Blatche, he chose to wear number 21 because of his birth date (March 21) and in honor of one of his idols, former teammate Tim Duncan. After a single season in which he got limited playing time as the team struggled through the Gilbert Arenas gun incident and ultimately began to rebuild, he became a free agent once more in the summer of 2010.\n\nOberto was a significant contributor defending Argentina for its fifth-place finish at the 2010 FIBA World Championship. After his solid play during the World Championship in Turkey, he received multiple offers from European teams, most notably Efes Pilsen and Real Madrid. Oberto held out for an opportunity to sign with an NBA team. He reached an agreement to join the Portland Trail Blazers for the 2010–11 season. However, on November 4, 2010, after playing five games for Portland, he began experiencing palpitations related to a previous heart condition and decided to retire in order to preserve his health.\n\nOn January 2013, Oberto signed a contract with his former team, Atenas de Córdoba, returning to the Liga Nacional de Básquetbol after 14 years. Oberto was hired for the remainder of the season as a replacement for center Julián Aprea, who had been separated from the team by coach Alejandro Lotterio and then dismissed at the end of 2012.\n\nOberto started playing with the Argentina national basketball team shortly before his 20th birthday in 1995; tournament success followed, including bringing to Argentina a gold medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn July 2011, Oberto announced that he was coming out of retirement to play in the FIBA Americas Championship. He said that doctors had cleared him to participate. Personal problems prevented him from playing for Argentina in the 2012 Summer Olympics.\n\n\n\nOberto was born in , Córdoba, Argentina. Oberto and his wife, Lorena, have a daughter, Julia, who was born in the summer of 2005. He also enjoys playing the guitar and his favorite bands include Pearl Jam, Nirvana, Foo Fighters, U2 and Metallica.\n\nOn June 4, 2009, Oberto underwent a successful ablation procedure to correct the electrical system of the heart that was sending Oberto into atrial fibrillation. The procedure was performed at the Texas Cardiac Arrhythmia Institute in Austin by Dr. Andrea Natale.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257078", "title": "House of Malatesta", "text": "House of Malatesta\n\nThe House of Malatesta was an Italian family that ruled over Rimini from 1295 until 1500, as well as (in different periods) other lands and towns in Romagna.\n\nThe family's progenitor is said to be Rodolfo of Carpegna whose fighting spirit yielded him the sobriquet \"mala testa\" (bad head). From 1004 on he built a castle on the rock of Pennabilli.\n\nIn the 11th century the family had possessions in the region of Gabicce Mare, Gatteo and Poggio Berni. Giovanni Malatesta (d. 1150) owned some land between rivers Marecchia and Rubicon, and was the first to settle down in Rimini. His son married into the Traversari family who were lords of Ravenna and Rimini during the 12th and 13th centuries. In 1186 the Malatesta became lords of Torriana. Giovanni's grandsons Giovanni and Malatesta I. Malatesta (1183–1248) founded the branches of the Counts of Sogliano al Rubicone (extinguished in 1640) and \"della Penna\" of Pennabilli and Verucchio (until 1462). In 1216 they became citizen of Rimini.\n\nMalatesta I. became \"podestà\" (chief magistrate) of Pistoia in 1228 and of Rimini in 1239 and 1247. During the struggles between papal and imperial followers (Guelphs and Ghibellines), he supported emperor Frederick II. His son however, Malatesta da Verucchio (d. 1312), switched sides after the emperor's defeat near Parma in 1248, and became leader of the Guelphs while Guido I. of Montefeltro took the lead of the Ghibellines in the Marche and Romagna regions. Malatesta da Verucchio made himself sole master of the city (\"signore\") after the expulsion of the family's Ghibelline rivals, the Parcitadi, in 1295. His hunchback son Giovanni Malatesta is chiefly famous because he murdered his wife Francesca da Polenta and his younger brother Paolo in 1285, having discovered them in adultery, and the murder is recorded in Dante's Inferno as well as in a story by Giovanni Boccaccio.\n\nMalatestino I., Giovanni's brother, became \"capitano\" of the Guelphs of Bologna in 1296 and of Florence in 1303. In 1312 he destroyed his Ghibelline cousins' castle at Sogliano, and in 1312 followed his father as lord of Rimini. During the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, the Malatestas ruled over a number of cities in the Romagna and the Marche, including Pesaro, Fano, Cesena, Fossombrone and Cervia. Several Malatestas were condottieri at the service of various Italian states. Malatesta Novello built the Malatestiana Library at Cesena from 1447 to 1452.\nThe most famous was Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta, who was engaged in conflict with the papacy over territorial claims, as well as with his rival Federico da Montefeltro. In the end, he lost almost all of his territories, except for Rimini that he held with support of the Republic of Venice. He had however built the cathedral of Rimini, the Tempio Malatestiano, from 1450. His grandson Pandolfo was eventually expelled from Rimini in 1500 by Cesare Borgia and the city was finally incorporated in the Papal States in 1528, after the last failed attempt of Pandolfo's son, Sigismondo. During the 16th and 17th centuries, the family still provided a number of condottieri, the Sogliano branch extinguished in 1640, the last of the Rimini branch was the Jesuit Roberto Malatesta (d. 1708), the Ghiaggiolo branch extinguished with Lamberto in 1757.\n\n\n1st generation:\n\n2nd generation: <br>\n\"di Malatestino\":\n\"di Paolo\":\n\"di Giancotto\"\n\"di Pandolfo\":\n\n3rd generation:\n<br>\n\"di Ferrantino\":\n\"di Malatesta\":\n\"di Galeotto\":\n\n4th generation\n\n\"di Pandolfino\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257079", "title": "Great Falls Park", "text": "Great Falls Park\n\nGreat Falls Park is a small National Park Service (NPS) site in Virginia, United States. Situated on 800 acres (3.65 km) along the banks of the Potomac River in northern Fairfax County, the park is a disconnected but integral part of the George Washington Memorial Parkway. The Great Falls of the Potomac River are near the northern boundary of the park, as are the remains of the Patowmack Canal, the first canal in the United States that used locks to raise and lower boats.\n\nNative American petroglyphs have been discovered within the park on cliffs overlooking Difficult Run.\n\nThe Patowmack Canal, which George Washington partially funded, was a one-mile (1.6 km) bypass canal that began operating in 1785 to give small barges the opportunity to skirt around the falls and to distribute manufactured goods upstream and raw materials downstream. The park visitor center has the bottom portions of two wooden canal lock gates excavated in the 1980s from the canal. The gates survived from at least the 1830s and were found during restoration projects on stonework which were erected for the canal locks. Stonemason marks found on the stones are unique to each artisan and are identical to some found in foundation stones of the White House and the U.S. Capitol.\n\nDuring the construction of the canal, blasting powder, which at the time was essentially gunpowder, was used to blast through solid rocks. This is one of the first known examples of blasting powder being used for engineering purposes anywhere in the world. The canal was never a profitable enterprise. With the completion of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal on the opposite side of the river, and the oncoming age of railroads, the project was abandoned in 1830. The canal is a Civil Engineering Landmark as well as a Virginia Historic Landmark. Along the trails, the ruins of the small town of Matildaville, Virginia can also be found.\n\nBetween 1906 and 1932, the Great Falls and Old Dominion Railroad and its successor, the Washington and Old Dominion Railway, operated an amusement park (trolley park) at the falls. Located at the end of an electric trolley line that began in Georgetown, Washington, D.C., the park contained picnic grounds, a dance pavilion, and a carousel. In the evenings, a searchlight illuminated the falls. The park continues to provide picnic grounds and a visitor's center but the carousel that operated between 1954 and 1972 was destroyed by a flood caused by Hurricane Agnes.\n\nThe George Washington Memorial Parkway was developed to ensure the easy linkage of George Washington's most visited places. Great Falls Park was a part of the Northern Virginia Parks system and was transferred to the NPS in 1966. A proposed bridge to span the falls was also considered but, due to a strong lobby to eliminate additional bridges over the Potomac and concerns over environmental impacts, the project was never undertaken.\n\nDirect access to the park is usually by way of Georgetown Pike (Virginia Route 193) and Old Dominion Drive. Major highways in the vicinity of the park which provide regional connections include the Capital Beltway (Interstate 495), the Dulles Toll Road (Virginia Route 267) and Leesburg Pike (Virginia Route 7). There is a $20 entrance fee per car for visitors who drive into the park. The park is open only during daylight hours.\n\nThe park has several viewing platforms that provide visitors with vantage points overlooking the falls. The NPS operates a visitor center near the falls.\n\nFifteen miles (24 km) of hiking trails traverse the park and follow a small stream known as Difficult Run. A scenic trail near the river travels upstream from a landing at the mouth of Difficult Run, climbs to the top of Mather Gorge and passes the falls, a dam, and a reservoir before ending in Fairfax County's Riverbend Park.\n\nRock climbers frequent the cliffs in Mather Gorge above the Potomac.\n\nThe park contains a large picnic area and sufficient parking for 600 vehicles. On busy weekends all the parking may fill up by early in the morning, creating delays and temporary closures lasting up to several hours. The NPS does not permit camping in the park.\n\nThe falls total 76 feet (20 m) over a series of major cascades. The Great Falls are rated Class 5-6 Whitewater according to the International Scale of River Difficulty. The first kayaker to run them was Tom McEwan in 1975, but only since the early 1990s have the Falls been a popular destination for expert whitewater boaters in the DC area. Below the falls, through Mather Gorge, the river is rated class 2-3 and has been a very popular kayaking run since the 1960s.\n\nEntry into the water above the falls from the Virginia side is illegal. An average of seven drownings per year occur in the Potomac River in the park vicinity, most of them alcohol-related even though consumption of alcoholic beverages is illegal within the park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257091", "title": "Robert Thoroton", "text": "Robert Thoroton\n\nDr Robert Thoroton (4 October 1623 – c. 21 November 1678) was an English antiquary, mainly remembered for his county history, \"The Antiquities of Nottinghamshire\" (1677).\n\nThoroton belonged to an old Nottinghamshire family, which took its name from Thoroton, near Newark. He resided mainly at another village in the same neighbourhood, Car Colston, where he practised as a physician, and lived the life of a country gentleman. He took little part in the Civil War, but his sympathies were with the royalists. However, as a magistrate he was very active in persecuting the Quakers. In return, the Quakers were active in recording the occasions on which he imposed heavy fines on poor members of their faith, often depriving them of the tools to make a living.\n\nIn 1667 Thoroton, aided by a band of helpers, began work on his great county history, \"The Antiquities of Nottinghamshire\". This was published in London in 1677. It was dedicated to the eminent antiquarian William Dugdale, and illustrated by engravings by Wenceslaus Hollar. It was Dugdale who had urged Thoroton to complete the work of history begun by Thoroton's father-in-law.\n\nSome six years before his death, Thoroton commissioned an elaborate coffin carved from red Mansfield stone, and incised with the coats of arms of his various ancestors. He was buried at Car Colston in the coffin; but in 1845, during restoration work on the chancel of St Mary's Church, it was unearthed and opened. Thoroton's skull was removed and placed in a shop in the village as a \"curiosity\". The vandalism was subsequently discovered, and the vicar ordered the remains to be collected, replaced within the coffin and reinterred.\nIn 1797 a new edition of the \"Antiquities\" was published by John Throsby (1740–1803), who added an additional volume.\n\nThe Thoroton Society of Nottinghamshire was founded in 1897, and named in honour of the antiquarian, its object being to promote the study of the history and antiquities of Nottinghamshire. It publishes an annual volume of \"Transactions\", and a separate Record Series of primary source materials.\n\nA brass plaque to the memory of Thoroton is in Car Colston church.\n\nMyles Thoroton Hildyard, a descendant of Robert Thoroton's brother and heir, who lived at Flintham Hall, Flintham, served as president of the Thoroton Society for many years until his death in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257092", "title": "List of Afghans", "text": "List of Afghans\n\nThe following is a list of notable Afghan people, which includes all the ethnic groups of the modern state of Afghanistan. Afghanistan has gone through territorial changes. This list generally excludes Ethnic Pashtuns who originate from regions that were not controlled by Afghanistan at the time, though there are exceptions for certain figures who are prominent to Pashtuns. It also includes historical figures coming from the present day borders of Afghanistan, even if they were non-Pashtuns.\nFaridoon Angar\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257094", "title": "Overseas Filipinos", "text": "Overseas Filipinos\n\nOverseas Filipinos () are people of full or partial Filipino origin, i.e. people who trace their ancestry to the Philippines and who live reside outside of the country. This term generally applies both to people of Filipino ancestry and to citizens abroad. As of 2019, there are over 12 million overseas Filipinos.\n\nIn 2013, the Commission on Filipinos Overseas (CFO) estimated that approximately 10.2 million people of Filipino descent lived or worked abroad. This number constitutes about 11 percent of the total population of the Philippines. It is one of the largest diaspora populations, spanning over 100 countries.\n\nThe overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) tend to be young and gender-balanced. Based on a survey conducted in 2011, the demographics indicate how the 24-29 age group constitutes 24 percent of the total and is followed by the 30-34 age group (23 percent) working abroad. Male OFWs account for 52 percent of the total OFW population. The slightly smaller percentage of the female overseas workers tend to be younger than their male counterparts. Production workers and service workers account for more than 80 percent of the labor outflows by 2010 and this number is steadily increasing, along with the trend for professional workers, who are mainly nurses and engineers. Filipino seamen, overseas Filipino workers in the maritime industry, make an oversize impact on the global economy, making up a fifth to a quarter of the merchant marine crews, who are responsible for the movement of the majority of goods in the global economy.\n\nThe OFW population is consistently increasing through the years and this is partly attributed to the government's encouragement of the outflow of contractual workers as evidenced in policy pronouncements, media campaigns, and other initiatives. For instance, it describes the OFWs as the heroes of the nation, encouraging citizens to take pride in these workers.\n\nIn 2012, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), the central bank of the Philippines, expects official remittances coursed through banks and agents to grow 5% over 2011 to US$21 billion, but official remittances are only a fraction of all remittances. In 2018, remittance had increased to $31 billion, which was nearly 10% of the GDP of the Philippines. Remittances by unofficial, including illegal, channels are estimated by the Asian Bankers Association to be 30 to 40% higher than the official BSP figure. In 2011, remittances were US$20.117 billion. In 2012, approximately 80% of the remittances came from only 7 countries—United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and Japan.\n\nIn 2019, Overseas Filipinos sent back $32.2 billion to the Philippines. \n\nEmployment conditions abroad are relevant to the individual worker and their families as well as for the sending country and its economic growth and well being. Poor working conditions for Filipinos hired abroad include long hours, low wages and few chances to visit family. Evidence suggests that these women cope with the emotional stress of familial separation in one of two ways: first, in domestic care situations, they substitute their host-family’s children for their own in the love and affection they give, and second, they actively considered the benefit their earnings would have on their children’s future. Women often face disadvantages in their employment conditions as they tend to work in the elder/child care and domestic. These occupations are considered low skilled and require little education and training, thereby regularly facing poor working conditions. Women facing just working conditions are more likely to provide their children with adequate nutrition, better education and sufficient health. There is a strong correlation between women's rights and the overall well being of children. It is therefore a central question to promote women's rights in order to promote children's capabilities.\n\nAccording to a statement made in 2009 by John Leonard Monterona, the Middle East coordinator of Migrante, a Manila-based OFW organization, every year, an unknown number of Filipinos in Saudi Arabia were then \"victims of sexual abuses, maltreatment, unpaid salaries, and other labor malpractices\".\n\nPhilippine Labor Migration Policy has historically focused on removing barriers for migrant workers to increase accessibility for employment abroad. Working conditions among Filipinos employed abroad varies depending on whether the host country acknowledges and enforces International labor standards. The standards are set by the ILO, which is an UN agency that 185 of the 193 UN members are part of. Labor standards vary greatly depending on host country regulations and enforcement. One of the main reasons for the large differences in labor standards is due to the fact that ILO only can register complaints and not impose sanctions on governments.\n\nEmigration policies tend to differ within countries depending on if the occupation is mainly dominated by men or women. Occupations dominated by men tend to be driven by economic incentives whereas emigration policies aimed at women traditional tend to be value driven, adhering to traditional family roles that favors men's wage work. As women are regularly seen as symbols of national pride and dignity, governments tend to have more protective policies in sectors dominated by women. These policies risk to increase gender inequality in the Philippines and thereby this public policy work against women joining the workforce. Female OFWs most often occupy domestic positions.  However, some researchers argue that the cultural trends of female migrancy have the potential to destabilize the gender inequality of the Filipino culture. Evidence suggests that in intact, heterosexual families wherein the wife-mother works overseas, Filipino fathers have the potential to take on greater roles in care-giving to their children, though seldom few actually do. Other researchers report that these situations lead to abuse, particularly of older daughters, who face increased pressure and responsibility in the mother’s absence. Likewise, the “reversal of breadwinning and caregiving roles between migrant wives and left-behind husbands” more often results in tension regarding family finances and the role each spouse should play in decision making.\n\nThe Philippine government has recently opened up their public policy to promote women working abroad since the world's demand for domestic workers and healthcare workers has increased. This has led to the government reporting a recent increase in women emigrating from the Philippines. A healthcare problem arises as migrating women from the Philippines and other developing countries often create a nursing shortage in the home country. Nurse to patient ratio is down to 1 nurse to between 40 and 60 patients, in the 1990s the ratio was 1 nurse to between 15 and 20 patients. It seems inevitable that the healthcare sector loses experienced nurses as the emigration is increasing.\nThe Japan-Philippines Economic Partnership Agreement is seen as a failure by most since only 7% of applicants or 200 nurses a year has been accepted on average – mainly due to resistance by domestic stakeholders and failed program implementation. The result is a \"lose-lose\" outcome where Philippine workers fail to leverage their skills and a worldwide shortage persists. Despite the fact that Japan has an aging population and many Filipinos want to work in Japan, a solution has not yet been found. The Japanese Nursing Association supports \"equal or better\" working conditions and salaries for Filipino nurses. In contrast, Yagi propose more flexible wages to make Filipinos more attractive on the Japanese job market. \nResults from a focus group in the Philippines shows that the positive impacts from migration of nurses is attributed to the individual migrant and his/her family, while the negative impacts are attributed to the Filipino healthcare system and society in general. In order to fill the nursing shortage in the Philippines, suggestions have been made by several NGOs that nursing-specializing Filipino workers overseas, locally known as \"overseas Filipino workers\" (OFWs), return to the country to train local nurses, for which program training would be required in order for the Philippines to make up for all its nurses migrating abroad.\n\nWealthier households derive a larger share of their income from abroad. This might suggest that government policies in host countries favor capital-intensive activities. Even though work migration is mainly a low and middle class activity, the high-income households are able to derive a larger share of their income from abroad due to favorable investment policies. These favorable investment policies causes an increase in income inequalities and do not promote domestic investments that can lead to increased standard of living.\nThis inequality threatens to halt the economic development as investments are needed in the Philippines and not abroad in order to increase growth and well-being. A correlation between successful contribution to the home country's economy and amounted total savings upon the migrants return has been found, therefore it is important to decrease income inequalities while attracting capital from abroad to the Philippines.\n\nMany host governments of OFWs have protective policies and barriers making it difficult to enter the job market. Japan has been known for rigorous testing of Filipinos in a way that make them look reluctant to hold up their part of the Japan-Philippines Economic Partnership Agreement and solely enjoy the benefit of affordable manufacturing in the Philippines, not accepting and educating OFWs.\n\nReturning migrant workers are often argued to have a positive effect on the home economy since they are assumed to gain skills and return with a new perspective.\nDeskilling has caused many Filipino workers to return less skilled after being assigned simple tasks abroad, this behavior creates discouragement for foreign workers to climb the occupational ladder. Deskilling of labor is especially prevalent among women who often have few and low skill employment options, such as domestic work and child or elder care. Other occupations that recently has seen an increase in deskilling are doctors, teachers and assembly line workers.\n\nTo underline what a common problem this deskilling is: Returning migrant workers are calling for returnee integration programs, which suggests that they do not feel prepared to be re-integrated in the domestic workforce.\n\nAs the Philippines among other countries who train and export labor repeatedly has faced failures in protecting labor rights, the deskilling of labor has increased on a global scale. A strong worldwide demand for healthcare workers causes many Filipinos to emigrate without ever getting hired or become deskilling while possibly raising their salary. The result is a no-win situation for the sending and receiving country. The receiving countries lose as skilled workers are not fully utilizing their skills while the home country simultaneously experience a shortage of workers in emigrating prone sectors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257105", "title": "Dewey Tomko", "text": "Dewey Tomko\n\nDuane \"Dewey\" Tomko (born December 31, 1946 in Glassport, Pennsylvania) is an American former kindergarten teacher turned professional poker player, based in Winter Haven, Florida.\n\nTomko is chiefly noted as the runner-up in the World Series of Poker (WSOP) $10,000 no limit Texas hold'em Main Event in 1982 (to Jack Straus) and 2001 (to Carlos Mortensen). Besides his success in the Main Event, Tomko has won three WSOP bracelets, all in different variations of poker, in addition to various other tournament wins throughout his career.\n\nTomko was born and raised in Glassport, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh. He began playing poker profitably as a 16-year-old in Pittsburgh pool halls which allowed him to finance his education.\n\nTomko worked as a kindergarten teacher for several years, but often played poker through the night. After Tomko realised that playing poker was more profitable than his job, he invested a sum of his winnings into businesses while choosing to play poker full-time and leaving his full-time job.\n\nTomko won his first career WSOP bracelet in 1979 in the $1,000 No Limit Hold'em event. He defeated Duanne Hammrich heads-up to win the title and $48,000 cash prize.\n\nAt the 1984 WSOP, Dewey won two bracelets. First, he won the $10,000 Deuce-to-Seven Draw event. The next day, he went back-to-back, winning the $5,000 Pot Limit Omaha with re-buys event for his third bracelet.\n\nIn addition to his WSOP success, Tomko has made two World Poker Tour (WPT) final tables. He finished runner-up in the 2003 Five Diamond World Poker Classic for $552,853 and in fourth place in the Costa Rica Classic for $14,650.\n\nTomko has played every WSOP Main Event since 1974 which is currently the longest active streak.\n\nTomko finished in 3rd place in the 2005 WSOP Deuce-To-Seven lowball event worth $138,160. He also made the final table of the first WSOP $50,000 buy-in H.O.R.S.E. tournament in 2006 which featured some of the best tournament and cash game poker players in the world. He finished in 7th place earning $343,200.\n\nAs of 2010, Tomko's total live tournament winnings exceed $4,960,000. Just over half of his tournament winnings, $2,641,573, have come at the WSOP. He is a 2008 inductee into the Poker Hall of Fame. He was inducted alongside Henry Orenstein.\n\nTomko is married with three children. His son, Derek, encouraged him to return to playing poker tournaments.\n\nTomko is an excellent golfer, spending much of his time on the golf course when he is not playing poker. He has played with many of his fellow high-stakes poker players like Doyle Brunson, Phil Ivey, and many others. One of his most frequent golf partners is fellow poker professional Hilbert Shirey, who also lives in Tomko's hometown of Winter Haven, Florida.\n\nRick Reilly chronicles a day with Dewey on a golf course in his book \"Who's Your Caddy\". In it, he contends that Tomko is not interested in competition if there is not a wager riding on it.\n\nOn NBC's \"Poker After Dark\", poker professional and 2004 WSOP Main Event champion Greg Raymer noted that professional golfer Rocco Mediate has said that if he had one person to putt for his life, it would be Tomko.\n"}
{"id": "2257109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257109", "title": "Heist-Goor", "text": "Heist-Goor\n\nHeist-Goor is a hamlet of Heist-op-den-Berg, that is situated in the south of the province of Antwerp (Flanders, Belgium). In the old days there was a swamp on this location (\"goor\" is an old Dutch word for swamp).\n\nHeist-Goor has its own church, the Saint Alfons church. This church is situated in the center of the place, in the Pastoor Mellaertsstraat (which is the most important street of the hamlet). The church has two bells: the lighter Saint Alfons bell and the heavier Saint Franciscus bell. In the tower there is also a gsm-transmitter.\n\nIn the Pastoor-Mellaertsstraat there's also the primary school of Heist-Goor, the Gesubsidieerde Vrije Basisschool Heist-Goor. The hamlet has not got a secondary school. The secondary schools which are the closest bij Heist-Goor, the Heilig-Hartmiddenschool and Atheneum Hof van Riemen, are in the hamlets Heist-Station and Heist-Centrum.\n\nAlso the local parish hall is in this Pastoor Mellaertsstraat.\n\nIn Heist-Goor there's an old building called 'The Mollehoef', it was built in 1728, and therefore it is the oldest building of the hamlet. The street in which it is built was later called 'Mollehoefweg' (Mollehoef road).\n\n"}
{"id": "2257115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257115", "title": "Miss Bangladesh", "text": "Miss Bangladesh\n\nMiss Bangladesh is a national beauty pageant in Bangladesh that annually selects representatives to compete in Miss World, one of the Big Four major international beauty pageants. It is owned by Omicon Entertainment\".\" Since 2019, Off Track Events organizes Miss Universe Bangladesh separately which sends representatives to Miss Universe. \n\nThe reigning Miss World Bangladesh titleholder is Rafah Nanjeba Torsa who was crowned by the outgoing titleholder Jannatul Ferdous Oishee. Shirin Akter Shila become the first ever Miss Universe Bangladesh who represented her country in Miss Universe 2019.\n\nThe Miss Bangladesh Contest was first organized in 1994, but the event did not attract national media attention. In 1994, Anika Taher first represented Bangladesh at the beauty pageant Miss World 1994 held in Sun City, South Africa. Shaila Simi was awarded the Miss Ruposhi Dhaka, Bangladesh award in 1998. Sonia Gazi (who was Miss Bangladesh 2000) received media attention. Tabassum Ferdous Shaon, who participated in the Miss World 2001 in South Africa was the last Bangladeshi contestant. Bangladesh has not sent a representative to Miss World since 2001. The pageant returned briefly for one year in 2007 and was organized by Apurbo.com and sponsored by Motherland Group/Cinevision. However, the winner did not take part in Miss World. After 16 years later Antar Showbiz was created Miss World Bangladesh to give Bangladesh the opportunity to participate in the \"Miss World\" pageant again. Bangladesh will make its debut at the Miss Universe 2019 competition.\n\nMiss Bangladesh Organized winner was sending to Miss World. In 2007, Miss Bangladesh was organized by Apurbo.com and sponsored by Motherland Group/Cinevision. However, the winner did not take part in Miss World. \nThe following women have represented Bangladesh in the Big Four international beauty pageants, the four major international beauty pageants for women. These are Miss Universe, Miss World, Miss International and Miss Earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257116", "title": "Frederick Erroll, 1st Baron Erroll of Hale", "text": "Frederick Erroll, 1st Baron Erroll of Hale\n\nFrederick James Erroll, 1st Baron Erroll of Hale, TD, PC (27 May 1914 – 14 September 2000) was a British Conservative politician.\n\nErroll was the son of George Murison Bergmans, an engineer, and Kathleen, daughter of George Brodrick Edington, a Glasgow ironmaster. The family changed their German surname to Erroll during the First World War. He was educated at Oundle School and at Trinity College, Cambridge, graduating with a bachelor's degree in mechanical sciences.\n\nErroll was an engineer at Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co. Ltd, Manchester, 1936–38. He was commissioned into 4th County of London Yeomanry (Sharpshooters), Territorial Army in 1939, and held technical appointments in connection with tank construction and testing (advising SEAC, 1940–43) and served in India and Burma, 1944–45. He left the forces in 1945 with the rank of colonel.\n\nErroll was elected as Member of Parliament for Altrincham and Sale in 1945, holding the seat until 1964. He was Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Supply, 1955–56; Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Trade, 1956–58; Economic Secretary to the Treasury, 1958–59; Minister of State for Trade, 1959–61; President of the Board of Trade, 1961–63; and Minister of Power, 1963–64. In 1964 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Erroll of Hale, of Kilmun in the County of Argyll. In 1972 he was President of the Electric Vehicle Association of Great Britain. In 1999, aged 85, he was awarded a life peerage as Baron Erroll of Kilmun, of Kilmun in Argyll and Bute, to allow him to sit in the House of Lords following the passing of the House of Lords Act 1999, which excluded hereditary peers.\n\nHe was a Member of the House of Lords Select committee on Science and Technology, 1985–91. He held a large number of business appointments.\n\nHe married Elizabeth Barrow in 1950. Lord Erroll of Hale died in Kensington and Chelsea aged 86. As they had no children, the hereditary barony became extinct on his death.\n"}
{"id": "2257117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257117", "title": "Southern mealy amazon", "text": "Southern mealy amazon\n\nThe southern mealy amazon or southern mealy parrot (\"Amazona farinosa\") is among the largest parrot in the genus \"Amazona\", the amazon parrots. It is a mainly green parrot with a total length of . It is endemic to tropical Central and South America. This species and the northern mealy amazon were previously considered conspecific. Some taxonomic authorities (including the American Ornithological Society, continue to lump them together.\n\nThe southern mealy amazon was described by the French polymath Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon in 1780 in his \"Histoire Naturelle des Oiseaux\" from a specimen collected in Cayenne, French Guiana. The bird was also illustrated in a hand-coloured plate engraved by François-Nicolas Martinet in the \"Planches Enluminées D'Histoire Naturelle\" which was produced under the supervision of Edme-Louis Daubenton to accompany Buffon's text. Neither the plate caption nor Buffon's description included a scientific name but in 1783 the Dutch naturalist Pieter Boddaert coined the binomial name \"Psittacus farinosus\" in his catalogue of the \"Planches Enluminées\". The southern mealy amazon is now placed in the large Neotropical genus \"Amazona \" that was introduced by the French naturalist René Lesson in 1830. The species is monotypic. The specific epithet \"farinosa\" is from the Latin \"farinosus\" meaning \"sprinkled with flour\".\n\nThe southern mealy amazon has a total length of about and weighs . Captives commonly are heavier. It is among the largest parrots in the Americas, mainly being surpassed by the large macaws. It has a relatively short and square shaped tail, as do the other members of the \"Amazona\" genus. \nThe southern mealy amazon is mainly green. The back and nape often have a whitish tinge; almost as if it had been covered in a thin layer of flour (\"meal\"; hence its name). The distal half of the tail is paler and more yellow than the basal half, thus resulting in a distinctly bi-colored look. In flight it shows a bluish-black trailing edge to the wing and a conspicuous red speculum. Occasionally a few yellow feathers are apparent on the top of the head.\n\nIn South America, it is commonly confused with the yellow-crowned amazon, but can be recognized by its larger size, less yellow to the crown (not entirely reliable, as some yellow-crowned may show almost none), the whitish tinge to its plumage, broader white eye-ring, and red of the leading edge of the wing placed near the phalanx (not near the radiale), but this is often difficult to see (especially on perched birds). Their voices are also strikingly different.\n\nThe southern mealy amazon was formerly considered conspecific with the northern mealy amazon. The species were split based on the results of a genetic study published in 2012.\n\nThe southern mealy amazon occurs in tropical Central America and South America. It frequents humid to semi-humid forest (only rarely in deciduous forest) and plantations. In regions dominated by open/dry habitats it is restricted to gallery forest or completely absent.\n\nThe southern mealy amazon is social and can be found in pairs or in large flocks. They are even known to interact with other parrots, such as macaws. They are usually quiet but can be loud at dusk and dawn. In captivity, they are known as one of the gentlest and calmest of all amazons.\n\nAfter southern mealy amazons reach sexual maturity they usually form monogamous relationships with a single partner. Each year courtship usually begins in early spring, and the female will usually lay three or four white eggs in a tree-cavity nest. The female incubates the eggs for about 26 days. The male regurgitates food for the female during the incubation period, and later for the chicks in the nest as well. The chicks leave the nest about 60 days after hatching.\n\nThe diet of the mealy amazon consists mostly of fruits, seeds, berries, nuts, blossoms, and leaf buds.\n\nIt is fairly common in most of its range, but has declined locally due to habitat loss and trapping for the wild parrot trade. Trafficking of the birds (as for exotic pets) is illegal in many nations, but the species are still smuggled into the United States from Mexico. In some areas southern mealy amazons are hunted as food. The southern mealy amazon sometimes feeds on human crops (especially corn) and may be considered a crop pest.\n\nThe mealy amazon is bred in captivity with some regularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257134", "title": "Microsoft Arcade", "text": "Microsoft Arcade\n\nMicrosoft Arcade is a series of classic arcade game compilations.\n\nThe first compilation was released in 1993 on a single 1.44MB floppy for both Microsoft Windows 3.1 and the Apple Macintosh. It contained versions of the following arcade games by Atari:\nAlthough the games were very similar to the original games in both appearance and gameplay, they were newly written versions, not ports of the original arcade game code. Each game allowed certain customizations not available in the original arcade game, \"i.e.\" the number of lives and bonus levels. The Microsoft Help files included with the games contained history of the development of the original arcade versions of the games.\n\nTwo follow up versions were released, including the arcade games from Bandai Namco. The first was Microsoft Return of Arcade, released in April 1996. The compilation sold 335,176 copies in 1996 making it the 8th best-selling PC game that year.\nThis compilation contains:\n\nIn 2000, to celebrate \"Pac-Man\"s 20th anniversary, Microsoft re-released \"Return of Arcade\" and added \"Ms. Pac-Man\" (as presented in \"Revenge of Arcade\") to the roster of games. None of the other games from \"Revenge of Arcade\" were included. This updated package was called Microsoft Return of Arcade: Anniversary Edition.\n\nThe second follow-up, released in 1998, was called Microsoft Revenge of Arcade and contained:\nOfficially, both of these follow-ups required Windows 95 or later, though the demo for \"Return of Arcade\" is a 16-bit program that requires only WinG to run in Windows 3.1. This game will not work on 64-bit versions of Windows.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in 1993 stated that \"Microsoft Arcade\"s adaptation of the five games was \"nearly flawless\". It favorably cited the many hints and strategies included in WinHelp files for the games, and the boss key. The magazine liked \"Battlezone\" the most out of the five games in \"Microsoft Arcade\", but stated that \"it's been done better since\" by games like \"Spectre\". Despite finding that the games were \"made obsolete by technology\", it predicted that \"Arcade\" would be very successful because of nostalgia, and wished that Microsoft would have updated the games with modern graphics and gameplay. \"Microsoft Arcade\" was named the best computer arcade game of 1993 by \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\".\n\nIn the United States, \"Return of Arcade\" debuted in position 16 on PC Data's computer game sales rankings for April 1996. It rose to 10th place the following month, and continued to chart in the top 10 through August, peaking at #5. The game's streak in the top 20 held through November, but ended with a fall from the charts in December. According to PC Data, \"Return of Arcade\" was the eighth-best-selling computer game in the United States for 1996 overall, after claiming 16th in the rankings for the first half of the year. PC Data reported the game's sales at 335,176 units that year, which earned revenues of $9.5 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257138", "title": "Walk Like an Egyptian", "text": "Walk Like an Egyptian\n\n\"Walk Like an Egyptian\" is a song recorded by the American band the Bangles. It was released in 1986 as the third single from the album \"Different Light\". It was the band's first number one single, being certified gold by the RIAA, and became \"Billboard\"'s number-one song of 1987.\n\nLiam Sternberg, who wrote the song, had finished a demo version by January 1984 with singer Marti Jones. He offered it to Toni Basil, who turned it down. Lene Lovich recorded the first version of the song, but it went unreleased when she decided to take a break from music to raise her family. David Kahne from Peer Southern Publishing was the producer of \"Different Light\"; he received a copy of the demo and liked it, especially Jones's \"offhand quality\".\n\nKahne took the song to the Bangles, who agreed to record it. He had each member of the group sing the lyrics to determine who would sing each verse; Vicki Peterson, Michael Steele, and Susanna Hoffs sang lead vocals in the final version on the first, second, and third verses, respectively. Kahne disliked particularly Debbi Peterson's leads, so she was relegated to backing vocals. This angered her and caused tension within the group. The situation was exacerbated by the use of a drum machine in place of her drumming, further diminishing her role in the song. She can be seen playing the tambourine during their 1986 performance on \"The Old Grey Whistle Test\". The whistling in the song was performed by machine, not by anyone in the band.\n\n\"Walk Like an Egyptian\" was released as the third single from \"Different Light\". It debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in September 1986. The song reached a peak of number three on the UK Singles Chart in November 1986 and reached number one in the US on December 20, staying at the top of the Hot 100 for four weeks, carrying it over into January 1987. The success of the song and \"Manic Monday\" propelled \"Different Light\" to number two on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, making it the group's most successful album.\n\nThe music video for \"Walk Like an Egyptian\" was nominated for Best Group Video at the 1987 MTV Video Music Awards. It features both the Bangles performing the song at a concert and scenes of people dancing in poses similar to those depicted in the Ancient Egyptian reliefs that inspired songwriter Liam Sternberg. Most of these people were filmed on the streets of New York City, although special effects were used to modify photos of Princess Diana, Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, and the Statue of Liberty. In a popular scene from the video, Hoffs was filmed in a close-up where her eyes moved from side to side, looking left and right. When asked about the scene in an interview, Hoffs explained that she was looking at individual audience members during the video shoot, which took place with a live audience. Looking directly at individual audience members was a technique she used to overcome stage fright, and she was unaware that the camera had a close-up on her while she was employing this technique, switching between one audience member on her left and one on her right.\n\nIn 1990, \"Walk Like an Egyptian\" was re-issued as a single in the UK to promote the Bangles' \"Greatest Hits\" album. It featured new remixes for the song called Ozymandias Remix. It charted at number 73 in the UK.\n\n\"Walk Like an Egyptian\" was one of the songs which were claimed to have been banned by Clear Channel following the September 11, 2001 attacks. Snopes in researching this found that the list was simply suggestions regarding songs to be sensitive about when deciding what to play. It was also included in a \"list of records to be avoided\" drawn up by the BBC during the Gulf War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257140", "title": "Huajian Gao", "text": "Huajian Gao\n\nHuajian Gao (, born December 7, 1963) is a Chinese-American mechanician who is widely known for his contributions to the field of solid mechanics, particularly on the micro- and nanomechanics of thin films, hierarchically structured materials, and cell-nanomaterials interactions.\n\nGao was born in Chengdu, Sichuan on December 7, 1963.\nHuajian Gao received his B.S. in Engineering Mechanics from Xi'an Jiaotong University of China in 1982, and his M.S. and Ph.D. in Engineering Science from Harvard University in 1984 and 1988, respectively. He taught at Stanford University between 1988 and 2002, where he was promoted to Associate Professor with tenure in 1994 and to full Professor in 2000. He joined the Max Planck Society in 2001 as a Director at the Max Planck Institute for Metals Research in Stuttgart, Germany. In 2006 he moved to Brown University as the Walter H. Annenberg Professor of Engineering. In 2019, he joined Nanyang Technological University Nanyang Technological University as 2019 Distinguished University Professors , also jointy affiliated as scientific director of Institute of High Performance Computing, A*STAR, Singapore . Gao is the editor of the Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids.\n\nGao has a background in applied mechanics and engineering science. His research interests span over Solid Mechanics, Nanomechanics and Biomechanics. He works on mechanics of thin films and hierarchically structured materials, mechanics of biological and bio-inspired materials, mechanics of nanostructured and nanotwinned materials, mechanics of cell adhesion, mechanics of cell-nanomaterials interactions, mechanics of energy storage systems, and mechanics of metallic glasses.\n\nGao received academic honors including a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship in 1995 and the Humboldt Prize from Germany and Rodney Hill Prize in Solid Mechanics from the International Union of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics (IUTAM) in 2012. He was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 2012, to the Chinese Academy of Sciences (as a foreign academician) in 2015, the National Academy of Sciences in 2018 and American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257142", "title": "David Bruce (microbiologist)", "text": "David Bruce (microbiologist)\n\nMajor-General Sir David Bruce (29 May 1855 in Melbourne – 27 November 1931 in London) was an Australian-born British pathologist and microbiologist who investigated Malta fever (later called brucellosis in his honour) and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness in humans and nagana in animals). He discovered a protozoan parasite transmitted by insects, later named \"Trypanosoma brucei\" after him. Working in the Army Medical Service and the Royal Army Medical Corps, his major scientific collaborator was his microbiologist wife Mary Elizabeth Bruce (\"née\" Steele), with whom he published more than thirty technical papers.\n\nBruce was born in Melbourne, Australia to Scottish parents: engineer David Bruce (from Airth) and his wife Jane Russell Hamilton (from Stirling), who had emigrated to Australia in the gold rush of 1850. He was an only child. He returned with his family to Scotland at the age of five. They lived at 1 Victoria Square in Stirling. He was educated at Stirling High School and in 1869 began an apprenticeship in Manchester. However, a bout of pneumonia forced him to abandon this and re-assess his career. He then decided to study zoology but later changed to medicine at the University of Edinburgh in 1876. He graduated in 1881.\n\nAfter a brief period as a general practitioner in Reigate, Surrey (1881–83), where he met and married his wife Mary, he entered the Army Medical School in Hampshire at the Royal Victoria Hospital, Netley. He qualified the military examination in 1883 and joined the Army Medical Services (and served till 1919). For his first post he joined the Royal Army Medical Corps in 1884 and was stationed in Valletta, Malta.\n\nBruce was appointed Assistant Professor of pathology at the Army Medical School in Netley in 1889, and served there for five years. He returned to military field service in 1894 and was posted to Pietermaritzburg, Natal, South Africa. He was assigned to investigate the case of cattle and horse sickness (called nagana) in Zululand. On 27 October 1894, he and his wife moved to Ubombo Hill, where the disease was most prevalent. When the Second Boer War broke out in 1899, accompanied by his wife, he ran the field hospital during the Siege of Ladysmith (2 November 1899 until 28 February 1900). For his service during the war he was promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel. In 1899, Bruce was awarded the Cameron Prize for Therapeutics of the University of Edinburgh. In 1900, he joined the army commission investigating dysentery in military camps, at the same time working for the Royal Society's sleeping sickness expedition.\n\nBruce served as a member of the Army Medical Service Advisory Board from 1902 to 1911. In 1914 he became Commander of the Royal Army Medical College, the position he held until his retirement as a Major-General in 1919. He was immediately appointed chairman of the governing body of the Lister Institute. During his career he published more than ninety-seven technical articles, of which about thirty of them were coauthored by his wife.\n\nHe died four days after his wife in 1931, during her memorial service. Both were cremated in London and their ashes are buried together in Valley Cemetery in Stirling, close to Stirling Castle, beneath a simple stone cross on the east side of the main north-south path, near the southern roundel. They had no children.\n\nAt the time of Bruce's service in Malta, British soldiers suffered an outbreak of what was called the Malta fever. In 1886, he led the Malta Fever Commission that identified the organism that caused the fever as a bacterium \"Micrococcus melitensis\" (later renamed \"Brucella melitensis\"). Themistocles Zammit, one of the members of the commission, discovered the carrier of the bacillus in 1905 to be goats' milk. Bruce discouraged the experiments being carried out by Zammit, and doubted his ability as a microbiologist. Eventually, when he learned of the positive results linking the fever with unpasteurized goat milk, Bruce tried to discredit the role of Zammit and take credit to himself. To a certain extent he succeeded, as it was renamed after him as brucellosis; however, information about the role of Zammit eventually came to light.\n\nWhen he was transferred to South Africa, Bruce was sent to Zululand in 1894 to investigate the outbreak of cattle disease which the natives called \"nagana\". In 1903, he identified the causative protozoan, and tsetse fly vector, of African trypanosomiasis (\"sleeping sickness\"). He was Surgeon-General for the duration of the First World War from 1914 to 1919 at the Royal Army Medical College, Millbank, London.\n\n\"Brucella\" is the genus and Brucellaceae is the family of the bacteria which was named after him, in recognition of his discoveries. \"Brucella melitensis\" is the cause of undulant fever in man and of abortion in goats. It is usually transmitted by goat's milk. \"Trypanosoma brucei\", the cause of sleeping sickness, is also named after him.\n\nBruce was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1899. He served as editor of the \"Journal of the Royal Army Medical Corps\" between 1904 and 1908. He was the recipient of the Cameron prize of Edinburgh University in 1901. He received the Royal Society’s Royal Medal in 1904, the Mary Kingsley Medal in 1905, and the Stewart prize of the British Medical Association. He was Croonian lecturer at the Royal College of Physicians in 1915. He was awarded the Leeuwenhoek Medal in 1915, created a Companion of the Bath (CB) in the 1905 Birthday Honours, knighted in 1908 and upgraded to a Knight Commander of the Bath (KCB) in 1918. He was president of the British Science Association during 1924–1925.\n\nBruce's name features on the frieze of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine. Twenty-three names of public health and tropical medicine pioneers were chosen to feature on the School building in Keppel Street when it was constructed in 1926.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257145", "title": "Central Coast &amp; Newcastle Line", "text": "Central Coast &amp; Newcastle Line\n\nThe Central Coast & Newcastle Line is a NSW TrainLink passenger train service that runs along the Main North railway line in New South Wales, connecting the state's two largest cities, Sydney and Newcastle. The service runs from through to on the Main North railway line to Newcastle Interchange on the Newcastle railway line, and services the Hawkesbury River region, the Central Coast and the city of Newcastle.\n\nThe route traverse the Main West and Main South railway line routes until Strathfield, where it diverts north and follows the route of the Main North line until Broadmeadow, before diverting east along the route of the Newcastle branch line. To Newcastle Interchange The line is electrified at 1500 V DC throughout, and is primarily double track, although there are refuge loops at Hawkesbury River, Gosford, Wyong, Awaba, and Sulphide Junction (between Cockle Creek and Cardiff). Some services terminate at Gosford and Wyong.\n\nSometimes when there is trackwork between Strathfield and Hornsby, trains will operate via the North Shore line to Hornsby, then follow the Main North railway line as normal.\n\nThe section of the Newcastle railway line between Hamilton and Newcastle was closed on 25 December 2014. Until the opening of Newcastle Interchange in 2017, Hamilton formed a temporary terminus. The closed section between Wickham and Newcastle was replaced with the Newcastle Light Rail that opened in February 2019.\n\nPrior to electrification of the route, steam hauled passenger trains were varied and interesting. From November 1929 until April 1988, the \"Newcastle Flyer\" operated on the route. After electrification, services were taken over by U and V sets. Later the U sets were replaced by K and G sets which in turn were replaced by H sets.\n\nFrom the time the line was electrified, services to Gosford were hauled by 46 class locomotives, their sphere of operation increasing as the wires were extended.\n\nThe last electric locomotives were withdrawn in March 1998 with all services since hauled by diesel locomotives. Today Aurizon, Pacific National and Southern Shorthaul Railroad all regularly operate freight trains on the line.\n\nMost all-stations trains have four carriages, with the first and last car being quiet carriages. Peak-hour and most express services usually have eight cars, with quiet carriages on the first, last, and the two middle carriages.\n\nThe line was electrified to Gosford in January 1960, Wyong in April 1982 and Newcastle in June 1984.\n\nAs part of the Northern Sydney Freight Corridor project the following projects were completed: The projects were:\n\nA railway station is proposed to be constructed in Glendale as part of the Lake Macquarie Transport Interchange project. The station will be located between Cockle Creek and Cardiff railway station and will have connections to buses. An extension of Glendale Drive leading to the proposed station has been built and completed in June 2017. The station, however, has not commenced construction. \n\nA new station is proposed for Warnervale. The draft Central Coast Transportation Strategy stated that construction of the new railway station was to be completed by 2016. In October 2014 there were some differences between Wyong Council and the State Government over how a strategic piece of land should be developed at Warnervale.\n\nThis table does not include the services which run via the North Shore line and extend to Gosford and Wyong via Gordon .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257152", "title": "David Bruce (inventor)", "text": "David Bruce (inventor)\n\nDavid Bruce Jr. (February 6, 1802 – September 13, 1892) was a New York industrialist whose inventions revolutionised the printing industry.\n\nIn 1838, he invented the Pivotal Typecaster, and subsequently patented it in 1845.\nThis machine replaced men who worked as handcasters. Some of them saw the machine and felt so strongly about it that they plotted to tip the machine off the boat that was to ferry it back to the foundry, but Bruce was able to foil the plot.\n\nAn example of the Pivotal Typecaster can be found in the Printing Museum of the firm of William Clowes Ltd. in Beccles in the English county of Suffolk.\n"}
{"id": "2257153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257153", "title": "Goodshirt", "text": "Goodshirt\n\nGoodshirt are an alternative/pop/rock band from Auckland, New Zealand. The band formed when keyboardist Gareth Thomas left his computer recording setup with the Fisher brothers, Rodney and Murray, for safe keeping.\n\nAfter the band, then still a three piece, submitted their song \"Green\" to a track competition run by radio station 9inety6dot1, then station manager Grant Hislop became their manager. Subsequently, drummer Mike Beehre joined the band.\n\nTheir fourth single from their debut album \"Good, Sophie,\" was a number one single in New Zealand. \"Good\" was released in Canada, Australia, and Japan.\n\nA second album\", Fiji Baby,\" was released in 2004. Like its predecessor, it reached number 5 in the New Zealand charts.\n\nThe band went on hiatus in 2005 when Rodney Fisher moved to London to work with Breaks Co-Op, but reunited in 2011, and in early 2012 they began playing again with support gigs for Hall & Oates and Icehouse as part of the A Day on the Green festival. In May 2012 Goodshirt released the new EP \"Skinny Mirror\" and including the singles \"So Charming\" and \"Out of Our League\".\n\nIn 2014, the band released a cover of \"Sierra Leone\" originally by Coconut Rough. It was made available as a free download through their SoundCloud band page, along with the release of an official music video on YouTube.\n\n\nFive videos were directed by Joe Lonie, including some that were shot in a single take. Lonie notes that at the height of their close creative relationship, \"they even talked about me being an unofficial fifth member of the band.\"\n\nGoodshirt has appeared on many compilations and soundtracks in both New Zealand and Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257159", "title": "Billy Bang", "text": "Billy Bang\n\nBilly Bang (September 20, 1947 – April 11, 2011), born William Vincent Walker, was an American free jazz violinist and composer.\n\nBang's family moved to New York City's Bronx neighborhood while he was still an infant, and as a child he attended a special school for musicians in nearby Harlem. At that school, students were assigned instruments based on their physical size. Bang was fairly small, so he received a violin instead of either of his first choices, the saxophone or the drums. It was around this time that he acquired the nickname of \"Billy Bang\", derived from a popular cartoon character.\n\nBang studied the violin until he earned a hardship scholarship to the Stockbridge School in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, at which point he abandoned the instrument because the school did not have a music program. He had difficulty adjusting to life at the school, where he encountered racism and developed confusion about his identity, which he later blamed for his onset of schizophrenia. Bang felt that he had little in common with the largely privileged children at the school, who included Jackie Robinson, Jr. (son of baseball star Jackie Robinson) and Arlo Guthrie, and he struggled to reconcile the disparity between the wealth of the school and the poverty of his home in New York. He left the school after two years and attended a school in the Bronx. He did not graduate, decided not to return to school after receiving his draft papers, and at the age of 18, he was drafted into the United States Army.\n\nBang spent six months in basic training and another two weeks learning jungle warfare, arriving in Vietnam just before the Tet Offensive. Starting out as an infantryman, he did one tour of combat duty, rising to the rank of sergeant before he mustered out.\n\nAfter Bang returned from the war, his life lacked direction. The job he had held before the army had been filled in his absence. He pursued and then abandoned a law degree, before becoming politically active and falling in with an underground group of revolutionaries. The group recognized Bang's knowledge of weapons from his time in the Army, and they used him to procure firearms for the group during trips to Maryland and Virginia, buying from pawnshops and other small operators who did not conduct extensive background checks. During one of these trips, Bang spotted three violins hanging at the back of a pawnshop, and he impulsively purchased one.\n\nHe later joined Sun Ra's band. In 1977, Bang co-founded the String Trio of New York (with guitarist James Emery and double bassist John Lindberg). Billy Bang explored his experience in Vietnam in two albums: \"Vietnam: The Aftermath\" (2001) and \"Vietnam: Reflections\" (2005), recorded with a band which included several other veterans of that war. The latter album also features two Vietnamese musicians based in the United States (voice and \"đàn tranh\" zither).\n\nBang died on April 11, 2011. According to an associate, Bang had suffered from lung cancer. He had been scheduled to perform on the opening day of the Xerox Rochester International Jazz Festival on June 10, 2011. He is buried at Woodlawn Cemetery, Bronx, New York.\n\n\nWith the String Trio of New York\n\nWith Kahil El'Zabar\n\nWith William Hooker\n\nWith John Lindberg\n\nWith William Parker\n\nWith World Saxophone Quartet\n\nWith Ahmed Abdullah\n\n"}
{"id": "2257165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257165", "title": "Markus J. Buehler", "text": "Markus J. Buehler\n\nMarkus J. Buehler is an American materials scientist and engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he is the McAfee Professor of Engineering. He is a member of the faculty at MIT's Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, where he directs the Laboratory for Atomistic and Molecular Mechanics (LAMM), and also a member of MIT's Center for Computational Science and Engineering (CCSE). Since 2013, he serves as the Head of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at MIT. His research and teaching activities center on the application of a computational materials science approach to understand functional material properties in biological and synthetic materials, specifically focused on mechanical properties. His work incorporates materials science, engineering, mathematics and the establishment of links between natural materials with the arts through the use of category theory. In 2020, he set the pathogen of COVID-19 to music, exemplifying a relationship between art and science. \n\nBefore joining MIT in 2005, he served as the Director of Multiscale Modeling and Software Integration at Caltech’s Materials and Process Simulation Center in the Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering. He received a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the University of Stuttgart and the Max Planck Institute for Metals Research after obtaining an M.S. in Engineering Mechanics from Michigan Tech, and undergraduate studies in Chemical and Process Engineering at the University of Stuttgart.\n\nBuehler has a background in materials science, engineering science and applied mechanics. Buehler’s research focuses on bottom-up simulation of structural and mechanical properties of biological, bioinspired and synthetic materials across multiple scales, with a specific focus on materials failure from a nanoscale and molecular perspective, and on developing a fundamental understanding of how functional material properties are created in natural, biological and synthetic materials. He is best known for the use of simple computational models to explain complex materials phenomena in biology and engineering from a bottom-up perspective.\n\nHis recent work has focused on applying a computational materials science approach to study materials failure in biological systems, including the investigation of material breakdown in a variety of diseases and other extreme conditions across multiple time- and length-scales. His key contributions lie in the field of deformation and failure of structural protein materials such as collagen and silk, where his work revealed universal material design paradigms that enable protein materials to provide enhanced and diverse functionality despite limited resources (energy, material volume, weak building blocks such as H-bonds, etc.), and demonstrated how these mechanisms break down under extreme conditions and disease (impact, trauma, mutations, flaws, etc.). The impact of his work has been the establishment of the universality-diversity paradigm, explaining how multifunctionality (diversity) of material properties in biology is achieved by changing structural arrangements of few (universal) constituents rather than inventing new building blocks, or through reliance of the quality of building blocks. Some of Buehler's current work involves the use of ologs, a category-theoretic framework for knowledge representation, to encode the structure-function relationships inherent in hierarchical materials.\n\nBuehler has published more than 300 articles on theoretical and computational modeling of materials using various types of simulation methods, a monograph on atomistic modeling, a book on Biomateriomics, several book chapters, and has given hundreds of invited lectures, keynote talks and plenary speeches. He collaborates broadly with experimental researchers in the United States, Europe and Asia. He serves as a PI and co-PI on numerous research grants, including several interdisciplinary research projects funded by the National Science Foundation, Department of Defense, and other organizations.\n\nHis teaching at MIT focus on engineering mechanics and modeling and simulation, and on introducing undergraduate and graduate students to computational research. He teaches professional educational courses in areas of materials design, machine learning, and additive manufacturing. \n\nHe has been involved in teaching MIT subjects 1.021J Introduction to Modeling and Simulation, 1.978 From nano to macro: Introduction to atomistic modeling techniques, 1.545 Atomistic Modeling of Materials and Structures and 1.050 Engineering Mechanics I. Buehler collaborates with MIT’s IS&T department within the scope of the initiative \"Bringing Research Tools into the Classroom\", where is developing tools to enable simple use of multiscale simulation tools in teaching and education of undergraduate and graduate students. He is also actively participating in MIT's Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP), where he serves as a faculty mentor. He is a faculty advisor in the MIT Summer Research Program and for the Everett Moore Baker Memorial Foundation.\n\nBuehler serves as editor or a member of the editorial board of several international journals including PLoS ONE, International Journal of Applied Mechanics, Acta Mechanica Sinica, Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials, Journal of Engineering Mechanics, Journal of Nanomechanics and Micromechanics, and the Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience. Since 2011 he serves as a co-Editor in Chief of BioNanoScience, a journal he co-founded. He was elected to the Editorial Board of the Journal of the Royal Society Interface in 2012.\n\nHe is the chair of the Biomechanics Committee at the Engineering Mechanics Institute of the ASCE, Co-Chair of the NanoEngineering in Medicine and Biology Steering Committee at the ASME, a member of the U.S. National Committee on Biomechanics, and participates in several other committees at ASME including the Committee on Mechanics in Biology and Medicine. He is also active in the Materials Research Society as volunteer writer for the MRS Bulletin, organizer of MRS symposiums, and through his involvement in the MRS Graduate Student Award program. Since 2010 he serves as the Director of the MIT-Germany Program (MISTI Germany). He is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials. \n\nBuehler received the National Science Foundation CAREER Award, the United States Air Force Young Investigator Award, the Navy Young Investigator Award, and the DARPA Young Faculty Award. Buehler was cited as one of the top engineers in the United States between the ages of 30-45 through invitation to the National Academy of Engineering-Frontiers in Engineering symposium of the National Academy of Engineering. In 2009, his work was recognized by the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), the highest honor bestowed by the United States government on young researchers in the early stages of their careers. He received the 2010 Harold E. Edgerton Faculty Achievement Award for exceptional distinction in teaching and in research scholarship, the 2010 ASME Sia Nemat-Nasser Award, the 2011 Thomas J.R. Hughes Young Investigator Award and the 2011 Rossiter W. Raymond Memorial Award. In 2011 he received the inaugural Leonardo da Vinci Award from EMI. His work was recognized with several other awards including the Alfred Noble Prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257178", "title": "Cowan railway station", "text": "Cowan railway station\n\nCowan railway station is a railway station located on the Main Northern line on the northern fringes of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It serves the suburb of Cowan, and the station was opened in 1890.\n\nCowan was a terminating point for CityRail suburban services until January 1992 when all services were curtailed at Berowra. A southbound passing loop is located immediately south of the station. In February 1999, it was extended south to allow freight trains to stable. North of the station the Cowan Bank commences its descent to Hawkesbury River station and thereafter, crossing the Hawkesbury River.\n\nCowan has two side platforms. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Central Coast & Newcastle Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Newcastle.\n\nTransdev NSW operates one bus route via Cowan station:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257180", "title": "Hocken Collections", "text": "Hocken Collections\n\nHocken Collections (, formerly the Hocken Library) is a research library, historical archive, and art gallery based in Dunedin, New Zealand. Its library collection, which is of national significance, is administered by the University of Otago.\n\nThe Collections' specialist areas include items relating to the history of New Zealand and the Pacific, with specific emphasis on the Otago and Southland Regions. Open to the general public, the library is one of the country's most important historical research facilities.\n\nHocken Collections is the result of the philanthropy of avid collector Dr. Thomas Hocken, who donated his private collection to the university in trust for the New Zealand public. Hocken had offered his collection to public use in 1897, but it was not until 1910 that it became generally accessible in a wing of the Otago Museum. Hocken was too ill to attend the official opening on 23 March 1910 (the 62nd anniversary of the founding of Dunedin), and died just two months later.\n\nUntil 1965 the library was entirely housed in the Otago Museum. From that time its pictures collection and increasingly more of its other holdings were housed on other sites around the University of Otago's campus, the pictures being at the Central Library. In 1980 the collections were again brought together under one roof in the new Hocken Building (now renamed the Richardson Building), designed by E.J. McCoy. It soon outgrew that site and additional accommodation was secured at another site in Leith Street. It was reconsolidated on another site in 1998 in the former Otago Co-operative Dairy Company factory on Anzac Avenue, east of the main campus. In 2005, its name was changed to Hocken Collections.\n\nHocken Collections holds the largest collection of manuscripts, maps, and early photographs relating to the history of the Otago Region, as well as several notable collections relating to the country as a whole. The latter include the letters and journals of Samuel Marsden and New Zealand records of the Church Missionary Society. The personal and public papers of many important Otago people are also present in the library's collections, including those of the writers James K. Baxter and R. A. K. Mason, as well as the political writings of many of the community's leaders. The library's collection also includes a substantial body of photographic work by the Burton Brothers.\n\nThe library also has an extensive collection of New Zealand music recordings and sheet music—including much related to Dunedin's rock-music scene—and a substantial collection of New Zealand art; the upper floor of the library includes a gallery which is regularly used for shows of art both from the library's collection and from visiting and resident University of Otago artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257183", "title": "AIPS", "text": "AIPS\n\nAIPS may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2257185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257185", "title": "Menua", "text": "Menua\n\nMenua () was the fifth known king of Urartu from c. 810 BC to approximately 786 BC. The name is sometimes written as \"Menuas\" or \"Minua\".\n\nA younger son of the preceding Urartuan King, Ishpuini, Menua was adopted as co-ruler by his father in the last years of his reign. Menua enlarged the kingdom through numerous wars against the neighbouring countries and left many inscriptions across the region. He organized a centralised administrative structure, fortified a number of towns and constructed fortresses. Amongst these was Menuakhinili located on Mount Ararat. Menua developed a canal and irrigation system that stretched across the kingdom. One of those canals was a 50 kilometre canal, which was named the Menua Canal after the king. It flowed at a rate of 1500 to 3000 litres of water per second, depending on the time of the year. Several of these canals are still in use today.\n\nHe briefly co-ruled with his son, Inushpua, but was succeeded by another son, Argishti I.\n\nIn Armenian, Menua is rendered as \"Manavaz\" (\"Manaz\"). It is believed that Menua founded the city of Manazkert (Malazgirt).\n\n"}
{"id": "2257186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257186", "title": "Michelangelo (computer virus)", "text": "Michelangelo (computer virus)\n\nThe Michelangelo virus is a computer virus first discovered on 4 February 1991 in Australia. The virus was designed to infect DOS systems, but did not engage the operating system or make any OS calls. Michelangelo, like all boot sector viruses, operated at the BIOS level. Each year, the virus remained dormant until March 6, the birthday of Renaissance artist Michelangelo. There is no reference to the artist in the virus, and it is doubtful that the virus writer intended Michelangelo to be referenced to the virus. The name was chosen by researchers who noticed the coincidence of the activation date. The actual significance of the date to the author is unknown. Michelangelo is a variant of the already endemic Stoned virus.\n\nOn March 6, if the PC is an AT or a PS/2, the virus overwrites the first one hundred sectors of the hard disk with nulls. The virus assumes a geometry of 256 cylinders, 4 heads, 17 sectors per track. Although all the user's data would still be on the hard disk, it would be irretrievable for the average user.\n\nOn hard disks, the virus moves the original master boot record to cylinder 0, head 0, sector 7.\n\nOn floppy disks, if the disk is 360 KB, the virus moves the original boot sector to cylinder 0, head 1, sector 3.\n\nOn other disks, the virus moves the original boot sector to cylinder 0, head 1, sector 14.\n\nAlthough designed to infect DOS systems, the virus can easily disrupt other operating systems installed on the system since, like many viruses of its era, the Michelangelo infects the master boot record of a hard drive. Once a system became infected, any floppy disk inserted into the system (and written to; in 1992 a PC system could not detect that a floppy had been inserted, so the virus could not infect the floppy until some access to the disk is made) becomes immediately infected as well. And because the virus spends most of its time dormant, activating only on March 6, it is conceivable that an infected computer could go for years without detection — as long as it wasn't booted on that date, while infected.\n\nThe virus first came to widespread international attention in January 1992, when it was revealed that a few computer and software manufacturers had accidentally shipped products, for example Intel's LANSpool print server, infected with the virus. Although the infected machines numbered only in the hundreds, the resulting publicity spiraled into \"expert\" claims, partially led by anti-virus company founder John McAfee, of thousands or even millions of computers infected by Michelangelo. However, on March 6, 1992, only 10,000 to 20,000 cases of data loss were reported.\n\nIn subsequent years, users were advised not to run PCs on March 6, waiting until March 7, or else reset the PC date to March 7 at some time on March 5 (to skip March 6). Eventually, the news media lost interest, and the virus was quickly forgotten. Despite the scenario given above, in which an infected computer could evade detection for years, by 1997 no cases were being reported in the wild.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257192", "title": "Towards Zero", "text": "Towards Zero\n\nTowards Zero is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in June 1944, and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in July of the same year. The first US edition of the novel retailed at $2.00 and the UK edition at seven shillings and sixpence (7/6).\n\nLady Tressilian invites her ward for his annual visit at Gull's Point. He insists on bringing both his former wife and his present wife, though Lady Tressilian finds this awkward. Her old friend Treves dies, then she is murdered as well; Superintendent Battle and his nephew are called in. The book is the last to feature Superintendent Battle.\n\nThe novel was well received at publication, noted for the well-developed characters. A later review called it superb as to the plot, noting also how well the novel depicted the gentlemanly behaviour expected at the main tennis tournament in 1944.\n\nLady Tressilian is now confined to her bed, and still invites guests to her seaside home at Gull's Point during the summer. Tennis star Nevile Strange, former ward of Lady Tressilian's deceased husband, incurs her displeasure. He proposes to bring both his new wife, Kay, and his former wife, Audrey, to visit at the same time – a change from past years. Lady Tressilian grudgingly agrees to this set of incompatible guests. Staying in hotels nearby are Kay’s friend, Ted; a long time family friend, Thomas Royde, home after a long stretch working overseas and still faithfully waiting on the sidelines for Audrey; and Mr Treves, an old solicitor and long time friend of the Tressilians.\n\nThe dinner party is uncomfortable, as Lady Tressilian had predicted. That night, Mr Treves told a story of an old case, where a child killed another child with an arrow, which was ruled an accident. The child was given a new name and a fresh start, despite a local man having seen the child practising assiduously with a bow and arrow. Mr Treves remembers the case and the child as a result of a distinctive physical feature which he does not reveal. The next morning, Treves is found dead in his hotel room and his death is attributed to heart failure from climbing up the stairs to his room the previous night, greatly upsetting Lady Tressilian. Thomas and Ted are mystified, as they saw a note stating that the lift was out of order when they walked Treves back. They learn from hotel staff that the lift was in working order that night. His death is ruled to be from natural causes.\n\nLady Tressilian is brutally murdered in her bed, and her maid drugged. Her heirs are Nevile and Audrey. Evidence suggests Nevile Strange as the murderer. One of his golf clubs that was found at the scene with his fingerprints on it. Nevile's quarrel with Lady Tressilian was overheard as well. However when the maid wakes up, she tells Superintendent Battle that she saw Lady Tressilian alive after Nevile's visit to her room, before he left for Easterhead Bay to find Ted. The evidence then points to Audrey: a bloodied glove belonging to her is found in the ivy next to her window together with the real murder weapon. It was fashioned from the handle of a tennis racket and the metal ball from the fireplace fender in Audrey’s room. Mary Aldin relates the story narrated by Mr Treves, and his claim that he could recognize that child with certainty; Battle is certain that the lift sign was placed in order to silence Mr Treves.\n\nAngus MacWhirter is standing at the cliff where, a year earlier, he had attempted suicide, when Audrey attempts to run off the same cliff. He grabs her before she can jump. She confesses her fear, and he promises that she will be safe. The local cleaners inadvertently give MacWhirter an uncleaned jacket belonging to someone else. Though he is not one of the party at Gull’s House, he is aware of the progress of the investigation, well reported in the local newspapers. He realizes why the jacket has stains in a certain odd pattern. He visits Gull’s Point, and requests for Mary Aldin's help to find a rope in the house. They find a large damp rope in an otherwise dusty attic, and she locks the door until the police come.\n\nBattle arrests Audrey on the evidence and her ready admission of guilt. However, Battle's daughter had previously confessed to a theft she did not commit due to overwhelming pressure, and so he suspects that Audrey is in a similar situation. MacWhirter meets Battle and tells him what he has learned about this case, including his observation of a man swimming across the creek on the night of the brutal murder, and climbing into the house on a rope. Then, Thomas reveals that Audrey had ended their marriage, not Nevile, as she had grown afraid of him. She was about to marry Adrian Royde, Thomas' brother, when Adrian was killed in a road accident. With the parties on a motor launch, Battle uses this information to force a confession from Nevile Strange. He was the mastermind behind all the events and circumstances that should have converged into \"zero\" – the hanging of his first wife for the murder of Lady Tressilian.\n\nNevile may have been behind two other deaths (Mr Treves and Adrian Royde) but there is insufficient evidence to prosecute. With his confession, the rope, and the ruse with the bell pull explained, Battle charges him with the murder of Lady Tressilian. Audrey seeks out MacWhirter to thank him, and they decide to marry. They will travel to Chile where he begins his new job. Audrey expects that Thomas will come to realize that he really wants to marry Mary Aldin instead.\n\n\nThe review by Maurice Willson Disher in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" of 22 July 1944 was overwhelmingly positive: \"Undiscriminating admirers of Miss Christie must surely miss the thrill of realizing when she is at her best. If this argument is sound then \"Towards Zero\" is for the critical. By virtue of masterly story-telling it makes the welfare of certain persons at a seaside town seem of more importance at the moment than anything else in the world. Mechanized brains may object that the murderer \"perfects\" his mystery by methods imposed upon fiction's police, but even when the maze is vaguely recognised the tale still grips. The characters become so much a part of the reader's existence that he must know what their ultimate fate may be before he will rest satisfied. How alive they are is apparent when two men, both dogged, laconic, poker-faced, never seem alike. The wife and the ex-wife, who neither like nor dislike one another, also reveal creative power. As an exhibition of the modern brand of human nature, \"Towards Zero\" deserves higher praises than any that can be awarded to it as an excellent detective story.\" \n\nMaurice Richardson in the 6 August 1944 issue of \"The Observer\" wrote, \"The new Agatha Christie has a deliciously prolonged and elaborate build-up, urbane and cosy like a good cigar and red leather slippers. Poirot is absent physically, but his influence guides the sensitive inspector past the wiles of the carefully planted house party, and with its tortuous double bluff this might well have been a Poirot case. How gratifying to see Agatha Christie keeping the flag of the old classic who-dun-it so triumphantly flying!\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"Superb: intricately plotted and unusual. The murder comes later, and the real climax of the murderer's plot only at the end. The ingenuity excuses a degree of far-fetchedness. Highly effective story of the child and the bow-and-arrow (part II, chapter 6) and good characterization of the playboy-sportsman central character – very much of that era when one was expected to behave like a gentleman at Wimbledon.\"\n\n\nIn 2010, two Kindle editions were issued: one from HarperCollins, ISBN B0046A9MV8, and one from William Morrow Paperbacks, ISBN B005CL8DA6. Numerous editions of audio books have been issued from May 2004 to February 2010.\n\nThe novel was first serialised in \"Collier's Weekly\" in three instalments from 6 May (Volume 113, Number 19) to 20 May 1944 (Volume 113, Number 21) under the title \"Come and Be Hanged!\" with illustrations by Charles La Salle.\n\nIn October and November 1944, it was serialized with illustrations under that same title as a supplement to \"The Mail (Adelaide)\", in Australia. Portions are missing from the newspapers scanned by Trove, so the exact dates are not certain, save for the start on 7 October 1944.\n\nIn 1956, Christie adapted the book into a play with Gerald Verner. It was first published by Samuel French Ltd. in 1957. The play was first staged in September 1956 at the St James Theatre in the West End of London. Christie first wrote a stage play under this title in 1945, with one week of performances in Martha's Vineyard. The script was uncovered in 2015 by Julius Green.\n\n\"Toward Zero\" was included in the 1978 Christie play collection, \"The Mousetrap and Other Plays\".\n\nIt was performed in 2019 at The Maddermarket Theatre, Norwich, England, using the play as written by Agatha Christie in 1945 and recently \"unearthed by author Julius Green.\" As the only prior staging using this script was in Martha's Vineyard in the US, the theatre claims this as the first performance of this version of the 1945 stage play in Europe.\n\nIn 1995, a film adaptation lost its support from Agatha Christie's estate. When Rosalind Hicks, Christie's daughter and controller of her estate, reviewed the script, with such issues as incest in the script, she ordered that the name of the film be changed as well as the names of the characters. The film became \"Innocent Lies\" and was met with mediocre success.\n\nIn 2007, French filmmakers adapted the novel to \"Towards Zero\", titled in French as \"L'Heure Zéro\".\n\nIn 2007, the novel was adapted as part of the third season of the \"Agatha Christie's Marple\" television series produced by ITV. Geraldine McEwan plays Miss Marple. The novel did not include Miss Marple; other characters are changed as well for this adaptation to fit the series approach. Superintendent Battle is replaced by Superintendent Mallard played by Alan Davies.\n\nIn 2010, Joy Wilkinson adapted \"Towards Zero\" as a radio play, first transmitted in January 2010, in four parts, each 30 minutes by BBC Radio 4. The cast includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257199", "title": "Hinckley United F.C.", "text": "Hinckley United F.C.\n\nHinckley United Football Club was an English football club, from Hinckley, Leicestershire which last played in the Southern Football League Premier Division during the 2013–14 season. They were formed in 1997 as the result of a merger between Hinckley Athletic and Hinckley Town. The club latterly played their home games at De Montfort Park, having moved to the purpose built football stadium in March 2005.\n\nOn 7 October 2013 Hinckley United were wound up in the High Court.\n\nAfter the club was dissolved, supporters of Hinckley United formed Hinckley A.F.C. as a Community Trust football club. This \"Phoenix\" club was accepted into the Midland Football League 1st division for the 2014–15 season.\n\nThe town of Hinckley had an established football team for over one hundred years. The earliest recorded team was Hinckley Town, formed in 1889 and competed in the Leicestershire Senior League, playing their games at the Holywell Ground, behind the Holywell Inn pub. A short spell in the Midland League in 1900 was followed by a name change to Hinckley United and a return to the Leicestershire Senior League in 1905, where the club remained until the outbreak of the First World War. After the war Hinckley United competed in the Birmingham Combination, becoming champions twice in 1923–24 and 1926–27.\n\nAfter the war, the brewery owners of the Holywell Ground decided they wanted the land for other uses and the football club found themselves without a ground. The club managed to purchase land on Middlefield Lane, for the sum of £500, in August 1946, and following a name change to Hinckley Athletic in September 1946, the club resumed playing in the Nuneaton Combination league.\n\nHinckley Athletic subsequently competed in the Birmingham Combination again, the Southern League and West Midlands League before becoming founder members of the Midland Alliance. At the height of their success manager Dudley Kernick took the club into the Southern League Premier Division in 1964, before a financial crisis led to a relegation and eventual resignation from the Southern League. The club struggled to survive in the West Midlands League for the next 25 years. The early 1990s saw a turn around in fortunes for Hinckley Athletic and manager John Hanna saw the club become founder members of the Midland Alliance.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1958 Westfield Wanderers were formed and played in the Hinckley District League. In 1972 they changed their name to Hinckley Town and joined the Leicestershire Senior League, before their successful period in the 1980s with a switch to the Central Midlands League, then the West Midlands (Regional) League and gaining promotion to the Southern League in 1990.\n\nHinckley United, was formed on Wednesday 18 June 1997. A meeting on that date saw shareholders of Hinckley Athletic approve a merger with neighbours Hinckley Town.\nMerger moves were made immediately at the end of the 1996–97 season when Athletic narrowly missed out on promotion to the Southern League for the third consecutive campaign following finishes of 2nd, 3rd and 2nd again. A meeting of the respective chairmen, Mick Voce (Athletic) and Kevin Downes (Town), established there was some common ground with each club having something positive to offer, and the merger was completed.\n\nConsequently, the new club were to play at Middlefield Lane with Town's Leicester Road set up being used as a training ground, and once the FA and Southern League had approved the merger, United inherited Town's Southern League Midland Division place.\n\nThe aim was to provide better quality football in Hinckley and this success was achieved within four years. After a mid table finish in their first season, Hinckley United improved with finishes of fourth, third and then won the Southern League Midland/West Division in season 2000–01. That season saw Hinckley score 102 league goals and extend an unbeaten home record to 51 games.\n\nThis success was further compounded by becoming founder member of the Conference North. The first two seasons in the Southern League Premier Division Hinckley had mid-table finishes, but the following season finished in sixth place, also meaning they finished in a position to be accepted into the newly established Conference North division for 2004–05.\nAfter two mid table finishes consolidating in Conference North, season 2006–07 was accepted as the season Hinckley would make a serious challenge for the title. However, after a good start tragedy struck the club when popular defender Matt Gadsby collapsed and died on the pitch at Harrogate on 9 September 2006. The practical response in the days following Gadsby's death included fans voluntarily organising bucket collections at games across the country to donate to Gadsby's widow and daughter. These events culminated in a memorial match at the Marston Stadium featuring a Legends XI and a Gadsby Select XI, featuring players from Gadsby's previous clubs. Hinckley players took a month away from football and spent the rest of the season playing catch up. When Hinckley returned to action the season was one of up and down, but held on to a play-off spot, eventually rallying on and off the field to secure fourth place in the league, reaching the play-off final, but missing out on promotion conceding a last minute penalty.\n\nOff the pitch things gathered pace with the development of the club. Middlefield Lane was sold for £4 million which funded De Montfort Park, a purpose built 4329 capacity football ground. The move away from Middlefield Lane happened on 5 March 2005 when the first game at the new De Montfort Park Stadium was played. Attendances increased at the new stadium and a home league attendance record was set for Hinckley when nearly 2900 watched Hinckley draw with Nuneaton on boxing day 2006.\n\nFollowing from the play-off final defeat, Hinckley United struggled the following season and were involved in a relegation battle throughout. Despite being bottom of the league at Christmas, relegation was avoided by a nine-game unbeaten run at the end of the season, ensuring survival in the penultimate game.\n\nThe next few season were treated as consolidation, as financial hardship hit the club off the field. Lack of proper budgeting the previous seasons meant the club were unable to meet debts, and the HMRC petitioned the courts for a winding up order. The football club was also sanctioned with a registration embargo, limiting the number of players at the club to a maximum of 16. Over two years were spent with the club trying to finance and settle the debts, gaining adjournments from the courts, and the debt was finally settled in November 2010.\n\nPlayers left the club, due to the financial issues, and season 2010–11 saw a virtual fresh team of players start for Hinckley. Again it was a battle against relegation, but after the registration embargo was lifted in November 2010, some new players were brought in and Hinckley dragged themselves away from the relegation zone towards a mid table finish.\n\nAnother season of struggle and financial hardship followed in season 2011–12 and the club were relegated on the final day of the season, though finished on 48 points, the highest points total to be relegated from the Conference North. On 25 May 2012, the F.A published their proposed club allocations for the 2012–13 non-league season proposing Hinckley United would be in the Conference North after both Darlington and Kettering Town were relegated further divisions after financial problems. In June this reprieve was officially confirmed at the Football Conference AGM.\n\nOn 10 October the only manager in the club's history, Dean Thomas, resigned following a poor start to the season and increasing financial restrictions and was replaced by assistant manager, Carl Heggs. The club were again playing under a transfer embargo, even having to postpone one home game due to lack of players, and in other matches playing Youth team players. The team went on a winless run and, following a 4–1 defeat at Gloucester City, they were relegated. Heggs resigned, and long-serving player and 1st team coach Stuart Storer became the new manager.\n\nOn 7 October 2013 Hinckley United were wound up in the High Court of Justice.\n\nIn August 1997 Dean Thomas became team manager with former Hinckley Athletic boss John Hanna being appointed general manager, although Hanna relinquished his position in the new year of 1998, leaving Thomas in sole charge. He won the Southern League Western Division championship with Hinckley United in season 2000–01, and guided the club to the FA Cup 2nd round in December 2001 and December 2004. His assistant manager during that time was former Notts County player Charlie Palmer, however at the start of the 2007–08 season Palmer was replaced by Nick Platnauer. Platnauer had previously managed Rothwell Town, Kettering Town and Bedford Town.\n\nFor the 2010–11 season Platnauer, took more of a coaching role, whilst first team coach Stuart Storer took over the role of assistant manager. In July 2011 Platnauer started the season again in the assistant manager's role, but left the club in August 2011, and was replaced by Mark Faulkner. In June 2012 Marc Faulkner was replaced as assistant manager by former Hinckley United striker Carl Heggs.\n\nFollowing a very poor start to the 2012–13 season, and after an early exit in the FA Cup, Thomas resigned as manager on 10 October 2012. Thomas had been Hinckley United's manager for 16 years and was granted a testimonial season in 2007–08. Assistant manager Carl Heggs was placed in temporary charge and said on several occasions he would love the job on a permanent basis. On 15 November Heggs was offered the job on a permanent basis until the end of the 2012–13 season in a board meeting, but on a further reduced budget after the discovery of more debt being placed upon the club. On 28 February 2013, it was announced in the Hinckley Times that Heggs had signed a new contract until the end of the 2013–2014 season after being given the assurances he was looking for from the board. However, on 21 May 2013, Carl decided to resign as manager after being offered the chance to become a PE teacher at Ascot College, Derbyshire. The job was offered to long-serving first team coach, Stuart Storer, who accepted the offer on 27 May. Stuart Storer's first move as boss was to appoint former Knitters' defender Andrew Penny as his assistant, having formally worked as reserve team manager at Chasetown since 2011.\n\nThe club colours are red and blue, a blend of the main colours of the former clubs. Athletic played in red and Town played in blue. The original playing kit was red and blue stripes, blue shorts, blue socks – but that has evolved over the past 10 years. Now the playing kit is a solid blue body with red sleeves, and red flashes down the side of the body, blue shorts and red socks.\n\nThe original club crest for Hinckley United was the Arms of Honour of Hinckley, basically a red and white halved shield divided in half by a serrated line. The club crest was relaunched in 2004 still incorporating the Arms of Honour of Hinckley but also taking elements of the Borough of Hinckley and Bosworth crest and mascots of the two merged clubs Hinckley Athletic and Hinckley Town. The rams were added from the Borough crest signifying the hosiery industry in the town, and Hinckley Town's eagle plus Hinckley Athletic's robin were placed atop the crest.\n\nAt the formation of the club, a competition was held for fans to come up with a nickname and The Knitters was chosen. This reflects one of the longest standing industries associated with the town, the wool and hosiery trade, having been factories in Hinckley since the 17th century.\n\nHinckley United began playing their games in 1997 at Middlefield Lane, former home to Hinckley Athletic. Although having the required grade for Southern League and Conference North, it was old and would take a lot of work to upgrade to a better level. Hinckley United spent two years financing, securing land and building a new ground, and in 2005 phase 1 of the stadium was completed. Phase 2 was finished by 2007 adding a full size all weather floodlit pitch and junior changing facilities to the complex.\n\nMarston's Brewery signed a 10-year sponsorship of the ground and it became known as the Marston's Stadium. However, the deal ended early in December 2008 and the name reverted to the original De Montfort Park Stadium.\n\nIn January 2009 the club announced a deal for the stadium to be sponsored by the Greene King Brewery and the stadium was renamed the Greene King Stadium.\n\nIn total the complex covers and includes 3 full size pitches, 2 three-quarter size pitches, 3 half size pitches and an All Weather floodlit pitch. The flagship of the complex is the De Montfort Park Stadium, a 4329 capacity purpose built football ground, also comprising gymnasium, sports injury clinic and a social club too.\n\nThe first match in the stadium was on 5 March 2005 when Stalybridge Celtic were the first team to play Hinckley United on the ground, and drew 1–1, in front of a crowd of over 2000.\n\nThe FA gave the stadium international recognition in July 2012 when it was selected for two international under-17 matches, alongside Burton's Pirelli Stadium and Northampton's Sixfields Stadium, as part of a friendly tournament involving England, Italy, Turkey and Portugal.\nThe stadium hosted the Portugal U17s 1–0 Italy U17s, and Italy U17s 3–1 Turkey U17s matches.\n\nAfter the end of the 2012–13 season, Hinckley chairman Mike Sutton confirmed that Greene King Brewery had decided not to renew their deal to sponsor De Montfort Park.\n\n\nHinckley United reached beyond the 1st round of the FA Cup on four occasions, both times losing to Football League opposition in the second round.\n\nIn 2001–02 Hinckley United beat Grays Athletic 1–2 at the New Recreation Ground in the First Round, then lost to Cheltenham Town 0–2 at Middlefield Lane.\n\nIn 2004–05 Hinckley United recorded one of their most famous victories by beating Torquay United 2–0 at Middlefield Lane. In the Second Round Brentford played at Middlefield Lane live on BBC TV as the match was scheduled to be shown on \"Match of the Day\". The game finished 0–0 with Tommy Whittle, the then Hinckley goalkeeper facing a penalty that John Salako put wide of the post. The replay took place at Griffin Park and Brentford won 2–1, after Hinckley United defender Brad Piercewright was sent off for 'handling the ball on the line'.\n\nin 2009-10 Hinckley lost 3-1 away at Rushden & Diamonds\n\nin 2011-12 Hinckley lost 1-0 away to Tamworth in a replay after a 2-2 draw\n\nIn the short history of Hinckley United the furthest progression has been to the 4th round. Yeovil Town beat Hinckley United 3–2 at Huish Park in 1998–99.\n\nDuring the 2011–2012 season Hinckley had another successful cup run, beating Wrexham away in the 1st round, who at the time were top of the Conference National, and eventually bowing out after taking Luton Town to a replay in the 2nd round. Striker Andre Gray impressed in both games against Luton, later leading to the Conference Premier side to signing him on loan with a view to a £30,000 permanent transfer.\n\nLocal rivals include Nuneaton Town, Shepshed Dynamo, Barwell and Bedworth United. Nuneaton Town and Barwell being the biggest rivals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257201", "title": "Administrative divisions of Singapore", "text": "Administrative divisions of Singapore\n\nWhile the small physical size of the city-state does not qualify the creation of national subdivisions in the form of provinces, states, and other national political divisions found in larger countries, the city has nonetheless been administratively subdivided in various ways throughout its history for the purpose of local administration and urban planning.\n\nHistorically, these subdivisions have been based on postal districts, especially during the colonial era. When local elections necessitated the setting up of electoral districts, however, it began to supplement postal districts as an alternative form of local governance, since each electoral district is headed by a member of parliament who represents and speaks for the respective electorates.\n\nEstablished in 1997 by the PA Act, there were 9 districts formerly, governed by 9 different Community Development Councils (CDCs). In 2001, the 9 districts and CDCs were then reformed into 5, namely the North East CDC, North West CDC, South East CDC, South West CDC and Central Singapore CDC. Each district is then further divided into electoral constituencies and town councils.\n\nThe council boundaries follow that of the existing political divisions, with each handling between four and six GRCs and SMCs and roughly dividing the country's population into equal parts. Each CDC is managed by a Council, which in turn is headed by a mayor and has between 12 and 80 members. The members are appointed by the Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the People's Association.\n\nThe role of the CDCs is to initiate, plan and manage community programmes to promote community bonding and social cohesion within local communities. The electoral boundaries of Singapore are relatively fluid, and are reviewed prior to each general election. The districts are composed of the constituencies and electoral districts (the latter as of the 2015 General Elections).\n\nThere are currently five CDCs, namely the\n\nThe first town councils were set up in September 1986 by the Town Councils Act, with the main purpose of estate management. Prior to the introduction of town councils, housing estates were managed by the Housing Development Board. As the estates were centrally managed, the standardised rules that the board had set for all housing estates made HDB towns monotonous in appearance and problems faced by residents in the different estates were not addressed fast enough.\n\nTown councils boundaries are drawn based on electoral district boundaries. A town council area can consist of a Group Representation Constituency (GRC), a Single Member Constituency (SMC), or a collection of neighbouring GRCs and SMCs controlled by the same political party. The Members of Parliament head the town councils of their constituencies. Town councils boundaries do not correspond to new town boundaries; different parts of the same HDB town may be managed by different town councils.\n\nTown councils are then further subdivided into different constituencies, which are classified as either Single Member Constituencies (SMCs) or Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs). The boundaries of the electoral constituencies are decided by the Elections Department, which is under the control of the Prime Minister's Office.\n\nThe regions are groupings of the planning areas.\n\nRegions are further subdivided into planning areas. In the 1990s, the Urban Redevelopment Authority carved up the country into 55 of these planning areas. Their boundaries became increasingly accepted as an alternative method of subdividing the country, made all the more popular as the boundaries do not change compared to the more fluid nature of electoral boundaries. The Singapore Department of Statistics adopted these boundaries for the latest 2000 nationwide population census, and the Singapore Police Force uses them as an approximate guide when demarcating boundaries for its Neighbourhood Police Centres, as opposed to the former Neighbourhood Police Post system which was also based on electoral divisions.\n\nSingapore is divided into 64 survey districts, of which 34 are mukims (originally, rural districts) and 30 are town subdivisions.\n\nPostal districts were numbered from 01 to 83 under the new system implemented on 1 September 1995. Census data and most forms of internal boundaries had been based on postal districts until the introduction of new planning boundaries in the 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257208", "title": "Sparkling Cyanide", "text": "Sparkling Cyanide\n\nSparkling Cyanide is a work of detective fiction by British writer Agatha Christie, first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in February 1945 under the title of Remembered Death and in UK by the Collins Crime Club in the December of the same year under Christie's original title. The US edition retailed at $2.00 and the UK edition at eight shillings and sixpence (8/6).\n\nThe novel features the recurring character of Colonel Race for his last appearance to solve the mysterious deaths of \na married couple, exactly one year apart. The plot of this novel expands the plot of a short story, \"Yellow Iris\".\n\nOne year earlier on 2 November, seven people sat down to dinner at the restaurant \"Luxembourg\". One, Rosemary Barton, never got up. The coroner ruled her death suicide due to post-flu depression. Six months later, her husband George receives anonymous letters saying that Rosemary was murdered. George investigates and decides to repeat the dinner at the same restaurant, with the same guests, plus an actress who looks like his late wife meant to arrive late and startle out a confession. The actress does not arrive and George dies at the table – poisoned, like his wife, by cyanide in his champagne. His death might have been judged as suicide, but George shared his concerns and some of his plan with his friend Colonel Race.\n\nAs per their uncle's will, if Rosemary died childless her inherited fortune passed to her younger sister Iris, now a wealthy girl. If Iris dies unmarried, the money would pass to her only relative, her aunt Lucilla Drake. Mrs Drake is a decent person but has a rotter of a son, Victor. During the investigation it becomes clear that the intended victim was Iris. Colonel Race and Iris's suitor, Anthony Browne, realise that Ruth Lessing, George's trusted secretary, had fallen for Victor a year earlier.\n\nThe wrong person dies because of Iris's evening bag and the toast to her, the conjuring trick that saves her life. After the entertainment, George proposes a toast to Iris, when all sip champagne except her, being toasted. When the group leaves the table to dance, Iris drops her bag; a young waiter, retrieving it, misplaces it at the seat adjacent hers. When the group returns to the table, Iris sits one seat askew due to the misplaced bag. George sits at Iris's original seat and drinks the poisoned champagne. When this plot fails, Ruth attempts to run Iris over with a car. Colonel Race, together with the police and Anthony Browne, unravel the truth in time to save Iris from Ruth. Her last attempt at killing Iris is to knock her unconscious in her bedroom, then turn on the fireplace gas, and leave the house. Anthony and Colonel Race rescue Iris in the nick of time.\n\nThe anonymous letters to George were sent by Ruth, who then encouraged him to re-stage the dinner at the Luxembourg so that Victor and Ruth could kill Iris, as they killed Rosemary. To support a decision of suicide, Ruth had planted a packet of cyanide in Iris's bag, which packet dropped to the floor when she pulled her handkerchief out, without touching it (no fingerprint). Victor acted as a waiter, to drop the poison in the champagne during the show. He was taken at New York at the request of the police. \n\n\nThe plot of this novel is an expansion of a Hercule Poirot short story entitled \"Yellow Iris,\" which had previously been published in issue 559 of the \"Strand Magazine\" in July 1937 and in book form in \"The Regatta Mystery and Other Stories\" in the US in 1939. It was published in book form in the UK in \"Problem at Pollensa Bay\" in 1991.\n\nThe full-length novel has Colonel Race as the central investigative character in place of Poirot, who had that role in the short story. The novel uses the basics of the short story, including the method of the poisoning, but changes the identity of the culprit(s) – not for the first time, when Christie rewrote her own work.\n\nThe book was not reviewed in \"The Times Literary Supplement\".\n\nMaurice Richardson, in the 13 January 1946 issue of \"The Observer\" wrote, \"Agatha Christie readers are divided into two groups: first, fans like me who will put up with any amount of bamboozling for the sake of the pricking suspense, the close finish, six abreast, of the suspect race, and the crashing chord of the trick solution; second, knockers who complain it isn't cricket and anyway there's nothing to it.<br> Fans, I guarantee will be quite happy with \"Sparkling Cyanide\", a high income group double murder, first of wayward smarty Rosemary, second of dull husband George at his lunatic reconstruction-of-the-crime party. It is too forced to rank with her best Number One form, but the suspect race is up to scratch and readability is high. Making allowances for six years of spam and cataclysm, quite a credible performance.\"\n\nAn unnamed reviewer in the \"Toronto Daily Star\" of 24 February 1945 said, \"Suspense is well maintained and suspicion well divided. While this mystery lacks Hercule Poirot, it should nevertheless please all Agatha Christie fans, especially those who like the murders in the fast, sophisticated set.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"Murder in the past, previously accepted as suicide. Upper-class tart gets her come-uppance in smart London restaurant, and husband later suffers the same fate. Compulsively told, the strategies of deception smart as a new pin, and generally well up to 'forties standard. But the solution takes more swallowing than cyanided champagne.\"\n\nIn 1983, CBS writers Robert Malcolm Young, Sue Grafton and Steven Humphrey adapted the book into a television film, directed by Robert Michael Lewis, set in modern day California and starring Anthony Andrews as the central character, Tony Browne, with Deborah Raffin as Iris Murdoch, Pamela Bellwood as Ruth Lessing, Josef Sommer as George Barton, David Huffman and June Chadwick as Stephen and Sandra Farraday, Nancy Marchand as Lucilla Drake, and Christine Belford as Rosemary Barton. This adaptation did not feature Colonel Race.\n\nIn 1993, the short story that served as the basis for this novel, \"The Yellow Iris\", was adapted for television by Anthony Horowitz and directed by Peter Barber-Fleming in an episode of the ITV series Agatha Christie's Poirot starring David Suchet.\n\nIn late 2003, it was loosely adapted by Laura Lamson for ITV1, again in a modern setting, and involving a football manager's wife's murder. In this adaptation Colonel Race was renamed Colonel Geoffrey Reece, and given a partner, his wife, Dr. Catherine Kendall. The byplay between Reece (played by Oliver Ford Davies) and Kendall (played by Pauline Collins) was somewhat similar to Christie's characters Tommy and Tuppence.\n\nIn 2012, a three-part adaptation by Joy Wilkinson was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 directed by Mary Peate, with Naomi Frederick as Iris, Amanda Drew as Ruth, Colin Tierney as Anthony, James Lailey as Stephen, Sean Baker as Colonel Race and Jasmine Hyde as Rosemary.\n\n\nThe novel's first true publication was the serialisation in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" in eight instalments from 15 July (Volume 216, Number 3) to 2 September 1944 (Volume 217, Number 10) under the title \"Remembered Death\" with illustrations by Hy Rubin.\n\nThe novel was first serialised, heavily abridged, in the UK in the \"Daily Express\" starting on Monday, 9 July 1945 and running for eighteen instalments until Saturday, 28 July 1945. The first instalment carried an uncredited illustration.\n"}
{"id": "2257213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257213", "title": "Caballistics, Inc.", "text": "Caballistics, Inc.\n\nCaballistics, Inc is a horror/fantasy story, set in the present day, that has been running in the weekly British anthology comic \"2000AD\" since December 2002. The strip was created by writer Gordon Rennie and artist Dom Reardon (the latter of whom has been the sole artist on the strip since its inception).\n\nIt spawned a spin-off, \"Absalom\", based around Inspector Harry Absalom (given as \"Absolam\" in \"Caballistics, Inc\"), written by Rennie with art by Tiernen Trevallion.\n\nIn 2004 Department Q, a Ministry of Defence department originally created in the 1940s to combat Nazi occult warfare, is privatised by the British government. The Department, by then consisting only of the crusty paranormal historian Dr Jonathan Brand and his assistant Jennifer Simmons, is bought by Ethan Kostabi, a reclusive multi-millionaire 1970s pop star. Kostabi announces that he has contracted their services as part of a new private ghost-busting outfit, to be known as Caballistics, Inc., and introduces them to their teammates, freelance occult investigators Hannah Chapter and Lawrence Verse. Even before the official press release for the new company can be sent out, the team is called to deal with a major paranormal infestation on the London Underground, where they meet the fifth member of the team, the powerful and seemingly evil Solomon Ravne. The team go on to investigate various paranormal phenomena, suffering from internal conflicts and divided loyalties, and all the while it is suggested that Kostabi has some ultimate plan in mind for the team beyond that which any of them expect...\n\n\"Caballistics, Inc.\" has an extremely dark tone. Several recurring characters have been unexpectedly killed off, and there is a degree of brutality unusual for a British comic magazine. Early in the series, Simmons was possessed by a powerful demon, a state that continues to this day. More recently, Brand, usually identified by fans as the 'good' member of the team, was pushed under a Tube train by another member, Mikey Ness.\n\nEvents within the team came to a head when - after three years of intrigue and suspicion - they were eventually pushed into confrontation with their erstwhile employer. At least three members of the team were killed in the ensuing battle in addition to Kostabi himself, with only Ravne and Simmons known to have walked away unharmed. With the ultimate fates of the only two other members being left highly ambiguous, this effectively marked the end of the organisation. Besides an epilogue, \"Nativity\", in late 2007, the remaining plot threads would be taken up in a spin-off series, \"Absalom\", beginning in 2011, and followed characters that had previously appeared in minor supporting roles in \"Caballistics, Inc\".\n\nCaballistics contains many overt references to both \"Doctor Who\" and \"Quatermass\". The strip also contains many passing references to other cult television, film and literary mythologies alongside various religious traditions. Among the many mentions are Gnosticism, Kabbalah, the Rosicrucians, the Tetragrammaton, Opus Dei, Zoroastrianism, the Illuminati, paranormal warfare in World War II, the Thule Society, Aleister Crowley, \"Faust\", Grant Morrison's \"Zenith\", Delta Green, \"The Omen\", \"The Exorcist\" and references to the works of Clive Barker, Robert W. Chambers, Roger Corman, William Hope Hodgson, Shaun Hutson, H. P. Lovecraft, Palo Mayombe, Kim Newman, Edgar Allan Poe and Hammer studios.\n\nAlso known as Citizen Strange, David Smith [real name], possibly Nyarlathotep.\n\n\nAka: Der Teufel The Devil, Master Raven, Dominus, Ravenous\n\nAka Professor Brand, Brainiac\n\nAka Demon Jenny, Edwina Scissorhands, Baarish-Shammon, She Who Stalks By Night\n\nAka Father Lawrence\n\n\nAka The Nessy Monster, Bravo Two Zero\n\nAll installments have been written by Gordon Rennie and drawn by Dom Reardon:\n\n\nSo far there have been two novel adaptations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257219", "title": "List of SAS operations", "text": "List of SAS operations\n\nThe following is a list of known Special Air Service (SAS) operations.\n\nThe Special Air Service began life in July 1941, the brainchild of Lieutenant David Stirling of No. 8 (Guards) Commando. His idea was for small teams of parachute trained soldiers to operate behind enemy lines to gain intelligence, destroy enemy aircraft and attack their supply and reinforcement routes. The SAS carried out this role until the end of the war serving in a number of theatres and campaigns.\n\nBy the end of the Second World War on 8 May 1945, the SAS had suffered 330 casualties, but had killed or wounded 7,733 and captured 23,000 of their enemies.\n\n\n\n\nImmediately following the conclusion of the Second World War the SAS was disbanded; however the continued necessity for a commando unit was recognised and they were reformed again in 1947. In 1950 an SAS squadron trained to be deployed in the Korean War, however they were eventually transferred to Southeast Asia to serve in the ongoing Malayan Emergency.\n\nThe SAS continued to serve successfully in a variety of theatres and roles throughout the Cold War, and following the September 11 attacks the SAS deployed in the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, it has continued its diverse selection of roles to the present day.\n\nMalayan Emergency\nJebel Akhdar War\nIndonesian Confrontation\nAden Emergency\nDhofar Rebellion\nLufthansa Flight 181\n\nIranian Embassy Siege\nFalklands War\n\nThe Troubles\nPersian Gulf War\n\n\nBosnian War\n\nJapanese embassy hostage crisis\n\nSierra Leone Civil War\n\nWar in Afghanistan\nIraq War\n\nOperation Enduring Freedom – Horn of Africa\n\nLibyan Civil War\n\nMilitary intervention against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257227", "title": "Loans affair", "text": "Loans affair\n\nThe Loans affair, also called the Khemlani affair, was a political scandal involving the Whitlam Government of Australia in 1975, in which it was accused of attempting to unconstitutionally borrow money from Middle Eastern countries through the agency of Pakistani banker Tirath Khemlani (17 September 1920 — 19 May 1991), bypassing standard procedures of the Australian Treasury. Minerals and Energy Minister Rex Connor, along with Treasurer and Deputy Prime Minister Dr Jim Cairns misled Parliament and were forced from the Whitlam Cabinet over the Affair, which was a key precursor to the Constitutional Crisis and the Dismissal of the Whitlam Government in 1975.\n\nMinerals and Energy Minister Rex Connor wanted funds for a series of national development projects. He proposed that to finance his plans, the government should borrow $US 4 billion. It was a requirement of the Australian Constitution that non-temporary government borrowings must be through the Loan Council. Although the development projects were long-term, Whitlam, together with ministers Cairns, Murphy and Connor authorised Connor to seek the loan on 13 December 1974, without involving the Loan Council. Connor had already been investigating the loan. Through an Adelaide builder, he had been introduced to Pakistani dealer Tirath Khemlani. According to Khemlani, Connor asked for a 20-year loan with interest at 7.7% and set a commission to Khemlani of 2.5%. Despite assurance that all was in order, Khemlani began to stall on the loan, notably after he was asked to go to Zurich with officials of the Reserve Bank of Australia to prove that the funds were in the Union Bank of Switzerland as he had claimed. The government revised its authority to Connor to $2 billion.\n\nTirath Khemlani played a pivotal role. He was employed by Dalamal and Sons, a London-based commodity-trading firm\n\nThe raising of foreign loans for the Australian Government at the time required the authorisation of the Loan Council. It was common knowledge that funds were usually borrowed from European banks or financiers. Connor's attempt to secure the loan was unusual for several reasons:\n\n\nConnor was duly authorised to raise loans through Khemlani in late 1974. Between December 1974 and May 1975, Khemlani sent regular telexes to Connor advising that he was close to securing the loan.\n\nHowever, the loan never eventuated and, in May 1975, Whitlam sought to secure the loan instead through a major US investment bank. As part of the loan procedure, this bank imposed an obligation on the Australian Government to cease all other loan raising activities pertaining to this loan and accordingly, on 20 May 1975, Connor's loan-raising authority was formally revoked.\n\nAs news leaked of the plan, the Opposition began questioning the Government. Under questioning from Fraser, Whitlam said on 20 May that the loans pertained to \"matters of energy\", that the Loans Council had not been advised, and that it would be advised only \"if and when the loan is made\". The following day he told Fraser and Parliament that authority for the plan had been revoked. On 4 June 1975, the Treasurer and deputy prime minister, Jim Cairns, misled Parliament by claiming that he had not given a letter to an intermediary offering a 2.5% commission on a loan. Whitlam removed Cairns from Treasury and made him Minister for the environment, before dismissing him from Cabinet.\n\nA special one-day sitting of the House of Representatives was held on 9 July 1975, during which the Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam tabled the documents containing evidence about the loan and attempted to defend his government's actions.\n\nBeset by economic difficulties at the time, and by the negative political impact which the Loans Affair conjured up, the Whitlam Government was vulnerable to further assaults on its credibility.\n\nAlthough Rex Connor's authority to seek an overseas loan was withdrawn following leaking of the scandal, he continued to liaise with Khemlani. Journalist Peter Game, from the major Melbourne daily newspaper \"The Herald\", tracked down Khemlani in mid-late 1975 and following an interview, revealed that Khemlani and Connor were still in contact, bringing the Loans Affair to a head. When Connor directly denied Khemlani's version of events, as reported in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\", Khemlani flew to Australia in October 1975 and provided Peter Game with telexes, sent to him from Connor, that refuted Connor's denial.\n\nOn 13 October 1975, Khemlani provided a statutory declaration and a copy of the incriminating telexes sent from Connor's office, a copy of which was forwarded to Prime Minister Gough Whitlam. Upon receiving the documents, Whitlam dismissed Connor from his government for misleading parliament. In his letter of dismissal, date 14 October 1975, Whitlam wrote: \"Yesterday I received from solicitors a copy of a statutory declaration signed by Mr Khemlani and copies of a number of telex messages between Mr Khemlani’s office in London and the office of the Minister for Energy. In my judgment these messages did constitute 'communications of substance' between the Minister and Mr Khemlani.\" Connor was replaced as Minister for Minerals and Energy by the Minister for Agriculture, Ken Wriedt.\n\nThe loans affair embarrassed the Whitlam government and exposed it to claims of impropriety. The Malcolm Fraser-led Opposition used its majority in the Senate to block the government’s budget legislation, thereby attempting to force an early general election, citing the loans affair as an example of ‘extraordinary and reprehensible’ circumstances.\n\nFraser told Parliament that the government was incompetent and the opposition Liberal-Country Party Coalition delayed passage of the government's money bills in the Senate, with the intention of forcing the government to an election. Prime Minister Whitlam refused to call an election. The deadlock came to an end when Whitlam was dismissed by the Governor General, Sir John Kerr on 11 November 1975 and Fraser was installed as caretaker Prime Minister, pending an election. At the general election held in December 1975, the Coalition led by Malcolm Fraser was elected in a landslide victory.\n\nThe Loans Affair was dramatised in the 1983 Ten Network mini-series \"The Dismissal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257228", "title": "Tallán", "text": "Tallán\n\nTallán (or \"Tacllán\", after the use of the taclla, a farming tool) was an ethnic group that settled in the plains of north-western Peru, an ethnos with a matriarchal system. They had migrated to the coastal plains from the Sierra and in the beginning lived in \"behetrias\", which were simple settlements without a head or an organization.\n\nNarihualá (17 km south of Piura) is considered the capital of the Tallán Nation and is the most important architectural evidence of a great monument, both in its size and the prominent platforms of two pyramids. The Narihualá Temple was built as a sanctuary in the honour of the Tacllán god Walac.\n\nLater the Tacllán territory was invaded by the Moche and the Chimu. \"Tacllán\" in north-western Peru today is the name of an agricultural tool with a running board.\n\nHuaca El Loro, near Chiclayo, Peru is a Tallán archaeological site, where a 1000-year-old mummy of a nobleman was discovered.\n"}
{"id": "2257231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257231", "title": "Corrado Correggi", "text": "Corrado Correggi\n\nCorrado Correggi is an Italian businessman, football agent and football club owner.\n\nHe owns Algarve United, which he founded in 2004. He founded the club in partnership with his Scottish father-in-law, John McGovern, who is also a football agent.\n\nCorreggi developed business activity in corks for fine wine.\n\nCorreggi named his team, Algarve United, after the lynx, and has promised to donate 10% of the club's gate receipts and membership fees to lynx conservation.\n"}
{"id": "2257233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257233", "title": "Parker Pyne Investigates", "text": "Parker Pyne Investigates\n\nParker Pyne Investigates is a short story collection written by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by William Collins and Sons in November 1934. Along with \"The Listerdale Mystery\", this collection did not appear under the usual imprint of the Collins Crime Club but instead appeared as part of the \"Collins Mystery\" series. It appeared in the US later in the same year published by Dodd, Mead and Company under the title Mr. Parker Pyne, Detective\n. The UK edition retailed at seven shillings and sixpence (7/6) and the US edition at $2.00.\n\nThe collection comprises twelve of her fourteen stories featuring detective James Parker Pyne; the two remaining stories, \"Problem at Pollensa Bay\" and \"The Regatta Mystery\" were later collected in \"The Regatta Mystery\" in 1939 in the US and in \"Problem at Pollensa Bay\" in the UK in 1991 although these were originally stories featuring Hercule Poirot when they were first published in the \"Strand Magazine\" in 1935 and 1936 respectively.\n\nThe book also features the first appearance of the characters of Ariadne Oliver, and Miss Felicity Lemon, both of whom would go on to have working relationships with Hercule Poirot in later books.\n\nJames Parker Pyne is a retired government employee who considers himself to be a \"detective of the heart\". Advertising his services in the \"Personal\" column of \"The Times\", he works alongside his secretary Miss Lemon, novelist Ariadne Oliver, handsome \"lounge lizard\" Claude Luttrell and disguise artist Madeleine de Sara.\n\nThe first six stories deal with Pyne solving cases in England, while the second six stories detail Pyne's vacation, where he hopes not to have to do detective work only to end up helping others anyway.\n\nThe marriage of George and Maria Packington is in difficulties. Mr. Packington has started to see a young typist named Nancy. When his wife protests, he states that he is merely trying to bring some happiness into the girl's life and that there is nothing in their relationship. At the end of her tether, Maria sees Parker Pyne's advertisement in the personal column of the paper which reads: \"Are you happy? If not, consult Mr. Parker Pyne.\"\n\nMaria goes to the address given and Parker Pyne instantly guesses the cause of her unhappiness from his knowledge of life and his previous occupation in statistics. He tells Maria that his fee is two hundred guineas, the sum to be paid up front. At first reluctant, Maria returns to the office with the money, as Pyne predicted. He has already lined up one of his associates, a good-looking young man called Claude Lutterell, and he tells her that she will receive instructions tomorrow.\n\nThat night George Packington is surprised at his wife’s non-combative attitude towards him. The next day, Maria is sent for a beauty treatment and a dress-fitting followed by lunch at the Ritz Hotel with Pyne where she is introduced to Claude. Something of a whirlwind romance of ten days follows which culminates in a dance one night when Maria and Claude cross paths with George and his girl at a dance. George is jealous and shocked at his wife's behaviour and a couple of days later the two are reconciled. At the same time, Maria has grown closer to Claude who breaks off his relationship with her and confesses the shame of his past to her as a gigolo who uses women. He promises to reform and keep Maria updated with his progress with an annual advert in the personal column. It turns out that this confession was also planned and the advert arranged by Pyne to give a lasting romance to Maria. Pyne is satisfied that he has successfully saved a marriage (at a profit to himself).\n\nMajor Charles Wilbraham calls at Parker Pyne's office. He has recently returned after many years in the service of the Empire in East Africa and is retired. As Pyne instantly concludes, he is bored stiff living in an English village after a lifetime of excitement and adventure. Pyne charges him fifty pounds and instructs him to take Madeleine de Sara to lunch. She returns a few hours later unsuccessful: she has frightened the Major off, as he thinks her something of a vamp; his tastes run to fair-haired, blue-eyed women. Pyne consults a list and decides that Freda Clegg will be suitable...\n\nThe next day Wilbraham receives note from Pyne instructing him to go to an address in Friar’s Lane, Hampstead and call at a house named \"Eaglemont.\" In Friar's Lane, Wilbraham hears cries for help and going into an empty house sees a young blond-haired, blue-eyed woman being attacked by two black men. He fights them off and takes the young lady for a coffee to help her get over her attack.\n\nShe tells her story: her name is Freda Clegg and she is an orphan. The previous week she received a visit from an Australian lawyer who told her she might come into a legacy from business transacted by her late father but that it was dependent upon her having some papers of his. She handed him all of the papers she has, having no idea what the matter could be about and then received a letter from him asking her to call on him at his house, \"Whitefriars\" in Friar’s Lane – the empty house, and it was there she was attacked and Wilbraham saved her. The Major’s theory is that there is something in her father’s papers that the man posing as a lawyer wants desperately. Freda remembers that she thought her room had been searched when she was out and that this attack was possibly to take such papers by force from Freda if she had them on her person, or to force her to tell where they are.\n\nThey go to her room in lodgings in Notting Hill and in a slit in the lining of her father's old chest find a document which the Major recognises as being written in Swahili. The Major can understand the writing and realises that it refers to a hidden cache of expensive ivory. The Major asks if he can keep the document for the moment and will call on her tomorrow at half-past-six when he has thought of a plan of action.\n\nAs promised, he returns the next night but finds a note from Freda asking him to join her at \"Whitefriars.\" He buys a stamp from the landlady, posts a letter and then proceeds to Hampstead. Entering the empty house, he is soon knocked on the head and regains consciousness in the cellar. Freda is also there and the two of them are bound. She tells him that she too received a letter, purportedly from the Major, asking her to go to \"Whitefriars\". Suddenly the voice of the lawyer booms in the darkness. The two of them have interfered in his plans and he must dispose of them. A trickle of water starts to pour from a hole in the wall into the room and Freda realises that they are meant to drown. She remains somewhat calm while the Major strains successfully at his bonds. He frees himself, then her and they flee the house. Freda is full of admiration for Wilbraham and he impulsively proposes. She accepts and then worries about her father's paper which is missing from his pocket. He tells her that what they took was a spoof copy and he posted her father's paper on to his tailor in the envelope in Notting Hill.\n\nParker Pyne visits Mrs Oliver, the novelist and congratulates her on the story she thought up for him to use with the Major and Freda, although he thinks the cellar of water was something of a cliché. \"Whitefriars\" is a house Pyne bought long ago which he has so far used for eleven exciting dramas.\n\nThe Wilbrahams, happily married, are in Africa. Without telling each other, both think they paid money to Pyne and he didn't provide anything for them. Neither bears a grudge though – if they hadn't gone to see Pyne, the train of events that led to them meeting would never have happened...\n\nA young lady calls at Parker Pyne's office. Her name is Mrs. Daphne St. John and she says she is in a great deal of trouble and needs help. She produces a diamond ring that Pyne examines and declares to be worth at least two thousand pounds. Daphne tells him that she stole it from a friend of hers because she was in desperate straits. The background is that her husband is careful with money and doesn't know that she has got herself into debt. Daphne went with friends to Le Touquet and lost a great deal of money in the casino. Soon afterwards she went to stay in the country at the house of Sir Reuben Dortheimer whose wife, Naomi, was at school with Daphne. During the visit the setting of the diamond ring became loose and Naomi asked Daphne to take it to Bond Street for her to be fixed. Instead, Daphne had a paste copy made and pawned the real ring for money to pay off her debts, the paste being sent to Lady Dortheimer. Soon after, she came into some money when a cousin died and has now reclaimed the real ring. However she cannot return it as the husbands have quarrelled and the two couples are no longer on speaking terms. In addition, Naomi's character wouldn't allow forgiveness of such an act of theft if Daphne was to confess and she has heard news that Lady Dortheimer is thinking of having the stone reset. The jeweller she will send it to is bound to notice that it is a paste copy. Asked for ideas, Daphne admits that she has heard that the Dortheimers are going to be having a party on the coming Wednesday and she needs some exhibition dancers. After she has left the office, Pyne calls in Claude Luttrell and Madeleine de Sara and tells them they are going to be famous dancers...\n\nThe party and the exhibition dance goes well. Lady Naomi Dortheimer is very taken with Jules, the dancer (in reality, Claude) and they are on the dancefloor when the lights suddenly go out, as arranged by Madeleine out in the hall. In the darkness, Lady Naomi's ring \"slips\" from her finger but is soon replaced by Claude.\n\nDaphne calls at Pyne's office the next morning. He passes her his bill for expenses which she pays in cash and he gives her the ring. He has had it examined and it is definitely a paste copy. Daphne seems a little put out at this and Pyne tells her that he knows that she is in reality Ernestine Richards who is the secretary of Lady Dortheimer. The ring she brought in the previous visit was the paste copy which Richards wanted Pyne and his people to substitute for the real thing, absolving her of any real crime. He does not charge her a fee as he has not made her happy as his advert had promised. The angry young lady storms out of the office.\n\nParker Pyne receives a new client. Reginald Wade is a slightly inarticulate young man whose marriage is in a mess. His wife of nine years has given him six-months' notice that unless he changes his ways she wants a divorce. He leads a blameless life, playing golf and tennis whereas Mrs Wade likes the arts – galleries, operas and concerts. She is bored with her husband and she has become friends with a long-haired art lover called Sinclair Jordan. Pyne's solution to the problem is for Reggie to have a mild flirtation with a beautiful woman. This will make Iris Wade jealous and also make her think twice about Reggie's attractiveness to women. Although he admits that there is a possibility that Iris is so completely in love with Jordan that the plan will fail, Pyne thinks the scheme has a ninety-seven percent chance of success and he charges Wade two hundred guineas, payable in advance.\n\nReggie subsequently \"invites\" Madeleine de Sara down to his house for the weekend, with his wife's agreement and to her amusement. She is pleased that her divorce will be simpler in that Reggie will not be so upset, but she is less pleased to see the attraction between the pair and the compliments that Miss de Sara bestows upon Reggie. Madeleine makes small comments about his ability as a golf teacher and how not playing a sport makes one feel left out. She also compliments Iris on letting Reggie have such friendships when other jealous women wouldn't. Little by little, Iris' veneer of acceptance starts to slip away.\n\nLater that day Reggie and Madeleine take a walk in the rose garden and, seeing that Iris is watching them from the terrace, Madeleine makes Reggie kiss her. Iris is livid and in a private row with Reggie threatens a separation. Madeleine tells him to suggest that he leaves as she won't like the idea of him being alone in London, \"amusing\" himself. A war of nerves breaks out between the couple, but Madeleine tells him to keep calm – at this rate, all will be well in less than a fortnight.\n\nA week later, Madeleine returns to Pyne's office and reports on the case. Matters reached a head when Sinclair Jordan joined the house party. He fell for Madeleine, but she made outrageous fun of him and his appearance. Iris demanded that Reggie throw her out, but he told his wife he wanted to marry Madeleine as per her instructions to him. Iris has staged a collapse, but Reggie has nevertheless gone to town and Madeleine is sure that Iris is following him to effect a reconciliation on his terms. Suddenly the office door bursts open and Reggie runs in, proclaiming his genuine love for Madeleine. Iris quickly follows and a scene ensues, ended by Madeleine when she screams hysterically for them to get out. They leave and Pyne accepts responsibility for this turn of events. He writes across the file that this case's result was a \"failure\" but that the result \"should have been foreseen.\"\n\nParker Pyne receives his next customer: Mr. Roberts is a city clerk of forty-eight years of age. He is happily married with two healthy children and a steady job. However his life has been one of steady work and survival with no moments of adventure and he feels in a rut. His wish is to \"live gloriously\" if only for a few minutes. He can only afford to pay five pounds for this privilege but Pyne accepts this offer, although warning Mr. Roberts that danger could be involved...\n\nPyne goes to the Bon Voyageur restaurant and meets a Mr Bonnington there. The previous evening, an absent-minded professor called Petersfield was murdered in an attempt to steal some secret plans from him. Fortunately, the plans were not taken but they have got to be sent safely to the League of Nations in Geneva. Their usual agents to carry out this task are either indisposed or, in the case of one by the name of Hooper, are not trusted as he is suspected of being a double agent. Pyne knows of someone who could take on the case...\n\nConsequently, Mr. Roberts, his wife and children fortuitously staying with her mother, finds himself travelling by first-class sleeper train from London to Geneva and a hotel where he will receive further instructions. He is not told the true nature of what he is carrying but that it is a cryptogram revealing the hiding place of the Romanov crown jewels. He arrives safely in Geneva and meets a tall bearded man who makes himself known to Roberts, gives him instructions to take a sleeper train for Paris and given password phrases to exchange with his next contact and a revolver for safety.\n\nThe next day at the station, he soon bumps into a glamorous foreign girl who uses the correct password phrases with him and tells him to meet her in her next-door compartment after they have passed the border. He does so and the girl reveals that she is frightened as someone called Vassilievitch is on the train in the compartment on the other side of hers and he is out to murder the girl and get the jewels. At his offer, she passes him a rolled-stocking with the jewels secreted inside for him to look after during the night. Embarrassed, he turns down the suggestion that he sleeps in her compartment to key an eye on her but he does agree to sleep in the connecting washroom. In the hours of darkness, he thinks he hears a noise coming from her compartment and enters it. She has gone and there is a smell of chloroform in the air. At the end of the carriage he spots the sleeping conductor and his discarded jacket and cap and, disguising himself as that official, gets Vassilievitch to open his door, pushes past him, locks the Russian out and unties the bound and gagged girl. They wait in the man's compartment until the next morning and upon arrival in Paris go on an extended run through the city in a bid to shake off any pursuers. They fly from Le Bourget to Croydon where they are met by a man identified as Count Paul Stepanyi (who looks similar to the tall bearded man in Geneva) who takes them to a country house. The stockings are handed over and Mr. Roberts is given a jewel-encrusted order in a Morocco case as thanks. He is also introduced to the girl properly – the Grand Duchess Olga. After Mr. Roberts has gone, the Grand Duchess, aka Madeleine de Sara, in reality Maggie Sayers, goes home to Streatham.\n\nPyne meets with Bonnington again. The plans were successfully transferred and he admits to giving his courier another more embellished story as a gun would seem too mundane.\n\nThree agents of the other side meet in Paris, annoyed that their plans failed and they blame each other for their loss.\n\nMr. Roberts sits at home reading a book. Pyne sends onto him a cheque for fifty pounds with thanks from \"certain people\". Mr. Roberts is more than satisfied that he has had his bit of adventure.\n\nParker Pyne receives an original problem from his latest customer: Mrs. Abner Rymer is the widow of a man who worked out a new engineering process which made him a rich man. She was a farmgirl who was courted by Rymer and married him when they had no money and lived through years of gruelling poverty. When he first struck his riches the two people at first enjoyed their new life of luxury but the novelty of servants, foreign trips, expensive clothes and food soon wore off. Abner Rymer was a weak man physically but his new-found wealth couldn't reverse his deterioration and he died at the relatively young age of forty-three some five years ago. Mrs Rymer has no friends now; her old friends are shy of her new lifestyle and her newer acquaintances are always after subscriptions and, she feels sure, are snobbish about her behind her back. She basically wants help in spending money in an enjoyable way but without giving it away. Pyne promises to restore her interest in life and charges her one thousand pounds up-front for his service. After she has gone, Pyne tells Claude Luttrell that the services of Dr. Antrobus will be needed...\n\nA week later he calls Mrs Rymer back to his office and introduces her to Nurse de Sara who takes the lady up one floor to the waiting Dr. Constantine. He appears to be of eastern extraction and the room is decorated in oriental fashion. Mrs Rymer is told she has a sickness of the mind, not of the body and is given a cup of coffee to drink. She soon falls asleep...\n\n...and wakes up in bed in a somewhat bare room. She is soon attended by a plump little woman in an apron called Mrs Gardner and an elderly doctor who both call her \"Hannah\" and say that she had a seizure two days previously and has been unconscious ever since. She will soon be up and about but she's not to worry about her work as a Mrs Roberts has been helping Mrs Gardner. When they have gone, Mrs Rymer goes to the window and sees that she is in a farmhouse. Later she questions Mrs Gardner who tells her that she has lived there for five years and even shows her a photograph of her and the other residents together. She keeps her thoughts to herself for the moment and soon sees a newspaper which confirms that some three days have passed since she was in Pyne's office and also sees a report that Mrs Abner Rymer has been removed to a private nursing home having delusions that she is a servant girl named Hannah Moorhouse. She also sees in another column a report that a Dr. Constantine has given a lecture stating that it is possible to transfer the soul of a person into the body of another. Mrs Rymer is furious with Pyne but, bearing in mind the newspaper story of her transfer to a nursing home for mental delusions, she is not sure just what she can do or say that will be believed.\n\nShe bides her time at the farm, carrying out \"Hannah\"'s duties which, in themselves, take her back to her old life with some ease. When, after several weeks, she has saved up enough money to be able to afford the trip back to London and confront Pyne, she hesitates, again afraid of what the result might be and also mindful that a change of scene does a person good.\n\nMonths go by and Mrs Rymer becomes good friends with Joe Welsh, a widowed farmhand. They enjoy the lambing season in Spring, walks in the Summer and the harvest in October. It is on the eighth of that month, and almost a year has passed since her new life started, when she looks up from her work in the vegetable patch and sees Pyne watching her from over a fence. She starts to curse him and he admits to all the deceptions. He agrees that Hannah Moorhouse never existed and tells her that Mrs Gardner is in on the act. Pyne has had Mrs Rymer's power of attorney for the past year and her fortune has been safe and actually improved in the interim. He asks her a simple question: \"Are you happy?\"\n\nMrs Rymer stops at this question and admits that she is. She and Joe have become engaged and she is satisfied with having her old life back. She tells Pyne she wants just seven hundred pounds of her fortune to buy her and Joe a farm they want and Pyne can distribute the rest to hospitals but her new husband is never to know of her previous life. Pyne agrees and leaves another satisfied client behind him.\n\nA young, attractive woman named Elsie Jeffries boards the Orient Express at the Gare de Lyon. She is shown to her compartment but is obviously in something of a mental quandary. Once the journey has started she makes her way to the restaurant car and spots that the suitcase in the next door compartment to hers is labelled \"Parker Pyne\" and this triggers something in her memory. She checks the personal column of \"The Times\" but doesn't see what she expected to see there. Going to the restaurant car again she is placed on the same table as the owner of the case and strikes up a conversation with him and asks him if he is the same Parker Pyne of \"The Times\"' adverts. He confirms that he is and he asks her if she is unhappy. She confesses that she is and the cause is her husband of the past eighteen months. He is a sober and puritanical soul who has been working in Constantinople for two weeks and she is on her way to join him. One week ago, in his study, she found a piece of blotting paper on which was part of a message which referred to her and used the words, \"just before Venice would be the best time.\" She cannot imagine what is going to happen to her when the train reaches this point. Pyne checks when they will arrive at Venice and promises to help.\n\nThe next day they are almost at the appointed spot when there is a cry of \"Fire!\" The two rush out in the corridor where a Slavic woman is pointing to the smoke coming out of one of the compartments further down the train. The conductor assures the passengers that there is no emergency but, suspicious, Pyne returns to Elsie's compartment and finds the Slavic woman there, supposedly recovering from the shock but Pyne refuses to let her leave when she wishes to and, when Elsie returns, asks her to sort through her belongings. She does so and finds that her jewellery has gone. The Slavic woman is detained at Venice but the jewels are not found on her and she has to be released. On the way to Trieste, Pyne and Elsie discuss the puzzle of where the jewels could possibly be as no one else had the opportunity to take them and the Slavic woman could not have thrown them to someone outside the train as they were on the bridge passing over the sea and they have not been hidden in the compartment. Pyne decides that he must send a telegram at Trieste...\n\nThe train reaches Stamboul and Pyne meets Edward Jeffries and asks Elsie to meet him at the Tokatlian Hotel in thirty minutes time. She does so and he hands all of her jewellery back to her but refuses to say how he recovered it. He leaves the hotel and goes to a café where Edward Jeffries joins him by appointment. It was Jeffries who received Pyne's telegram and handed the jewels back. Pyne tells him about his wife finding the message on the blotter and puts it to Jeffries that the jewels were actually taken by him before he left London, leaving paste copies behind. It was these that had to be \"stolen\" again and disappear at some other point but in a way that would not bring an accusation on any innocent person. The point before Venice is the only time on the journey that the jewels could be taken and thrown into water and not end up in land where they could be found. He suspects Jeffries is not a thief but a victim and the young husband confesses that he has been blackmailed for some time by a Mrs. Rossiter who Jeffries shared a bedroom with in the West Indies, on the purely innocent grounds of protecting her from her supposedly violent husband. It was a scam and Jeffries has been suffering ever since. Needing the money for the latest demand, he \"stole\" his wife's jewels. Pyne tells him to leave the blackmailer to him and to confess all to his wife, except for the fact of being scammed in the West Indies. He is sure Elsie will be delighted to believe that she has reformed a rake.\n\nParker Pyne is on a vacation in the Middle East and is soon to set off on the four-hundred mile journey across the Syrian Desert from Damascus to Baghdad by a Pullman motor coach that will traverse the wastes in some thirty-six hours instead of the months that the trip used to take. There are various other people sharing the journey including the young attractive Netta Pryce and her austere aunt; three Royal Air Force officers called O'Rourke, Loftus and Williamson; a Mr Hensley of the Baghdad public works department; an old Etonian called Captain Smethurst; General Poli, an Italian; and an Armenian mother and her son.\n\nThe day before the journey, Pyne passes the time talking to General Poli about items in the newspaper, mainly the search for a crooked financier called Samuel Long who is on the run and is rumoured to be in South America. Pyne also goes to the cinema and then to a somewhat seedy nightclub where he finds a slightly drunken Captain Smethurst who seems depressed but is vague as to the reason why, saying that he doesn't, \"like to go back on a pal\". Pyne introduces his profession, glibly announcing that he is a sort of \"confidence trickster\", prompting a strange reaction from the Captain who says, \"What – you too?\"\n\nThe journey starts the next day with the driver worried about the possibility of them getting stuck in the desert mud after their stop at Ar Rutba as there have been heavy rains in the area. Sure enough, the vehicle does become bogged down as it drives through the night and the men step out to assist in freeing it. As they work they realise that Smethurst is not assisting and when O'Rourke investigates he finds the Captain is dead in his seat. Loftus, a doctor in the RAF, suggests he may have hit his head on the roof the vehicle as it went over one of the heavy bumps on the ground and when he examines him declares that he cannot find an obvious wound. The only other possibility is that he was hit with something in the nature of a sandbag whilst the other passengers were asleep. As they discuss the reason why someone would do such a thing, Williamson remembers overhearing a conversation that Smethurst had with an unknown third party in Damascus where he said that he would keep quiet until they arrived in Baghdad but not a moment longer. Pyne joins in with his story of his own conversation with the dead man in the nightclub and Loftus also recalls Smethurst talking to Hensley about \"a leakage\" in his department. Recalling that Hensley said he always carried spare socks with him, Pyne suggests Loftus fetches these. Sure enough, one is found to contain wet sand. Pyne now knows the murderer.\n\nHe examines the body more closely and loosening the collar finds a small stab wound made by something in the nature of a stiletto. Pyne suggests that within their party is Samuel Long, the absconding financier, who is travelling in disguise and Smethurst knew of this which would explain his unusual reaction to Pyne's statement that his job is a confidence trickster. Pyne declares Loftus is Mr. Long. Within his doctor's kit he would have something which could have caused Smethurst's death and he was also quick to pinpoint the cause of death as being a bump on the head, prompted by an earlier conversation reminiscing about the former rigours of the journey. The final proof is that he tried to pass suspicion onto Hensley and Pyne had already examined Hensley's socks before he asked \"Loftus\" to and then they were free of sand.\n\nSamuel Long lights a cigarette and languidly confesses. He met the real Loftus in Egypt and bought his identity for twenty thousand pounds. Smethurst was his fag at Eton and recognised him. He didn't give him away instantly as he had a case of hero worship for the man when he was younger.\n\nLong suddenly collapses and Pyne theorises that the cigarette contained prussic acid. He has escaped justice.\n\nParker Pyne is still in the orient on his way to Teheran, then Shiraz. He is taking the route by a monoplane flown on the first leg on the journey by a young German pilot called Herr Schlagal. Disappointed with the modernity of Teheran, Pyne invites Schlagal to dine with him and they talk of his job flying across the Middle East. The pilot tells of his first two passengers, a young titled lady called Esther Carr and her beautiful companion who Schlagal fell in love with. Soon after, the second young woman was dead and Schlagal suspects Lady Esther of the murder, seeing insanity in her eyes and in her manner. Pyne knows of Lady Esther's parents and of her family where insanity has been a curse through some of the generations down the years.\n\nArriving in Shiraz on the second day of the Nowruz festival, Pyne makes the acquaintance of the English consul and dines with him. He enquires after a striking house that he saw just outside the town on a visit to the tomb of Hafez, the poet. The consul tells him that this is none other than the home of Lady Esther who now lives as a recluse, refusing to see anyone from her old country. The consul took over his post the very day after the death of the companion who fell from a balcony in the courtyard while carrying a breakfast tray. The consul also mirrors some of the comments of the German pilot about the strangeness of Lady Esther and speaks of her \"dark, flashing eyes\".\n\nThe next day, Pyne writes to Lady Esther from his hotel room and encloses a cutting of his \"personal\" advert from \"The Times\". He duly receives a request to visit the woman and goes to her house. There they talk of England and Pyne talks at length of people, places and social events as frequented by all classes of people. Lady Esther is obviously pining for home but states that she can never return and Pyne tells her that he knows the reason why. He takes her through the story of the German pilot and asks if she would receive him. Lady Esther refuses and he accuses her of play-acting – but not to cover up a murder. He knows that she is the companion – Muriel King – and that it was Lady Esther who died, not the other girl. Muriel tells of the real sequence of events. Lady Esther was jealous of Herr Schlagal's infatuation with Muriel and turned on her in her madness. She fell by accident and, terrified of being accused of her murder, Muriel put the breakfast tray down by the body and adopted her identity, refusing to see anyone in case they spotted the substitution. The new consul was one of the people who had never met the real Lady Esther and therefore wasn't suspicious. Pyne knew something was wrong when he heard of Lady Esther's \"dark, flashing eyes\" knowing that her parents were both blue-eyed. His talk of England confirmed his suspicions – the supposed titled lady in front of him didn't react to stories of high society events but her face showed how much she missed the everyday life of ordinary people. He promises to help her convince people of her innocence and affect a reunion with Herr Shlagal.\n\nParker Pyne is with a party of people who have travelled through Jordan from Amman to Petra. His companions are Caleb Blundell, an American millionaire, his daughter Carol and secretary, Jim Hurst, Sir Donald Marvel, a British MP, Doctor Carver, an archaeologist and Colonel Dubosc, a Frenchman. Camping in the night, Doctor Carver tells the others of the Nabataeans, the traders who built the city and who were no more than professional racketeers who controlled the trade routes of the area. This talk prompts a discussion on the nature of honesty, the suggestiveness of people and the riches accumulated by Mr. Blundell, demonstrated in part by the expensive pearl earrings worn by his daughter and which keep coming loose. Pyne detects an undercurrent of embarrassment within the discussion.\n\nThe next day the party makes its way to the top of a plateau to marvel at the view. When they reach their destination Carver points out to Carol that she has lost one of her earrings. She is certain she had it when she reached the plateau as Carver had seen it was loose again and had screwed it in for her. They search the ground around them but the object isn't there and the suspicion grows that it has been stolen. Colonel Dubosc demands to be searched to prove his innocence and the others agree, especially Mr. Blundell who states he has his own reasons for doing so, \"though I don't want to state them\". The pearl is not found.\n\nJust after lunch, Carol appears in Pyne's tent and employs him to find the pearl. She especially wants to prove the innocence of Jim Hurst who is a reformed thief. He was stealing from her father's house when she met him and she saw how desperate he was and made her father employ him. He has proven his worth and she is in love with him, although Mr. Blundell wants her to marry Sir Donald. Pyne asks why her father wanted to be searched. Carol thinks he wanted to be searched because she could think it was him who stole the pearl to blame Hurst and not let him marry her.\n\nPyne agrees to help and after a small amount of thought confronts Doctor Carver. The archaeologist admits that he took the pearl, wrapping it in a small piece of plasticine that he carries to take imprints from carvings. The comments made about the suggestiveness of people prompted him tell Carol that the jewel was loose and fix it back into place when, in fact, he was taking it from her. He was planning to use the enormous price the earring would fetch to finance an archaeological expedition but Pyne tells him his plan wouldn't have worked – the pearl is worthless as Blundell's boasting of his riches the previous night was bluff. His fortune has been badly affected in the slump.\n\nParker Pyne is about to start a journey on a Nile steamer. The only other passengers on the vessel are Sir George and Lady Grayle, her niece Pamela, her nurse, Elsie MacNaughton and Sir George's young secretary, Basil West. Sir George married Lady Grayle to try to find a way out of his financial difficulties but the price he has paid is in having a difficult, bad-tempered, hypochondriac for a wife. Lady Grayle is annoyed that Pyne is on the boat, having been assured that her party would be the only people on board. Pamela is not sympathetic to her aunt's complaints, telling Sir George that his wife's claims of illness are fraudulent and feeling appreciative of the problems Miss MacNaughton faces in dealing with her. The only person who doesn't seem to find her too much of a trial is Basil West, who has an easy-going relationship with everyone he meets.\n\nPyne is surprised to receive a note from Lady Grayle asking him not to leave the boat for an excursion to the Temple of Abydos but to meet her for a consultation. He does so and she asks him to find out if her husband is poisoning her as she has been unwell for some time when she is with him but she recovers when he is away. Pyne suspects there is more to the matter than she is telling and he voices this and, in doing so, offends his latest client who walks off in a huff. Soon afterwards, Miss MacNaughton appears and voices almost the same concern – that Lady Grayle is being poisoned – but she doesn't want to suspect Sir George, even though she has also spotted the timing of her recoveries being linked to his absences.\n\nThat night, Pyne is summoned to Lady Grayle's room where the woman is very ill. She dies, showing the unmistakable symptoms of strychnine poisoning. Remembering when he saw the victim earlier on burning a letter in the lounge cabin, he hurries there and retrieves a scrap of paper which has \"...chet of dreams. Burn this!\" written on it.\n\nThe evidence seems insurmountable; packets of strychnine have been found in Sir George's cabin and in the pocket of his dinner jacket. The powder itself came from Miss MacNaughton who carried some on her for her patient's supposed heart trouble. Pyne speaks with Pamela who thinks Lady Grayle poisoned herself. She tells him her aunt has been acting strangely lately, imagining all sorts of things including Basil being in love with her.\n\nPyne then sees Basil and asks him to write out his confession; he made love to the older lady but planned to slowly poison her and make sure the blame would be laid at the husband's door. He would then marry the rich niece. Pyne tells him that the final note he sent to Lady Grayle, with a \"cachet of dreams\" to take was not burnt, despite his instruction to do so, as she kept all of his letters to her (a bluff by Pyne). Basil falls for this deception and implicates himself. The people Pyne has had outside the half-closed door hear this confession. Pyne is determined to have his holiday after all this work and decides to go incognito to Greece.\n\nA well-off widow, Mrs Peters is travelling through Greece with her intellectual son, Willard and their retinue of a maid and a chauffeur. She is not enjoying the trip, disliking the basic amenities of the hotels they stay in and not entranced by the sights of the ancient ruins of the region. At Delphi there are four other people in the hotel; an arty mother and daughter, a Mr Thompson who has a reserved manner with anyone who tries conversation with him and a balding middle-aged man who falls into friendly easy conversation with her and who thinks he recognises Mr Thompson.\n\nIn the afternoon, Mrs. Peters comes back to her hotel after enjoying a relaxing few hours reading a detective novel in a shady spot only to find that a ransom note has been delivered – her son has been kidnapped and the demand is for ten thousand pounds sterling. Further instructions will be sent the next day but she is not to communicate with the hotel management or the police.\n\nHer new friend notices her distracted manner during the evening meal and sends her a note enclosing his advert from \"The Times\" and announcing himself as none other than Parker Pyne. They meet in secret so as not to arouse suspicions, should she be being watched and Pyne advises her to just wait for the second set of instructions. On their way back into the hotel, they bump into Mr. Thompson...\n\nThe next day the second note is delivered. This note states that if she doesn't have the money on her, the kidnappers will accept instead a valuable diamond necklace that they know she carries on her but it must be delivered by tomorrow. When she shows Pyne the note he concocts a plan to have a friend of his in Athens to make a paste copy of the diamonds and send this to the kidnappers. Mrs Peters agrees and Pyne telephones to his friend while she keeps both the manager and Mr Thompson occupied and prevents them from disturbing him. The jeweller friend arrives from Athens and he makes the paste version and Pyne gives the original back to Mrs Peters while he goes off to pass the copy to the kidnappers and collect her son.\n\nThe next day Mrs Peters is delighted when Willard is returned but shocked to see that his liberator is Mr Thompson. The man explains that overhearing the conversation on the night of the first ransom note between Pyne and Mrs Peters, he followed them and listened to everything they said. The kidnapper's intention all along had been to obtain the necklace and what she thought had been the original that was handed back to her the day before was in fact the paste copy. The man calling himself Parker Pyne and his jeweller accomplice are now under lock and key. Mr Thompson explains how he knew something was wrong – he is Parker Pyne, travelling incognito as he promised himself on the Nile, and when he heard his name mentioned, he knew something was up!\n\nNo review of the book appeared in the \"Times Literary Supplement\".\n\nThe unnamed reviewer in \"The New York Times Book Review\" of 1 January 1935 said, \"The stories are sufficiently varied, both as to scene and as to plot, to afford this new detective the widest possible scope for his abilities. Parker Pyne can never supplant Hercule Poirot in the hearts of Agatha Christie's admirers, but he is a welcome addition to her gallery of characters.\"\n\nIn \"The Observer\"'s issue of 18 November 1934, \"Torquemada\" (Edward Powys Mathers) stated that Christie was, \"the only consistently inspired practitioner of an art where ingenuity and industry have so often to substitute for genius.\" On the subject of this collection, Mr. Mathers said that the book \"has a certain appeal to all Agatha Christie fans, and to ourselves and to all lovers of the well-made magazine story.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"A mediocre collection. Parker Pyne begins as a consultant Miss Lonelyhearts, ends up as a conventional detective.\"\n\n\"The Gate of Baghdad\" twice quotes the poem \"Gates of Damascus\" by James Elroy Flecker. As Pyne stands in Damascus he likens the Baghdad Gate that they will go through as the \"Gate of Death\" however whereas Flecker's poem talks of four gates in the city, in reality there are eight in the ancient walls and none of them is called the Baghdad gate. Christie also referenced the poem in naming her final written work, \"Postern of Fate\" (1973).\n\nTwo of the stories in the collection, \"The Case of the Middle-Aged Wife\" and \"The Case of the Discontented Soldier\", were adapted by Thames Television in 1982 as part of their ten-part programme \"The Agatha Christie Hour\", a series of one-off plays from short stories by the writer. Maurice Denham played Parker Pyne and these episodes were numbers 1 and 5 in the series respectively (see \"The Listerdale Mystery\" for other episodes in the series).\n\nTransmitted: 7 September 1982\n\nAdaptor: Freda Kelsall \nDirector: Michael Simpson\n\nCast:\n\"Maurice Denham\" played Mr. Parker Pyne\n\"Angela Easterling\" played Miss Lemon\n\"Nicholas Cook\" played Eric\n\"Malcolm Hebden\" played a Waiter\n\"Nick Curtis\" played a Crooner\n\"Linda Robson\" played Edna\n\"Monica Grey\" played a Beautician\n\"Brenda Gowling\" played Miss Draper\n\"Rupert Frazer\" played Claude Luttrell\n\"Gwen Watford\" played Maria Packington\n\"Peter Jones\" played George Packington\n\"Kate Dorning\" played Nancy Purvis\n\nTransmitted: 5 October 1982\n\nAdaptor: TR Bowen \nDirector: Michael Simpson\n\nCast:\n\"Maurice Denham\" played Mr. Parker Pyne\n\"Angela Easterling\" played Miss Lemon\n\"William Gaunt\" played Major Wilbraham \n\"Lally Bowers\" played Ariadne Oliver\n\"Walter Gaunt\" played Wally\n\"Peter Brayham\" played First Thug\n\"Lewis Fiander\" played Mr. Reid\n\"Barbara New\" played Mrs. Benson\n\"Patricia Garwood\" played Freda Clegg\n\"Derek Smee\" played Head Waiter\n\"Karen Mount\" played English Rose\n\"Paul Dadson\" played Neville\n\"Jason Norman\" played Charlie\n\"Veronica Strong\" played Madeleine de Sara\n\"Terry Plummer\" played Second Thug\n\n\nNine of the stories in \"Parker Pyne Investigates\" had their true first publication in the US as follows:\n\n\nKnown publication of the stories in the UK are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257236", "title": "Bangor-class minesweeper", "text": "Bangor-class minesweeper\n\nThe \"Bangor\"-class minesweepers were a class of warships operated by the Royal Navy (RN), Royal Canadian Navy (RCN), Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN), and Royal Indian Navy (RIN) during the Second World War.\n\nThe class derives its name from the lead ship, , which was launched on 19 February 1940 and commissioned on 7 November of that year. Royal Navy ships were named after coastal towns of the United Kingdom.\n\nTheir lack of size gave vessels of the class poor sea handling abilities, reportedly worse even than the s. The diesel-engined versions were considered to have poorer handling characteristics than the slow-speed reciprocating-engined variants. Their shallow draught made them unstable and their short hulls tended to bury the bow when operating in a head sea.\n\nThe \"Bangor\"-class vessels were also considered overcrowded, cramming six officers and over 90 ratings into a vessel originally intended for a total of 40.\n\nDespite claims to the contrary, the Australian was a wholly Australian design, and not based on the \"Bangor\" class.\n\nThe original intent of the \"Bangor\"-class minesweeper design was to provide a coastal equivalent of the ; however the realities brought to light by the start of the war caused a modification of the design before construction had started.\n\nThe need for quick construction coupled with the limitations of engineering resources resulted in several variations existing based on the availability of propulsion machinery. The ships all had twin screws, but the machinery was a mix of steam turbine, slow-speed steam reciprocating, high-speed steam reciprocating and diesel. The diesel powered examples were about shorter than the rest as they had no need for boiler rooms. Displacement varied with propulsion machinery from 590 to 672 tons. The reciprocating engine powered \"Bangor\"s were also known as the \"Blyth\" class and the steam turbine powered versions as the \"Ardrossan\" class.\n\nThe class was considered cramped for the purposes it was built for, with not enough room provided for the acoustic and magnetic minesweeping gear carried.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257239", "title": "Križovec", "text": "Križovec\n\nKrižovec () is a small village in Međimurje County, Croatia, part of the town of Mursko Središće.\n"}
{"id": "2257241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257241", "title": "Catman (DC Comics)", "text": "Catman (DC Comics)\n\nCatman (Thomas Reese Blake) is a fictional character in comic books published by DC Comics who was initially one of the more colorful and camp supervillains to join Batman’s growing roster of enemies in the mid-1960s.\n\nFor decades, the character rarely appeared in comic books, as Batman stories returned to darker themes. A modern revival of the character in the pages of \"Green Arrow\" many years later depicted a Catman down on his luck, clinging to past glories, overweight, and pathetic.\n\nIn 2006, however, the character was rehabilitated by writer Gail Simone, depicting Blake as having picked himself up from the gutter, restoring his physical fitness and gaining a new sense of purpose and dignity while living with lions in Africa. Stories since then have depicted him as an attractive and capable antihero, and the highly capable leader of the mercenary team Secret Six.\n\nCatman first appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #311 (Jan. 1963) and was created by Bill Finger and Jim Mooney.\n\nA different Cat-Man once opposed the Blackhawks in \"Blackhawk\" #141, but he has no connection with the more prominent Batman villain.\n\nCatman was originally Thomas Reese Blake, a world-famous trapper of jungle cats who turned to crime because he had grown bored with hunting and had squandered most of his millions. He became a burglar who committed his crimes in a catsuit made out of an ancient African cloth. His costume was modeled after Catwoman's disguise. Catwoman was none too pleased to have her modus operandi copied, which resulted in Selina Kyle (Catwoman) being wrongly implicated for Catman's crimes at least once, and so she initially helped Batman against him.\n\nAs with many Batman villains in their first appearances, Catman was originally a gimmicked villain who stole items along a \"cat\" theme, such as cat statues, \"cat's eyes\" emeralds, etc. His weapon of choice was a pair of steel claw-tipped gloves and the razor edged \"catarang\".\nCatman would reappear once more, this time revealing that the orange African cloth in his uniform gave him nine lives. The character first shows his capability for good causes when he rescues Batwoman from nearly dying. He gives her some of his costume fabric, believing she too will have nine lives. He resumes his criminalistic ways, but Batwoman (temporarily infiltrating his trust to be his new partner, with a new costume as \"Cat-Woman\") reasons the entire cloth has only nine lives, not individual pieces, and manipulates events until Catman only has one remaining, causing him to turn himself in.\n\nIn 1992, Catman appeared in \"\" as a member of a team called \"the Misfits\", led by Killer Moth. The Misfits were portrayed as third-rate villains trying to prove themselves, foreshadowing Brad Meltzer's treatment of the character in \"Green Arrow\".\n\nCatman reappeared in a 1995 crossover between \"Shadow of the Bat\" and \"Catwoman\". In this story, the cloth that Catman's costume was made from was retconned as belonging to a South Sea cat cult. Catwoman was hired by the cult to return the cloth, but gave them a fake.\n\nCatman remained in limbo until 2003, when he resurfaced as a foe of \"Green Arrow\". Written by Brad Meltzer, Catman was portrayed as a pathetic, overweight loser who was looked down upon by other villains and who is easily defeated by Green Arrow. His hair had been dyed black, which he thought \"made [him] look tougher\".\n\nMonsieur Mallah sends Warp to abduct Blake, the implication being that Catman had met a rather grisly end as Mallah's dinner; this situation is alluded to by Blake, when he joins the Secret Six: \"You know you've hit rock bottom when a monkey and a Frenchman don't consider you worth killing\". When he later meets Monsieur Mallah, he comments that he has no desire to see the gorilla's stomach again.\n\nIn the 2005 mini-series \"Villains United\", Catman resurfaced in Africa, where he attempted to resalvage his life and began living with a pride of lions. He used this time to lose weight and regain his sense of self-worth and fighting skills. This 'perfect existence' would be shattered by the arrival of the Secret Society of Super Villains, however. Seeking to unite all of Earth's super-villains under his control, Lex Luthor (secretly Alexander Luthor, Jr. of the original Earth-Three in disguise) sought to recruit Catman into the fold as a minion, only to be rejected. It was initially believed that an angry Lex Luthor had Deathstroke kill the lions Catman was living with in retaliation for being rejected by a \"nobody\" but this was later revealed to have been misdirection.\n\nCatman vowed revenge against Luthor, and was subsequently recruited into a criminal syndicate known as the Secret Six. Together, the Secret Six waged war against the Secret Society of Super Villains under the direction of an individual known only as Mockingbird. During that time he found out that it was in fact fellow Secret Six member Deadshot who had killed his lions, so that he would join the organization. Deadshot would later apologize, and Catman forgave him. Although the two were reluctant allies at first, the two soon bonded and became what one could loosely call friends.\n\nUnder \"Villains United\" writer Gail Simone, Catman has achieved a new level of fame. Portrayed as a cunning warrior with a sense of honor, the character is now a potent antihero. He is depicted with physical abilities that allow him to fight Mallah to a standstill and to blind Captain Nazi.\n\nHe is different from most other villains in the sense that he has noble and heroic qualities. While Cheshire notes that Blake behaves more like a hero than a villain, he sees heroes such as the Justice League as being arrogant and abusive of their power, as seen when he confronts Green Arrow about the Doctor Light incident. It has been revealed that during his time with the Six he impregnated Cheshire and that the two now have a son, Thomas Jr.\n\nIn Gail Simone's \"Birds of Prey\" #104, the Secret Six run into Barbara Gordon's team. Huntress and Catman – out of disguise, dance together, with hints of an attraction. The two teams battle, six members for six, Catman paired against Huntress amidst sexual innuendo, but the fray ends with the resurrection of Ice. Commenting upon Catman's reasonings, Knockout claimed that he had \"gone soft\".\n\nIn 2008's \"Salvation Run\" #3, Catman and former Secret Six teammates Scandal and Rag Doll are depicted amongst DC's larger villain population, exiled on a faraway planet.\n\nCatman reappeared in the new Secret Six ongoing series, which takes place after the events of Salvation Run. Blake spent some time back in Africa, where he brutally attacked a gang of poachers and may have left them for dead. His actions have led Catman to wonder if he has the temperament to be on the side of the angels.\n\nIt was in his role as leader of the Secret Six that Catman faced Batman again after many years. Batman tried to warn Catman and his team to not accept their mission to break someone out of Alcatraz. The non-personal warning did not work, so Batman went to confront Catman. Catman said in response, \"The old me? Probably would've whooped his milk and cookies\". He made no hesitation to throw the first punch at the Dark Knight. During the fight, Batman even offered to pay the Secret Six off, but to no avail. Catman's main goal was just to keep Batman distracted as the Secret Six broke Tarantula out of prison.\n\nAfter the cancellation of the series in August 2011, Gail Simone revealed on her Tumblr that Catman is in fact bisexual, and that she had planned to reveal this in a story arc that was cut short by the September 2011 DC relaunch. Simone has also said that she plans to make this canon the next time she writes Catman in a book.\n\nIn September 2011, \"The New 52\" rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Catman made his debut, with an updated outfit, in the December 2014 reboot of \"Secret Six\". In the first issue of the series, he is captured by a mysterious group and is put in a strange holding cell with the new team. As Simone had promised in her earlier tweet, his bisexuality was confirmed in the issue when he is seen flirting with both a man and a woman.\n\nCatman is an Olympic-level athlete and skilled hand-to-hand combatant, able to hold his own against some of the most proficient beings and fighters in the DC universe, including Bronze Tiger, Batman, and an actual lion. He is also one of the world's foremost hunters and trackers, possessing an extraordinary sense of smell.\n\nHe wears razor-tipped gauntlets and uses a sharp-edged Catarang, modeled after Batman's Batarang, and a utility belt similar to Batman's. The belt frequently has a smiley face button, a trophy he claimed from a misleading pilot on a mission with the Secret Six. Catman has claimed several times, both in his early appearances and modern ones, that his cape is mystical and able to restore mortal wounds.\n\nHe was once the owner of a pet Siberian tiger named Rasputin, which was trained and helped him commit crimes. Rasputin has not been utilized in his modern appearances to date.\n\nIn 1993's \"Batman: Legends of the Dark Knight\" #46–49 introduced a second Post-\"Crisis\" Cat-Man as a leather catsuit-wearing serial killer who murders women with knife-like claws because they remind him of his mentally ill mother. Batman and Catwoman form a shaky alliance to stop him, although they have different agendas: Batman wants to apprehend him, while Catwoman wants him dead.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the \"Flashpoint\" event, Catman (leader of the South African resistance) is brutally murdered by Gorilla Grodd. This leaves Grodd with total control over Africa.\n\nA character similar to Catman debuted in the 1950s named \"Tyler, King of the Cats\". In reality, he was Karl Kyle, brother of Selina Kyle. This version of the character is also a burglar motivated to steal by an intense sibling rivalry with his sister. His crimes torment Catwoman, as she has loyalties to both her brother and her nemesis/love interest, Batman.\n\nIn \"Batman: Arkham Knight Genesis\" the Joker has Catman and Blockbuster dress as Batman and brutally beat Jason Todd as part of his attempts to make Todd \"his kid\". With encouragement from Harley Quinn, who fatally shoots Blockbuster, Jason executes Catman.\n\nA version of Catman appeared in \"The Batman Adventures\" comic series prior to Blake's appearance on the actual animated series. This version is closer to the comic book version of Thomas Blake, with a background as a former big game hunter who would sell living captures to zoos and circuses. Blake calls himself Catman, dons a masculine version of the \"Batman: The Animated Series\" Catwoman costume, and commits copycat crimes in an attempt to gain the romantic attention of Catwoman.\n\nCatman makes a cameo appearance in the final issue of the Batman '66 comic series, set in the universe of the 1966 \"Batman\" TV Series.\n\n\n\n\nIn 2013, ComicsAlliance ranked Catman as #9 on their list of the \"50 Sexiest Male Characters in Comics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2257243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257243", "title": "K. V. Subbanna", "text": "K. V. Subbanna\n\nKuntagodu Vibhuthi Subbanna (20 February 1932 – 16 July 2005) was an acclaimed dramatist and writer in Kannada. He was the founder of the world-famous \"NINASAM\" (\"Neelanakantheshwara Natya Sangha\") drama institute. Founded in 1949 in Heggodu, Sagara. \"Ninasam\", under the guidance of K.V. Subbanna, made significant contribution to Kannada theatre and other performing arts. He was awarded, in 1991, the \"Ramon Magsaysay Award for Journalism, Literature, and Creative Communication Arts\", in recognition of his contribution to \"enrich rural Karnataka with the world's best films and the delight and wonder of the living stage\". He was awarded the Padma Shri during 2004–05.\n\nUnder the influence of Shantaveri Gopala Gowda, a senior leader of the socialist movement in Karnataka, Subbanna espoused socialist ideology, to which he was committed throughout his life. To promote Kannada dramas Subbanna set up training centres in various parts of Karnataka. He also established Akshara Prakashana, a publishing house, to publish literature in Kannada related to theatre, which included translations of plays from other languages. His son K. V. Akshara is also a playwright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257252", "title": "Andrew White Tuer", "text": "Andrew White Tuer\n\nAndrew White Tuer (1838–1900) was a British publisher, writer and printer.\n\nHe was born in Sunderland in 1838. \nOrphaned at an early age, he was raised by his great-uncle, Andrew White, after whom he was named. After his education, he went to London with the plan of becoming a doctor, but that did not suit him, and after working in a merchant's office, he set himself up as a wholesale stationer. In 1862, he joined with Abraham Field, an established producer of ledgers, in the partnership of Field & Tuer. \nTuer, the entrepreneur of the pair, invented the highly successful Stickphast Paste, a clean, vegetable-based alternative to the gums and glues then in use. He later introduced the popular Author's Paper Pad, perhaps the first writing block with detachable sheets.\n\nIn 1867, Tuer married Thomasine Louisa Louttit, who became well known as an amateur opera singer. The following year, Field & Tuer moved to 50 Leadenhall Street, and the expansion allowed Tuer to pursue his publishing ambitions. In 1872, Tuer introduced the quarterly \"Paper & Printing Trades Journal\", intended as a \"Medium of Intercommunication Between Stationers, Printers, Publishers and Booksellers.\" Tuer later served on the committee of the Caxton Celebration of 1877 commemorating the 400th anniversary of the introduction of printing into England, in charge of Class E: Specimens of Printing.\n\nAfter that event, Tuer and fellow printer Thomas Hailing began a scheme aimed at improving the quality of the printing trade at all levels. In 1880, after two years of planning, Field & Tuer introduced the \"Printers' International Specimen Exchange\", whereby printers and their employees and apprentices could submit multiple samples of their work and receive back a volume containing a copy of every specimen accepted. Tuer published and edited the \"Exchange\" for the first eight years.\n\nIn 1879, the first official book of its new imprint, the Leadenhall Press, appeared: Tuer’s own \"Luxurious Bathing\", a treatise on the joys of hygiene, with etchings by Sutton Sharpe. From this point on, Scribner was the firm's U.S. import partner. \nThe second edition was issued the following year in a smaller format with etchings by Tristram Ellis. Tuer's passion for collecting soon led to the two-volume \"Bartolozzi and his Works\", with a biographical account, information on how to date impressions and identify deceptions, and a list of over 2,000 engravings. \nIn 1884, Tuer published a collection of printers' jokes from the pages of the \"Paper & Printing Trades Journal\", titled \"Quads within Quads\", consisting of a midget folio housed in a block of extra pages at the back of a duodecimo \"enlarged edition.\" The prospectus described it as \"A book and a box, or rather two books and a box, and yet after all not a box at all, but a book and only one book.\"\n\nThe catalogue as a whole reflected Tuer's energetic and whimsical nature and his interest in antiquarian subjects, including London history and early children's books. However, Tuer was also an experimenter, and some books were ahead of their time in content, design, and printing. Under his stewardship, the Leadenhall Press went on to issue more than 450 publications of all kinds on a wide variety of subjects by many prominent authors and illustrators of the time, ranging in price from sixpence to several guineas for special limited editions.\n\nIn 1891, Abraham Field died, and the following year the firm was incorporated as Leadenhall Press Ltd. Publishing continued throughout the nineties, and one of Tuer's most important works was published in the 1896: \"History of the Horn-Book\" (still the best study of the subject).\n\nTuer died of pleurisy on 24 February 1900 and was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery. \nIn its obituary of 5 March, the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" wrote: “London publishing is the poorer in high spirits and humour by the death of Mr. Andrew Tuer. \nIn all his doings he was mirthful, and he gave readers several very excellent books.”\n\nThe Dictionary of National Biography describes him as an \"omnivorous collector\", who filled his house in Campden Hill Road Notting Hill with \"books, engravings, clocks, china, silver and bric-a-brac of the most varied description\".\n\nTuer's wife was Thomasine Louisa. They had no children. \nMrs. Tuer's godson was the Cambridge historian J. P. T (John Patrick Tuer) Bury, who wrote articles about Tuer for the \"Book Collector\" and the \"Bookplate Journal\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257254", "title": "Hanshin Department Store", "text": "Hanshin Department Store\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn February 23, 2011, Kumamoto Hanshin was renamed . The store was closed on February 28, 2015 due to the redevelopment of Kumamoto Bus Terminal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257256", "title": "Howard Goldfarb", "text": "Howard Goldfarb\n\nHoward Goldfarb (born 1961 or 1962) is a Canadian poker player, chiefly noted as the runner-up of the 1995 World Series of Poker (WSOP).\n\nAt the time he was a 33-year-old land developer and businessman from Toronto. He made his first foray into poker in 1993, when he joined some friends for a game in one of Toronto's private clubs. As a recreational poker player, he had previously entered only a few major tournaments, one of which was the 1994 World Series of Poker championship event, where he finished in 22nd place.\n\nAt the 1995 World Series of Poker main event, Goldfarb made it to the final table where he was the chip leader for a time. In the final hand of the heads up match against Dan Harrington, Goldfarb began with the best hand (Ace, 7 unsuited) to Harrington's (9, 8). Harrington paired his eight on the flop and called Goldfarb's all-in, dodged the remaining aces thus winning the championship.\n\nAs of 2008, Goldfarb's tournament winnings exceed $500,000.\n\nGoldfarb is married and is the father of three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257262", "title": "Lusin's theorem", "text": "Lusin's theorem\n\nIn the mathematical field of real analysis, Lusin's theorem (or Luzin's theorem, named for Nikolai Luzin) states that every measurable function is a continuous function on nearly all its domain. In the informal formulation of J. E. Littlewood, \"every measurable function is nearly continuous\".\n\nFor an interval [\"a\", \"b\"], let\n\nbe a measurable function. Then, for every \"ε\" > 0, there exists a compact \"E\" ⊆ [\"a\", \"b\"] such that \"f\" restricted to \"E\" is continuous almost everywhere and\n\nNote that \"E\" inherits the subspace topology from [\"a\", \"b\"]; continuity of \"f\" restricted to \"E\" is defined using this topology.\n\nLet formula_3 be a Radon measure space and \"Y\" be a second-countable topological space equipped with a Borel algebra, and let\n\nbe a measurable function. Given formula_5, for every formula_6 of finite measure there is a closed set formula_7 with formula_8 such that formula_9 restricted to formula_7 is continuous. If formula_11 is locally compact, we can choose formula_7 to be compact and even find a continuous function formula_13 with compact support that coincides with formula_9 on formula_7 and such that formula_16.\n\nInformally, measurable functions into spaces with countable base can be approximated by continuous functions on arbitrarily large portion of their domain.\n\nThe proof of Lusin's theorem can be found in many classical books. Intuitively, one expects it as a consequence of Egorov's theorem and density of smooth functions. Egorov's theorem states that pointwise convergence is nearly uniform, and uniform convergence preserves continuity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257264", "title": "ID eNTITY", "text": "ID eNTITY\n\niD_ᴇNTITY or Yureka (유레카) is a Korean style manhwa series created by Son Hee-joon in collaboration with Kim Youn-kyung and distributed by Tokyopop in North America. The series centers on the main character Jang-Gun and his friends along with their virtual reality avatars in the computer game world called \"Lost Saga\". There are 36 volumes right now, twelve of them have been released in the United States and 34 in France.\n\nThe series centers on the main character Jang-Gun and his friends along with their virtual reality avatars in the computer game world called \"Lost Saga\". When Jang-Gun logs on as a different character, he \"Creates\" an AI with a personality from the hacked disk he found when renewing his appearance for his once a year renewal process. Yureka is a flutter-brained, but advanced, AI with powerful stats and a real-life doppelganger. It is his turn to see just how deep his immersion in the virtual world goes.\n\nThe following is a plot summary by volume:\n\nMany of the central characters (and their relationships to each other) are introduced in this volume, including Team Triple Threat, Lotto's family, Myriah, Aradon, the Lovely Angels, Row-the-Mighty, Miss Piri, and Capri. Oddly enough, Yureka does not make her debut until the second volume.\n\nJang-gun's birthday passes unheeded by his family, but he does find that he needs to renew his Lost Saga ID. When he goes to the Net Room to do so, he accidentally bumps into a girl who drops a card with the name 'Yureka' on it on her way out of the Room. Later that day, he accidentally logs on with the card, creating the impossibly strong but airheaded AI, Yureka, who is at once aware of her AI status and strength, but blissfully unaware of guile and trickery. Under this disguise, he clears a high-level dungeon called Terror Tower with the other two members of Team Triple Threat. The next day he logs on under his own name, but is bewildered to encounter Yureka herself, who joins the Team after showcasing her strength the previous night.\n\nVolume Three heralds the beginning of the first story arc, the Double Trouble Tournament. With riches and treasure as a promised prize, everyone in Lost Saga is dying to join. Lotto enters with Yureka at his side, and meets Rapha and John on his way to entry. A preliminary is held, in which the pairs must fight two tough monsters, the cyclops from Terror Tower and a generic Ghouliant undead sort of mage which, according to Boromir's exclamation in this volume, is called a Lich. After this grueling pretest, there are eight remaining teams: Lotto and Yureka, Ah-Dol and Boromid, Rapha and John, The Lovely Angels, Aradon and Alpha, a strange Necromancer(Baltisse)/Axman(Lazarus) team, a generic filler team, and Row-the-Mighty, with a mysterious master-level witch by his side. These teams are set up in a tournament bracket, and the first fight takes place between Lotto and Row.\n\nLotto and the witch, named Orugazi (other translations term her Horgacia, etc.) have a magical face-off of epic proportions, which ends in a double KO. Yureka is then forced to fight Row- she easily overpowers him, but her compassion stays her hand. Row, realizing this, concedes the match.\n\nImmediately after this, Lotto runs out to brag to Miss Piri, the NPC storekeep he crushes on. Yureka follows him to fetch him back (Ah-dol and Boromir's match is going on) and inadvertently displays a new power: Yureka pulls Miss Piri free of the strict set of preprogrammed boundaries surrounding her store, that Miss Piri is bound to as an NPC, so that she can watch the tournament.\n\nThe volume concludes with Boromir and Ah-dol's complete and easy victory over the nameless team, and Miss Piri's thanks for her freedom.\n\nAll story is still about the\n\nAll story is still about the tournament. Boromir and Ah-Dol face off against Aradon and Alpha who uses multiple classes to create the \"ninja class.\"\n\nAll story is still about the tournament. The last battle of the Double Trouble Tournament, Yureka and Lotto against Aradon and Alpha begin. While Lotto and Aradon are in the middle of their fight, a mysterious demon appears—Cube. Cube explains that the demon army will be coming to Normal City to take over their land and that they can try to get to Demon Island, however they will be waiting for them.\n\nVarious characters begin preparing for the match-off with the demons. The people who will actually be going to Demon's Island turn out to be Yureka, Lotto, Boromir, Ah-Dol, Aradon, an anti-priest named Il-Barn, Capri, Basara, and a player who happens to know where the entrance to Demon's Island (that Basara found) is. Lotto also asks Row-the-Mighty a request — to defend the city. The group splits their separate ways because there are two portals. Il-Barn, Capri, Boromir, and Ah-Dol form one team, and Lotto, Yureka, Aradon, and Olios form the other. Basara eventually comes later behind the group of Roto, Yureka, Aradon, and Olios. Each team defeats many monsters called Cerberus. As the demon army attacks Normal City, the party all enter Demon Island.\n\nIn Normal City, the combined powers of four guilds were unable to withstand the power of the demon army and retreat. Row-the-Mighty, keeping his promise with Lotto, begins fighting monsters one by one in order to defend the city. Eventually, various other characters (a random warrior who is first to join Row, Rapha, John, \"Mistress Orugazi,\" K.C., Julie, and eventually Alpha) join him to defend Normal City, causing other players (who are offline and watching the whole thing) to join in.\n\nOn Demon Island, the two groups have to defeat the demon king's Devas. The first two are played by real-life people who work for the company. One of them turns out to be Myriah (using the form of the demon Pristina), and she faces off with the party of Il-Barn, Capri, Boromir, and Ah-Dol. On the other hand, just as they (Lotto, Yureka, Aradon, and Olios) are about to lose, Basara appears and proceeds to kill the masked Deva. Lotto makes a deal with Basara which he (Basara) agrees to. The deal is that Basara can kill all the monsters and that they (Lotto, Yureka, Aradon, and Olios) will finish off his \"leftovers\" or complete the quest if Basara were to die. They continue on to meet the next Deva—Cube. Roto then leaves Basara to fight Cube and heads for the entrance to the demon king's room along with Yureka, Aradon, and Olios. Basara stops him from doing so, causing Lotto to fall. Yureka jumps down to save Lotto. As Basara is turned to stone by Cube, Aradon and Olios leave Lotto and Yureka to fight Cube.\n\nJust as they are about to be defeated by Pristina's dragon, Il-Barn uses his anti-priest master-level item to bring Capri to full power in exchange for Capri's life (online) and one of his levels. Capri survives a blast from the dragon and kills Pristina. Il-barn, Boromir, and Ah-Dol continue on to meet their next opponent—the Deva Neogia. Ah-Dol starts with the first attack and is soon defeated. However, his defeat was not in vain as Il-Barn and Boromir learns that Neogia can read their next movement. The two team up and manage to strike Neogia with Il-Barn's master-level item which causes Neogia to begin losing a life point each second. Neogia claims to be able to last an hour, meaning that he has 3,600 health points. Boromir and Il-Barn manage to capture Neogia, allowing Boromir and Ah-Dol to continue onto the demon king. Soon enough, Aradon and Olios reach the demon king, but are both defeated. Lotto tricks Cube, using the fact that Cube is confused about his past to his advantage and gets Cube to help them reach the demon king via a shortcut. Boromir and Ah-Dol arrive at the top of the stairs to the demon king's room's entrance just as Aradon is defeated. Eventually, Lotto, Yureka, and Cube reach the demon king's room. Aradon and Olios offer to help.\n\nBoromir and Ah-Dol awaken and now Team Triple Threat is complete. Lotto then begins to question the reason why they are fighting. Aradon then explains that Dexon (the creators of Lost Saga) is combining with Mega Entertainment and that this battle will determine the future of Lost Saga. Everyone then becomes serious about this match and the battle begins. Lotto and Aradon prepare their ultimate techniques to bring down the demon king, but the demon king blocks them. Aradon attempts to kill the demon king using a new magic spell he hasn't used in the battle yet. A large explosion occurs soon after, yet the demon king survives (as well as everyone else). Roto explains that due to something underground, the demon king has infinite regeneration. Everyone except Aradon leaves. Aradon asks the demon king a question. Lotto, Yureka, Ah-Dol, and Olios then encounter Cube. Cube begins to attack with lightning, however Olios counters it with his metal-tipped arrows. As Lotto, Yureka, and Ah-Dol walk downstairs, they encounter Neogia.\n\nAs Ah-Dol prepares to fight Neogia, he's revealed about a player option that causes them to affect their levels and discovers that players like Roto and Aradon are using said option in order to pre-buff themselves before most important fights. Seeing this as cheating, Ah-Dol tells Roto to go on ahead while he fights Neogia (in the rudest of ways). Roto and Yureka soon find themselves in a fiery pit fighting an onslaught of weak monsters before stronger ones pop out in the \"Heart\" of Lost Saga.\n\nWhile this is happening, Olios is fighting Kube and Aradon is fighting Kast.\n\nThe names of the characters are listed first, with their Lost Saga identities in (parentheses) unless their real names are unknown, in which case they will be listed by their handles only.\n\nHangul: 장군\nAge: 16\nTitle: Archmage \nClass: Mage \nSub-class: Swordsman\nOccupation: High School Junior\n\nLotto/Roto (his identity in the game, and what he is most commonly called) is a master level sorcerer (later wizard/ Archmage). Along with Boromid and Ah-Dol, he is one of the members of Team Triple Threat. He is considered one of the most powerful players in the game, logging over 6000 hours, the most since last beta.\n\nJang-Gun is very short for his age, but is still considered attractive, and is popular with girls (although he hardly notices them, usually thinking about game strategy). He's a bit of a jerk. He is very manipulative, exploiting others to his own advantage, as well as clever, able to discover new uses for his powers, that surprises everyone. and hitting or burning Yureka when she irritates him. He is also very arrogant, with many character during the Demon war, not want him to face the demon king, as they would never hear the end of it. But he cares very much for his friends and Yureka, being extremely angry, if they had been defeated.\n\nAlthough he is crazy for the game, he still manages to maintain an A-plus average in school and put up with his chain-smoker mother and chatroom-obsessed sister, Rose (Chang-Mi). When his Lost Saga ID card expires and he goes to renew it, he accidentally picks up a hacked one with the name Yureka on it- when he accidentally logs on with it, Yureka is created. As the series continues, his relationship with Yureka grows. At first, he used her as a punching bag, having her help in fights, while he questioned what she was. In the Demons War arc, he cared enough to have a ring given to her that made all damage she took be taken from his mana instead. After Yureka was deleted, he fell into great depression, quitting lost saga, and stopped talking to his friends. He later started again, to revive her, and anything someone tried to copy her, he would angrily ignore them. Once he found Yureka true person, Jaeha is an alternate personilty, he accepts both of them. He later reveals that he cares for both personalities, and that he likes Yureka.\n\nLotto specializes in fire magic & fire-based summons (i.e. Efreeti), but he can use other elemental-based magic if need be. Along with the large repertoire of spells he has at his disposal he is a semi-skilled Swordsman, supposedly shoring up many of the sorcerer class' weaknesses in his quest to become a Grand Mage. He is said to have a large amount of mana, something his rival Aradon admits. One of his greatest strengths is his ability to mix his skills to create abilities that can give him the edge in battle, even against stronger foes. These include modifying the Berserk spell so the target focuses a little on its own defense rather than dedicating all power to attacking, and bouncing his magic off his own barrier to create magic capable of piercing an opponent's magic barrier. One of his major strengths is his intellect, allowing him to think of strategies and use new abilities that have gained him impressive victories.\n\nIn the two team tournament, he showed that he was roughly at Aradon's strength, before the tournament was interrupted. After the tournament, he is represented as a Wizard/ Archmage, joining in the battle against Lord Kast, the demon king. He, Yureka, Aradon, and Olios take one path, by which they meet up with Basara. After tricking him to let them follow him, they continued to the castle. After battling Kast, they realized that it was impossible to defeat him as he would infinitely heal. To solve this, Roto and Yureka went to the core of the castle and found Kast's power source, a creature represented as the opening of Pandora's box, a creature that does damage that can not be fully healed and if killed by the beast, one can not log back into Lost Saga. In the midst of battling this creature Lotto falls to dark magic, and becomes a demon in his desperation. This resulted in the real Yureka showing up, killing the Yureka AI, and an old man casting the seal of saint, sealing the creature and revealing that the massacre was a Beta test of Dexon. Disgusted by this action, and the fact that Yureka was gone, he decided to quit lost saga.\n\nLater on Lotto is logging in as Yureka and meeting up with a Jijong Jang, an annoying character who uses people to get what he wants. As Yureka he meets with Elca, a player who can harm players real bodies when online, Lotto agreed to protect Jang and two other players, by using Yureka to train them in the Dragon Lands. Finally the real Yureka showed up killing players and resulting her state in a coma, and later on playing with Lotto and other others on Lost Saga while in the coma. In the process Lotto has realized Slayan has defeated Basara and is battling Slayan.\n\nHangul: 유레카\nClass: Freelancer, Swordsmaster\n\nAfter Roto gets his normal ID back, Yureka is still around. Her presence hasn't been explained yet, but she is most likely a rogue AI, like Aura from the .hack series. She may have been hacked, as her stats are all maxed out- strangely enough, her skill for specific spells and weapons are all at zero. Regardless, she embodies a unique power to mimic moves enemies use on her and retaliate with versions of them more powerful than the original. Her real-life counterpart, Jaeha, reappears in volume 6, mildly surprised to see 'herself' on television. She is revealed to have feelings for Roto, always protecting him. When she was erased, he learned of her history. Yureka name in the real world is Jaeha. Jaeha was a skilled hacker that worked as a \"killer\", a person on the net that attacked corrupt politicians or businessman, putting them in a coma-like state. It turns out Jaeha's parents were tricked by such people, causing them to commit suicide and attempt to kill her as well. She wanted to become a \"killer\" to gain revenge on that man. After losing her card, she found that Yureka existed and watched her and Roto as entertainment. As time progressed, she focused more and more on Yureka's life, interfering with her job, making her partner Elca angry. They later realized that Roto was learning too much of Yureka's programming, so they decided to separate them, causing Jaeha to kill Yureka. But it was too late, as Jaeha was in love with Roto, and was jealous of Yureka's relationship with him. Later when Yureka was revived, Yureka and Jaeha share the same body, but their separate psyches create conflict, as they both love Roto and they want to be loved by him. So much that Yureka has been suppressing Jaeha's will.\n\nHangul: 관수\nClass: Priest (Temple Knight)\nSub-Class: Warrior\nOccupation: High School Junior\n\nThe master level priest (later temple knight) of Team Triple Threat, Boromir is frequently the comic relief, and most likely the weakest member of his team. Unlike Roto, he enjoys the attention of girls his age, and is constantly frustrated as they all flock around his apathetic friend- he fancies himself a ladies' man, but he's really just a big pervert. He upskirts various female NPCs as an in-game hobby, and his reputation in the game as a result is dismal. As Triple Threat's only healer, his role is very important- but then again, he's not the best healer around, since his first instinct in a fight is to run for the exit. But despite this he is very skilled, even giving Aradon a hard time. He is very cowardly, mostly having his friends fight on the front lines. He has openly said he uses them as meat shields. But he has great care for his friends, if one of them is killed off, he goes in a rage, and is willing to do a suicide attack to get revenge. He prefers to fight with maces, but has been seen dual-wielding ogre scimitars, or using the Priest-class master item, Mjollnir (a lightning-based hammer with awesome power). In Lost Saga, a Priest is similar to a White Mage.\n\nBoromid also frequently breaks the fourth wall. He seems to be aware that he is a character in a manhwa, and often complains about poor exposure and lack of splash pages.\n\nOutside the US, Boromid is named \"Boromir\".\n\nHangul: 운석\nClass: Master Level Warrior (Force Master)\nSub-Class: Sorcerer\nOccupation: High School Junior\n\nAh-Dol is the warrior of Team Triple Threat. Unlike his two friends, Boromid and Roto, he is stoic, and doesn't excite as easily as the others- unless his brother's avatar, Alpha, happens to be around. He is very hotheaded He tends to be the only thing preventing Boromid and Roto from attempting to kill each other. Also unlike his allies, he shuns weapons such as swords and maces as he prefers instead to move in close and pummel his enemies with his knuckle dusters. His sub-class is sorcerer, as he would like to use elemental-based skills like Magma Punch.\n\nTitle: Magic Sword Master \nClass: Sorcerer \nFirst Sub-Class: Swordmaster (Master level) \nSecond Sub-class: Warrior (Master level)\n\nAradon is famous for being a bounty hunter, hunting down player killers for a reward, as well as being one of the fastest player ever to reach master level. He is the first player to ever obtain two master levels and later first to reach a third achieving rank as a master sorcerer, a master swordsman \"and\" master warrior status. He teams up with the mysterious Alpha for the Luciferian Double Trouble Team Tournament. He wields both the magical Sword of Harmony which he uses to channel and control the elements and the master-level Warrior/Sorcerer weapon Gladiat, the Sword of Light. He is commented on during the series to be very handsome, and has captured the heart of NPC Miss Piri, whom Roto loves.\nIn one of the recent chapters of \"Yureka,\" Aradon is seen wearing a high school uniform, with Olyus catching up to him. His real identity, however, remains vague.\n\nA master-level Anti-Priest (also known as Dark Priest), which is a combination of a master level Necromancer and a master level Priest. He is not featured largely in the series until Volume 6. Capri (the player who mentioned him earlier and a good friend of Il-Ban) also referred to how Il-Ban helped him out earlier on in the game, contradicting his title \"Dark Priest of the Dragon Lands,\" and his physical appearance (he is menacing looking, with an inverted cross on his forehead). Il-Ban later explains what constitutes a Dark Priest, when he resurrects Rapha as a Night Shade (a spirit-type monster). Il-Ban is intimate with the workings and events of the game, and may have connections to the company. He also met with Alpha (during a flashback) and is the one who dubbed him a ranger. In the past, he was known as the \"ruler\" of the Dragonlands, and he was a very well known Player Killer. He hardly participated in the battle to defeat the Demon King, and it was implied that he was involved in a plot to destroy Lost Saga. Later it's revealed that in real life, he is actually a programmer that works for Dexon's competitor, Mega Entertainment (Dexon is the creator of Lost Saga). Il-Ban plays Lost Saga to study the fundamentals of the game for the purpose of his own work, not to have fun. As such, he has a very strong knowledge of the game mechanics. Il-Ban is involved in a plot to cripple Lost Saga before the impending merger between Dexon's and Mega Entertainment's respective games, thus giving Mega Entertainment a large advantage. As part of his plot, Il-Ban has created an AI character named Ban, that is based on a combination between the powers of Yureka and Ijoyen/Neogia.\n\nOne of the master level players, and is considered the best player in Lost Saga (the game): He soloed a difficult dungeon known as the Tower of Terror to properly gauge the power of his two swords to find the stronger, the latter being discarded on the spot despite being worth 700,000 gold. He extremely despises people who attack his \"prey\" and is even willing to break player-killing laws in order to dispense his own version of \"justice\".\nHe is brash and hotheaded as seen when he attempts to kill Roto and company for taking his route for the quest. Later, thanks to Roto's backstabbing, Basara got turned into stone by Cube. Later on however, he is able to break free. He then goes on to defeat the Demon King who was thought to be invincible. He is later seen to be killed by Slayan at the end of chapter 147, after his defeat he is found by jijon jang and dragon lands Phuan. in a deep depression, although they don't know its him.\n\nExtra note: according to the profiles in the manga, Basara \"Enjoys long walks on the beach. Alone.\"\n\nThe first master-level witch Roto meets in the series so far, she has a flying broomstick which she uses to evade attacks while she casts her spells. She teams with Row in the Double Trouble Tournament, but is beaten by Roto in the first round. Later, she has a change of heart and joins Row in defending Nomal City from the monster horde. She possesses great magical power as seen when she can unleash Meteo, a powerful spell that summons meteors to crush foes.\nA team of master-level thieves- make that treasure hunters- who are a pair of sibling pop stars (\"The Lovely Angels\") out of the game. They have the tricky task of juggling celebrity status with devotion to the game.\n\nHangul: 진미\n\nA master-level Thief and one half of the Team. She and her sister Gina (or her game name, Julie) are also the famous pop group known as \"The Lovely Angels\". Her master-class item is a bandanna that allows her to become invisible. She is also skilled in Lair's wire, which is barely visible wire used by high-level thieves to hold down foes or protect areas. She is latter killed by a mysterious character who has also a master level thief because he also has the bandana.\n\nHangul: 진아\n\nAnother master level thief and Jin-Mee/ K.C.'s sister. She is the other half of both \"The Fallen Angels\" and \"The Lovely Angels\". She uses her master-class item, a remote-controlled boomerang to kill her foes. She is also skilled in using poisons on her weapons.\n\nHangul: 윤 다빈\nClass: Cleric\n\nOffline, Da-Bin is a 16-year-old student attending \"Beautiful Star Middle School\". She has a girlish crush on her NPC guardian, John, which enables them to do things in-game previously thought impossible. As a Cleric, Rapha is around 80th level prior to her fight with Roto, and substantially below that in the Monster Island Arc. The reason for this is that among the many powerful heals and buffs in Rapha's arsenal, she has a revival prayer- \"Sacrifice\"- which she uses to bring back John at the cost of her own stats. This sets off an easter egg which temporarily increased John's abilities significantly, even high enough to slay the Ancient Dragon Lord Matria, a boss thought by most users to be impossible to kill.\n\nHangul: 심 문숙\nClass: Beastmistress\nOccupation: Student/Debugger/Admin/Deva\n\nA 17-year-old student and part-time employee for Dexon Corp, she has a serious grudge against Team Triple Threat (who has dubbed her \"Medusa), after they ruined her life during a power play session. She is technically a debugger, but when in the game, she has powers like that of a Beastmaster.\n\nMyriah remembers just why she hates Team Triple Threat during an out-of-game chat with her friend, the niece of Dexon's CEO. When she was a regular player, she was an accomplished Beastmistress with a populated menagerie of mythical beasts, like griffins and manticores. Tragically, Team Triple Threat happened to be levelbusting nearby, and burned the barn down for the loot and experience points.\n\nHangul:황 준석\nClass: Swordmaster\n\nRow starts out as an arrogant weakling who only serves to annoy Team Triple Threat, but he gains strength and courage throughout the series and turns hero in Volume 8, where he tries to single-handedly protect Nomal City from a horde of monsters. He gives Yureka her first copycatted move, a shockwave-type attack he calls Sword Pulse Wave (like an Air Render). He was awarded Master-Class in volume 9 but was killed from behind by a lesser dragon while celebrating. Unbelievably, he then bravely logged back in to continue the defense of the city at the cost of his master level. His noble sacrifice inspires others including Woon-Ha(Alpha) to aid in his cause and defend Nomal City.\n\nAt master level, he chose the Orichalcon Sword instead of Gladiat, saying it was more his style. The sword lost its power and broke when he attempted to use it below master level after logging back in. He does appear to receive a new one, however, as he is seen with the Oricahlcon Sword when attempting to protect Miss Piri from a dangerous PK named Slayan.\n\nDuring the event Last Memory, he is wounded by the same Slayan, which makes him blind, and due to the impossibility to disconnect in order to heal, he is forced to learn how to fight in this state. By the end of a short training with Whan, he took back most of his combat abilities and realize that this ways of playing offers him another dimension of the game.\n\nHangul: 성 운하\nAge: 22\nOccupation: Net Room Proprietor\nClass: Ranger or Ninja (Depends on who you ask)\n\nAh-Dol's older brother in the real world, he is a self-proclaimed 'ninja' in the world of Lost Saga. In reality (inside Lost Saga), he is what is termed a ranger, a player who has obtained a variety of obscure and eccelastic skills from other classes to enrich his playing experience. Even though he isn't master level, the combined level of all his skills is over 200, which rivals that of a double master. This was enough for Aradon to choose him as a partner in the Double Trouble Tournament. In the past, he was strong enough to fight the player-killer Anti-Priest Il-Ban to a draw. He also saved John's life in the Double Trouble Tournament after the match with the Fallen Angels, with an arcane \"Poison Identification\" skill. He has many \"unique\" skills and chose to protect Nomal City using the identity of Sauel Abi Beta(or Saurabi Beta), using a new look and choosing martial arts over ninja skills after Il-Ban's disclaimer. He keeps changing his character's appearance and goes on to use the names Gamma and Delta also. Alpha also plays under the ID Omega on Cyber Quest, a competitor game to Lost Saga, and is known as one of the best players of the game. Ah-Dol went berserk when Woon-Ha supposedly \"died\", at the hands of Yureka's creator Jaeha. He managed to infect Jaeha with an anti-kill virus which instead gave people game overs. It's also suggested he might be a Hacker, or a Bounty Hunter.\n\nClass: Archer\n\nPer the U.S. releases, very little is known about Olios other than that he discovered the Thirsty Hill entrance to Monster Island and has deadly aim with any sort of projectile weapon, be it greatbow or rifle. He gets along with Aradon moderately well. He is also a player of Force Recon, which is where he met Roto, and is apparently the only person ever to get a clean head shot on him.\n\nIt is often noted by his fellow characters that the \"arrows\" which he uses in conjunction with his massive greatbow are more accurately described as spears.\n\nClass: Thief\nSub-Class: Unknown\n\nA unknown player who was first seen in chapter 144 encountering number 8, Seidus \"class: Archer\". This player is extremely strong, he is able to kill many players, as well as being able to follow them without them knowing. Slayan's main weapon is the strange gauntlets that he uses in all fights but later revealed in chapter 148 that he has the scarf of invisibility, portraying that he is a master class thief. In chapter 164 it is revealed that there are 3 Slayans, all master level Thieves using the invisibility scarf to attack opponents at the same time and make it appear that to their opponents that Slayan is so fast that he can attack from many different angles before they can even turn around. The Slayan trio was revealed to be Cyber Quest players who wanted to sabotage Lost Saga's reincarnation system so that Cyber Quest would have a huge advantage in the impending merger. Two Slayans were revealed to be brothers, and the much stronger third one (who later named himself Ban) was an AI created by Il-Ban. Ban has the power of all classes at master level and was given powers that were based on a combination between Yureka and Ijoyen/Neogia.\n\nKnown Battles\nNote: Numbers represent the now abolished ranking in the Land of Dragons, PK zone. Names listed on the same line are players fought in the same battle.\n\nPiri is a NPC character whose Roto crushed on but fell in love on Aradon. She is a NPC shopkeeper. Later in the chapter titled \"this story again\" on the last pages it shows a woman who looks like Piri lying in a bed hooked up to machines. This implies that she may have been a victim of a \"killer\"; seeing as she was in the same state as Jaeha who was killed by Elca. Later it shows that Piri, ingame as the shopkeeper, also has a key like many of regular players of Lost Saga.\n\nSingle Classes\n\nDouble Classes\n\nClass Breakers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257265", "title": "Steinhof (Vienna)", "text": "Steinhof (Vienna)\n\nSteinhof is a hospital in Vienna, Austria. It was originally a psychiatric hospital and center for pulmonology.\n\nThe hospital lies in the 14th district of Vienna, Penzing, and was built according to the plans of architect Otto Wagner and opened in 1907. The building is made up of 60 pavilions that were designed by Carlo von Boog. The Kirche am Steinhof is located at the center of the compound. An art nouveau theater is found further in.\n\nIn 2000, five health facilities were consolidated under the label \"Sozialmedizinisches Zentrum Baumgartner Höhe - Otto Wagner Spital mit Pflegezentrum\" (Baumgartner Höhe Social Medicine Center - Otto Wagner Hospital and Care Center). The five facilities are \"Förderpflegeheim Baumgartner Höhe\" (advancing care), \"Neurologisches Krankenhaus Maria-Theresien-Schlössl\" (neurology), \"Pflegeheim Sanatoriumstraße\" (nursing care), \"Psychiatrisches Krankenhaus Baumgartner Höhe\" (psychiatry), and \"Pulmologisches Zentrum Baumgartner Höhe\" (pulmonology).\n\nThe center also hosts the \"Gedenkstätte zur Geschichte der NS-Medizin in Wien\" (Memorial to the History of Nazi-Medicine in Vienna) memorial and exhibition.\n\nDuring the Second World War, 789 children were tortured and murdered in the Children's Ward of the hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257267", "title": "Hawkesbury River railway station", "text": "Hawkesbury River railway station\n\nHawkesbury River railway station is a heritage-listed railway station located on the Main North and Central Coast–Newcastle lines in Brooklyn in the Hornsby Shire local government area of New South Wales, Australia. The station serves the town of Brooklyn and is located on the southern bank of the Hawkesbury River. It was designed and build by the Department of Railways New South Wales. It is also known as Hawkesbury River Railway Station group and Brooklyn Station. The property is owned by RailCorp, an agency of the Government of New South Wales. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nThe Main Northern line between Sydney and Newcastle was constructed in two distinct stages and in the earliest years, was worked as two separate railway systems. The line between Sydney (actually the junction at Strathfield) and the Hawkesbury River was opened on 7 April 1887, with the terminus being on the southern bank of the Hawkesbury River. The line between Newcastle and the northern bank of the Hawkesbury River (near present-day Wondabyne) was opened in January 1888.\n\nThe line was completed through between Sydney and Newcastle with the opening of the Hawkesbury River Railway Bridge in 1889. The Hawkesbury River railway station is presently located on the Northern line between Cowan railway station and Wondabyne railway station.\n\nThe single-line section between Hornsby and the Hawkesbury River was opened for traffic on 7 April 1887. Separate side platforms were provided at the-then terminus, one for each of the future Up and Down lines in preparation for the forthcoming planned duplication of the Northern line. Completion of the bridge over the Hawkesbury River was still two years away and the station facilities provided at Hawkesbury River remained in use to serve as the railway terminus until the opening of the bridge. The construction name of Hawkesbury River was \"Flat Rock\". The station was opened as \"Hawkesbury River\", renamed \"Brooklyn\" (1888), \"Hawkesbury River\" (1889), \"Hawkesbury\" (1890), finally reverting to Hawkesbury River in October 1906. Reflecting the confusion in the timetables, the station was known locally as \"Peats Ferry\", \"Flat Rock\", and \"Brooklyn\" in the early years, depending on whom one spoke to.\n\nWhilst the main line terminated at Hawkesbury River, an arrangement of trackwork, sidings and platforms was provided on the causeway formed by reclaimed land on the eastern side of Long Island where the new Long Island tunnel had been constructed. The station was known as \"River Wharf\" and the tracks terminated at a wharf at the edge of the waterway. The purpose of the arrangement was to allow transhipment between the railways and river ferries, thus allowing passengers to cross the waterway, to another wharf on the northern side of the river, while the Hawkesbury River Bridge was under construction. Hawkesbury River became a popular destination for day trippers and fishermen, outstripping the capacity of the original timber platform building. This was replaced in 1903 with the current brick building, which is of the type that had recently been adopted as the standard construction for island platforms.\n\nIn the single line era, Hawkesbury River Station comprised two timber platforms, one for each of the Down main and Up main line. A timber station building was provided on the Up platform. By 1912, duplication was extended to Hawkesbury River and the layout had changed. An island platform and standard brick station building had been provided, refuge sidings, loops and goods sidings had been laid in, all controlled by interlocking and a signal box on the platform. A footbridge and stairs allowed access to the platform.\n\nIn subsequent years, increased rail traffic resulted in constant re-modelling, improvement and updating of railway facilities at Hawkesbury River to cater for bank engines (which assisted up trains from Hawkesbury River to Cowan) and longer and heavier trains. Signalling and interlocking was improved as a result.\n\nElectrification of the Hornsby-Gosford section was opened in 1960. The first stage of the project was the electrification of the Hornsby to Hawkesbury River section and this was opened into Hawkesbury River on 12 April 1959. As part of this scheme, the platforms, overbridges, underbridge, footbridges and other structures were modified or rebuilt to accommodate the wide electric rollingstock, planned to operate between Hornsby and Cowan.\n\nThe station footbridge was raised for electrification. The electrification at Hawkesbury River saw the demise of steam locomotive bank engines, replaced by electric locomotives. As a result, modifications and improvements were carried out to trackwork, sidings and signalling to suit the use of electric locomotives and the future operation of stainless steel electric interurban car sets on passenger trains.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, most station buildings on the northern line between Hornsby and Newcastle were further rebuilt with modern materials, a result of the extension of electrification from Gosford to Newcastle. However, the brick station building at Hawkesbury River is extant, although some additional awnings and structures have been added on the platform. The station steps have been rebuilt with modern materials. In 1987, the station featured in Jimmy Barnes' music-video song \"Still On Your Side\" from his album \"Freight Train Heart\". It also featured in episodes 885 and 886 of the soap opera \"Home and Away\".\n\nAt Hawkesbury River, the signal box at the Hornsby-end of the station building was closed at the time of the upgrading, with all signals being controlled by a control centre at Hornsby.\n\nA southbound passing loop exists to the east of the station. Immediately south of the station is the Cowan Bank.\n\nAssociated with the Hawkesbury River railway station is the now defunct River Wharf railway station. This was located on the eastern end of Long Island, across the causeway linking Long Island with the mainland and was in use from at least 15 August 1887. River Wharf was the terminus of the northern line until the first Hawkesbury River Railway Bridge opened in 1889. During its operation, trains would disgorge passengers and goods here for transfer to the \"General Gordon\" paddle steamer.\n\nThey would then be transported out into Broken Bay and up to Woy Woy station from where they would rejoin a train for their onward journey north. This inconvenience was alleviated somewhat when the Woy Woy Tunnel was opened and the line extended south to another defunct platform named \"Mullet Creek\", that was in the general vicinity of the present day Wondabyne station, in January 1889, as this meant the \"General Gordon\" only had to cross the Hawkesbury River and travel up Mullet Creek a few kilometres.\n\nThe down platform is still extant on Long Island, although the wharf and other infrastructure associated with the station has been removed.\n\nHawkesbury River has one island platform with two sides. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Central Coast & Newcastle Line services travelling from Sydney to Newcastle.\n\nTransdev NSW operates one bus route via Hawkesbury River station:\n\nThe complex comprises a type 11 station building, including a former signal box, erected in 1910; the platform, completed in 1887; a footbridge, completed in 1910; a wharf; a store room, completed in ; a water spout; and moveable heritage items.\n\nThe Hawkesbury River Station is located at the north-western edge of Brooklyn immediately adjacent to the commercial strip and Brooklyn Marina. It is connected to Long Island to the north via a land bridge (containing rail line and road). It sits within a railway precinct that includes a range of railway workers accommodation to the south of the station on both sides of the line. The station commands impressive views of the Hawkesbury River to the east and west and Long Island to the north.\n\nThe 1910 Hawkesbury River Station is an island station building, located between the Up and Down lines. It is a single-storey face brick building with a corrugated iron gable roof. On each platform is a large awning, supported on cast iron brackets, which are in turn supported on painted stone brackets, which are part of brick engaged piers of the station building. The station building features rendered detailing including cornices, architraves, string-courses and sill, some extant tuck-pointing, timber-framed double-hung sashed windows with the upper sashes retaining coloured glass panes. The building is circled by a concrete box drain with cast iron grate covering. Some of the doorsteps are standard concrete with metal foot scraper inserts. Attached to the southern end of the building is a former signal box with large sliding windows. The signal box has rendered external walls.\n\nInternally, the building has painted plaster walls, painted joinery of a high quality and ceilings of ripple iron or fibrous plaster sheeting. The floors are all wooden. The waiting room retains its original fitted timber seating. The male and female lavatories retain their original configuration and timber partitions, with tiled finishes and fittings dating from c.1950. All of the office furniture and fittings as well as the ticket window are modern. There is evidence of a former fireplace in the former Station Master's office and an original cast iron safe. Some original four panel doors are extant.\n\nThe 1897 platform is located between the Up and Down lines and curves in a gentle crescent facing west. Some of the faces are face brick, particularly on the Down line, while the faces of the Up line are entirely modern and concrete. There is standard modern railway furniture, bins and fences on the platform. The Up platform has a WWII honour roll board and cast iron drinking fountain.\n\nAt the northern end of the platform there is an steel truss footbridge dating from the early 20th century, though somewhat modified with the addition of an upper half truss, steel beams and concrete deck and stairs (dating from the late 20th century). The footbridge goes from Brooklyn Road in the east, across the lines to the platform and the wharf.\n\nA small timber wharf sits on the western side of the station immediately north of the footbridge.\n\nAt the southern end of the platform is a single-storey, s, brick building with a tiled gable roof. It is currently used for staff facilities.\n\nSouth of the platform between the Up line and siding is a water spout, originally used for the supply of water for steam locomotives. It is a cast iron structure on a concrete base with a timber platform and sheet metal spout, pivoting on a gear mechanism with a counter weight.\n\nMoveable items include a World War II honour roll and cast iron drinking fountain on platforms, a collection of historic photographs in waiting room corridor, and an original cast iron safe in former Station Master's Office.\n\nThe station building including the former signal box is in very good condition. Also in very good condition are the platform and footbridge. The wharf is in very poor condition. The store room is in good condition and the water spout is in poor condition, rusted through on the spout.\n\nThe station group is intact and maintains its historic relationship with the Hawkesbury River setting, the Long Island Group, the current and former Hawkesbury River Rail Bridges and workers accommodation in Brooklyn township.\n\nThe station building is intact with most original fittings and fixtures. The footbridge has been raised to accommodate electric trains, but maintains its original steel support structure.\n\nIn 1960, electrification of the Hornsby-Gosford section of the line was completed. The station footbridge was raised, and modifications and improvements were carried out to trackwork, sidings and signalling to suit the use of electric locomotives and the future operation of stainless steel electric interurban car sets on passenger trains. The signal box was closed. In the late 1980s and early 1990s some additional awnings and structures have been added on the platform. The station steps have been rebuilt with modern materials.\n\nHawkesbury Railway Station has State significance. The station group has an outstanding degree of aesthetic significance. It has a particularly picturesque setting on the edge of the Hawkesbury, with views over the water to the east and west and to Long Island to the north. The station affords a view of the land bridge between Brooklyn and Long Island and the portals of the current and former Long Island tunnels, providing a rare opportunity to easily view some of the technical achievements of the Short North line construction. Its waterside setting is unusual and as such it is one of the most picturesque station settings in NSW.\n\nHawkesbury River Station has historical associations with the construction of the Short North line in the late 1880s and the Hawkesbury River Bridge in 1889, which was a major event and a significant engineering achievement in the history of NSW railways. The station facilitated the development of Brooklyn as a settlement for workers constructing the line and the station forms part of an extensive railway landscape of outstanding significance clustered around the Hawkesbury River, which includes the Long Island tunnels and maintenance depot, the current and former Hawkesbury River railway bridges and worker accommodation in Brooklyn township.\n\nThe platform building, island platform and footbridge are representative of structures built at Sydney railway stations between 1892 and 1929 and especially the period between 1909 and 1917. The station building is a good representative example of its type due to its high degree of intactness and integrity.\n\nHawkesbury River railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hawkesbury River Railway Station was the terminus for the first section of the Short North from Strathfield for two years until the first Hawkesbury River bridge was completed in 1889. As such it has historic associations with the rail linkage of Sydney and Newcastle, which was a major event in the history of NSW railways. It forms part of a significant railway landscape including the Long Island Maintenance Depot, land bridge and tunnels, the current and former Hawkesbury River Rail bridges and railway worker accommodation in Brooklyn township.\n\nThe station facilitated the development of Brooklyn as a settlement for workers constructing the line. The associated housing (not owned by RailCorp) increases the significance of the Brooklyn Railway precinct, representing the provision of railway workers accommodation for construction and permanent ongoing operation of the railway, a practice that is no longer occurring.\n\nLike many historic railway stations in NSW the station complex is able to evoke a former era of travel, communication and trade. This is heightened by the presence of a water spout at the southern end of the station from the former days of steam powered railway travel and the jetty, which forms an interface between transport on land and sea.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nThe station group has an outstanding degree of aesthetic significance. It has a particularly picturesque setting on the edge of the Hawkesbury, with views over the water to the east and west and to Long Island to the north. The station affords a view of the land bridge between Brooklyn and Long Island and the portals of the current and former Long Island tunnels, providing a rare opportunity to easily view some of the technical achievements of the Short North line construction. Its waterside setting is unusual and as such it is one of the most picturesque station settings in NSW.\n\nThe station building is an example of early twentieth century railway station design with fabric and details typical of this period and is similar to other rail buildings of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century in the Sydney region.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nThe place has the potential to contribute to the local community's sense of place and can provide a connection to the local community's history.\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe Hawkesbury River station complex is a common station Type 11 (standard A8-10), well represented elsewhere in the Sydney metro network. Its waterside setting is however rare, providing one of the most picturesque station settings in NSW.\n\nThe station group also forms part of an unusual late nineteenth and early twentieth century railway landscape of outstanding significance clustered around the Hawkesbury River, which includes the Long Island tunnels and maintenance depot, the current and former Hawkesbury River railway bridges and worker accommodation in Brooklyn township.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.\n\nThe platform building, island platform and footbridge are representative of structures built at Sydney railway stations between 1892 and 1929 and especially the period between 1909 and 1917. The station building is a good representative example of Type A8-10 stations due to its high degree of intactness and integrity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257278", "title": "Tascott railway station", "text": "Tascott railway station\n\nTascott railway station is located on the Main Northern line in New South Wales, Australia. It serves the southern Central Coast suburb of Tascott opening in October 1905.\n\nTascott has two side platforms that are about 2 cars long. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Central Coast & Newcastle Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Newcastle.\n\nBusways operate two routes via Tascott station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257289", "title": "List of The Bill episodes", "text": "List of The Bill episodes\n\nThis is a list of The Bill episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257295", "title": "Wamsutta", "text": "Wamsutta\n\nWamsutta ( 16341662), also known as Alexander Pokanoket, as he was called by New England colonists, was the eldest son of Massasoit (meaning Great Leader) Ousa Mequin of the Pokanoket Tribe and Wampanoag nation, and brother of Metacomet. His sale of Wampanoag lands to colonists other than those of the Plymouth Colony brought the Wampanoag considerable power, but aroused the suspicions of the Plymouth colonists. He was imprisoned for three days at Plymouth; he died shortly after release, causing tribal suspicion of the colonists. His death possibly contributed to King Philip's War of 1675. Wamsutta's name is memorialized in and around New Bedford, Massachusetts in various ways. He was honored in the naming of a United States Navy steamer in commission during the American Civil War between 1863 and 1865.\n\nWamsutta was born of royal blood in circa 1634 as the eldest son of Massasoit Ousa Mequin, leader of the [Pokanoket people|Pokanoket]]. Wamsutta married [[Weetamoo).\n\nImmediately following Ousa Mequin’s death, his oldest son, Wamsutta, inherited the Pokanoket sachemship, as was Pokanoket custom. Wamsutta, whom the English named Alexander, agreed to adhere to the peace established by his father. But rumors soon began to circulate that he was conspiring with the Narragansetts to attack the English. In 1662 the English accused Wamsutta of independently negotiating land sales. They marched him to Plymouth at gunpoint. He died of a \"sudden illness\" before returning home, leading the Pokanoket and many other natives to believe he had been poisoned by the English. At Wamsutta’s death, the Pokanoket sachemship and title of Massasoit passed to Ousa Mequin’s second son, Metacomet.\n\n[[Metacomet|Metacomet (or Metacom)]], known as King Philip to the colonists and officials at Plymouth, signed an agreement with the English in 1662. Like Wamsutta and his father before him, Philip vowed not to needlessly or unjustly provoke or raise war with any other natives. In return, the colonists agreed to advise and aid Philip. However, it was an uneasy alliance. Hostilities between natives and colonists continued to grow.\n\nIt must be emphasized—the Royal House of Pokanoket was a hereditary kingship. \n\n\"Princes\", \"Nobles\", \"Blood Royal\", and \"Royalties\" all were terms quite familiar to seventeenth century Europeans, who portrayed the governing system of the Pokanoket as similar to that of hereditary monarchies in their own countries.\n\nAfter Massasoit's death, Wamsutta assumed leadership of the Pokanoket, becoming leader of all the [[Native Americans in the United States|Native American]] tribes between the [[Charles River]] in [[Massachusetts]] and [[Narraganset Bay]] in [[Rhode Island]], including the tribes in eastern Rhode Island and eastern Massachusetts. As a result of a collapse of the [[fur trade]], he substantially increased the power of the Pokanoket by selling land to colonists. In 1662 he was summoned to and seized by the [[Plymouth Colony|Plymouth]] Court. After being questioned, Wamsutta became ill and soon died.\n\nThe cause of death was disputed, and Wamsutta's brother Metacomet (who succeeded Wamsutta in leadership of the Pokanoket) suspected that he had been poisoned. Wamsutta's death was one of the factors that would eventually lead to the 1675 [[King Philip's War]].\n\nSome historians believe Wamsutta was poisoned or tortured by Governor [[Josiah Winslow]], who saw him as a threat. But considering Winslow's father, [[Edward Winslow]] and Governor [[William Bradford (Plymouth governor)|William Bradford]] (both of whom had died before this), and their previous peaceful relations with Wamsutta's father, Massasoit, such speculation is open to question. This issue is examined in the 2017 historical novel \"My Father's Kingdom\" by James W. George.\n\nWamsutta has been the namesake of businesses and places: \n\n\nhttps://vc.bridgew.edu/bmas/64/\nHeath, Dwight B.\n“A Journal of the Pilgrims at Plymouth: Mourt’s Relation”, A relation or journal of the English Plantation settled at Plymouth in New England, by certain English adventurers both merchants and others. Edited from the original printing of 1622. p. 7.\n[[Category:1630s births]]\n[[Category:1662 deaths]]\n[[Category:Native American leaders]]\n[[Category:Native Americans connected with Plymouth Colony]]\n[[Category:People of colonial Massachusetts]]\n[[Category:Wampanoag people]]\n[[Category:Native American history of Massachusetts]]\n[[Category:Native American people from Massachusetts]]"}
{"id": "2257319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257319", "title": "Blood Money (video game)", "text": "Blood Money (video game)\n\nBlood Money is a side-scrolling shooter video game developed by DMA Design. It was published by Psygnosis in 1989 for the Amiga, Atari ST and MS-DOS, and in 1990 for the Commodore 64. The game is set in four different locations on a planet, where players are tasked with attacking the enemies and defeating the bosses.\n\nThe game began development immediately after \"Menace\", and borrowed similar gameplay elements. The development team used advanced hardware to develop \"Blood Money\", using improved graphical and technological processes. The game was inspired by the presentation of \"Mr. Heli\", and the animations of \"Blood Money\" would later inspire the development of \"Lemmings\". The game was released to positive reviews; praise was given to the game's graphics and gameplay. The game was also commercially successful, selling over 40,000 copies.\n\n\"Blood Money\" is a horizontal side-scrolling shooter that uses 2D computer graphics. Players move through four stages on the planet, taking control of a different vehicle in each level: a helicopter in the metal world, a submarine in a water world, a spacesuit in an ice world, and a fighter jet in a fire world. Each vehicle features unique weaponry, which players use to attack all advancing enemies. Players can upgrade their vehicle with power-ups, which grant them additional weapons and upgrades, such as support missiles and neutron bombs. The vehicles' energy acts as players' health, and is depleted when the vehicle makes contact with enemies and walls. When all energy is lost, players lose a life; three lives are provided at the beginning of the game, and additional lives can be collected as players progress through the levels. When all three lives are lost, the game ends and players are sent to the title screen. The first two levels may be selected from the beginning of the game; after one level is complete, players can select any remaining world without restrictions. At the end of each level, players must defeat a boss.\nFollowing the successful release of \"Menace\" in 1988, David Jones began developing \"Blood Money\" on 4 January 1989, on the 25 MHz 386-DX computer that publisher Psygnosis granted him, alongside a Personal Development System. Jones saw \"Blood Money\" as a continuation of the concept used in \"Menace\". Jones was heavily inspired by the \"cuteness\" of \"Mr. Heli\" (1987) during the development of \"Blood Money\". The game's cover art was designed by British artist Peter Andrew Jones for the novel \"Protector\" (1973) by Larry Niven, and was adapted for the game's cover.\n\nWith \"Blood Money\", Jones was determined to use the full colour range of the Amiga, opting to use the blitter as opposed to the hardware scrolling; the blitter allowed graphics to be drawn quickly. Tony Smith, who had worked on \"Menace\", produced the graphics for \"Blood Money\", while Jones began work on a new scrolling system. While developing his own game, \"Talisman\", Mike Dailly created a compact method to move enemies on-screen, which Jones incorporated into \"Blood Money\". The game's animations fascinated Jones' friend Gary Timmons, who then began experimenting with Deluxe Paint; his work on the program led to his employment at DMA Design, and inspired some of the animations used in DMA's next game, \"Walker\" (1993). The game's introduction required a star field, which Jones took from a quick demonstration that Dailly had been working on.\n\nThe game was ported to the PC by Tim Ansell of Creative Assembly, and to Atari ST by Jones' friend Wayne Smithson, while Dailly began porting the game to the Commodore 64 following the Personal Computer World Show in September 1989. Dailly used the code from the \"Talisman\" demo, and wrote a new sprite system. He also re-worked the multi-directional scrolling, and wrote his own tape loading routines, wanting one that allowed players to play a simple game while \"Blood Money\" loaded. Smith designed the graphics for the port, and became confused by the limitations of the hardware: he had to draw double pixels in Deluxe Paint, and was limited to sixteen colours. Dailly finished developing the Commodore 64 version of \"Blood Money\" on 12 March 1990.\n\n\"Blood Money\" received mostly positive reviews from critics upon release, particularly for its gameplay, graphical design, and sound. Gary Barrett of \"ST/Amiga Format\" wrote that the game is the best shoot 'em up game on the Amiga. \"Zzap!64\" listed \"Blood Money\" as the best Amiga game of the 1980s, and \"ST Format\" named it the second-best shoot 'em up game of 1990. The game sold 40,000 copies, which is double the sales of \"Menace\".\n\nStuart Wynne of \"Zzap!64\" found the game convenient for players, while Robin Hogg of the same publication wrote that it equals to the game's detailed graphics. \"The One\" viewed the game as among the more difficult and technologically sophisticated shoot 'em ups, while \"ACE\" called it \"compelling\". Conversely, Mike Pattenden of \"CU Amiga\" criticised the difficulty, noting its lack of rewards.\n\nCritics praised the game's graphical qualities. Paul Glancey of \"Computer and Video Games\" lauded the game's opening sequence, and called the sprites among \"the best designed and most fluidly animated\" in an Amiga game. \"The Games Machine\" believed the graphics were very advanced, and Barrett of \"ST/Amiga Format\" wrote that the game is \"in a class of its own\", praising the sprite animations. \"Zzap!64\"s Hogg commended the animation and backgrounds. Conversely, \"CU Amiga\"s Pattenden felt that the graphics lack depth.\n\nThe game's use of sound received positive reactions. Phil King of \"Zzap!64\" was impressed by the soundtrack, particularly praising the introductory music. \"The Games Machine\" echoed similar remarks, writing that the game features \"excellent\" audio, and Glancey of \"Computer and Video Games\" wrote that the sound chip was heavily utilised. Barrett of \"ST/Amiga Format\" preferred the sound effects over the music, though felt that they were inferior to those in \"Menace\". Pattenden of \"CU Amiga\" felt that the sound is \"a poor tune and some average effects\", while \"ACE\" called it \"a little weedy\".\n"}
{"id": "2257321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257321", "title": "Suma Josson", "text": "Suma Josson\n\nSuma Josson is an Indian-American journalist and filmmaker. Her documentary film \"Niyamgiri, You are still alive\", on the ecological and human damage done by bauxite mining, won a first prize in the Short Film, Environment category at the 2010 International Film Festival of India.\n\nShe was born in Kerala, India and graduated in English Literature from the University of Minnesota, United States. She began her career as a journalist at Press Trust of India, and in 1992 switched over to the visual media. She has made a number of documentary films. She has published three books: \"Poems and Plays\", \"A Harvest of Light\" (a collection of plays), and \"Circumferences\" (a novel).\n\nHer debut film was \"Janmadhinam\" which won three state awards, and was screened at various international film festivals including the 1999 Berlin Festival. She was one of the five women filmmakers commissioned to make a documentary Trading Images on the subject 'women's space' in a German international coproduction. \"Saree\" is her second feature film.\n\nSarasu has come to the hospital to deliver her baby. Amma, her mother, is with her, to assist her. The actual time-span of the film is a single night which the mother and the daughter spend at the hospital. Sarasu, a TV-reporter working in Bombay, keeps a diary into which she pours her inner-most feelings. We find out that Sarasu was forced by her father to marry Raghu, although she was in love with Ajay, a cameraman. A few months after her marriage, she passes through Bombay to join her husband. On the way, she meets Ajay in his flat. This is during the '1993 communal violence in Bombay. In the aftermath of this meeting, Sarasu is finally forced to make a choice. And Amma realizes that she also has to take a stand, as a result of Sarasu's choice. It is this unspoken, unseen, subtle tension between mother and daughter, and a slow psychological unfolding of the personal histories of the main characters, which form the content of this film.\n\nTwo children, Gita and Radha, are stranded in the no man's land between two worlds that dominate contemporary childhood: school and home. This in-between land is one of myriad dreams, fears, and fantasies all yearning to take the shape of a free fluid space where children can summon whichever spirit they like. The two young friends are on their way back from the school as they recount their dreams in this subliminal space available only to childhood.\n\nSaree was selected for the 1999 Berlin Festival, and in 2000 it was the inaugural film at the Mumbai International Film Festival in Mumbai. \n\nSet in the post-Godhra violence which was unleashed in Gujarat during February 2002, this film examines the extent to which the fascist ideologies of the communal forces have infiltrated into the sub-conscious of an ordinary Gujarati Hindu.\n\n2003 / documentary / 50 min / English subtitles\n\n"}
{"id": "2257332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257332", "title": "Sal Maglie", "text": "Sal Maglie\n\nSalvatore Anthony Maglie (April 26, 1917 – December 28, 1992) was an American Major League Baseball pitcher and later, a scout and a pitching coach. He played from 1945 to 1958 for the New York Giants, Cleveland Indians, Brooklyn Dodgers, New York Yankees, and St. Louis Cardinals. Maglie was known as \"Sal the Barber\", because he gave close shaves—that is, pitched inside to hitters. Coincidentally, he also sported a five o'clock shadow look. He also had the distinction of being one of the few players to play for the Giants, Dodgers and Yankees at a time when all three teams were in New York City (Maglie's playing career pre-dated the 1962 establishment of the fourth New York major league team, the expansion New York Mets, with whom he was never affiliated). During a 10-year major league baseball career, Maglie compiled 119 wins, 862 strikeouts, and a 3.15 earned run average.\n\nMaglie broke into the major leagues with the Giants in 1945, but jumped to the Mexican League prior to the 1946 season. For this, Maglie was banned from organized baseball by Commissioner Happy Chandler, and Maglie was unable to return to the Giants until 1950. The ban had been lifted in 1949, but Maglie chose to remain with the Drummondville Cubs, with whom he was playing at the time, and with whom he was making more money than he did with the Giants.\n\nAfter his return to the majors, Maglie was integral to the success of the New York Giants teams of the early 1950s. After a stint with Cleveland, Maglie was purchased by the Dodgers in May 1956. Maglie had a sterling comeback season for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1956 (who won the NL pennant by one game over the Milwaukee Braves and two games over the Cincinnati Reds), going 13–5 with 2.89 ERA. On September 25 of that year, he no-hit the Philadelphia Phillies 5-0 at Ebbets Field. He finished second to Don Newcombe in the first balloting for the Cy Young Award, and was also second to Newcombe in MVP balloting. He was the Dodgers' pitcher opposing Don Larsen of the Yankees in the latter's famous perfect game in Game 5 of the 1956 World Series.\n\nWillie Mays told a story in his autobiography of hitting a home run against Maglie after Maglie went to the Dodgers. However, the only home run Maglie gave up to the Giants while wearing a Dodger uniform was to Ray Jablonski, not Mays.\n\nHall of Fame pitcher Don Drysdale credited Maglie with teaching him the art of brushing back batters while the two were teammates in Brooklyn.\n\nAfter one year (1959) as a scout for the Cardinals, and two stints (1960–62; 1966–67) with the Boston Red Sox as a pitching coach, Maglie was hired as a pitching coach for the expansion Seattle Pilots in 1969. He was profiled unflatteringly in Jim Bouton's book \"Ball Four\", despite the fact that he was Bouton's boyhood hero. Bouton commented that Maglie rarely gave useful advice to the pitchers, and frequently second-guessed their choice of pitches, often contradicting his previous second guessing. In one such instance, Bouton related:\nThe man I love [Maglie] had quite an adventure tonight. Darrell Brandon pitching, and with Rod Carew on third base he's using a full wind-up. At the last moment he decides to take a look over at Carew, who's taking a pretty good lead. So he backs off the rubber and Sal yells at him, \"For crissakes, get the hitter. The runner isn't going anyplace.\"\n\nSo Darrell winds up and lets fly. \"And Carew steals home\".\n\nWhen Darrell comes into the dugout at the end of the inning, Maglie lets him have it. \"Dammit\", he says. \"You \"know\" you've got to pitch from the stretch in that situation.\"\n\nJim Lonborg, AL Cy Young Award winner in 1967, credited his effectiveness that year to Maglie's lessons on pitching inside while he was a pitching coach for the Red Sox.\n\nThough Maglie never shaved before games, his \"Sal the Barber\" came from his propensity to give close shaves—that is, pitched inside to hitters. Willie Mays summarized his reason for throwing inside: \"He always liked to be in complete control of a game, and the way he did this, or thought he had to do it, was by pitching batters close. You always had to worry about a brushback pitch from him. You knew he would throw it, but you didn't know how close he would make it.\"\n\nDuring the 1950s, Maglie lived in Riverdale, The Bronx. \n\nMaglie appeared on the game show \"What's My Line?\" the night before he started Game 5 of the 1956 World Series, with former Yankee Phil Rizzuto as one of the panel members.\n\nMaglie died in 1992 due to complications from pneumonia.\n\nSal Maglie Stadium, located in Hyde Park in his hometown of Niagara Falls, New York, was named after him in June 1983. The ceremony featured the world's shortest baseball bus excursion. A bus loaded with friends and family of Maglie left the Stadium Grill located about two hundred yards across the street and drove into Sal Maglie Stadium. The event was captured in a story done by Bob Koshinski and aired on ESPN.\n\nSal Maglie Stadium is now the home to the Niagara Purple Eagles college baseball team, Niagara Falls Wolverines (high school baseball), Niagara Catholic Patriots (high school baseball), and Niagara Power of the NYCBL.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2257352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257352", "title": "Snellen", "text": "Snellen\n\nSnellen is a Dutch surname. \"Snel\" means \"quick\" in Dutch and the original bearer of the name may have been a lively person. However, the origin of the surname often was patronymic, as Snel and Snelle were short forms of the archaic Germanic given name Snellaard (which originally meant \"lively and strong\"). People with this surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257358", "title": "Great Expectations (1946 film)", "text": "Great Expectations (1946 film)\n\nGreat Expectations is a 1946 British film directed by David Lean, based on the 1861 novel by Charles Dickens and starring John Mills, Bernard Miles, Finlay Currie, Jean Simmons, Martita Hunt, Alec Guinness and Valerie Hobson. It won two Academy Awards (Best Art Direction and Best Cinematography) and was nominated for three others (Best Picture, Best Director and Best Screenplay).\n\nThe script, a slimmed-down version of Dickens' novel – inspired after David Lean witnessed an abridged 1939 stage version of the novel, in which Guinness (responsible for the adaptation) had played Herbert Pocket, and Martita Hunt was Miss Havisham – was written by David Lean, Anthony Havelock-Allan, Cecil McGivern, Ronald Neame and Kay Walsh. Guinness and Hunt reprised their roles in the film, but the film was not a strict adaptation of the stage version. The film was produced by Ronald Neame and photographed by Guy Green. It was the first of two films Lean directed based on Dickens' novels, the other being his 1948 adaptation of \"Oliver Twist\".\n\nThe film is now regarded as one of Lean's best; in 1999, on the British Film Institute's Top 100 British films list, \"Great Expectations\" was named the 5th greatest British film of all time.\n\nOrphan Phillip \"Pip\" Pirrip (Anthony Wager) lives with his shrewish older sister and her kind-hearted blacksmith husband, Joe Gargery (Bernard Miles). One day, Pip runs into an escaped convict, Abel Magwitch (Finlay Currie), who intimidates the boy into getting him some food and a file for his chains. Magwitch is caught when he attacks a hated fellow escapee, and is taken back to the prison ship.\n\nMiss Havisham (Martita Hunt), an eccentric rich spinster, arranges to have Pip come to her mansion regularly to provide her with company and to play with her adopted daughter, a cruel but beautiful teenage girl, Estella (Jean Simmons). Estella mocks Pip's coarse manners at every opportunity, but Pip quickly falls in love with her. The visits come to an end when Pip turns 14 and begins his apprenticeship as a blacksmith. Estella also leaves, for France, to learn to become a lady.\n\nSix years later Miss Havisham's lawyer, Mr. Jaggers (Francis L. Sullivan), visits Pip (played as adult by John Mills) to tell him that a mysterious benefactor has offered to transform him into a gentleman, one with \"great expectations\"; Pip assumes it is Miss Havisham. He is taken to London, where Mr. Jaggers arranges for Pip to stay with Herbert Pocket (played as an adult by Alec Guinness), who will teach him how to behave like a gentleman. From Herbert, Pip learns that Miss Havisham was left at the altar many years ago; she is determined to avenge herself against all men, and Estella is her instrument to break men's hearts.\n\nAfter Pip turns 21, Joe Gargery comes to visit him, bringing a request from Miss Havisham to visit her. There he is delighted to be reunited with Estella (played as an adult by Valerie Hobson), who tells him, \"You must know, Pip, I have no heart.\" Estella and Pip spend much time together. She confesses to Pip that despite flirting with the wealthy but unpopular Bentley Drummle, she has absolutely no feelings for him. Pip suddenly receives another visitor from the past, Magwitch, who reveals that he is Pip's patron. Pip, who always imagined that Miss Havisham was responsible for his good fortune, now realises that she was only using him.\n\nGrowing suspicious of Drummle's overtures towards Estella, Pip visits Estella at the old woman's house, where she tells him that she is going to marry Drummle. Pip confronts Miss Havisham, saying \"I am as unhappy as you could have ever meant me to be.\" Miss Havisham, finally realising what she has done, begs his forgiveness. Pip leaves, but when she stands up to follow him, a piece of flaming wood from the fireplace rolls out and ignites Miss Havisham's dress. Her screams alert Pip, who runs back to save her, but fails.\n\nAfter being warned that an old enemy (the other escapee at the beginning of the film) knows that Magwitch is in London, Pip makes preparations to smuggle the old man onto a packet boat and accompany him to the continent. Pip, Herbert and Magwitch row out to the packet boat, but are intercepted by the waiting police, tipped off by Magwitch's great enemy. Magwitch is seriously injured in a struggle with his nemesis, who dies when caught in the packet's paddlewheels. He had spoken to Pip of his lost daughter, and Pip's suspicion that she is Estella is confirmed by Mr. Jaggers. Pip visits the dying Magwitch and tells him of her fate, and that he, Pip, is in love with her; Magwitch passes away, a contented man.\n\nStricken by illness and with his expectations gone, Pip is taken home and nursed back to health by Joe Gargery. He revisits Miss Havisham's deserted house, where he finds Estella. Her plans for the future have also gone awry, as Drummle had broken off their engagement after Mr. Jaggers informed him of her true parentage. Learning that Estella plans to live in seclusion in the house, which she has inherited, Pip proceeds to tear down the curtains and force open the boarded-up windows; for the first time in years sunlight illuminates the room, revealing cobwebs, dust, and decay. Pip tells Estella that he has never stopped loving her. After hesitating, she embraces him and they leave the house together.\n\nRestoration House in Rochester was Dickens' inspiration for \"Satis House\", the decaying mansion of Miss Havisham. The production reproduced Restoration House in Denham Film Studios in Buckinghamshire.\n\nDickens based Joe Gargery's house on the forge in the village of Chalk, near Gravesend, Kent – a replica was erected on St Mary's Marshes on the Thames Estuary. Pip and Herbert Pocket arrange to meet Magwitch and help him escape at Chatham Docks where slip 8 was used for the scene as well as exterior shots of the prison hulk ships. The River Medway and the adjacent St Mary's Marshes appear in scenes where Pip and his friend, Herbert Pocket, row their boat to a small inn whilst waiting for the paddle steamer to arrive. The ship used in the film was called \"Empress\", dating from the latter half of the nineteenth century and owned by Cosens & Co Ltd of Weymouth. She was brought down to Stangate Creek on the River Medway for the shoot.\n\nThe company was based at Rochester, and stayed for six weeks at the Royal Victoria and Bull Hotel – the \"Blue Boar\" in Dickens' novel. The unit for the location work for the film was based on a derelict naval fort on Darnett Ness Island in the River Medway.\n\nThe script is a slimmed-down version of Dickens' novel. It was inspired after David Lean witnessed an abridged 1939 stage version of the novel, by Alec Guinness. Guinness had played Herbert Pocket, and Martita Hunt was Miss Havisham in the stage version of 1939. The script for the film was written by David Lean, Anthony Havelock-Allan, Cecil McGivern, Ronald Neame and Kay Walsh.\n\nDavid Lean approached Clemence Dane to write the script, but considered what she wrote \"so awful [-] It was hideously embarrassing\" – that he decided he and Ronald Neame should write their own versions. In January 1945 they went to the \"Ferry Boat Inn\" at Fowey in Cornwall and wrote a continuity. When Lean worked on \"Brief Encounter\" Neame worked on the script with Havelock-Allan, and later with Cecil McGivern. Kay Walsh was another writer given a screen credit and wrote the ending.\n\nAlec Guinness admired the way Lean directed him, singling out a close-up in which he had to laugh out loud, and which he struggled to make look un-manufactured. Lean told him to forget about the whole thing, sat by his side, and made a little signal to the camera to start turning in the course of the conversation. He said something which made Guinness laugh and then said, \"Cut\". Guinness: \"So he got this shot on a totally false premise... but thank God. I don't think I would have ever achieved it otherwise\". Valerie Hobson however called the experience of working with Lean on the film \"the unhappiest\" and called him \"a cold director – he gave me nothing at all as an actress\".\n\nAt the end of the film a shot of Valerie Hobson staring into a mirror was taking longer than anticipated and was suspended – it was lunchtime – and returned to in the afternoon. Later, some three months after the film had been on exhibition, a cinema-goer asked what was meant by a Chad being reflected in the mirror. It seems that a worker on the film had drawn it on the wall during the break in filming, and it is dimly visible in the final scene behind John Mills' shoulder as he says \"I've never ceased to love you when there seemed no hope in my love\".\n\nThe film won critical praise on first release, with many commentators hailing it as the finest film yet made from a Dickens novel. Dilys Powell, writing for \"The Sunday Times\", was \"grateful for cinema which includes so much of Dickens, which constructs its narrative from the original material with scarcely an intrusion\" and Richard Winnington, in the \"News Chronicle\", wrote that \"Dickens has never before been rendered effectively into cinema terms\". Gavin Lambert however, writing for the short-lived, but influential \"Sequence\" magazine, felt \"that it is not so much an attempt to recreate Dickens on the screen, as a very graceful evasion of most of the issues\". In America James Agee praised the film – \"almost never less than graceful, tasteful and intelligent\".\n\nA 1999 review in the US by Roger Ebert noted the film as \"the greatest of all the Dickens films\" and added that \"The movie was made by Lean at the top of his early form\".\n\nIt was also the third most popular film at the British box office in 1947 and most popular movie at the Canadian box office in 1948.\n\nThe film's critical status has generally stayed high. Kevin Brownlow, a biographer of Lean, wrote that \"Dickens' brilliance at creating characters was matched by Cineguild's choice of actors\", and Alain Silver and James Ursini have drawn attention to the film's \"overall narrative subjectivity\", finding Lean \"more than faithful to the original's first person style\".\n\nIn 1999, it came fifth in a BFI poll of the top 100 British films, while in 2004, \"Total Film\" named it the fourteenth greatest British film of all time. It was the first British film to win an Oscar for its cinematography.\n\n\"Great Expectations\" won Academy Awards in 1947 for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Black-and-White (John Bryan, Wilfred Shingleton) and Best Cinematography, Black-and-White, and was nominated for Best Director, Best Picture and the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257364", "title": "Great Alne", "text": "Great Alne\n\nGreat Alne is a small village in Warwickshire, England, north-west of Stratford-upon-Avon, north-east of Alcester, and from Warwick, on the road to Wootton Wawen. It takes its name from the River Alne and was first chronicled in the charter of King Ethelbald (723–737).\n\nIn 1969, Warwickshire County Council designated part of Great Alne as a Conservation Area, including most of the village east of the Memorial Hall and twelve listed buildings of local architectural and historical value. At the 2001 census, the population was 587.\n\nLand at Alne was given by Coenwulf, King of the Mercians, about 809, to his newly founded abbey of Winchcombe in Gloucestershire. The Domesday Book records \" in Ferncombe Hundred, Winchcombe Abbey holds 6 hides in (Great) Alne. Land for 6 ploughs. In lordship 1 plough; 3 slaves. 11 villagers with 4 smallholders have 5 ploughs. A mill at 5s; woodland 1/2 league long with 4 furlongs wide. The value was £3; now £4.\" It remained in the hands of the monastery until the dissolution when it passed to the crown who leased it to the Throckmortons of Coughton until 1 December 1599 when Queen Elizabeth I sold it to Edward Stone of the city of Westminster and Thomas Gainsford of the city of London, Gainsford later made over his part to Stone. It has since passed through a number private hands being owned by different local families including the Throckmortons and Holyoakes.\n\nAlne Mill, converted into luxury apartments in 1989, lies about to the south of the village and the road leading down to it is probably the Milnewey or Millway mentioned in 1541 and 1728. The mill at Alne was worth 5s. in Domesday had increased in value to 6s. 8d. in the Taxation of 1291. In 1516 it was let by the abbot to John and Elizabeth Palmer at an annual rent of £1 10s.\n\nGreat Alne is in the Kinwarton ward of Stratford on Avon District Council and represented by County and District Councillor Mike Gittus of the Conservative Party. Nationally it is part of Stratford on Avon constituency, whose current Member of Parliament following the 2010 election is Nadhim Zahawi of the Conservative Party. It is included in the West Midlands electoral region of the European Parliament, following the 2014 elections the seven members are; Philip Bradbourn OBE, (who died in December 2014) and Anthea McIntyre (Conservative), Neena Gill and Sion Simon (Labour) and Jim Carver, Bill Etheridge and Jill Seymour (UK Independence).\n\nThe parish church of St Mary Magdalene consists of a chancel with a modern north vestry, nave, north aisle, and west porch-turret. Whilst 13th century in origin with some later additions, much restoration was completed in 1837 when the nave was enlarged and a west gallery added, providing 86 additional seats, according to a record in the church. The west wall, with an entrance and two windows, is modern, as is also the west porch, which is carried up as a square bell-turret changing to an octagon at the top and having an octagonal pyramidal roof. There is one bell of 1670 by John Martin of Worcester. The modern north aisle has two north windows, and one at the east and at the west. The font, of flower-pot shape, may be an old one re-tooled: it has a shallow bowl. The top has been repaired on opposite sides, probably where former staples existed. The stained glass in the East window dates from 1860 and is by Hardman & Co. who were also responsible for the stained glass in the Houses of Parliament.\n\nThomas Clarke the rector at the time of the puritan \"Survei of the Ministrie in Warwickshier\" of 1586 was described; \"\"parson no precher nor learned, yet honest of life & zealous in religion he hath 3 or 4 charges & cures beside that of Kynerton, Witeley? (Weethley) he supplieth by his deputies : his hirelinges that serue by his non-residentship are all dumbe & idle & some of them gamsters : vah of all Ixxx\" a yeare.\"\"\n\nA wooden war memorial to the memory of those men of the parish who gave their lives in the First and Second World Wars, which contains the name of a woman, Sister E.M. Elvins.\n\nThere is one pub restaurant The Huff Cap, formerly the Mother Huff Cap Inn, the name deriving from the days when most pubs brewed their own beer, Huff Cap being a 16th-century term for a strong ale which would \"huf ones cap\" or make the head swell, not for the froth on the top of the beer as is sometimes stated. The 'mother' is likely to be the dame who brewed the beer and managed the public house. In 1746 the pub is thought to have been 'The Huff Cap' and to have acquired 'mother' later. This hostelry was once on the main coach road from Stratford to Bridgnorth.\n\nGreat Alne Primary School is located on the edge of the village, about a mile from the outskirts of Alcester.\n\nThe old railway station, built on the Great Western Railway branch-line from Bearley to Alcester opened in 1876 but is now converted to a residential dwelling. The station sat on the GWR's Alcester Branch linking their Hatton – Stratford Branch with the now defunct Midland Railway's Gloucester Loop line South of Redditch. The line closed to passengers in 1917 only to reopen between 1922/3 but stopping again in 1939 for passenger use, apart from workers' trains to the nearby Castle Maudslay Motor Company's works from Birmingham. The line closed completely in 1951 with lifting of the track taking place shortly afterwards.\n"}
{"id": "2257374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257374", "title": "Los García", "text": "Los García\n\nLos García was a Puerto Rican television sitcom from the 1970s. First shown weekly on WAPA-TV, and later on TeleIsla (then called \"WRIK-TV, Rikavision Channel 7\"), it depicted the life of a local fictional family, as well as that of some of their neighbors. The series' characters were based (and even named after) real individuals. It was the best-rated television program in Puerto Rico in three (or five, depending on which source is quoted) out of the six years of the program's run. It is still aired in re-runs by the local Puerto Rico community channel for DirecTV.\n\nTommy Muñiz had a stream of radio productions in the late 1940s and 1950s, the most successful of which were family-oriented comedies. The two most successful ones, \"La Familia Pérez\" and \"Gloria y Miguel\", featured comedic variations on real-life stories about married couples, essentially premiering sitcoms in Puerto Rico. When local television stations started their broadcasts in 1954, Muñiz tried the formula in two productions: \"Hogar, dulce hogar\" in the late 1950s, and a television version of \"Gloria y Miguel\" in the mid-1960s. Since broadcasts were live, and airings were frequent, Muñiz, who was the writer for these programs as well, felt that the family sitcom format was quite challenging to sustain. He felt slightly burned out by the time each program had run its course, and was quite reluctant to pursue the formula further.\n\nBy the time his production company experienced a strike in 1973, Muñiz felt compelled to abandon television productions altogether. He remained as executive producer for various comedies, particularly those featuring José Miguel Agrelot, and had various other businesses to fall back to, but he had lost the desire to write and produce. As his other businesses fell in hard times, coinciding with an economic recession in Puerto Rico, he was repeatedly urged by family and peers to try producing yet another family sitcom, a tried-and-true formula that, they considered, would involve little risk. He reluctantly agreed, and when no actor was available to play the main role, he took a gamble and decided -against his own wishes- to star in the comedy as well.\n\nWhen Tommy Muñiz first sketched his new production, he intended the starring role to reflect an everyday man from Puerto Rico. Curiously enough, the man who served as the main inspiration for the role had not been born in the island country. Tomás Muñiz, Tommy's father and a famous producer in his own merit, had met Jean Baptiste Romanacce-García, a Corsican immigrant whose name was adapted into \"Juan Bautista García\", a Spanish-sounding name, upon his arrival to Puerto Rico in 1906. García was a self-made man who thrived after his orphaned childhood and became a handyman and freelance set designer for Puerto Rico's television stations. He was also known in the island country for having fathered ten children, adopting three more, and somehow managing the entire tribe. After using García's services often through the years, Tommy Muñiz (himself the father of eight children) befriended García. In turn, Rafo Muñiz, Tommy Muñiz's son, was a childhood friend of García's grandson, Roberto, who in turn was the son of \"Rodofreddo\" (also known as Roberto) García.\n\nTommy Muñiz felt inspired by the decorations that García had done at the Parroquia Espíritu Santo -the neighborhood church near Muñiz's household,- and came with the idea of dedicating a television show to the García family. Based on this, Tommy's character became \"Juan Bautista García\", and Rafo Muñiz's character was \"Godofredo\", a young neighbor (a twist on Rodofreddo's name). The real García died on June 1, 1975, just before the series went on the air.\n\nCasting for the series was fortuitous, as were many production details. While Tommy was writing his scripts, his son Rafael (Rafo), who had played the family's son in the television version of \"Gloria y Miguel\", asked to play \"Godofredo\" -the role demanded a cheeky, wisecracking teenager, and although Rafo was already in his twenties, he felt he could play it. Juan Bautista needed a daughter -who would be Godofredo's girlfriend, and mutual family friends referred Gina Beveraggi, who had no previous stage experience, to Muñiz. He ended up naming the character \"Ginny\", after Gina's real name. Mutual references also contacted Manela Bustamante, a very successful Cuban-born comedian, famous for her role of \"Cachucha\" in Cuban radio and television. to play \"Doña Toni\", a fast-talking, nosy neighbor. Muñiz asked a neighbor, William Gracia -also with no acting experience- to play \"Don Pepín\", another nosy neighbor. Liberato Garced, Jr. was originally cast as Juan, Jr., better known as \"Junito\". Garced was later replaced by Edgardo Rubio, (the son of United States Medal of Honor recipient Euripides Rubio), who would later on achieve fame in WAPA-TV's \"Barrio Cuatro Calles\", and later played comedic roles in Spanish-language television in Florida. Rubio also made his television acting debut as a cast member of \"Los García\".\n\nMuñiz's staff then recruited Gladys Rodríguez, a former child- and later internationally known dramatic actress, for the role of \"Teresa García Albano\", Pablo's wife. She had come out of semi-retirement by the time the series' pilot was filmed, after playing various major dramatic roles around Latin America. Muñiz felt too old for the role (Muñiz was 54 and Rodríguez was 33 at the time) and didn't feel his acting skills could match Rodriguez's, but they both felt an instant connection, right from the beginning. Their acting chemistry was such that many years later, when Jacobo Morales cast his Academy Award nominated film \"Lo que le pasó a Santiago\", he selected Muñiz for the main role and Rodriguez as his romantic interest.\n\nIn rather unusual fashion, Muñiz wrote the series' scripts less rigidly than in his previous productions, giving the characters more flexibility to ad lib (in part because some scripts had been recycled from \"Gloria y Miguel\" but would otherwise sound dated). Ad libbing would sometimes have its consequences, since the show was taped but otherwise acted live and not edited: in one episode Rodríguez called Doña Toni by Manela's name and all actors -including Bustamante- had to refrain from cracking up a laugh.\n\nThe Garcia's lived in \"Parque Florido\", a Spanish translation of \"Floral Park\", the San Juan neighborhood where Muñiz lived (Raúl Juliá lived a short distance from the Muñizes). The character's names, for the most part, were literally taken from Muñiz's (and the real Juan Bautista García's) neighbors as well.\n\nThe fortuitous nature of the show's assembly extended to its theme \"song\", a hodgepodge of four musical selections, the two most notable of which were mashed-up versions of the Champ Boys' funked-up version of Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells, and an instrumental version of Donna Summer's Love to Love You Baby -or, more precisely, its bass line, which is common to both songs.\n\nJuan Bautista García lived with his family in a fictional neighborhood called \"Parque Florido\", with his wife Teresa, and his children, straight-as-an-arrow teenage daughter Ginny and impish tween (later teen) Junito. Juan had already reached middle age, and was prematurely portrayed as a \"grumpy old man\". As such, he was constantly looking for occasions where he could relax and not be bothered by life's everyday stresses. However, he would inevitably be bothered by his interaction with many of the cast members. His pet peeves were three neighbors: Godofredo, his daughter's slacker boyfriend; Don Pepín, the bossy, meddling neighbor sharing a fence with the Garcías, and Doña Toni, an ever-present neighbor who would make rounds around the neighborhood to observe people (and eventually gossip about them). Juan, however, would make a fuss about everything, particularly how much was owed to the neighborhood's newspaper boy.\n\nMaintaining Juan's sanity and order at the household was Teresa's full-time job. She pressed Juan (sometimes angrily or hysterically, for comic effect) to do household chores, correct mistakes, or solve misunderstandings. Many of these were caused by Juan's absent-mindedness, Don Pepín's uncalled for interventions, or Juan's reliance on Godofredo (who would inevitably screw things up). Junito would also play practical jokes on the family, which almost always backfired.\n\nPlots revolved around everyday tasks such as: who ended up raking leaves in the backyard (and how inevitably it ended up not being done), the (messy) outcome of changing the family car's oil, or a neighbor borrowing a ladder (with or without alerting Juan first). Juan would sometimes cause mischief on purpose: in an episode the family visited a Middle Eastern restaurant and Juan let himself be dragged backstage by a belly dancer (with a grin in his face), while Teresa loudly protested.\n\nNot too many details were given about Juan's job, although it was implied that he was an insurance clerk (William Gracia was an insurance salesperson in real life). Actor Carlos Bethel appeared occasionally in the program as Juan's boss. Teresa was a full-time housewife.\n\nA common practice in the program was for Juan, Don Pepín (and very rarely, Doña Toni) to break the fourth wall and talk directly to the camera. Don Pepín did this most often. He would constantly explained why he, the always well-intentioned neighbor, would need to correct some household situation at the Garcías' (and, almost always, without them even knowing it). His nosy attitude was a source of comedic conflict with his domineering wife, Rebecca (occasionally played by Valentina Rivera). Doña Toni, on the other hand, would sometimes start talking extremely fast (a skill that she had perfected while playing her Cachucha character in Cuba). For comic effect, she sometimes ranted to her husband Victor (played by yet another acquaintance of the production staff with no acting experience) without even letting him say a word, and then chastising him (\"\"¡Cállate, Victor\"\", or \"\"Shut up Victor!\"\") when he attempted to speak (it was implied that conversations at Doña Toni's household were monologues most of the time). In one memorable episode Victor told her loudly to shut up, to her surprise.\n\n\"Los García\" is considered by many Puerto Rican television critics to be among the best comedy shows in Puerto Rican history. The show began in 1975, quickly becoming a public favorite. The show ran until the early 1980s. It topped local television ratings for at least three of the six seasons in which it ran.\n\nPhrases from the program became cultural references. Besides Doña Toni's \"\"¡Cállate, Victor!\"\", Tommy Muñiz made the phrase \"¡Sea mi vida gris!\" (Loosely translatable to \"Damned be my life!\"), which he mentioned every time his character got mad for some reason, a trademark of his during this show. Most famous of all was an exchange between Teresa and Junito. Whenever Teresa got frustrated to the point of hysteria with Juan, she'd scream his name three times (\"\"¡Juan, Juan, Juan!\"\"). Junito, mocking her for sounding like a drag racing car engine revving up when she went frantic, would inevitably respond: \"¡Chíllala, Mami, chíllala!\", which would loosely translate to: \"Peel out, Mom, peel out!\". Teresa's trademark scream even became part of the title of one of the biography books about Muñiz, \"\"¡Juan, Juan, Juan...! Crónicas de la televisión en los tiempos de Don Tommy\"\", written by Beba García.\n\nDuring the five years through which she played Teresa García, Gladys Rodríguez received various offers to play dramatic roles in telenovelas. She turned these down until the offers were too good to let go. Eventually she felt compelled to leave \"Los García\"; as to give Rodríguez a credible exit, her character was made to pass away, making Juan Bautista García a widower. Juan Bautista then became a \"happy widower\"; various episodes described his convoluted love life, as well as his nosy neighbors' attempts to convince Juan to act his age. However, ratings dipped soon after: Puerto Rican audiences were not used to see Juan García as a bachelor.\n\nJuan Bautista was then set to marry again, this time with a co-worker, Clarissa López, played by Venezuelan actress Marisela Berti, (the wife of singer Chucho Avellanet at the time). Clarissa had a domineering mother, Altagracia (played by Ana Luisa Agrelot, José Miguel Agrelot's sister, and a comedic actress in her own right), who considered that her daughter was getting too old to get married. However, Altagracia also felt Juan Bautista was too old for her.\n\nIn a special one-hour episode, Juan Bautista married Clarissa at the family's house in Parque Florido. Various parallel stories played out during the episode: the appearance of Clarissa's absent father Clodomiro (played by José Miguel Agrelot), who Altagracia deeply resented; the appearance of Teresa as a poltergeist dressed in a wedding gown, playing pranks at the wedding, and Pepín's indiscreet gossiping being openly resented by his wife, Rebecca.\n\nA strike by some of channel 7's actors, by then owned by Tommy Muñiz, affected the show. Increased competition in the show's 7 p.m. time slot from other channels that showed telenovelas during the same hour also affected the show.\n\nAfter the end of Los García's successful run, the members of the show went on to do other things: Rafo Muñiz quit acting for a while, returning sporadically to the profession that first gave him popularity, but he became a successful show producer, representing many singers in Puerto Rico with his Promotores Latinos company. In 1989, he produced a version of MTV's Remote Control, but the United States network threatened to sue and the show was taken off the air. Edgardo Rubio had a productive career as an actor. Gladys Rodríguez, who left the show before it ended, went on to star in many telenovelas and some comedy shows as well as the 1982 feature film Una Aventura Llamada Menudo, and, in 1989, she and Tommy Muñiz reunited to play another romantic couple, in Jacobo Morales' film, Lo que le Pasó a Santiago, which was nominated for an Oscar for \"Best Foreign Film\".\nOn Saturday, June 17, 2006, Los García reunited for a prime time special aired on Telemundo entitled \"El Reencuentro\" as a homage to series creator Tommy Muñiz. The plot revolved in the birth of Ginnita's son. Ginnita is Juan and Teresa's granddaughter; Ginny and Godofredo's daughter.\n\n\"We were in first place for six years in Puerto Rican television because the people identified themselves with the family relationship we portrayed. All families have a neighbor like 'don Pepín' and a son-in-law like 'Godofredo'. These aspects of the story transcended in the audience\" said Gladys Rodríguez, who praised Muñiz's figure. \"Don Tommy motivates us to do the best. He's a genius. He wrote the scripts, created our characters, acted with us and directed us. He deserves a homage like this one\".\n\nThe cast included Gina Beveraggi, William Garcia, Edgardo Rubio, Christie Miró, Edgar Cuevas and Rafo Muñiz.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257377", "title": "Itaf", "text": "Itaf\n\nItaf is an animation film released in 1998 by Jean Knoertzer. It is the story about a young camel named Itaf and a boy named Joan. They wish to discover secrets of the desert.\n"}
{"id": "2257387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257387", "title": "Noel Odell", "text": "Noel Odell\n\nNoel Ewart Odell FRSE FGS (25 December 1890 – 21 February 1987) was an English geologist and mountaineer. In 1924 he was an oxygen officer on the Everest expedition in which George Mallory and Andrew Irvine famously perished during their summit attempt. Odell spent two weeks living above 23,000 feet (7,000m), and twice climbed to 26,800-ft and higher, all without supplemental oxygen. In 1936 Noel Odell with Bill Tilman climbed Nanda Devi, at the time the highest mountain climbed.\n\nHe was born at St Lawrence, Isle of Wight the son of Rev R. W. Odell and his wife, M. M. Ewart.\n\nHe was educated at Brighton College and the Royal School of Mines, Imperial College. He received a doctorate (PhD) from Cambridge University.\n\nHe was an accomplished rock climber, joining the Alpine Club in 1916 and famous for his solo first ascent in 1919 of \"Tennis Shoe\" on the Idwal Slabs, in Snowdonia. Odell Gully in the Huntington Ravine of New Hampshire’s Mount Washington is named after Odell, who was the first to accomplish its ascent in winter.\n\nOn 8 June 1924 George Mallory and Andrew Irvine attempted to climb to the top of Mount Everest via the Northeast Ridge route. Keen-sighted Odell reported seeing them at 12:50 p.m. ascending one of the major \"steps\" on the North-East ridge, \"the last step but one from the base of the final pyramid\" and \"going strongly for the top.\" But no evidence thus far has proved that they reached the summit, or that they ascended above the major Second Step. They never returned and perished on the mountain. Odell was the last person to see the pair alive.\n\nIn his first two accounts, written between June and November 1924, Odell was certain he had seen Mallory and Irvine climbing the Second Step. But in the expedition account published in 1925, and after mounting skepticism from members of the climbing community as to whether it was the Second Step or the lower First Step, Odell conceded it might have been the First Step where he had seen the pair. After he had been rejected as too old for the next Everest expedition, he recanted his change of mind and returned to the belief that he had seen the two climbers surmount the Second Step. Had they done so, there would have been a fair chance that one of them, at least, might have reached the summit.\n\nIn 1936 Noel Odell with Bill Tilman successfully reached the summit of Nanda Devi which at the time, and until 1950, was the highest mountain climbed. Odell returned to Everest with the expedition led by Tilman in 1938.\n\nNoel Odell had a colourful career outside mountaineering as well, serving with the Royal Engineers in both World Wars, as a consultant in the petroleum and mining industries, and teaching geology at a number of universities around the world, including Harvard and Cambridge. He was Professor of Geology at the University of Otago in New Zealand and Peshawar University in Pakistan.\n\nIn 1944 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Sir James Wordie, George Tyrrell, Sir Arthur Trueman and John Weir.\n\nIn 1917 he married Gwladys Jones (died 1977).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257408", "title": "Sort, Lleida", "text": "Sort, Lleida\n\nSort is the capital of the \"comarca\" of Pallars Sobirà, in the province of Lleida, Catalonia, in the country of Spain. It is located at 692 metres above the sea, by the river Noguera Pallaresa, a tributary to the Segre. Population 2,113 (2005).\n\nIt was once capital of the County of Pallars.\n\nThe word \"sort\" is Catalan for \"luck\". The Sort-based lottery shop La Bruixa d'Or (\"The Gold Witch\") has taken advantage of the town's name to promote itself both within Spain (attracting business from around the country) and over the Internet. They claim to have a disproportionate number of lottery winners.\n\nThe municipality includes the small village of Olp.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257410", "title": "Ralf Sieckmann v Deutsches Patent und Markenamt", "text": "Ralf Sieckmann v Deutsches Patent und Markenamt\n\nIn trademark law, Sieckmann v German Patent and Trademark Office (case C-273/00) issued on December 12, 2002, is widely recognised as a landmark decision of the European Court of Justice on the graphical representation of non-conventional trademarks under the European Trade Marks Directive.\n\nThe case involved a \"methyl cinnamate\" scent, which the applicant had described \"as balsamically fruity with a slight hint of cinnamon\". The ECJ ruled that (a) a chemical formula depicting this scent did not represent the odour of a substance, was not sufficiently intelligible, nor sufficiently clear and precise; (b) a written description was not sufficiently clear, precise and objective; and (c) a physical deposit of a sample of the scent did not constitute a graphic representation, and was not sufficiently stable or durable.\n\nThe case illustrates difficulties with the graphical representation of scent marks, as the ECJ held that these representations, whether individually or collectively, could not satisfy this requirement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257414", "title": "Robert Lawson", "text": "Robert Lawson\n\nRobert Lawson may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257417", "title": "Muckle Skerry", "text": "Muckle Skerry\n\nMuckle Skerry is the largest of the Pentland Skerries that lie off the north coast of Scotland. It is home to the Pentland Skerries Lighthouse.\n\nMuckle Skerry lies in the Pentland Firth at . It is the westernmost of the skerries. At one kilometre (three-fifths of a mile) long and rising to a height of 20 metres (66 feet) above sea level is sizable enough to be considered an island. However the notoriously bad weather of the firth has historically rendered Muckle Skerry uninhabitable and as such it is more often thought of as a skerry.\n\nPentland Skerries Lighthouse was constructed in 1794 by the Commissioners of the Northern Lights. The engineers were Thomas Smith and his stepson Robert Stevenson (this was the first light that Stevenson officially worked on).\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2257429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257429", "title": "Prazosin", "text": "Prazosin\n\nPrazosin is a medication primarily used to treat high blood pressure, symptoms of an enlarged prostate, and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). It is a less preferred treatment of high blood pressure. Other uses may include heart failure and Raynaud syndrome. It is taken by mouth.\nCommon side effects include dizziness, sleepiness, nausea, and heart palpitations. Serious side effects may include low blood pressure with standing and depression. Prazosin is an α-blocker. It works to decrease blood pressure by dilating blood vessels and helps with an enlarged prostate by relaxing the outflow of the bladder. How it works in PTSD is not entirely clear.\nPrazosin was patented in 1965 and came into medical use in 1974. It is available as a generic medication. A month supply in the United Kingdom costs about £3.50 as of 2019. In the United States, the wholesale cost of this amount is about US$20. In 2017, it was the 227th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than two million prescriptions.\n\nPrazosin is active after oral administration and has a minimal effect on cardiac function due to its alpha-1 adrenergic receptor selectivity. When prazosin is started, however, heart rate and contractility can increase in order to maintain the pre-treatment blood pressures because the body has reached homeostasis at its abnormally high blood pressure. The blood pressure lowering effect becomes apparent when prazosin is taken for longer periods of time. The heart rate and contractility go back down over time and blood pressure decreases.\n\nThe antihypertensive characteristics of prazosin make it a second-line choice for the treatment of high blood pressure.\n\nPrazosin is also useful in treating urinary hesitancy associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia, blocking alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, which control constriction of both the prostate and urethra. Although not a first-line choice for either hypertension or benign prostatic hyperplasia, it is a choice for people who present with both problems concomitantly.\n\nThere is some evidence that this medication is effective in treating nightmares, based on mixed results in randomized controlled trials. Prazosin was, however, shown to be more effective when treating nightmares related to PTSD.\n\nThe drug is usually recommended for severe stings from the Indian red scorpion.\n\nCommon (4–10% frequency) side effects of prazosin include dizziness, headache, drowsiness, lack of energy, weakness, palpitations, and nausea. Less frequent (1–4%) side effects include vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, edema, orthostatic hypotension, dyspnea, syncope, vertigo, depression, nervousness, and rash. A very rare side effect of prazosin is priapism. One phenomenon associated with prazosin is known as the \"first dose response\", in which the side effects of the drug specifically orthostatic hypotension, dizziness, and drowsiness are especially pronounced in the first dose.\n\nOrthostatic hypotension and syncope are associated with the body's poor ability to control blood pressure without active alpha-adrenergic receptors. People on prazosin should be told to rise to stand up slowly, since their poor baroreflex may cause them to faint if their blood pressure is not adequately maintained during standing. The nasal congestion is due to dilation of vessels in the nasal mucosa.\n\nPrazosin is an α-blocker that acts as an inverse agonist at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, including α1A-, α1B-, and α1D-receptor subtypes. These receptors are found on vascular smooth muscle, where they are responsible for the vasoconstrictive action of norepinephrine. They are also found throughout the central nervous system. Alpha-1 adrenergic receptors have been found on immune cells, where catecholamine binding can stimulate and enhance cytokine production. \n\nPrazosin has been shown to prevent death in animal models of cytokine storm. As a repurposed drug, prazosin is being investigated for the prevention of cytokine storm syndrome and complications of COVID-19 where it is thought to decrease cytokine dysregulation.\n"}
{"id": "2257432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257432", "title": "Child, Youth and Family (New Zealand)", "text": "Child, Youth and Family (New Zealand)\n\nChild, Youth and Family \"CYF\" (in Māori, \"Te Tari Awhina i te Tamaiti, te Rangatahi, tae atu ki te Whānau\"), was the government agency that had legal powers to intervene to protect and help children who are being abused or neglected or who have problem behaviour until it was replaced by a new Ministry for Vulnerable Children in April 2017. CYF worked with the Police and the Courts in dealing with young offenders under the youth justice system. It provided residential and care services for children in need of care and protection and for young offenders. CYF assessed people who wished to adopt children and it reported to the Family Court on adoption applications. CYF facilitated the exchange of identifying information for parties to past adoptions. The agency also funded community organisations working with children, young people and their families to support the community’s role in protecting and helping children.\n\nChild, Youth and Family was a functional unit of the Ministry of Social Development (MSD), following the 2006 merger of the Department of Child, Youth and Family Services (CYFS) and MSD. CYF had been established in 1999 from the former Children and Young Persons Service (CYPS). Until April 2017, CYF fell under the portfolio of the Minister for Social Development. In April 2017, CYF was replaced by the Oranga Tamariki—the Ministry for Children.\n\nMSD administers, or is involved in administering, the following CYF-related legislation:\n\nProtecting children and young people who are at risk of or who have been abused or neglected, or who are at risk of offending, is the service's primary responsibility, and it carries out investigations when a child or young person is believed to be \"at risk\". Where there is a risk of serious harm, it can exercise powers to ensure that a child is kept safe from that risk. The department also deals with youth justice, a section of the law that deals mainly with offending by young people aged 14–16 years, and adoption through \"The Adoption Information and Services Unit\" (AISU).\n\nIn addition, the department provides residential and care services for children and young people who require placing away from their parents, guardians or usual caregivers, and funds a wide range of community-based social services, with a focus on children, young people and families in need of support.\n\nIn January 2007, a controversial blog \"CYFS Watch\" appeared on Google's Blogger. The blog's stated aim was unveiling examples of alleged incompetence by the Child Youth and Family Service and published the personal details of several CYFS social workers. The Ministry responded by complaining to Google. In late February, the blog's anonymous author made death threats towards Green MP Sue Bradford as a result of her Crimes (Abolition of Force as a Justification for Child Discipline) Amendment Bill 2005. Google responded on 22 February 2007 by deleting the site as a breach of their terms of service.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257434", "title": "Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party", "text": "Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party\n\nThe Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is a state political party in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, India. The PDP was headed and founded by Mufti Mohammed Sayeed. His daughter, Mehbooba Mufti, succeeded him as party leader and as Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir following his death in January 2016.\n\nThe PDP was founded in 1998 by the former Union Home Minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed. It captured power in Jammu and Kashmir in October 2002 Assembly elections. In 2004 it had one member each in the Lok Sabha and in the Rajya Sabha. It was a member of the ruling United Progressive Alliance until the 2009 general election.\n\nSayeed headed the PDP-Indian National Congress Coalition Government between October 2002 and November 2005, and he was the party's Patron until his death on 7 January 2016. The PDP is now headed by Mehbooba Mufti, Sayeed's daughter.\n\nThe PDP operates on the ideology of self-rule, as distinctly different from the issues of autonomy. It believes that self-rule as a political philosophy, as opposed to autonomy, ensures the empowerment of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, while further engaging in debates over new political territoriality of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nIn the 2014 general election, three of its members were elected to the Lok Sabha. Its strength in the Legislative Assembly is 28 and in the Rajya Sabha is two. The party ran a Coalition government in Jammu and Kashmir with the Bharatiya Janata Party until the BJP abandoned the coalition on June 19, 2018 due to concerns about terrorism and radicalization in Kashmir.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257472", "title": "USB On-The-Go", "text": "USB On-The-Go\n\nUSB On-The-Go (USB OTG or just OTG) is a specification first used in late 2001 that allows USB devices, such as tablets or smartphones, to act as a host, allowing other USB devices, such as USB flash drives, digital cameras, mice or keyboards, to be attached to them. Use of USB OTG allows those devices to switch back and forth between the roles of host and device. A mobile phone may read from removable media as the host device, but present itself as a USB Mass Storage Device when connected to a host computer.\n\nUSB OTG introduces the concept of a device performing both master and slave roles whenever two USB devices are connected and one of them is a USB OTG device, they establish a communication link. The device controlling the link is called the master or host, while the other is called the slave or peripheral.\n\nUSB OTG defines two roles for devices: OTG A-device and OTG B-device, specifying which side supplies power to the link, and which initially is the host. The OTG A-device is a power supplier, and an OTG B-device is a power consumer. In the default link configuration, the A-device acts as a USB host with the B-device acting as a USB peripheral. The host and peripheral modes may be exchanged later by using Host Negotiation Protocol (HNP).\n\nThe initial role of each device is defined by which mini plug a user inserts into its receptacle.\n\nStandard USB uses a master/slave architecture; a \"host\" acts as the master device for the entire bus, and a USB \"device\" acts as a slave. If implementing standard USB, devices must assume one role or the other, with computers generally set up as hosts, while (for example) printers normally function as slaves. In the absence of USB OTG, cell phones often implemented slave functionality to allow easy transfer of data to and from computers. Such phones, as slaves, could not readily be connected to printers as they also implemented the slave role. USB OTG directly addresses this issue.\n\nWhen a device is plugged into the USB bus, the master device, or host, sets up communications with the device and handles service provisioning (the host's software enables or does the needed data-handling such as file managing or other desired kind of data communication or function). That allows the devices to be greatly simplified compared to the host; for example, a mouse contains very little logic and relies on the host to do almost all of the work. The host controls all data transfers over the bus, with the devices capable only of signalling (when polled) that they require attention. To transfer data between two devices, for example from a phone to a printer, the host first reads the data from one device, then writes it to the other.\n\nWhile the master-slave arrangement works for some devices, many devices can act either as master or as slave depending on what else shares the bus. For instance, a computer printer is normally a slave device, but when a USB flash drive containing images is plugged into the printer's USB port with no computer present (or at least turned off), it would be useful for the printer to take on the role of host, allowing it to communicate with the flash drive directly and to print images from it.\n\nUSB OTG recognizes that a device can perform both master and slave roles, and so subtly changes the terminology. With OTG, a device can be either a host when acting as a link master, or a \"peripheral\" when acting as a link slave. The choice between host and peripheral roles is handled entirely by which end of the cable the device is connected to. The device connected to the \"A\" end of the cable at start-up, known as the \"A-device\", acts as the default host, while the \"B\" end acts as the default peripheral, known as the \"B-device\".\n\nAfter initial startup, setup for the bus operates as it does with the normal USB standard, with the A-device setting up the B-device and managing all communications. However, when the same A-device is plugged into another USB system or a dedicated host becomes available, it can become a slave.\n\nUSB OTG does not preclude using a USB hub, but it describes host-peripheral role swapping only for the case of a one-to-one connection where two OTG devices are directly connected. Role swapping does \"not\" work through a standard hub, as one device will act as a host and the other as a peripheral until they are disconnected.\n\nUSB OTG is a part of a supplement to the Universal Serial Bus (USB) 2.0 specification originally agreed upon in late 2001 and later revised. The latest version of the supplement also defines behavior for an Embedded Host which has targeted abilities and the same USB Standard-A port used by PCs.\n\nSuperSpeed OTG devices, Embedded Hosts and peripherals are supported through the USB OTG and Embedded Host Supplement to the USB 3.0 specification.\n\nThe USB OTG and Embedded Host Supplement to the USB 2.0 specification introduced three new communication protocols:\n\nThe main purpose of HNP is to accommodate users who have connected the A and B devices (see below) in the wrong direction for the task they want to perform. For example, a printer is connected as the A-device (host), but cannot function as the host for a particular camera, since it does not understand the camera's representation of print jobs. When that camera knows how to talk to the printer, the printer will use HNP to switch to the slave role, with the camera becoming the host so pictures stored on the camera can be printed out without reconnecting the cables. The new OTG protocols cannot pass through a standard USB hub since they are based on electrical signaling via a dedicated wire.\n\nThe USB OTG and Embedded Host Supplement to the USB 3.0 specification introduces an additional protocol, \"Role Swap Protocol\" (RSP). This achieves the same purpose as HNP (i.e., role swapping) by extending standard mechanisms provided by the USB 3.0 specification. Products following the USB OTG and Embedded Host Supplement to the USB 3.0 specification are also required to follow the USB 2.0 supplement in order to maintain backwards compatibility. SuperSpeed OTG devices (SS-OTG) are required to support RSP. SuperSpeed Peripheral Capable OTG devices (SSPC-OTG) are not required to support RSP since they can only operate at SuperSpeed as a peripheral; they have no SuperSpeed host and so can only role swap using HNP at USB 2.0 data rates.\n\nUSB OTG defines two roles for devices: OTG A-device and OTG B-device, specifying which side supplies power to the link, and which initially is the host. The OTG A-device is a power supplier, and an OTG B-device is a power consumer. In the default link configuration, the A-device acts as a USB host with the B-device acting as a USB peripheral. The host and peripheral modes may be exchanged later by using HNP or RSP. Because every OTG controller supports both roles, they are often called \"Dual-Role\" controllers rather than \"OTG controllers\".\n\nFor integrated circuit (IC) designers, an attractive feature of USB OTG is the ability to achieve more USB capabilities with fewer gates.\n\nA \"traditional\" approach includes four controllers, resulting in more gates to test and debug:\n\nAlso, most gadgets must be either a host or a device. OTG hardware design merges all of the controllers into one dual-role controller that is somewhat more complex than an individual device controller.\n\nA manufacturer's targeted peripheral list (TPL) serves the aim of focusing a host device towards particular products or applications, rather than toward its functioning as a general-purpose host, as is the case for typical PCs. The TPL specifies products supported by the \"targeting\" host, defining what it needs to support, including the output power, transfer speeds, supported protocols, and device classes. It applies to all targeted hosts, including both OTG devices acting as a host and embedded hosts.\n\nThe original USB OTG standard introduced a plug receptacle called mini-AB that was replaced by micro-AB in later revisions (Revision 1.4 onwards). It can accept either a mini-A plug or a mini-B plug, while mini-A adapters allows connection to standard-A USB cables coming from peripherals. The standard OTG cable has a mini-A plug on one end and a mini-B plug on the other end (it can not have two plugs of the same type).\n\nThe device with a mini-A plug inserted becomes an OTG A-device, and the device with a mini-B plug inserted becomes a B-device (see above). The type of plug inserted is detected by the state of the ID pin (the mini-A plug's ID pin is grounded, while the mini-B plug's is floating).\n\nPure mini-A receptacles also exist, used where a compact host port is needed, but OTG is not supported.\n\nWith the introduction of the USB micro plug, a new plug receptacle called micro-AB was also introduced. It can accept either a micro-A plug or a micro-B plug. Micro-A adapters allow for connection to standard-A plugs, as used on fixed or standard devices. An OTG product must have a single micro-AB receptacle and no other USB receptacles. \n\nAn OTG cable has a micro-A plug on one end, and a micro-B plug on the other end (it cannot have two plugs of the same type). OTG adds a fifth pin to the standard USB connector, called the ID-pin; the micro-A plug has the ID pin grounded, while the ID in the micro-B plug is floating. A device with a micro-A plug inserted becomes an OTG A-device, and a device with a micro-B plug inserted becomes a B-device. The type of plug inserted is detected by the state of the pin ID.\n\nThree additional ID pin states are defined at the nominal resistance values of , , and , with respect to the ground pin. These permit the device to work with USB Accessory Charger Adapters that allows the OTG device to be attached to both a charger and another device simultaneously.\n\nThese three states are used in the cases of:\n\nUSB 3.0 introduced a backwards compatible SuperSpeed extension of the micro-AB receptacle and micro-A and micro-B plugs. They contain all pins of the non-Superspeed micro connectors and use the ID pin to identify the A-device and B-device roles, also adding the SuperSpeed pins.\n\nWhen an OTG-enabled device is connected to a PC, it uses its own USB-A or USB Type-C cable (typically ending in micro-B, USB-C or Lightning plugs for modern devices). When an OTG-enabled device is attached to a USB slave device, such as a flash drive, the slave device must either end in the appropriate connection for the device, or the user must supply an appropriate adapter ending in USB-A. The adapter enables any standard USB peripheral to be attached to an OTG device. Attaching two OTG-enabled devices together requires either an adapter in conjunction with the slave device's USB-A cable, or an appropriate dual-sided cable and a software implementation to manage it. This is becoming commonplace with USB Type-C devices.\n\nBlackBerry 10.2 implements Host Mode (like in the BlackBerry Z30 handset). Nokia has implemented USB OTG in many of their Symbian cellphones such as Nokia N8, C6-01, C7, Oro, E6, E7, X7, 603, 700, 701 and 808 Pureview. Some high-end Android phones produced by HTC, and Sony under Xperia series also have it. Samsung Android version 3.1 or newer supports USB OTG, but not on all devices.\n\nSpecifications listed on technology web sites (such as GSMArena, PDAdb.net, PhoneScoop, and others) can help determine compatibility. Using GSMArena as an example, one would locate the page for a given device, and examine the verbiage under \"Specifications → Comms → USB\". If \"USB Host\" is shown, the device should be capable of supporting OTG-type external USB accessories.\n\nIn many of the above implementations, the host device has only a micro-B receptacle rather than a micro-AB receptacle. Although non-standard, micro-B to micro-A receptacle adapters are widely available and used in place of the mandated micro-AB receptacle on these devices.\n\nUSB OTG devices are backward-compatible with USB 2.0 (USB 3.0 for SuperSpeed OTG devices) and will behave as standard USB hosts or devices when connected to standard (non-OTG) USB devices. The main exception is that OTG hosts are only required to provide enough power for the products listed on the TPL, which may or may not be enough to connect to a peripheral that is not listed. A powered USB hub may sidestep the issue, if supported, since it will then provide its own power according to either the USB 2.0 or USB 3.0 specifications.\n\nSome incompatibilities in both HNP and SRP were introduced between the 1.3 and 2.0 versions of the OTG supplement, which can lead to interoperability issues when using those protocol versions.\n\nSome devices can use their USB ports to charge built-in batteries, while other devices can detect a dedicated charger and draw more than 500 mA (0.5 A), allowing them to charge more rapidly. OTG devices are allowed to use either option.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257476", "title": "Michael Brian Schiffer", "text": "Michael Brian Schiffer\n\nMichael Brian Schiffer (born October 4, 1947) is an American archaeologist and one of the founders and pre-eminent exponents of behavioral archaeology.\n\nSchiffer's earliest ideas, set out in his 1976 book \"Behavioral Archeology\" and many journal articles, are mainly concerned with the formation processes of the archaeological record (cultural and noncultural). His most important early contribution to archaeology was the rejection of the common processualist assumption that the archaeological record is a transparent fossil record of actual ancient societies. In fact, he argues, artifacts and sites undergo, respectively post-use and post-occupational modification by diverse formation processes.\n\nIn his 1972 \"American Antiquity\" article Schiffer, using flow models, explained that artifacts generally pass through numerous social contexts of procurement, manufacture, use, recycling and disposal and that the same kind of artifact can enter the archaeological record at many points through this life history. As societies become more sedentary, the archaeological record typically seems to be one of garbage disposal.\n\nSchiffer's body of theory and method is based on the idea that cultural and noncultural processes (whose patterns are described by generalizations: c-transforms and n-transforms) convert the 'systemic context' (the original dynamics between societies and material objects) into the 'archaeological context' (the record of artifacts examined by archaeologists). Although this approach has been criticized, notably by Lewis Binford, it has permanently affected how archaeologists interpret the archaeological record.\n\nSchiffer is also known for his early contributions to cultural resource management studies, co-editing in 1977 with George J. Gumerman, \"Conservation Archaeology: A Guide for Cultural Resource Management Studies.\" In that work the editors and authors strove to demonstrate that cutting edge research is a requirement for crafting rigorous arguments about the significance of archaeological resources.\n\nIn the 1980s Schiffer's interests expanded to include technological change, and he and James M. Skibo built the Laboratory of Traditional Technology at the University of Arizona. Their experiments in ceramic technology revealed, for example, heretofore unsuspected techno-functional performance characteristics of traditional surface treatments and temper types. Together, Schiffer and Skibo published around a dozen articles based on their collaboration in the laboratory, which included a different way to think about experimental archaeology as well as a framework for studying technological change.\n\nDuring the 1990s and later, Schiffer has returned to an old interest in historic electric and electronic technologies. These works uniquely combine an archaeological perspective with the use of historical materials and have led to four books and numerous articles, many of the latter aimed at archaeologists with behavioral models for studying technological change. The behavioral approach to technological change has been synthesized in Schiffer's 2011 book, \"Studying Technological Change: A Behavioral Approach.\" His works on early modern and modern technologies have been largely favorably reviewed by historians of science and technology, but in archaeology he remains best known for publications in behavioral archaeology.\n\nSchiffer was also the founding editor of three serial publications: Advances in Archaeological Method and Theory, Archaeological Method and Theory, and Journal of Archaeological Method and Theory.\n\nSchiffer retired from the School of Anthropology at the University of Arizona in 2014. He once said “Anthropology is the only discipline that can access evidence about the entire human experience on this planet.” Hence his fascination with making information public. He is currently a Research Associate in the Lemelson Center, National Museum of American History, Smithsonian Institution, and Research Professor, Department of Anthropology, University of Maryland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257477", "title": "Asano Nagaakira", "text": "Asano Nagaakira\n\nBorn Asano Iwamatsu, he was the son of Asano Nagamasa, who was a senior retainer of Toyotomi Hideyoshi. In 1594, Nagaakira was made a retainer of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, and awarded a stipend of 3,000 \"koku\". Allying his forces to Tokugawa Ieyasu six years later at the Battle of Sekigahara, he was subsequently awarded with the 24,000 \"koku\" fief of Ashimori han. As his brother Yukinaga died heirless in 1613, Nagaakira succeeded him, becoming daimyo of Wakayama han. At the Siege of Ōsaka, he commanded a portion of Tokugawa Ieyasu's army. In the summer of 1615, Toyotomi Hideyori's Western Army moved to attack Asano's castle at Wakayama. Though most of Asano's forces were at Ōsaka, besieging Toyotomi's fortress, the remaining garrison outnumbered the Western warriors, and Asano led his men in sallying forth to meet the enemy in the Battle of Kashii.\n\nAsano also fought in the Battle of Tennōji, the decisive final battle in the Siege of Ōsaka, where he commanded Tokugawa's rear guard. In 1619, he was granted the fief of Hiroshima, in Aki Province, which would be the home of the Asano family for many generations. Nagaakira was married to Tokugawa Furihime, the third of Tokugawa Ieyasu's daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257481", "title": "Consumer service", "text": "Consumer service\n\nConsumer services refers to the formulation, deformulation, technical consulting and testing of most consumer products, such as food, herbs, beverages, vitamins, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, hair products, household cleaners, paints, plastics, metals, waxes, coatings, minerals, ceramics, construction materials plus water, indoor air quality testing, non-medical forensic testing and failure analysis.\n\nIt involves services in a wide variety of fields such as biological, chemical, physical, engineering and Web based services.\n\nEvolution of Web has changed itself from the information orientation to Service orientation. Every physical service one can think of, has its web counterpart today, be it retail selling, supply chain, customer care, banking, auction and more of b2b, b2c, c2c businesses. Online appointments, online consultation, online bill-pay have become the order of web based consumer services.\n\nBetween 1985 and 2018 around 90,700 deals within the consumer service sector have been announced. These deals cumulate to an overall value of around 2,031 bil. USD.\n\nThere have been three M&A waves in 2000, 2007 and 2016 with a current all time in 2017, where 5,839 deals with a value of 152 bil. USD have been announced.\n\n1. http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm\n2. https://web.archive.org/web/20081208104000/http://www.e-consultancy.com/news-blog/364106/online-banks-see-growth-among-older-web-users.html\n"}
{"id": "2257488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257488", "title": "Palm IIIc", "text": "Palm IIIc\n\nThe Palm IIIc was the first colour PDA made by Palm, Inc., released in February 2000 for $449USD. It ran Palm OS 3.5, the first Palm OS version to have native colour support and supported paletted 8-bit colour modes. The machine has a TFT LCD that is bright indoors. The Palm IIIc features the classic III-series connector, 8MB of RAM and a 20MHz DragonBall EZI CPU. The unit also has a lithium ion rechargeable battery and a slightly modified version of the original Palm III chassis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257492", "title": "Mesenchytraeus harrimani", "text": "Mesenchytraeus harrimani\n\nMesenchytraeus harrimani is an ice worm, named after E. H. Harriman. The worm was first discovered by an insect trapper on board Harriman's famous Arctic expedition, and was given the name by the entomologist Trevor Kincaid. The worm can grow to almost in length and thick. Like other ice worms, it subsists on algae and pollen.\n"}
{"id": "2257509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257509", "title": "CYFS", "text": "CYFS\n\nCYFS may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257529", "title": "Ang Mo Kio Police Division", "text": "Ang Mo Kio Police Division\n\nThe Ang Mo Kio Police Division (or 'F' Division, Chinese: 宏茂桥警区, Malay: Divisyen Polis Ang Mo Kio, Tamil: ஆங் மோ கியோ பிரிவு தலைமையகம்) is one of the seven land divisions of the Singapore Police Force. It was first established in 1965. It was previously located in Paya Lebar. In 1987, the division HQ migrated to its present location (51 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 9 Singapore 569784) to better serve the public and meet its operational needs.\nAng Mo Kio Division serves a residential population of over 1.1 million residents. Ang Mo Kio Division’s area of coverage includes mature housing estates such as Ang Mo Kio, Hougang and Serangoon. It also oversees young but rapidly-developing residential estates like Sengkang and Punggol.\n\n'F' Division was first formed in 1965 with its headquarters in the Paya Lebar Police Station at Upper Paya Lebar Road. Changing demographies and the rapid development of the suburbs resulted in the shifting of the divisional headquarters to its present location in Ang Mo Kio in 1987. When the Toa Payoh Police Division was closed in 1988, 'F' Division took over half its areas of control while Tanglin Police Division took over the rest.\n\nAlso, when the Geylang Police Division was closed in December 2000, 'F' Division took over 40% of its areas of control, while 50% came under the Bedok Police Division and the remainder went to Central Police Division.\n\nIn November 2018, Woodlands Police Division was formed, and took over operations of three NPCs from Ang Mo Kio Police Division (Yishun North NPC, Yishun South NPC, Sembawang NPC). Prior to the reorganization, it was the largest police division in terms of residents served.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257532", "title": "Hilary Barry", "text": "Hilary Barry\n\nHilary Ann Barry (née Pankhurst, born 4 December 1969) is a New Zealand journalist and television personality who currently co-hosts Seven Sharp with Jeremy Wells. She was a newsreader on TV3 for many years and until 2016, presented the 6 pm \"Newshub\" show with Mike McRoberts. She also worked on the Paul Henry morning TV show since its launch, reading the news. Barry resigned from these roles in April 2016. Since 2018, she is New Zealand's oldest active TV presenter.\n\nBarry attended Queen Margaret College in Wellington from 1980 to 1987, and was head girl in her final year. She later completed a Bachelor of Arts in Linguistics at Victoria University of Wellington and a Certificate of Journalism.\n\nShe and husband Mike Barry, a teacher and son of All Black Kevin Barry, have two sons.\n\nBarry began her career as a reporter for radio 89.3 TODAY FM (now More FM Wairarapa). She read the morning news on radio station More FM and participated in the morning shows for 10 years. On 9 February 2009, Barry became news anchor on the RadioLIVE breakfast show hosted by Marcus Lush.\n\nBarry became a TV3 news reporter in Christchurch in 1993 then moved to Auckland to work as a reporter on 3 News. She presented 3 News on weekends for six years, before presenting the weeknight 3 News. Former regular anchors John Campbell and Carol Hirschfeld moved on to respectively present and produce the 7 pm current affairs show, \"Campbell Live\", in March 2005.\n\nAt the 2006 Qantas Television Awards she was voted Favourite New Zealand Female Personality.\n\nBarry won the Best News or Current Affair Presenter award at the 2011 Aotearoa Film and Television Awards. She hosted The Coca-Cola Christmas in the Park in December 2011. In March 2012, Barry won TV Guide's Best on The Box award for Best Presenter. In May 2012, Barry won the Radio Award for Best Newsreader. In March 2013, she once again won the TV Guide's Best on The Box award for Best Presenter. On 7 April 2015, Barry became news anchor for the morning talk show The Paul Henry Show.\n\nOn 4 February 2016, Barry laughed uncontrollably during The Paul Henry Show when reading a news item about the former Malaysian diplomat who admitted going to a young woman's home with no pants on and defecating on her step before leaving. The incident received widespread coverage and a video uploaded by Henry received about 270,000 views on YouTube in two days.\n\nBarry also lost her composure in May 2015 after watching a news story on John Campbell's departure from TV3. As she tried to read the next item, Barry choked up and said: \"I think Mike might have to read this one,\" referring to her co-anchor Mike McRoberts.\n\nHilary Barry unexpectedly resigned from MediaWorks (thus Newshub and Paul Henry) on 26 April 2016. Barry had been with the company for 23 years, working across several brands. She claims she left in order to spend more time with her family, although there were reports she had been dissatisfied with the direction the network had been taking under the leadership of chief executive Mark Weldon for some time. When Weldon resigned five days later, Barry and co-host Mike McRoberts were seen bringing champagne and beer into the Mediaworks office to celebrate. When entering the building, Barry gave a \"v for victory\" sign with one of her hands, but declined to comment further. It has since been revealed that Mike McRoberts (Barry's long term 3 News/Newshub co-host) is trying to convince Barry to stay with the company.\n\nHer final day was on Friday, 27 May 2016, receiving a special video tribute from colleague Mike McRoberts.\n\nOn Sunday 29 May, it was revealed that Sam Hayes would replace Barry on Newshub at 6. On Monday 30 May, MediaWorks announced that Ingrid Hipkiss would replace Barry on Paul Henry.\n\nOn 19 September 2016, Barry and Jack Tame took over as co-hosts of Breakfast. She left in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257535", "title": "Lorenz S. Cederbaum", "text": "Lorenz S. Cederbaum\n\nLorenz Cederbaum (born 26 October 1946 in Braunschweig, Germany) is a German physical chemist. \n\nHe studied physics at the University of Munich and obtained his diplome in 1970, his Ph.D. in 1972, and habilitation in 1976. He was professor at the University of Freiburg before becoming professor for theoretical chemistry at the University of Heidelberg in 1979.\n\nL. S. Cederbaum is member of the International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science and the Academy of Sciences Leopoldina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257542", "title": "Sasso Marconi", "text": "Sasso Marconi\n\nSasso Marconi (Bolognese: ) is a town and \"comune\" of the Metropolitan City of Bologna in northern Italy, south-southwest of Bologna.\n\nKnown as Sasso Bolognese until 1938, it is named after Guglielmo Marconi, the radio pioneer, who was born in the nearby city of Bologna. In 1902, Marconi received the first transatlantic radio signal at Poldhu Cove, Cornwall, UK. The name \"Sasso\" (\"rock\") derives from the Pliocenic rock formation called Sasso della Glosina that commands the confluence of the Setta and Reno rivers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257544", "title": "Carl August Dohrn", "text": "Carl August Dohrn\n\nCarl August Dohrn (27 June 1806 – 10 May 1892) was a German entomologist.\n\nBorn at Stettin (Szczecin, now Poland) Carl August was the son of Heinrich Dohrn, who was a wine and spice merchant, and had made the family fortune by trading in sugar. This wealth allowed Carl August to devote himself to his various hobbies; travelling, folk music and entomology.\n\nAlthough interested in all orders of insects Dohrn specialised in Coleoptera. His first published paper was in the \"Entomologische Zeitung\" for 1845 but he was an active entomologist long before this, since he had acted as Secretary to the Stettin Entomological Society from its foundation in 1839 and edited its journal. He was elected president of the society in 1843 retiring from the post in 1887.During this time he held together the rather fractious German entomologists and the society flourished. Dohrn had many contacts including Alexander Henry Haliday, with whom he wrote a paper on the Linnaean Diptera (See ) and the London entomologists. He was a personal friend of Henry Tibbats Stainton with whom he stayed in England.\n\nA frequent visitor to London he was accompanied by the Lepidopterist, Philipp Christoph Zeller in 1852, by Carl Henrik Boheman in 1854 and by Hermann August Hagen in 1857. He spent many summers in Italy, in Lucca with Haliday and in Turin with Maximilian Spinola. Dohrn was elected a fellow of the Entomological Society of London in 1855 and an honorary member in 1855. A classicist he was fluent in many European languages. His Coleoptera collection was very extensive and just prior to his death, at 86, he had received upwards of 1,000 beetles from Sumatra.\n\nDohrn's son Anton Dohrn, an ardent supporter of Charles Darwin, became a famous marine zoologist. Another, older, son Heinrich Wolfgang Ludwig Dohrn was also an entomologist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257545", "title": "United National Liberation Front", "text": "United National Liberation Front\n\nThe United National Liberation Front (UNLF), also known as the United National Liberation Front of Manipur, is an insurgent group active in the state of Manipur in the Northeast India which aims at establishing a sovereign and socialist Manipur.\n\nThe United Nation Liberation Front's movement manifested as a result of several similar movements of the same political agenda. The outfit was founded on 24 November 1964 with the following key personalities as its central committee members:\n\n\nThe National Investigation Agency (NIA), in September 2012, acknowledged that \"the activities carried out by the United National Liberation Front (UNLF) are for bringing sovereignty in the state of Manipur.\" The UNLF has viewed the statement as \"a big political victory.\"\n\nThe UNLF chairperson, R. K. Meghan \"alias\" Sanayaima, has been charged for \"waging war\" against India by the NIA, but the UNLF leader has voiced that the UNLF does not view India or its army as enemies, and \"the UNLF only resist the Indian armed forces stationed in Manipur and to resist those people who engaged in colonial repression.\"\n\nSanayaima believes that Manipur is \"under martial law,\" and has questioned the character and worthiness of the elections that had been held in Manipur. He further believes that \"the most democratic means to resolve conflict is plebiscite.\"\n\nThe UNLF is one of the oldest insurgent organisation in the Northeast India. E. N. Rammohan, the former Director General of the Border Security Force, once wrote, \"Of the five major (Imphal) valley underground groups, the UNLF's ideology is by and large intact. The senior leadership is well educated and has good organisational control.\"\n\nManipur People's Army was formed on 9 February 1987 as an Army Wing of UNLF. In 1991, the UNLF picked up arms, and its first armed action against IOF carried on 15 December of 1991 at Lamdan on a CRPF Convoy. In 2005, the strength of the MPA was estimated to about 2,000 armed cadres. According to the UNLF, by 2005, the UNLF was engaged in battle against about 50,000 armed personnel from the Indian Army, that are deployed against the organisation in the forest regions of Manipur. The cadres of the group are drawn largely from the Meiteis and the Pangals.\n\nThe territory inhabited by the Nagas, consisting of four districts of Manipur, is the operating ground of Naga groups such as the NSCNs, who are predominantly Christian. The Imphal valley, consisting of four districts, is the operating ground of Meitei/Pangal groups such as PLA and PREPAK, who predominantly follow Vaishnav Hinduism and Sunni Islam respectively.\n\nThe UNLF is known to be heavily involved with Extortion, Arms Trading, and Income Generating Projects to finance their armed movements. They have several organized training camps within the northeast sector of India and the neighbouring countries of Myanmar and Bangladesh. Ningtam Meira is the primary media outlet they use to make publications.\n\nThe UNLF had put forward four condiciones sine quibus non before the government of India if it is willing to initiate dialogue and ink a peace accord with the organisation, which are:\n\nOn 4 December 2010, Sanayaima was produced by the NIA, who claimed to have arrested Sanayaima from Motihari in Bihar; while, Sanayaima has proclaimed that he was abducted by the Bangladeshi agencies on 29 September 2010 and \"handed over\" to the agencies of India. Sanayaima has been booked by the NIA for \"waging war against the Indian Union under section 120 (B) IPC, 121, 121 (A), 122 IPC and 16, 17, 18, 18 (A), 18 (B) & 20 Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967 as amended in 2008.\" After the arrest, he said that \"in a multi-community region, the idea of peace cannot be achieved without considering the collateral damages of the secondary conflict that emerges out of the meaningless peace process.\"\nDrawing inspiration from the \"charged political atmosphere\" during the \"Naxalbari uprising\", he had dropped out of the higher studies at the Jadavpur University in Kolkata, and \"picked up a gun and vanished into the forest\" about 4 decades ago; and had remained underground since then.\n\nCivil rights activist Babloo Loitongbom, said that \"there was an allegation that certain members of the UNLF had raped 20 women. We formed a multi-ethnic fact finding team to go to the place. Unfortunately, we were not allowed to go inside the camp, we were not given any medical evidence.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2257546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257546", "title": "Lottso!", "text": "Lottso!\n\nLottso! is a game offered by the website Pogo.com. It is a blend of Bingo and a Lottery. Its outcome usually is decided by luck, although players can develop certain strategies to win the game.\n\nLottso! is usually played by a number of players that varies between 2 and 20, but a player can sit by themselves and play the game as well. There is a triangle, similar to those used to play billiards, that comes on the screen, with six numbers, five numbers and a star or four numbers and two stars. There are three tickets containing numbers to each side of the game screen.\n\nThe purpose of the game is to place the numbers inside the triangle in the tickets that have matching numbers, to fill out the tickets. All tickets that get filled help the player obtain points, but some tickets are better than others. Practically all of the tickets feature themes from other games available on the Pogo website. The most valuable tickets are Aces Up and Pop Fu. The least valuable tickets are Harvest Mania, Squelchies, and Jigsaw Detective. There are also Team Lottso tickets which can vary in value from 50 to 500 depending on how many additional players in the room complete a Team Lottso ticket. Players can also choose to play in competitive rooms where the Team Lottso ticket is unavailable. The Lottso ticket itself has a changing value depending on how often it is scratched during the game, typically never going higher than 550 in a full room.\n\nMost tickets are scratch tickets. These allow the player to keep scoring until a stop sign is scratched on the ticket. The player keeps the points scored regardless that the negative sign has come. Other tickets are match tickets. Match tickets allow a player to look for a high number of points, but can also give players a low score. When a player matches one number, that number of points is given to the contestant.\n\nTen rounds consisting of 25 seconds each are played. The winners get rewards in the shape of tokens, which can be used to purchase entries into the various Pogo prize drawings or to edit a player's Pogo Mini. The winner is that contestant with the most points scored after ten rounds. Players who score over 3000 in a game receive a jackpot spin for more tokens or prizes. Players advance rank in Lottso by placing balls on cards during the game. There are 100 ranks in the game with badges awarded at various ranks.\n\nUnlike bingo, where a number can be played on all cards the player is playing, in Lottso! a ball can only be played once. This adds a lot of strategy to the game.\n\nKnowing which cards are worth the most points and clearing them first is important to winning the game. A player should play wild numbers on a number they need the most of. In team play, a Team Lottso! card can be worth anywhere from 50 to 500 points depending on how many other players play a Team Lottso! card in the same round; a shrewd player plays the Team Lottso! card when it is worth the most points. Also note that just because a card is filled does not mean it needs to be scratched, players can hold onto this card until a round where it is \"flashing\", which will multiply the points it is worth. Flashing cards begin showing up in round 6, with the total multiplied by a factor of two until round 9 where the total is multiplied by three.\n\nAnother strategy is to get the Super Lottso Card. The easiest way of getting the card is to wait until all the cards in one row are filled, before scratching them to get the points. This way the whole row will empty in one round, and the Super Lottso Card will drop down for the next round. Another way to get a Super Lottso Card is to have a Fire Card stay at the top of the stack, and wait 3 turns.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257548", "title": "Frank O. Salisbury", "text": "Frank O. Salisbury\n\nFrancis (\"Frank\") Owen Salisbury (18 December 1874 – 31 August 1962) was an English artist who specialised in portraits, large canvases of historical and ceremonial events, stained glass and book illustration. In his heyday he made a fortune on both sides of the Atlantic and was known as \"Britain’s Painter Laureate\". His art was steadfastly conservative and he was a vitriolic critic of Modern Art – particularly of his contemporaries Picasso, Chagall and Mondrian. His father, Henry Salisbury, described himself as a \"plumber, decorator and ironmonger\" (his mother was Susan Hawes), yet his son Frank would become one of the greatest society artists of his generation.\n\nOne of 11 children, Salisbury was such a delicate child that he was educated at home, in the main by his student teacher sister, Emilie. He had only a few weeks formal schooling and began work by repairing bicycles at his father’s Cycle Depot in Harpenden. Uncertain as to his ability to find and maintain a job, the family determined that he be apprenticed, at the age of 15, to Henry James Salisbury, his eldest brother, who managed a major stained glass company in Alma Road, St Albans. He rapidly acquired all the practical skills of a stained glass artist and exhibited exceptional skills in the painterly detail that was applied to glass before its final firing. This led to his brother sponsoring him to attend Heatherley’s School of Art three days a week to further a career in painting. He then won a scholarship to the Royal Academy Schools which he attended for five years and where he won two silver medals and two scholarships, including the Landseer scholarship which funded his to travel to Italy in 1896. In due course he would have seventy exhibits accepted for the annual Royal Academy Summer Exhibitions, from 1899 until 1943, though he was never offered membership, which reportedly disappointed him very much.\nIn 1901 he married Alice Maude (d. 1951), daughter of C. Colmer Greenwood, with whom he had several children, including twin daughters Monica and Sylvia. His first Royal Academy exhibit was a portrait of Alice and he often painted pictures of their children.\n\nSalisbury died on 31 August 1962 at \"Sarum Chase\", the neo-Tudor mansion he built, in 1932, in Hampstead, London. He is buried in a rather unassuming grave, with his baby daughter Elaine Maude and his wife, in St Nicholas Churchyard, Harpenden.\n\nIt is for portraiture that he is best known. His speed in producing portraits stemmed from his painting his own twin daughters every morning for an hour and his career began with child portraiture and his painting the Hertfordshire gentry and members of the Harpenden Methodist Church. He had a studio at his home, \"Sarum Chase\". A providential meeting with Lord Wakefield, founder of Castrol Oils and a Methodist philanthropist, saw his introduction to society portraiture. Salisbury’s being selected to paint the \"Boy Cornwell in the Battle of Jutland\" then brought him to the notice of Royalty. Lord Wakefield then arranged for him to paint President Woodrow Wilson whilst he was in London, but Wilson departed for Paris and the opportunity was lost. It was to be John W. Davis, American Ambassador to London, who encouraged Salisbury to go to the USA; Davis had met Salisbury at art receptions and had admired his child portraits.\n\nTwenty-five members of the Royal House of Windsor sat for Salisbury and he was the first artist to paint \"HM Queen Elizabeth II\". In 1919 he painted a mural for the Royal Exchange, London \"National Peace Thanksgiving Service on the steps of St Paul’s Cathedral, 6th July 1919\".\n\nHe painted Winston Churchill on more occasions than any other artist; the two iconic images of Churchill – \"The Siren Suit\" and \"Blood, Sweat and Tears\" are both Salisbury images. Mayoral regalia was a ready made requisite for the Salisbury style with \"Councillor Sam Ryder\" (of Ryder Cup fame) as Mayor of St Albans being the most famous of his civic images.\n\nOther significant portraits include those of Richard Burton, Andrew Carnegie (posthumous), Sir Alan Cobham, Sir Robert Ludwig Mond, Maria Montessori, Montgomery of Alamein, Earl Mountbatten of Burma, Benito Mussolini, John Player, Lord Rank, Jan-Christiaan Smuts and Sir Henry Wood.\n\nSalisbury was remarkably successful in the USA where he was deemed to have fulfilled the American Dream. He made thirteen visits, basing himself in Washington DC, Chicago and New York City where his portraiture would be a roll call of American wealth. He painted six Presidents with his \"Franklin D. Roosevelt\" remaining as the official White House portrait to this day. Industrial and financial giants who sat for him included Henry Clay Folger, Elbert Henry Gary, Edward Stephen Harkness, Will Keith Kellogg, Andrew William Mellon, John Pierpont Morgan, George Mortimer Pullman, John Davison Rockefeller Jr., and Myron C. Taylor.\n\nSalisbury produced several self-portraits including depicting himself whilst painting the 1937 Coronation and his being Master Glazier in 1934.\n\nSalisbury’s great forte was in his painting of over forty large canvases of historical and national events, a field in which he was virtually unchallenged until 1951. The two most significant of these are \"The Heart of Empire – the Jubilee Thanksgiving in St Paul's Cathedral 1935\" and \"The Coronation of their Royal Majesties King George VI and Queen Elizabeth 1937.\"\n\nOne of the great ironies of his art is that, although he was to all intents and purposes a pacifist, his introduction to Royalty, the aristocracy and overseas politicians came as a result of his war art, particularly his posthumous portraits of the fallen in the First World War. The large canvas of the \"Boy Cornwell\" was followed by \"The King and Queen visiting the Battle Districts of France\". It was Salisbury who was required, by Royal Command, to paint two large images of \"The Burial of the Unknown Warrior\" for the first Remembrance Day. War memorials followed on from this. During the Second World War he was required to paint \"The Signing of the Anglo-Soviet Treaty\" and one of his most endearing images is \"The Briefing of an Air Squadron. \"\n\nA matched pair of his pictures are in Walsall Town Hall's theatre. They were commissioned by Joseph Leckie \"to commemorate the never to be forgotten valour of the South Staffordshire Regiments in the Great War 1914 - 1918\" and completed in 1920. One shows \"the First South Staffordshires attacking the Hohenzollern Redoubt\", the other \"the 5th South Staffords storming the St. Quentin Canal at Bellingtise Sept 29th 1918\".\n\nSalisbury was a Methodist who took his faith seriously and always considered his gifts to be God given. He manifested the Protestant work ethic and the Non-Conformist conscience. He produced much work for the mainstream denominations, in particular Methodism and the Salvation Army. He painted posthumous portraits of historical Methodist figures with perhaps his best known image being that of \"John Wesley\" in John Wesley's House in London. Salisbury arranged and paid for the restoration of Wesley’s House in 1934 which restoration stood the test of time for sixty years. He lived an alcohol free lifestyle and was firmly in favour of Prohibition in the US. He refused to work on Sundays. Many of his associates including Pierpont Morgan, Lord Wakefield, Will Kellogg and Andrew Mellon'were both rich industrialists and Christian philanthropists. He bequeathed Sarum Chase in trust to the British Council of Churches. However, the BCC sold the mansion and auctioned its contents. His range of portraits stretched from \"Billy Graham\", to four Salvation Army Generals, to \"Pope Pius XII\".\n\nBut it was stained glass that remained his favourite, though not his most profitable, art form. One of his earliest pieces of stained glass is the east window (depicting Christ, knights and angels) of St. Michael and All Angels Church, Bassett, Southampton.\n\nThirty-four windows have been confirmed as being designed by him with the largest collections being at Wesley's Chapel in London, the former National Children’s Home chapel in Harpenden, and the Forest Hill Methodist Church in London. All of his glass was installed in England with three notable exceptions in Medak Cathedral in India. He was elected Master of the Worshipful Company of Glaziers and Painters of Glass in 1933.\n\nThe copyright of all of his paintings bar two is held by the Estate of Frank O. Salisbury. Authorised images appear in the books in the listing below. Significant collections of his work are held at the Chicago Historical Society, National Portrait Gallery in London, New York Genealogical and Biographical Society, Royal Air Force Museum in London, Wesley’s Chapel in London and the World Methodist Headquarters in North Carolina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257550", "title": "Mike McRoberts", "text": "Mike McRoberts\n\nMike McRoberts (born 1966) is a New Zealand television journalist. \n\nMcRoberts attended Hillmorton High School in Christchurch. He completed a journalism diploma from the New Zealand Broadcasting School at CPIT (now Ara Institute of Canterbury) in 1986.\n\nMcRoberts began his career in 1984 as a cadet at Radio New Zealand.\n\nIn 1995, McRoberts accepted an offer as a sports reporter for TVNZ. In 1998 he moved to current affairs joining the \"Holmes\" programme, and after a successful stint on that show, he left TVNZ to join rival TV3 as a reporter in 2001.\n\nIn 2002 he took a presenting position with current affairs show 60 Minutes. He also reported for the show, covering stories such as gangs' drug use, body dysmorphia, and addiction to internet pornography.\n\nIn March 2005 McRoberts and journalist Hilary Barry were appointed as 6pm newsreaders.\n\nMcRoberts is best known for his work in some of the world's most dangerous places, covering conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, Gaza, East Timor and Solomon Islands. He has covered some of the world's worst natural disasters from tsunamis, to wildfires and earthquakes, including the devastating earthquake in Haiti in 2010, the Japan earthquake and tsunami and then, close to home, his coverage of the Christchurch earthquake in 2010 and 2011.\nIn May 2012, McRoberts became the anchor of TV3's new current affairs show Three \\60 focusing on international news, politics, & business. Still continuing to present 60 Minutes.\n\nMcRobert married journalist/producer Paula Penfold, the couple have two children. They separated in 2017.\n\nMcRoberts' interests include rugby, reading and music. He has won numerous journalism awards, including Qantas Television Award for TV Journalist of the Year in 2006. McRoberts published his first book \"Beyond the Front Line\" in October 2011.\n\nMcRoberts is also a UNICEF ambassador.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257554", "title": "Valentin Friedland", "text": "Valentin Friedland\n\nValentin Friedland (February 14, 1490April 26, 1556), also called Valentin Troitschendorf (or Trozendorf or Trotzendorf or Trocedorfius) after his birthplace, was an eminent German scholar and educationist of the Reformation. Friedland was a friend of Martin Luther and Melanchthon. His fame as a teacher was an attraction of Goldberg in Silesia, where he taught pupils from far and near. The secret of his success lay in his inculcating on his pupils respect for their own honour. He had a great faith in the intelligence that evinced itself in clear expression.\n\nFriedland was born in Trozendorf near the town of Görlitz in Upper Lusatia, of parents so poor that they could not keep him at school. The boy taught himself to read and write while herding cattle; he made paper from birch bark and ink from soot. When difficulties were overcome and he was sent for education to Görlitz, his mother's last words were \"Stick to the school, dear son\". The words determined his career: he refused all ecclesiastical promotion, and lived and died a schoolmaster.\n\nFriedland became a distinguished student at the University of Leipzig, learned Ciceronian Latin from Peter Mosellanus and Greek from Richard Croke, and after graduation was appointed assistant master in the school at Görlitz in 1515. There he also taught the rector and other teachers. When Martin Luther began his attack on indulgences, Trotzendorff resigned his position and went to study under Luther and Melanchthon at Wittenberg, supporting himself by private tuition. Thence he was called to be a master in the school at Goldberg, and in 1524 became rector. There he remained three years, when he was sent to Liegnitz.\n\nFriedland returned to Goldberg in 1531 and began that career which has made him the typical German schoolmaster of the Reformation period. His system of education and discipline speedily attracted attention. He made his best elder scholars the teachers of the younger classes, and insisted that the way to learn was to teach. He organized the school modelled on the Roman Republic in such a way that the whole ordinary discipline was in the hands of the boys themselves. Every month a consul, twelve senators and two censors were chosen from the pupils, and over all Trotzendorff ruled as \"dictator perpetuus\". One hour a day was spent in going over the lessons of the previous day. The lessons were repeatedly recalled by examinations, which were conducted on the plan of academical disputations. Every week each pupil had to write two \"exercitia styli\", one in prose and the other in verse, and Trotzendorff took pains to see that the subject of each exercise was something interesting. The fame of the Goldberg School extended over all Protestant Germany, and a large number of the more famous men of the following generation were taught by Trotzendorf.\n\nAfter Friedland's school, his library, his assets, and the greater part of Goldberg were destroyed by a fire in 1554, he moved again to Liegnitz at the invitation of the duke there. His school, now with a significantly reduced number of pupils, found a place in a church. He gathered the means for rebuilding the school in Goldberg, but died before this was accomplished, in 1556.\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257557", "title": "There Is No-One What Will Take Care of You", "text": "There Is No-One What Will Take Care of You\n\nThere Is No-One What Will Take Care of You is the debut studio album by Will Oldham. It was released under the moniker Palace Brothers on Drag City in 1993. Oldham is accompanied on the album by several members of Louisville rock band Slint.\n\nThe album was included in \"Mojo\" magazine's book \"The Mojo Collection: The Greatest Albums of All Time\" (2001).\n\n"}
{"id": "2257558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257558", "title": "Thiruvambady", "text": "Thiruvambady\n\nThiruvambady is a major hill town and a suburb in southeastern Kozhikode district in Kerala, India. Thiruvambady is a Panchayat headquarters, and a legislative assembly constituency, situated from the district headquarters of Kozhikode.\n\nThiruvambady is from Kozhikode city and is on the banks of the Iruvanjippuzha River, which is a major tributary of the Chaliyar River. The town is surrounded by mountains, valleys, and waterfalls, such as Thusharagiri Falls and Aripara Falls.\n\nThiruvambady Gramapanchayath was established on 1 January 1962 and consists of 17 wards covering an area of , which includes of forest. Thiruvambady is under Koduvally Block Panchayat and Thamarassery Taluk.\n\nThiruvambady is part of the Wayanad parliamentary constituency. The current MP is Rahul Gandhi.\n\nIn 1977, the Thiruvambady assembly constituency of the Kerala Legislative Assembly was established, consisting of 7 Panchayats. The current MLA is George M. Thomas.\n\nThiruvambady is well connected by road to nearby places.\n\nA KSRTC bus operating centre is in town, as well as a private bus stand. There are buses to nearby places such as Kozhikode, Mukkam, Omassery, Thamarassery, Koduvally, Pulloorampara, Anakkampoyil,Poovaranthode, Koodaranji, and Kodenchery; and KSRTC operates many inter-district routes.\n\nThe nearest railway station is Kozhikode Railway Station, distant.\n\nThe nearest airport is Calicut International Airport, distant. There are plans to establish a new Thiruvambady International Airport, on Thiruvambady Rubber Estate, for the city of Calicut; and discussions continue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257573", "title": "Argishti I of Urartu", "text": "Argishti I of Urartu\n\nArgishti I (), was the sixth known king of Urartu, reigning from 786 BC to 764 BC. He founded the citadel of Erebuni in 782 BC, which is the present capital of Armenia, Yerevan. Alternate transliterations of the name include \"Argishtis\", \"Argisti\", \"Argišti\", and \"Argishtish\". Although the name is usually rendered as \"Argišti\" (read: \"Argishti\"), some scholars argue that \"Argisti\" is the most likely pronunciation. This is due to the belief that the Urartians used the cuneiform symbol \"š\" to voice an \"s\"-sound, as opposed to representing the diagraph \"sh\".\n\nA son and the successor of Menua, he continued the series of conquests initiated by his predecessors. He was involved in a number of inconclusive conflicts with the Assyrian king Shalmaneser IV. He conquered the northern part of Syria and made Urartu the most powerful state in post-Hittite Asia Minor. He also expanded his kingdom north to Lake Sevan, conquering much of Diauehi and the Ararat Valley. Argishti built the Erebuni Fortress in 782 BC, and the fortress of Argishtikhinili in 776 BC.\n\nHe was succeeded by his son Sarduri II.\n\nLinguists believe that the name \"Argishti\" has Indo-European etymology (Armenian). Compare Armenian արեգ (translit. \"areg\") – “sun deity”, “sun”, Phrygian ΑΡΕJΑΣΤΙΝ (translit. \"Areyastin\") - “epithet of the great mother” and Ancient Greek αργεστής (translit. \"argestes\") - “shining”, “brilliant”, “white”, “bright”. \"Ti\" (\"Di\") meant \"god\" in proto-Armenian (compare with Classical Armenian \"Dik\"').\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257592", "title": "Allyce Beasley", "text": "Allyce Beasley\n\nAllyce Beasley (born July 6, 1954) is an American actress, voice artist and comedian. She is best-known for her role as rhyming, love-struck receptionist Agnes DiPesto in the television series \"Moonlighting\". From 2000 to March 30, 2007, she was the announcer on Playhouse Disney, a morning lineup of programming for toddlers on Disney Channel. She appeared briefly as a guidance counselor in the Reese Witherspoon film comedy \"Legally Blonde\" and played Coach's daughter, Lisa Pantusso, on \"Cheers\". She also announced the safety video during The Simpsons Ride at Universal Studios Hollywood and Florida.\n\nBeasley was born Allyce Tannenberg in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. She is the daughter of Harriet, a bookkeeper, and Marvin Tannenberg, a cartoonist.\n\nBeasley married Christopher Sansocie in 1970. They divorced in 1972. From 1985 to 1988, she was married to actor Vincent Schiavelli (who died in 2005); they had one son, Andrea Schiavelli. In 1999, Beasley married for the third time to her current husband Jim Bosche.\n\nBeasley is a breast cancer survivor. She is Jewish.\n\nBeasley has also worked as a voice actress. She is probably best known for Miss Alordayne Grotke in the popular Walt Disney TV series \"Recess\" and in 1999 she appeared in the movie \"Stuart Little\" along with her costar from \"Recess\", Dabney Coleman.\n\nOn a computer game called Pacxon, she provides the voice of Clyde's mom.\n\nShe has also voiced herself in an episode of \"Johnny Bravo\", made a guest appearance in the television series \"The Wild Thornberrys\", \"Extreme Ghostbusters\", \"Pound Puppies\", \"Darkwing Duck\", \"Lloyd in Space\" and \"Duckman\" and the film \"Garfield on the Town\" and voiced several characters in the video game \"EverQuest II\".\n\nShe also narrated for Playhouse Disney from 2000 until March 30, 2007; previously, she was the narrator for \"Storytime with Thomas\" on Fox Family (now FreeForm). She was also the announcer for the safety video with Itchy and Scratchy that plays during The Simpsons Ride at Universal Studios Hollywood and Florida.\n\nDuring the summer of 2009, she was seen onstage in \"The Drowsy Chaperone\" at Gateway Playhouse on Long Island, playing Mrs. Tottendale.\n\nShe replaced Veanne Cox in the role of Mme. Renaud/Mme. Dindon in the Tony Award-winning revival of \"La Cage aux Folles\" alongside Kelsey Grammer and Douglas Hodge on September 14, 2010.\n\nIn the Spring of 2014, she portrayed Doris in the musical \"Damn Yankees\" with Lora Lee Gayer at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Connecticut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257593", "title": "Petr Cársky", "text": "Petr Cársky\n\nPetr Čársky (born on May 29, 1942) is a Slovakian quantum chemist.\nHe obtained in 1968 his Ph.D. at Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prague.\nHe worked as senior researcher at the Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prague (1989-1990). He became in 1990 Theoretical group leader, Jaroslav Heyrovsky Institute of Physical Chemistry, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prague.\n\nDevelopment of quantum-chemical methods in general. And in particular:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257596", "title": "Mount Cargill", "text": "Mount Cargill\n\nMount Cargill, known in Māori as Kapukataumahaka, is a volcanic outcrop which dominates the skyline of northern Dunedin, New Zealand.\n\nThe peak is named for Captain William Cargill, an early leader of the Province of Otago. Māori legend tells of the mountain showing the profile of a prominent warrior, and indeed from Dunedin Buttar's Peak and Mount Cargill between them do form the outline of a reclining figure, with the nearby Buttar's Peak being the head and Mount Cargill the body.\n\nPanoramic views of Dunedin and its surrounding area are visible from the summit, making it a popular, if difficult to access, site. A single rough road ascends to the peak, and several popular walking tracks also ascend the slopes. \n\nMount Cargill is topped by a telecommunications station and mast, the Mount Cargill Transmitting Station. The mast is Dunedin's tallest man-made structure.\n\nMt. Cargill is situated some 15 kilometres (9 miles) north of the city centre, and dominates the city's northern skyline. It rises to a height of 676 metres (2,218 ft). To the north and east of Mount Cargill's peak are several smaller peaks including Mount Zion, Mount Holmes and (most notably) Buttar's Peak.\n\nA rough road from the end of Pine Hill Road provides vehicular access to the summit, and several walking tracks also lead to the top, notably a walk from Bethune's Gully in North East Valley at the northern end of Dunedin's urban area and a walk through Graham's Bush, which starts in Sawyers Bay close to Port Chalmers. These tracks pass through regenerating native bush and volcanic outcrops before a sharp climb along the northern flank immediately below the summit.\n\nThe tracks pass two significant points of interest. One of these is a prominent formation of columnar jointed basalt known as the Organ Pipes. Similar outcrops are found elsewhere in the Dunedin area, at Blackhead near Waldronville and at Second Beach, Saint Clair. The second point of interest is the small temperate cloud forest which dominates the vegetation of the upper slopes. Though not a true cloud forest, in that it is not tropical, it bears many of the hallmarks of true cloud forest, with abundant moss and fern cover under thick low canopy. The cloud forest is protected within a reserve, which includes the peak of the mountain as well as several secondary peaks. Although the tracks are easy (but steep), care should be taken by walkers, as the weather conditions on Mount Cargill are notoriously unpredictable and can change very rapidly.\n\nThe peak is, along with the similarly high Flagstaff one of the highest points surrounding Dunedin, and as such, it is a popular lookout. From the summit, views can be obtained of the entire Dunedin urban area, as well as a considerable stretch of open countryside and much of Otago's coastline, from Shag Point near Palmerston to Nugget Point in The Catlins. Particularly notable is the view of the Otago Peninsula and Otago Harbour, the entire length of which can be seen from the summit. \n\nMount Cargill, and the nearby smaller peaks are among the youngest parts of the massive extinct Dunedin Volcano and was formed between 16 and 10 million years ago. Its peak comprises a nepheline phonolite dome, an intrusion through earlier pyroclastics and phonolite flows, suggesting that the volcanic origins of the peak were as a pyroclastic cone, followed by a plugging with the nepheline dome. \n\nButtar's Peak and Mt. Zion are similar, smaller domes. Mt. Holmes is a more distinct plug, featuring the columnar jointed basalt of the Organ Pipes.\n\nThe Mount Cargill transmitting station sits atop the mountain, broadcasting television and FM radio to Dunedin and the eastern Otago area. The station was completed in 1970, and features a mast, the tallest structure in Dunedin.\n\nThe following television stations and radio stations broadcast from Mount Cargill:\n\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "2257601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257601", "title": "Viva Last Blues", "text": "Viva Last Blues\n\nViva Last Blues is the third studio album by Will Oldham. It was released under the moniker Palace Music on Drag City in 1995. The album features Oldham on vocals and guitar, and was recorded by Steve Albini.\n\n\"Pitchfork\" placed the album at number 60 on the \"Top 100 Albums of the 1990s\" list. In 2007, \"Blender\" placed it at number 98 on the \"100 Greatest Indie-Rock Albums Ever\" list.\n\nCredits adapted from liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257602", "title": "Bedok Police Division", "text": "Bedok Police Division\n\nThe Bedok Police Division (or 'G' Division, Chinese: 勿洛警区) is one of the seven land division of the Singapore Police Force. Bedok Division covers approximately 114 square kilometres of the eastern sector of Singapore. The building became operational on 1 August 1987 when the former Joo Chiat Police Station at East Coast Road was closed down.\n\nBedok Division comprises seven Neighbourhood Police Centres (NPC) and 16 Neighbourhood Police Posts (NPP). The seven NPCs are Bedok North, Bedok South, Changi, Geylang, Marine Parade, Pasir Ris and Tampines. Bedok Division serves about 800 thousand residents in private and public housing estates within our boundaries. In addition, scattered throughout the division's jurisdiction are several industrial estates, as well as other commercial, sporting and recreational facilities, which include the Singapore Sports Hub, East Coast Park, Our Tampines Hub and Downtown East.\n\nPreviously headquartered at Joo Chiat Police Station in East Coast Road under the former NPP system, the present headquarters took over jurisdiction of the division on 1 August 1987. The rest of the NPCs came online when the NPC system was implemented here on 17 December 2000. When the Geylang Police Division was closed in December 2000, 'G' Division took over half of its areas of control, while the rest came under the Ang Mo Kio Police Division and Central Police Division, thus extending its responsibilities to critical areas and sites around Geylang Road and the National Stadium, where major events regularly require support from the entire division and beyond, such as during the National Day Parade when it is held there.\n\nOther major events handled by the division include the Singapore Airshow exhibitions in Changi, and the Hari Raya Puasa bazaars at Geylang Serai.\n\n\nBedok Police Division was the workplace of an convicted Kovan double murder, ex-policeman Senior Staff Sergeant Iskandar Rahmat, a 14-year veteran award-winning investigation officer. Iskandar has been on death row since 2017, after failing in his appeal and request for president clemency against the death sentence for killing a car workshop owner and the man’s son on 10 July 2013. Iskandar was found to be motivated to rob Tan Boon Sin, 67 and Tan Chee Heong, 42 to clear his bank debts. Iskandar defended his actions, claiming that he had planned a rob-and-run job and that he reacted in self defence when the father-son pair attacked him separately. The High Court rejected his defence and sentenced him to death. The Court of Appeal also later rejected his defence and other arguments that were brought up only towards the end of the case, saying that \"accused persons should and are expected to put their best case forward at the earliest time possible\".\n\nIn March 2020, a policeman who was entrusted to collect lost-and-found wallets at a police station under Bedok Division filched the cash inside and used it for his own expenses instead. For one count of criminal breach of trust by a servant, the policeman was jailed for three months.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257613", "title": "Goonhilly Downs", "text": "Goonhilly Downs\n\nGoonhilly Downs is a Site of Special Scientific Interest that forms a raised plateau in the central western area of the Lizard Peninsula in Cornwall, England, UK. Situated just south of Helston and the Naval Air Station at Culdrose, it is famous for its Goonhilly Satellite Earth Station, at one time the largest in the world. The large satellite dishes are an iconic landmark, and can be seen for miles. \n\nGoonhilly Downs is now also home to a 12 MW wind farm consisting of six two MW wind turbines and a tourist attraction called Cornish Camels.\n\nThe downs themselves are an area of sparse heathland, based on serpentinite geology. This is home to rare plants, such as the Cornish heath, which has been adopted as the county flower.\n\nA menhir can be found on the downs, near the BT site.\n\nA couple of miles west of the BT site is another SSSI and nature reserve, owned and managed by the Cornwall Wildlife Trust. This reserve is prime Cornish heath (Erica vagans) with ponds and willow fen. Early Bronze Age barrows are present and there are several ancient 'turf-hut' circles. There are remains of buildings which were part of RAF Dry Tree and later RAF Trelanvean, used during the Second World War. Both adders and stonechats are commonly sighted here.\n\nHalf a mile before the BT Satellite dishes is Goonhilly Craft Shop and Tea Room. Set back from the road, the building was constructed in the early 1960s by a local farmer. The land was originally part of the nearby Trelowarren Estate. Planning permission was granted to build a 4-bedroomed bungalow and petrol station, and it was known locally as 'Telstar Cafe'. (Telstar is the name of various communications satellites, including the first ever such satellite able to relay television signals.) 'Telstar Cafe' formerly had a petrol station but petrol sales have been taken over by Tesco in nearby Helston. 100,000 people a year visited BT's nearby FutureWorld@Goonhilly (now closed) and many of them also call into the Craft Shop and Tea Room before making their way back from Goonhilly.\n\nGoonhilly Downs also serves as a landing point for the SEA-ME-WE 3, the longest submarine cable on Earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257627", "title": "Violone", "text": "Violone\n\nThe term violone (; literally \"large viol\" in Italian, \"-one\" being the augmentative suffix) can refer to several distinct large, bowed musical instruments which belong to either the viol or violin family. The violone is sometimes a fretted instrument, and may have six, five, four, or even only three strings. The violone is also not always a contrabass instrument. In modern parlance, one usually tries to clarify the 'type' of violone by adding a qualifier based on the tuning (such as \"G violone\" or \"D violone\") or on geography (such as \"Viennese violone\"), or by using other terms that have a more precise connotation (such as \"bass violin\" or \"violoncello\" or \"bass viol\"). The term violone may be used correctly to describe many different instruments, yet distinguishing among these types can be difficult, especially for those not familiar with the historical instruments of the viol and violin families and their respective variations in tuning.\n\nIn modern usage, the term most often refers to the double bass viol, a bowed bass string instrument sounding its part an octave lower than notated pitch in early music groups performing Renaissance, Baroque and Classical era music on period instruments. However, the term can rightly be applied to members of the violin family, and also to ‘cello sized’ instruments, of both the violin and viol families, where those instruments play their parts AT notated pitch. Only a few players specialize in these instruments. Some use contemporary reproductions rather than actual historical instruments.\n\nThere are several different instruments that have historically been called by the name \"violone\". Some of these can be loosely described as 'cello-sized' instruments, and play their parts sounding at the notated pitch. Other types of violone are larger-bodied than the cello (sometimes as large or even larger than modern double basses) – most of those sound their parts an octave below notated pitch, but certain types are flexible about which octave they play in, and sometimes switch back and forth. Ultimately, however, it is not the family or size of the instrument that determines the type, but rather the tuning that is utilized, which generally makes it possible to classify the instrument as a member of either the viol or violin family. During the Renaissance music and Baroque music eras, most players and composers were not precise in describing the specific type of violone they had in mind when that name was written on the page. Some ensemble works do not even indicate which instruments should play the different parts, leaving it up to ensemble leaders to choose the instruments. This contrasts sharply with the standardization of instrumentation which developed during the Classical music period; for example, during this period, a string quartet, with only a few exceptions, is intended to be performed by two violins, a viola and a cello. \nIn the 2000s, musicologists and historians acknowledge the importance of distinguishing specifically which instrument a composer intended, or if the composer allowed the ensemble leader to choose the instruments for each part. Assigning specific names and classifying violoni as different types, as we are doing here, is a modern attempt to clarify things. Loosely described, bowed string instruments are made in families so that different sized members can play in different ranges, with treble instruments corresponding to the soprano and bass instruments corresponding to the lowest vocal range (or even lower, down to the \"contrabass\" register). Members of the violin family are the easiest to identify in this way: with the violin corresponding to the soprano, the viola to the alto singer, violoncello to the tenor, and bass to the bass ranges of the human voice (historically, the violin family was made in more than just these four sizes: there were originally several sizes of violas, as well as instruments smaller than the modern violin, for example). The viol family also comprises instruments in a multitude of sizes. In North America in the 21st century, we classify them as 'treble' viols (soprano), 'tenor' viols (alto range), 'bass' viols (tenor range) and 'great bass' viols, 'violoni' and violones (bass range).\n\nWhen we refer to the historical term 'violone', we must include almost all the instruments of both the violin and viol families (plus some hybrid instruments) that functioned as either tenor or bass members of those families. As the name 'violone' really means (see below), truly, these are all large string instruments. It was not until the 20th century that players and scholars started to realize that there were so many types of violoni and that not all of them functioned or sounded like double basses. Because of this, the classification of violoni according to tuning, family and function makes it start to be possible to clarify composers' intentions at different times and places. The most important thing to remember is that different types of violoni sound (and often function) quite differently from each other.\n\nCello-sized instruments are typically the 'tenor' members of the viol or violin families, though in fact their upper compass allows them to play in the alto (and even mezzo-soprano) range, and their lower compass may enable them to play in the bass (and even contra-bass) range. There are 3 types of instruments in this category:\n\n\n\nThere are a number of instruments in this category, but not all so easy to differentiate by name. One is a true member of the viol family, and the others have much in common with the violin, but can't necessarily be described as genuine violin family instruments because their tunings, proportions and/or construction issues may be at odds with the other sizes.\n\n\nIn the Renaissance and Baroque era and even in the 2000s, there are players who changed or adapted their instruments in unique ways. In this category we might find bass viols that are tuned in E (instead of D), or where the bottom string is tuned an extra step lower, to a C (a pitch found in numerous Baroque works). Or we might find a contrabass/double bass tuned in fourths, but with a top string a fourth higher than is standard (A–D–G–C) or another contrabass/double bass tuned in fourths but with its bottom string tuned down to a low C.\n\nBoth the violin and viol families came into use in the Western world at approximately the same time ( 1480) and co-existed for many centuries. That being said, during the Renaissance and early Baroque eras, the two families had different uses, and in particular, different social standings. Viols were primarily household instruments, played by well-to-do, educated members of society, as a pleasant and cultured way of passing time. In contrast, violin family instruments were primarily used for social functions, performed on by professional players. During this 'early' period, the largest member of the violin family \"in common use\" was a cello-sized instrument, but quite often tuned a whole step lower than the modern cello (B–F–C–G). This is not to say that there were no larger sized violoni described in the violin family at that time, it's just that descriptions of those larger basses are fewer, and there are many different tunings possible. Also, at this early period, there was minimal need for an instrument that would function at 16′ doubling an 8′ bass line. Human-sized members of the violin family were at first used primarily for dramatic effect in operas (and other dramatic works), and later for similar dramatic effect in \"concerto grosso\" type 'orchestral' settings.\n\nIn contrast, large members of the viol family were much more common, and used from earliest times, playing their lines at 8′ pitch. There is much evidence to show that Renaissance viol consorts were made of lots of large-bodied instruments. Great bass viols (with both A and G tunings) are described in numerous treatises, and there is a lot of solo and chamber music that necessitates their use because of its low compass. Some of this music is extremely virtuosic in nature (the \"viola bastarda\" pieces by Vincenzo Bonizzi, for example, exploit a octave range). It's also clear that both women and men played instruments of this size – the preface to Bonizzi's 1626 collection is dedicated to the 3 daughters of his Ferrarese patron, for example, and there are also numerous paintings that depict women playing very large viol family instruments.\n\nA technological advance occurred in the 1660s, centred in Bologna. This was the invention of wound (\"overspun\" or \"overwound\") strings. For bass instruments, this was important, because it meant one could now obtain good sounding low strings (that were not thick and rope-like in diameter) without having an excessively long string length. This was also when the term \"violoncello\" came into use, and the 'standard' cello tuning (C–G–D–A) became the norm. As well, a solo repertoire for the 'cello started to appear, and the 'cello started to replace the G violone or A violone as the preferred bowed basso continuo instrument (see articles by Stephen Bonta for more detailed information). These advances for the 'cello were likely the first seeds of decline for the G violone/A violone. However, it was also this time period that saw the growth of instrumental ensembles, and the beginning of a taste for 'concerti' and 'symphonies.'\n\nFor players and musical communities that had previously favoured G violoni/A violoni as their main bowed basses, once the cello took over the 8' role, the larger bodied G violini/A violoni could be used as 16′ doubling instruments, playing an octave below the cello-sized instruments. It is also from this time period (early 18th century) that most of the D violone tuning descriptions are documented. By this point, most of the other sized members of the viol family had died out (with the exception of the bass viol, which was cherished as a solo and chamber instrument). The largest members of the viol family (G and D violoni) were used in some regions even when other places had started to replace them with three- and four-string contrabasses/double basses. This may explain why the modern double bass to this day is so varied, and lacks a standard form, tuning or playing style. Professional bassists in orchestras have basses with flat backs, curved backs, sloping \"shoulders\" or rounded shoulders, and tunings including E–A–D–G and less commonly \"C–G–D–A. The modern double bass combines features of both the viol and violin families.\n\nWhen use of the word \"violone\" began in the early sixteenth century, \"\"viola\"\" simply meant a bowed, stringed instrument, and did not specify viol or violin. Historically \"violone\" has referred to any number of large fiddles, regardless of family. The term \"violone\" is sometimes used to refer to the modern double bass, but most often nowadays implies a period instrument. As a period instrument, it can refer to any of the different types that are described, above. \"Violone\" is also the name given to a non-imitative string-tone pipe organ stop, constructed of either metal or wood, and found in the pedal division at 16′ pitch (one octave below written pitch), or, more rarely, 32′ (2 octaves below written pitch).\n\n"}
{"id": "2257629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257629", "title": "Dick Beardsley", "text": "Dick Beardsley\n\nDick Beardsley (born March 21, 1956) is an American long-distance runner best known for tying for first place with Inge Simonsen in the inaugural 1981 London Marathon and his close finish with Alberto Salazar in the 1982 Boston Marathon.\n\nBeardsley ran his first marathon in 2:47:14 at the 1977 Paavo Nurmi Marathon in Hurley, Wisconsin. In subsequent marathons, he steadily lowered his times: 2:33:22, 2:33:06, and 2:31:50. Beardsley is the only man to have ever run 13 consecutive personal bests in the marathon, and is in the Guinness Book of World Records for the feat.\n\nIn 1981 he and Norwegian Inge Simonsen intentionally crossed the finish line together holding hands in a time of 2:11:48. According to Beardsley, \"It was a big deal for both of us because neither one of us had won a marathon before.\"\n\nHis finish time of 2:09:37 at the 1981 Grandma's Marathon stood as a course record for 33 years until it was broken in 2014. Beardsley placed second (2:08:53) on the heels of Alberto Salazar in the 1982 Boston Marathon, breaking the Boston Marathon course record and the American record.\n\nIn 2003 he started the Dick Beardsley Marathon Running Camp, which used to be held each September at Rainbow Resort in Waubun, Minnesota, but which are now held at Lake Bemidji, Minnesota.\n\nBeardsley is one of the subjects of the book \"Duel in the Sun\", published in 2006 by John Brant. His memoir, \"Staying the Course: A Runner's Toughest Race\", was co-authored by Maureen Anderson and published in 2002 by the University of Minnesota Press.\n\nIn 2010, Beardsley was inducted into the National Distance Running Hall of Fame.\n\nIn November 1989, Beardsley nearly died in a farm mishap; he required five months to recuperate. Between July 1992 and February 1993, he was involved in three serious automobile accidents, each requiring hospitalization for back and neck injuries. While on a hike, he was hurt after falling down an embankment when the path collapsed. He underwent three back operations in 1994 and knee surgery in 1995.\n\nAfter each of his injuries, Beardsley was prescribed medication for the pain. Over four years, he developed an addiction to the medication. He was arrested September 30, 1996, for forging prescriptions and sentenced to five years' probation and 460 hours of community service. Beardsley spent nine days in a psychiatric unit where he was prescribed methadone. He was released for outpatient treatment, returned to inpatient treatment where he quit methadone, and again began outpatient treatment. His first day of chemical-free sobriety was February 12, 1997.\n\nBeardsley started the Dick Beardsley Foundation in October 2007 to provide assistance to individuals suffering from chemical dependency who are unable to pay for a 12-step treatment program. The foundation's goals are to educate the general public about chemical dependency. It allows Beardsley to speak about his own experience in overcoming addiction.\n\nBeardsley married Mary in 1979. They adopted one son, Andrew. They later divorced and Beardsley moved to Austin, Texas in 2007 and remarried. In August 2010, it was reported that Beardsley and his wife had filed for bankruptcy. Beardsley's wife Jill said that they filed to consolidate IRS debt. In another tragic turn, in October 2015 Dick lost his beloved 31-year-old son Andrew, a veteran of the war in Iraq, to suicide.\n\nIn 2016 Dick and Jill moved to Bemidji, MN where Dick continues his career in motivational/inspirational speaking and also has a fishing guide service. They are also the owners of Lake Bemidji Bed & Breakfast.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2257634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257634", "title": "Jean-Claude Lorquet", "text": "Jean-Claude Lorquet\n\nJean-Claude Lorquet (born 19 September 1935) is a professor of Theoretical Chemistry at the University of Liège. He is member of the International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science and author of over 100 scientific papers.\n\nSome of his students are also well known for their contribution to quantum chemistry and reactivity: Michèle Desouter-Lecomte, Bernard Ley, Françoise Remacle.\n\nLorquet was born in Liège, Belgium.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257651", "title": "Fagopyrum tataricum", "text": "Fagopyrum tataricum\n\nFagopyrum tataricum, also known as Tartary buckwheat, green buckwheat, ku qiao, Tatar buckwheat, or bitter buckwheat, is a domesticated food plant in the genus \"Fagopyrum\" in the family Polygonaceae. With another species in the same genus, common buckwheat, it is often counted as a cereal, but unlike the true cereals the buckwheats are not members of the grass family. Thus, they are not related to true wheat. Tartary buckwheat is more bitter and contains more rutin than common buckwheat. It also contains quercitrin. \n\nTatary buckwheat was domesticated in east Asia and is also cultivated in Europe and North America. While it is an unfamiliar food in the West, it is common in the Himalayan region today, as well as other regions in Southwest China such as Sichuan province.\n\nThe plant has been cultivated in many parts of the world; however, when found among other crops it is considered a weed. \n\"Fagopyrum tataricum\" contains aromatic substances. The most important difference when compared to the aroma of \"Fagopyrum esculentum\" is the absence of salicylaldehyde and presence of naphthalene.\n"}
{"id": "2257654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257654", "title": "Theophilus Gale", "text": "Theophilus Gale\n\nTheophilus Gale (1628–1678) was an English educationalist, nonconformist and theologian of dissent.\n\nGale was born at Kingsteignton, Devon, the son of Bridget Gale (née Walrond) and Theophilus Gale D. D. (d. 1639), vicar of Kingsteignton and prebendary of Exeter Cathedral). Gale was educated by a private tutor, before attending grammar school, and being admitted to the University of Oxford, entered Magdalen Hall in 1647 as a commoner. Magdalen Hall was shortly to be the home of nonconforming students: William Conway, John Cudmore, Joseph Maisters and, according to Edmund Calamy, a 'Mr. Sprint'. In August 1648 Henry Wilkinson was appointed as Principal; he was a major figure in Civil War and Protectorate Oxford, lecturing at Carfax Church between 10 October 1642 and 16 June 1662.\n\nGale became a demy (funded scholar) of Magdalen College following the Parliamentary Visitation of 1648. Here he took his B. A. in 1649, becoming a Fellow and Tutor of Magdalen the following year and being awarded M. A. in 1652. He was then appointed lecturer in Logic (1652) and was later to become a Junior Dean of Arts (1657) and a Senior Dean of Arts (1658). One of his tutorial pupils was Ezekiel Hopkins. In 1657 he had also been appointed a preacher at Winchester Cathedral, alongside such luminaries as Humphrey Ellis, perhaps Faithful Teate (although this is difficult to substantiate) and George Lawrence (Chaplain of St. Cross Hospital). Magdalen itself was home to some of the most influential radical theologians of the day, including Thomas Goodwin (President), Henry Hickman (Fellow), Zachary Mayne (Fellow) and John Gipps (Chaplain). Gale's Congregationalism made him a natural ally of Goodwin, and may also have led to an association with John Owen, Vice-Chancellor of Oxford and President of Christ Church for much of this period.\n\nUnder the Act for Restoration of Ministers (1660) many Puritans and other radicals lost their jobs. Gale lost his place at Winchester Cathedral, and also was forced to resign his Fellowship at Magdalen. The Act of Uniformity (1662) required subscription on oath to the articles of the newly restored Church of England and a faithful following of the newly revised \"Book of Common Prayer\" (1662) in services for all clergy and teachers. These stipulations permanently barred Gale from University teaching, government employment and the Church of England Ministry.\nGale was fortunate in his contacts. Philip Wharton had been a supporter of Parliament in the Civil War and had built up a network of ministerial friends, including John Owen, Thomas Manton, William Bates and John Howe. Wharton, a lay member of the Westminster Assembly in the 1650s, continued an influential dissenting Member of Parliament for Buckinghamshire through the Restoration period. He had connections in the United Provinces and France. In 1662 he offered Gale £40 a year as tutor to his sons, a position which enabled Gale to travel to the French Huguenot College at Caen and meet other scholars including Samuel Bochart. Gale's strictness as a teacher offended his patron and he was dismissed in July 1664. After taking the opportunity to travel for a few months, he returned to England in early 1665 and was back at Wharton's Quainton estate before the end of the year.\n\nThe latter portion of his life Gale passed in London as assistant to John Rowe, an Independent minister who had charge of a church in Holborn, active in the lull of efforts against conventicles after the Great Fire. Gale settled at Newington Green and took pupils: John Ashwood of Peckham, and the two sons of John Rowe, Thomas (who succeeded Gale as minister) and Benoni. Gale succeeded Rowe in 1677, and died in the following year. He is buried in Bunhill Fields burial ground, where his headstone is believed to be the earliest surviving monument.\n\nGale worked in the 1660s on manuscripts for a large-scale and erudite theoretical work of intellectual history; a hint in Grotius's \"De Veritate\" (i. 16) gave him the idea of the derivation of all ancient learning and philosophy from the Hebrew scriptures. He therefore traced European languages to the Hebrew language, and all the theologies, sciences, politics, and literature of pagan antiquity to a Hebrew tradition. In a similar way he dealt with the origin of all philosophies. He also accounted for the errors of pagan philosophy and Catholic divinity by the theory of corruption by successive apostasies from a divine original. Constructively he proposed a reformed Platonism, and tried to rescue the Calvinistic doctrine of predetermination from difficulties. Work left in store escaped the Great Fire of London in 1666.\n\nGale's major work, \"The Court of the Gentiles\", taking its name from the Court of the Gentiles in the Second Temple, appeared in parts in 1669, 1671 and 1676. It takes the form of a storehouse of miscellaneous philosophical learning. It resembles the \"Intellectual System\" of Ralph Cudworth, though many regarded it as inferior. Gale's endeavour (based on a hint of Grotius) was to provide evidence that the foundation of European Christian philosophy is a distorted reproduction of Biblical truths. Just as Cudworth referred the Democritean doctrine of atoms to Moses as the original author, so Gale tries to show that the various systems of Greek thought may be traced back to Middle Eastern and South Asian sources.\n\nThe \"Court of the Gentiles\" was attacked by the church and referred to as being chaotic and unsystematic. Biblical scholars claimed it lacked discrimination. Each of the four books is broken into multiple sections and the information organised into dozens of chapters. Most pages have dozens of references to previous authors, a flow of references woven into the text rather than being presented in footnotes.\n\n\n\"Ars Sciendi\" (1681) by T. G. is now attributed to Thomas Gowan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257664", "title": "TBE buffer", "text": "TBE buffer\n\nTBE or Tris/Borate/EDTA, is a buffer solution containing a mixture of Tris base, boric acid and EDTA.\n\nIn molecular biology, TBE and TAE buffers are often used in procedures involving nucleic acids, the most common being electrophoresis. Tris-acid solutions are effective buffers for slightly basic conditions, which keep DNA deprotonated and soluble in water. EDTA is a chelator of divalent cations, particularly of magnesium (Mg). As these ions are necessary co-factors for many enzymes, including contaminant nucleases, the role of the EDTA is to protect the nucleic acids against enzymatic degradation. But since Mg is also a co-factor for many useful DNA-modifying enzymes such as restriction enzymes and DNA polymerases, its concentration in TBE or TAE buffers is generally kept low (typically at around 1 mM).\n\nMore recently discovered substitutes for TBE and TAE buffers for electrophoresis are available.\n\nAdjust pH to 8.3 by HCl.\n\nTBE can be diluted to 1X prior to use in electrophoresis, 0.5x is acceptable as well. Higher concentrations will result in poor results due to excessive heat generation.\n\n\n[[Category:Buffers]]"}
{"id": "2257668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257668", "title": "King Parsons", "text": "King Parsons\n\nKing Bailey Parsons Jr. (born June 11, 1950) is a former professional wrestler better known by his ring name Iceman King Parsons.\n\nParsons started wrestling in 1979 after being trained by Nick Kozak. King started for the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA)'s Paul Boesch Promotion in Houston, Texas. Boesch contacted Don Owen and was successful in landing a job for King in the NWA's Pacific Northwest territory. Both Don and Elton Owen promoted in Washington and Oregon. While in the promotion, he teamed with Rocky Johnson and won the tag team title. King moved to Barling, Arkansas and lived there while working for the Tulsa promotion and Leroy McGuirk circa 1978–79. King moved to Worland, Wyoming and wrestled for the Rocky Mountain Wrestling promotion for about a year, wrestling in Wyoming, Idaho, and Utah. Bill Ash booked all the talent and the matches.\n\nIn 1982, he moved on to Jim Crockett Promotions where he teamed with Porkchop Cash and feuded with Don Kernodle and Jim Nelson over the NWA Mid-Atlantic Tag Team Championship. In 1983, King then moved on to World Class Championship Wrestling. He feuded with the One Man Gang and Chris Adams. Parsons feuded with Freebird Buddy Roberts who cut his hair. They ended the feud late June 1983 with Parsons using the Freebird hair cream to render Roberts bald. In early December, 1983, Parsons was \"kayfabe\" burnt by Skandor Akbar's flame thrower in a match between him and Junkyard Dog vs The Super Destroyers Super Destroyer #1 & Super Destroyer #2 with Akbar ringside leaving Parson with a kayfabe disfigurement teeming with Brian Adias against the Super Destroyers. At WCCW Wrestling Star Wars in December 1983, Parsons would almost win the NWA American Tag Team Championship, but with the Super Destroyers throwing Adias over the top rope, The Super Destroyers would retain the belts.\n\nHe also formed \"Rock 'n' Soul\" with Buck Zumhofe and they had a big feud with The Super Destroyers. He wrestled briefly in the Texas All-Star Wrestling promotion in 1986 and formed the \"Dream Team\" with Tiger Conway, Jr. They feuded with Mike and Dizzy Golden.\n\nIceman then went on to the Universal Wrestling Federation, where he was snubbed out of a tag team title tournament in 1987. Parsons turned heel and feuded mostly with Adams and with Savannah Jack for many months, and his feud with Jack carried over to Ken Mantell's new Wild West Wrestling promotion. In late 1987, he joined Terry Gordy and Buddy Roberts, after Michael Hayes left the Fabulous Freebirds, to help them get revenge on him. Hayes teamed with Kerry and Kevin Von Erich and they had a long feud that eventually saw Gordy side with Hayes and the Von Erich's and Roberts leave the promotion. Parsons was known as the \"Blackbird\" during this feud and formed a trio called \"The Blackbirds\" with Perry \"Action\" Jackson and Harold T. Harris. In 1985, Parsons would win the WCWA American Heavyweight Championship defeating Chris Adams, later losing that title to Ravishing Rick Rude. In March 1988 Parsons defeated Kerry Von Erich for the World Class Heavyweight Championship in a highly controversial bout that actually saw the lights go out in the Dallas Sportatorium.\n\nIn the early-1990s, he moved over to the Herb Abrams-owned Universal Wrestling Federation and feuded with Colonel DeBeers over his treatment of African-American referee Larry Sampson, who was Parsons's storyline cousin. In 1992, Parsons went to the Global Wrestling Federation with Jackson as the Blackbirds managed by The Witch Dr Baboose and won the tag team title with him and also won the North American title, which was their top title. Parsons and Jackson feuded with The Ebony Experience. He also worked for the United States Wrestling Association where he was managed by Skandor Akbar and Percy Pringle. After the death of friend Chris Adams in 2001 and suffering a serious back injury from a car accident, Parsons cut back on his appearances. He is semi-retired, appearing from time to time with a few independent promotions in Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257669", "title": "Central Police Division", "text": "Central Police Division\n\nThe Central Police Division (or 'A' Division), is one of the seven land division of the Singapore Police Force. Central Division was established in 1867 and is the longest-serving Police Division in Singapore. Amongst the seven land divisions covering all of Singapore's primary land mass, Central Division has the smallest operational area, covering just over 27 square kilometres and has a residential population of around 280,000.\n\nThe Central Police Division was originally situated at the Hill Street Police Station before moving to the Eu Tong Sen Street Police Station in 1982, it relocated again in 1994 to the Beach Road Police Station before finally settling down at the new Police Cantonment Complex in 2000. When the Geylang Police Division was closed in December 2000, 'A' Division took over 10% of its areas of control, while the 40% came under the Ang Mo Kio Police Division and the remainder of 50% went to Bedok Police Division. The People's Armed Police Force was first established in 1983, at the Hill Street Police Station before moving to the Eu Tong Sen Street Police Station, it relocated again in 1994 to the Beach Road Police Station before finally settling down at the new Police Cantonment Complex in 2000. When the Geylang Police Division was closed in December 2000, 'A' Division took over 10% of its areas of control, while the 40% came under the Ang Mo Kio Police Division and the remainder of 50% went to Bedok Police Division.\n\n\nIn October 2018, a former police senior staff sergeant, from Central Police Division Headquarters, was charged and jailed in the state courts for deliberately damaging an elderly's walking stick and attempting to suppress the truth behind its destruction.\n\n"}
