{"id": "2198832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198832", "title": "Patrick Joseph McGrath", "text": "Patrick Joseph McGrath\n\nPatrick Joseph McGrath (pronounced ; born June 11, 1945) is the second Roman Catholic Bishop of San Jose.\n\nMcGrath was born in Dublin, Ireland, on June 11, 1945. He is the youngest of three sons of Patrick Joseph McGrath, Sr., and Eileen Gaule McGrath. He attended Chanel College in Dublin. In 1964, he entered St. John's Seminary in Waterford at age 19. His father died while he was in seminary.\n\nIn 1970, McGrath was ordained to the priesthood for the Archdiocese of San Francisco. He served as the parochial vicar of St. Anne of the Sunset Parish in San Francisco, and in the archdiocesan tribunal. In 1974, he went to Rome to continue his education and earned a doctorate in Canon law from the Pontifical Lateran University on June 11, 1977. He returned to San Francisco and was appointed the Vice-Officialis, then Officialis, of the archdiocesan tribunal. In 1986, he became pastor and rector of the Cathedral of St. Mary of the Assumption.\n\nMcGrath was named auxiliary bishop of San Francisco and titular bishop of Allegheny on December 6, 1988, and consecrated on January 25, 1989, at the Cathedral of Saint Mary of the Assumption; archbishop John Raphael Quinn served as his principal consecrator. McGrath was named coadjutor bishop of San Jose by Pope John Paul II on June 30, 1998, and became the ordinary of the diocese upon the retirement of bishop Pierre DuMaine on November 27, 1999.\n\nIn 2018 the diocese, with McGrath's approval, paid US$2.3 million for a 3269 square foot, five-bedroom home in Silicon Valley to serve as McGrath's retirement residence. A day after the purchase became public, McGrath responded to criticism and said he would order the home sold and that he would live in a rectory in one of the diocese's parishes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198838", "title": "Lillian Nordica", "text": "Lillian Nordica\n\nLillian Nordica (December 12, 1857 – May 10, 1914) was an American opera singer who had a major stage career in Europe and her native country.\n\nNordica established herself as one of the foremost dramatic sopranos of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. She had a powerful yet flexible voice and the ability to perform an unusually wide range of roles in the German, French and Italian operatic repertoires.\n\nLillian Allen Norton was born in 1857 in a small Cape Cod style farmhouse built by her grandfather on a hill in Farmington, Maine.\nIn her youth, Norton is said to have possessed an inherent fondness for music and the sounds of singing birds and running brooks. When she was eight her family moved to Boston, Massachusetts to continue the musical education of her sister Wilhelmina. Wilhelmina died before her 18th birthday. Family hopes were then pinned on Lillian, and her musical education began soon thereafter. She trained as a singer in Boston, graduating from the New England Conservatory in that city at the age of 18. \n\nShe made her public debut at the conservatory as a soloist with the Handel and Haydn Society.\n\nConvinced that she could forge a successful career as a professional performer, Norton travelled to Italy and put a final \"bel canto\" polish on her vocalism through study in Milan. \"Nordica\", a stage name, was bestowed by an Italian \"maestro\" at the beginning of her operatic career. He convinced her that European opera-goers would not tolerate a diva with a plain sounding, Anglo-American name. The adopted name, \"Giglia Nordica\", meant \"Lily of the North\", but she soon became known as \"Madame Nordica\" or simply as \"Nordica\".\n\nAs Madame Nordica, she made her operatic debut at Brescia in 1879. She achieved a high rank among the international prima donnas of her era, appearing in many major musical venues in Western Europe and Russia. She sang for example at The Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in 1887-93 and performed at the Bayreuth Festival in Germany in 1894 as Elsa in \"Lohengrin\". In her native America she was particularly associated with the Metropolitan Opera in New York, where her frequent stage partner was the cultured Polish tenor Jean de Reszke. She sang at the Met from 1891 until 1910, with some breaks in between.\nBy all accounts Nordica possessed an extremely big, agile and pure-toned soprano voice which she was prepared to use unstintingly. (See, for instance, Michael Scott, \"The Record of Singing\", Volume One, pp. 38–40.) An adventurous artist, she embraced an enormously varied repertoire which included, among many other works, Aida, Wagner's \"Ring Cycle\" (as Brünnhilde), \"Tristan und Isolde\", \"Lohengrin\", \"La traviata\", \"Il trovatore\", \"La Gioconda\", \"Faust\", \"Les Huguenots\", \"Mignon\" and \"Le nozze di Figaro\". She established her worldwide reputation as an opera singer of the first magnitude despite facing powerful competition during her career from a number of other outstanding dramatic sopranos. Her main rivals included Lilli Lehmann, Rosa Sucher, Katharina Klafsky, Milka Ternina, Therese Malten, Johanna Gadski, Félia Litvinne, Olive Fremstad, Anna von Mildenburg and Emmy Destinn.\n\nShe wrote a treatise called \"Hints to Singers\". A copy is appended to her \"Yankee Diva\" biography.\n\nBy 1913, Nordica's voice and health were in decline. This did not prevent her from embarking misguidedly on a strenuous tour to Australia. She nearly missed the ship leaving Sydney on her return, but wired the captain asking him to wait for her. It would prove to be a fatal mistake. The \"Tasman\" hit a coral reef, where it remained for three days, and Nordica suffered hypothermia (exposure) from which she never recovered. She was taken to Thursday Island, Queensland, where she was hospitalised for some time. There she befriended a small American boy who was taken ill while on a different vessel passing through Torres Strait. After his death, Nordica installed a gravestone in the local cemetery in his memory. She was well enough on Thursday Island to make a new will, which disinherited her husband. (The Australian poet and novelist Thomas Shapcott dramatised these events in his 1998 novel \"Theatre of Darkness\".) She was then transferred to Batavia in the Dutch East Indies (now Jakarta, Indonesia). She lingered for months, seeming to improve, only to fail again. She died of Pneumonia, on May 10, 1914, in Batavia.\n\nNordica made a number of acoustic discs for Columbia Records. They were recorded comparatively late in her career, however, and are of a poor technical standard. Nevertheless, they do indicate her considerable range as a singer, for she is able to perform both coloratura showpieces (such as \"Io son Titania\" from \"Mignon\") and dramatic Wagnerian solos (such as \"Mild und leise\" from \"Tristan und Isolde\"). Her best known record is probably that of a demanding aria from the Hungarian opera \"Hunyadi Laszlo\" by Ferenc Erkel, which she cut in 1907. Nordica can be also heard briefly in some of the Mapleson Cylinders that were recorded during actual performances at the Metropolitan Opera House during the first few years of the 20th century. The sound of these cylinders is primitive but the impressive size of Nordica's voice can be better appreciated as it rings out in a theatre acoustic. A CD of her gramophone and cylinder recordings was released by Marston Records in 2003, complete with extensive liner notes dealing with Nordica's voice and career (see below).\n\nAt the University of Maine at Farmington, it is said that Lillian's ghost roams the auditorium that was given to the university in her name.\n\nNordica's successful operatic career contrasted with her disastrous personal life. Nordica wed three times.\n\nIn 1882, she retired from the stage to marry Frederick A. Gower, whom she sued for divorce in 1885, but who disappeared at about the time of the suit, probably having been killed in a balloon accident. Her second marriage was in 1896 to a minimally talented Hungarian tenor named Zoltán Döhme. He took the title role in \"Parsifal\" at Bayreuth in 1894. She obtained a divorce from him in 1904. Her third marriage was in 1909 to a wealthy New York banker, George W. Young, but like the previous two unions, it proved unhappy.\n\nHer birthplace in Farmington, Maine, is today the Nordica Memorial Homestead, a museum and historic site. Nordica Auditorium in Merrill Hall at the University of Maine at Farmington is named after her.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198839", "title": "Unified Science", "text": "Unified Science\n\n\"Unified Science\" can refer to any of three related strands in contemporary thought.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198842", "title": "Sasser Cup", "text": "Sasser Cup\n\nThe George F. \"Buddy\" Sasser Cup Trophy (usually just called the Sasser Cup) is a trophy awarded annually to the top athletic program in the Big South Conference. Formally called The Commissioner's Cup, it was renamed The Sasser Cup after former commissioner Buddy Sasser.\n\nAnnual Sasser Cup champions\n\n"}
{"id": "2198844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198844", "title": "Allies of World War II", "text": "Allies of World War II\n\nThe Allies of World War II, called the United Nations from the 1 January 1942 declaration, were the countries that together opposed the Axis powers during the Second World War (1939–1945). The Allies promoted the alliance as a means to control German, Japanese and Italian aggression.\n\nAt the start of the war on 1 September 1939, the Allies consisted of France, Poland and the United Kingdom, as well as their dependent states, such as British India. Within days they were joined by the independent Dominions of the British Commonwealth: Australia, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa. After the start of the German invasion of North Europe until the Balkan Campaign, the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece, and Yugoslavia joined the Allies. After first having cooperated with Germany in invading Poland whilst remaining neutral in the Allied-Axis conflict, the Soviet Union perforce joined the Allies in June 1941 after being invaded by Germany. The United States provided war materiel and money to the Allies all along, and officially joined in December 1941 after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. China had already been in a prolonged war with Japan since the Marco Polo Bridge Incident of 1937, but officially joined the Allies in 1941.\n\nThe alliance was formalized by the Declaration by United Nations, from 1 January 1942. However, the name \"United Nations\" was rarely used to describe the Allies during the war. The leaders of the \"Big Three\"—the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States—controlled Allied strategy; relations between the United Kingdom and the United States were especially close. The Big Three together with China were referred as a \"trusteeship of the powerful\", then were recognized as the Allied \"Big Four\" in the Declaration by United Nations and later as the \"Four Policemen\" of the United Nations. After the war ended, the Allied nations became the basis of the modern United Nations.\nThe origins of the Allied powers stem from the Allies of World War I and cooperation of the victorious powers at the Paris Peace Conference, 1919. Germany resented signing Treaty of Versailles. The new Weimar Republic's legitimacy became shaken. However, the 1920s were peaceful.\n\nWith the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the ensuing Great Depression, political unrest in Europe soared including the rise in support of revanchist nationalists in Germany who blamed the severity of the economic crisis on the Treaty of Versailles. By the early 1930s, the Nazi Party led by Adolf Hitler became the dominant revanchist movement in Germany and Hitler and the Nazis gained power in 1933. The Nazi regime demanded the immediate cancellation of the Treaty of Versailles and made claims to German-populated Austria, and German-populated territories of Czechoslovakia. The likelihood of war was high, and the question was whether it could be avoided through strategies such as appeasement.\n\nIn Asia, when Japan seized Manchuria in 1931, the League of Nations condemned it for aggression against China. Japan responded by leaving the League of Nations in March 1933. After four quiet years, the Sino-Japanese War erupted in 1937 with Japanese forces invading China. The League of Nations condemned Japan's actions and initiated sanctions on Japan. The United States, in particular, was angered at Japan and sought to support China.\nIn March 1939, Germany took over Czechoslovakia, violating the Munich Agreement signed six months before, and demonstrating that the appeasement policy was a failure. Britain and France decided that Hitler had no intention to uphold diplomatic agreements and responded by preparing for war. On 31 March 1939, Britain formed the Anglo-Polish military alliance in an effort to avert a German attack on the country. Also, the French had a long-standing alliance with Poland since 1921. The Soviet Union sought an alliance with the western powers, but Hitler ended the risk of a war with Stalin by signing the Nazi–Soviet non-aggression pact in August 1939. The agreement secretly divided the independent nations of Eastern Europe between the two powers and assured adequate oil supplies for the German war machine. On 1 September 1939, Germany invaded Poland; two days later Britain and France declared war on Germany. Then, on 17 September 1939, the Soviet Union invaded Poland from the east. A Polish government-in-exile was set up and it continued to be one of the Allies, a model followed by other occupied countries. After a quiet winter, Germany in April 1940 invaded and quickly defeated Denmark, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands and France. Britain and its Empire stood alone against Hitler and Mussolini. In June 1941, Hitler broke the non-aggression agreement with Stalin and Germany invaded the Soviet Union. In December, Japan attacked the US and Britain. The main lines of World War II had formed.\n\nDuring December 1941, U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt devised the name \"United Nations\" for the Allies and proposed it to British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. He referred to the Big Three and China as a \"trusteeship of the powerful\", and then later the \"Four Policemen\". The Declaration by United Nations on 1 January 1942 was the basis of the modern United Nations (UN). At the Potsdam Conference of July–August 1945, Roosevelt's successor, Harry S. Truman, proposed that the foreign ministers of China, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States \"should draft the peace treaties and boundary settlements of Europe\", which led to the creation of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the \"Big Five\", and soon thereafter the establishment of those states as the permanent members of the UNSC.\n\nGreat Britain and other members of the British Commonwealth, most known as the Dominions, declared war on Germany separately from 3 September 1939 with the UK first, all within one week of each other; these countries were Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India and South Africa.\n\nBritish West Africa and the British colonies in East and Southern Africa participated, mainly in the North African, East African and Middle-Eastern theatres. Two West African and one East African division served in the Burma Campaign.\n\nSouthern Rhodesia was a self-governing colony, having received responsible government in 1923. It was not a sovereign dominion. It governed itself internally and controlled its own armed forces, but had no diplomatic autonomy, and, therefore, was officially at war as soon as Britain was at war. The Southern Rhodesian colonial government issued a symbolic declaration of war nevertheless on 3 September 1939, which made no difference diplomatically, but preceded the declarations of war made by all other British dominions and colonies.\n\nThese included: the British West Indies, British Honduras, British Guiana and the Falkland Islands. Newfoundland was ruled as a royal colony in 1933–49, run by a governor appointed by London who made the decisions regarding Newfoundland.\n\nBritish India included the areas and peoples covered by later India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and (until 1937) Burma/Myanmar, which later became a separate colony.\n\nBritish Malaya covers the areas of Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore, while British Borneo covers the area of Brunei, including Sabah and Sarawak of Malaysia.\n\nTerritories controlled by the Colonial Office, namely the Crown Colonies, were controlled politically by the UK and therefore also entered hostilities with Britain's declaration of war. At the outbreak of World War II, the British Indian Army numbered 205,000 men. Later during World War II, the Indian Army became the largest all-volunteer force in history, rising to over 2.5 million men in size.\n\nIndian soldiers earned 30 Victoria Crosses during the Second World War. It suffered 87,000 military casualties (more than any Crown colony but fewer than the United Kingdom). The UK suffered 382,000 military casualties.\n\nProtectorates included: Kuwait was a protectorate of the United Kingdom formally established in 1899. The Trucial States were protectorates in the Persian Gulf.\n\nPalestine was a mandate dependency created in the peace agreements after World War I from former territory of the Ottoman Empire, Iraq.\n\nThe Cyprus Regiment was formed by the British Government during the Second World War and made part of the British Army structure. It was mostly Greek Cypriot volunteers and Turkish speaking Cypriot inhabitants of Cyprus but also included other Commonwealth nationalities. On a brief visit to Cyprus in 1943, Winston Churchill praised the \"soldiers of the Cyprus Regiment who have served honourably on many fields from Libya to Dunkirk\". About 30,000 Cypriots served in the Cyprus Regiment. The regiment was involved in action from the very start and served at Dunkirk, in the Greek Campaign (Battle of Greece) (about 600 soldiers were captured in Kalamata in 1941), North Africa (Operation Compass), France, the Middle East and Italy. Many soldiers were taken prisoner especially at the beginning of the war and were interned in various POW camps (Stalag) including Lamsdorf (Stalag VIII-B), Stalag IVC at Wistritz bei Teplitz and Stalag 4b near Most in the Czech Republic. The soldiers captured in Kalamata were transported by train to prisoner of war camps.\n\nIn the 1920s the Soviet Union provided military assistance to the Kuomintang, or the Nationalists and helped reorganize their party along Leninist lines: a unification of party, state, and army. In exchange the Nationalists agreed to let members of the Chinese Communist Party join the Nationalists on an individual basis. However, following the nominal unification of China at the end of the Northern Expedition in 1928, Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek purged leftists from his party and fought against the revolting Chinese Communist Party, former warlords, and other militarist factions. A fragmented China provided easy opportunities for Japan to gain territories piece by piece without engaging in total war. Following the 1931 Mukden Incident, the puppet state of Manchukuo was established. Throughout the early to mid-1930s, Chiang's anti-communist and anti-militarist campaigns continued while he fought small, incessant conflicts against Japan, usually followed by unfavorable settlements and concessions after military defeats.\n\nIn 1936 Chiang was forced to cease his anti-communist military campaigns after his kidnap and release by Zhang Xueliang, and reluctantly formed a nominal alliance with the Communists, while the Communists agreed to fight under the nominal command of the Nationalists against the Japanese. Following the Marco Polo Bridge Incident of 7 July 1937, China and Japan became embroiled in a full-scale war. The Soviet Union, wishing to keep China in the fight against Japan, supplied China with military assistance until 1941, when it signed a non-aggression pact with Japan. Continuous clashes between the Communists and Nationalists behind enemy lines cumulated in a major military conflict between these two former allies that effectively ended their cooperation against the Japanese, and China had been divided between the internationally recognized Nationalist China under the leadership of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek and Communist China under the leadership of Mao Zedong until the Japanese surrendered in 1945.\n\nPrior to the alliance of Germany and Italy to Japan, the Nationalist Government held close relations with both Germany and Italy. In the early 1930s, Sino-German cooperation existed between the Nationalist Government and Germany in military and industrial matters. Nazi Germany provided the largest proportion of Chinese arms imports and technical expertise. Relations between the Nationalist Government and Italy during the 1930s varied, however even after the Nationalist Government followed League of Nations sanctions against Italy for its invasion of Ethiopia, the international sanctions proved unsuccessful, and relations between the Fascist government in Italy and the Nationalist Government in China returned to normal shortly afterwards. Up until 1936, Mussolini had provided the Nationalists with Italian military air and naval missions to help the Nationalists fight against Japanese incursions and communist insurgents. Italy also held strong commercial interests and a strong commercial position in China supported by the Italian concession in Tianjin. However, after 1936 the relationship between the Nationalist Government and Italy changed due to a Japanese diplomatic proposal to recognize the Italian Empire that included occupied Ethiopia within it in exchange for Italian recognition of Manchukuo, Italian Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano accepted this offer by Japan, and on 23 October 1936 Japan recognized the Italian Empire and Italy recognized Manchukuo, as well as discussing increasing commercial links between Italy and Japan.\n\nThe Nationalist Government held close relations with the United States. The United States opposed Japan's invasion of China in 1937 that it considered an illegal violation of China's sovereignty, and offered the Nationalist Government diplomatic, economic, and military assistance during its war against Japan. In particular, the United States sought to bring the Japanese war effort to a complete halt by imposing a full embargo on all trade between the United States to Japan, Japan was dependent on the United States for 80 percent of its petroleum, resulting in an economic and military crisis for Japan that could not continue its war effort with China without access to petroleum. In November 1940, American military aviator Claire Lee Chennault upon observing the dire situation in the air war between China and Japan, set out to organize a volunteer squadron of American fighter pilots to fight alongside the Chinese against Japan, known as the Flying Tigers. US President Franklin D. Roosevelt accepted dispatching them to China in early 1941. However, they only became operational shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor.\n\nThe Soviet Union recognised the Republic of China but urged reconciliation with the Communist Party of China and inclusion of Communists in the government. The Soviet Union also urged military and cooperation between Nationalist China and Communist China during the war.\n\nEven though China had been fighting the longest among all the Allied powers, it only officially joined the Allies after the attack on Pearl Harbor, on 7 December 1941. China fought the Japanese Empire before joining the Allies in the Pacific War. Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek thought Allied victory was assured with the entrance of the United States into the war, and he declared war on Germany and the other Axis nations. However, Allied aid remained low because the Burma Road was closed and the Allies suffered a series of military defeats against Japan early on in the campaign. General Sun Li-jen led the R.O.C. forces to the relief of 7,000 British forces trapped by the Japanese in the Battle of Yenangyaung. He then reconquered North Burma and re-established the land route to China by the Ledo Road. But the bulk of military aid did not arrive until the spring of 1945. More than 1.5 million Japanese troops were trapped in the China Theatre, troops that otherwise could have been deployed elsewhere if China had collapsed and made a separate peace.\n\nCommunist China had been tacitly supported by the Soviet Union since the 1920s, though the Soviet Union diplomatically recognised the Republic of China, Joseph Stalin supported cooperation between the Nationalists and the Communists—including pressuring the Nationalist Government to grant the Communists state and military positions in the government. This was continued into the 1930s that fell in line with the Soviet Union's subversion policy of popular fronts to increase communists' influence in governments. The Soviet Union urged military and cooperation between Soviet China and Nationalist China during China's war against Japan. Initially Mao Zedong accepted the demands of the Soviet Union and in 1938 had recognized Chiang Kai-shek as the \"leader\" of the \"Chinese people\". In turn, the Soviet Union accepted Mao's tactic of \"continuous guerilla warfare\" in the countryside that involved a goal of extending the Communist bases, even if it would result in increased tensions with the Nationalists.\n\nAfter the breakdown of their cooperation with the Nationalists in 1941, the Communists prospered and grew as the war against Japan dragged on, building up their sphere of influence wherever opportunities were presented, mainly through rural mass organizations, administrative, land and tax reform measures favoring poor peasants; while the Nationalists attempted to neutralize the spread of Communist influence by military blockade and fighting the Japanese at the same time.\n\nThe Communist Party's position in China was boosted further upon the Soviet invasion of Manchuria in August 1945 against the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo and the Japanese Kwantung Army in China and Manchuria. Upon the intervention of the Soviet Union against Japan in World War II in 1945, Mao Zedong in April and May 1945 had planned to mobilize 150,000 to 250,000 soldiers from across China to work with forces of the Soviet Union in capturing Manchuria.\n\nAfter Germany invaded Poland, France declared war on Germany on 3 September 1939. In January 1940, French Prime Minister Édouard Daladier made a major speech denouncing the actions of Germany:\nFrance experienced several major phases of action during World War II:\n\nIn Africa these included: French West Africa, French Equatorial Africa, the League of Nations mandates of French Cameroun and French Togoland, French Madagascar, French Somaliland, and the protectorates of French Tunisia and French Morocco.\n\nFrench Algeria was then not a colony or dependency but a fully-fledged part of metropolitan France.\n\nIn Asia and Oceania these included: French Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna, New Caledonia, the New Hebrides, French Indochina, French India, the mandates of Greater Lebanon and French Syria. The French government in 1936 attempted to grant independence to its mandate of Syria in the Franco-Syrian Treaty of Independence of 1936 signed by France and Syria. However, opposition to the treaty grew in France and the treaty was not ratified. Syria had become an official republic in 1930 and was largely self-governing. In 1941, a British-led invasion supported by Free French forces expelled Vichy French forces in operation Exporter.\n\nIn the Americas these included: Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guiana and Saint Pierre and Miquelon.\n\nThe German invasion of the Soviet Union, Operation Barbarossa, began on 22 June 1941. General Secretary Joseph Stalin and the government of the Soviet Union had supported so-called popular front movements of anti-fascists including communists and non-communists from 1935 to 1939. The popular front strategy was terminated from 1939 to 1941 when the Soviet Union cooperated with Germany in 1939 in the occupation and partitioning of Poland. The Soviet leadership refused to endorse either the Allies or the Axis from 1939 to 1941, as it called the Allied-Axis conflict an \"imperialist war\". After the invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, Stalin endorsed the Western Allies as part of a renewed popular front strategy against Germany and called for the international communist movement to make a coalition with all those who opposed the Nazis.\n\nThe Soviet Union intervened against Japan and its client state in Manchuria in 1945, cooperating with the Nationalist Government of China and the Nationalist Party led by Chiang Kai-shek; though also cooperating, preferring, and encouraging the Communist Party led by Mao Zedong to take effective control of Manchuria after expelling Japanese forces.\n\nIn the lead up to the war between the Soviet Union and the German Reich, relations between the two nations underwent several stages. Stalin had studied Hitler, including reading \"Mein Kampf\" and from it knew of Hitler's motives for destroying the Soviet Union. As early as in 1933, the Soviet leadership voiced its concerns with the alleged threat of a potential German invasion of the country should Germany attempt a conquest of Lithuania, Latvia, or Estonia, and in December 1933 negotiations began for the issuing of a joint Polish-Soviet declaration guaranteeing the sovereignty of the three Baltic countries. However, Poland withdrew from the negotiations following German and Finnish objections. The Soviet Union and Germany at this time competed with each other for influence in Poland. The Soviet government also was concerned with the anti-Soviet sentiment in Poland and particularly Józef Piłsudski's proposed Polish federation that would include the territories of Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, and Ukraine within it that threatened the territorial integrity of the Soviet Union.\n\nOn 20 August 1939, forces of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics under General Georgy Zhukov, together with the People's Republic of Mongolia eliminated the threat of conflict in the east with a victory over Imperial Japan at the Battle of Khalkhin Gol in eastern Mongolia.\n\nOn the same day, Soviet party leader Joseph Stalin received a telegram from German Chancellor Adolf Hitler, suggesting that German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop fly to Moscow for diplomatic talks. (After receiving a lukewarm response throughout the spring and summer, Stalin abandoned attempts for a better diplomatic relationship with France and the United Kingdom.)\n\nOn 23 August, Ribbentrop and Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov signed the non-aggression pact including secret protocols dividing Eastern Europe into defined \"spheres of influence\" for the two regimes, and specifically concerning the partition of the Polish state in the event of its \"territorial and political rearrangement\".\n\nOn 15 September 1939, Stalin concluded a durable ceasefire with Japan, to take effect the following day (it would be upgraded to a non-aggression pact in April 1941). The day after that, 17 September, Soviet forces invaded Poland from the east. Although some fighting continued until 5 October, the two invading armies held at least one joint military parade on 25 September, and reinforced their non-military partnership with the German–Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Demarcation on 28 September.\n\nOn 30 November, the Soviet Union attacked Finland, for which it was expelled from the League of Nations. In the following year of 1940, while the world's attention was focused upon the German invasion of France and Norway, the USSR militarily occupied and annexed Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania as well as parts of Romania.\n\nGerman-Soviet treaties were brought to an end by the German surprise attack on the USSR on 22 June 1941. The Soviet Union soon entered in alliance with the United Kingdom. Following the USSR, a number of other communist, pro-Soviet or Soviet-controlled forces fought against the Axis powers during the Second World War. They were as follows: the Albanian National Liberation Front, the Chinese Red Army, the Greek National Liberation Front, the Hukbalahap, the Malayan Communist Party, the People's Republic of Mongolia, the Polish People's Army, the Tuvan People's Republic (annexed by the Soviet Union in 1944), the Viet Minh and the Yugoslav Partisans.\n\nThe United States had indirectly supported Britain's war effort against Germany up to 1941 and declared its opposition to territorial aggrandizement. Materiel support to Britain was provided while the U.S. was officially neutral via the Lend-Lease Act starting in 1941.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston Churchill in August 1941 promulgated the Atlantic Charter that pledged commitment to achieving \"the final destruction of Nazi tyranny\". Signing the Atlantic Charter, and thereby joining the \"United Nations\" was the way a nation joined the Allies, and also became eligible for membership in the United Nations world body that formed in 1945.\n\nThe US strongly supported the Nationalist Government in China in its war with Japan, and provided military equipment, supplies, and volunteers to the Nationalist Government of China to assist in its war effort. In December 1941 Japan opened the war with its attack on Pearl Harbor, the US declared war on Japan, and Japan's allies Germany and Italy declared war on the US, bringing the US into World War II.\n\nOn 8 December 1941, following the attack on Pearl Harbor, the United States Congress declared war on Japan at the request of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. This was followed by Germany and Italy declaring war on the United States on 11 December, bringing the country into the European theatre.\n\nThe US-led Allied forces in the Pacific theatre against Japanese forces from 1941 to 1945. From 1943 to 1945, the US-led and coordinated the Western Allies' war effort in Europe under the leadership of General Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\nThe surprise attack on Pearl Harbor followed by Japan's swift attacks on Allied locations throughout the Pacific, resulted in major US losses in the first several months in the war, including losing control of the Philippines, Guam, Wake Island and several Aleutian islands including Attu and Kiska to Japanese forces. American naval forces attained some early successes against Japan. One was the bombing of Japanese industrial centres in the Doolittle Raid. Another was repelling a Japanese invasion of Port Moresby in New Guinea during the Battle of the Coral Sea. A major turning point in the Pacific War was the Battle of Midway where American naval forces were outnumbered by Japanese forces that had been sent to Midway to draw out and destroy American aircraft carriers in the Pacific and seize control of Midway that would place Japanese forces in proximity to Hawaii. However American forces managed to sink four of Japan's six large aircraft carriers that had initiated the attack on Pearl Harbor along with other attacks on Allied forces. Afterwards the US began an offensive against Japanese-captured positions. The Guadalcanal Campaign from 1942 to 1943 was a major contention point where Allied and Japanese forces struggled to gain control of Guadalcanal.\n\nThe United States held multiple dependencies in the Americas, such as Alaska, the Panama Canal Zone, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.\n\nIn the Pacific it held multiple island dependencies such as American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Midway Islands, Wake Island and others. These dependencies were directly involved in the Pacific campaign of the war.\n\nThe Commonwealth of the Philippines was a sovereign protectorate referred to as an \"associated state\" of the United States. From late 1941 to 1944, the Philippines was occupied by Japanese forces, who established the Second Philippine Republic as a client state that had nominal control over the country.\n\nAustralia was a sovereign Dominion under the Australian monarchy, as per the Statute of Westminster 1931. At the start of the war Australia followed Britain's foreign policies, and accordingly declared war against Germany on 3 September 1939. Australian foreign policy became more independent after the Australian Labor Party formed government in October 1941, and Australia separately declared war against Finland, Hungary and\nRomania on 8 December 1941 and against Japan the next day.\n\nBefore the war, Belgium had pursued a policy of neutrality and only became an Allied member after being invaded by Germany on 10 May 1940. During the ensuing fighting, Belgian forces fought alongside French and British forces against the invaders. While the British and French were struggling against the fast German advance elsewhere on the front, the Belgian forces were pushed into a pocket to the north. Finally, on 28 May, the King Leopold III surrendered himself and his military to the Germans, having decided the Allied cause was lost. The legal Belgian government was reformed as a government in exile in London. Belgian troops and pilots continued to fight on the Allied side as the Free Belgian Forces. Belgium itself was occupied, but a sizeable Resistance was formed and was loosely coordinated by the government in exile and other Allied powers.\n\nBritish and Canadian troops arrived in Belgium in September 1944 and the capital, Brussels, was liberated on 6 September. Because of the Ardennes Offensive, the country was only fully liberated in early 1945.\n\nBelgium held the colony of the Belgian Congo and the League of Nations mandate of Ruanda-Urundi. The Belgian Congo was not occupied and remained loyal to the Allies as an important economic asset while its deposits of uranium were useful to the Allied efforts to develop the atomic bomb. Troops from the Belgian Congo participated in the East African Campaign against the Italians. The colonial \"Force Publique\" also served in other theatres including Madagascar, the Middle-East, India and Burma within British units.\n\nInitially, Brazil maintained a position of neutrality, trading with both the Allies and the Axis, while Brazilian president Getúlio Vargas's quasi-Fascist policies indicated a leaning toward the Axis powers. However, as the war progressed, trade with the Axis countries became almost impossible and the United States initiated forceful diplomatic and economic efforts to bring Brazil onto the Allied side.\n\nAt the beginning of 1942, Brazil permitted the United States to set up air bases on its territory, especially in Natal, strategically located at the easternmost corner of the South American continent, and on 28 January the country severed diplomatic relations with Germany, Japan and Italy. After that, 36 Brazilian merchant ships were sunk by the German and Italian navies, which led the Brazilian government to declare war against Germany and Italy on 22 August 1942.\n\nBrazil then sent a 25,700 strong Expeditionary Force to Europe that fought mainly on the Italian front, from September 1944 to May 1945. Also, the Brazilian Navy and Air Force acted in the Atlantic Ocean from the middle of 1942 until the end of the war. Brazil was the only South American country to send troops to fight in the European theatre in the Second World War.\n\nCanada was a sovereign Dominion under the Canadian monarchy, as per the Statute of Westminster 1931. In a symbolic statement of autonomous foreign policy Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King delayed parliament's vote on a declaration of war for seven days after Britain had declared war. Canada was the last member of the Commonwealth to declare war on Germany on 10 September 1939.\n\nBecause of Cuba's geographical position at the entrance of the Gulf of Mexico, Havana's role as the principal trading port in the West Indies, and the country's natural resources, Cuba was an important participant in the American Theater of World War II, and subsequently one of the greatest beneficiaries of the United States' Lend-Lease program. Cuba declared war on the Axis powers in December 1941, making it one of the first Latin American countries to enter the conflict, and by the war's end in 1945 its military had developed a reputation as being the most efficient and cooperative of all the Caribbean nations. On 15 May 1943, the Cuban patrol boat CS-13 sank the German submarine \"U-176\".\n\nCzechoslovakia along with the United Kingdom and France attempted to resolve German irredentist claims to the Sudetenland region in 1938 with the Munich Agreement, however in March 1939, Czechoslovakia was invaded by Germany and partitioned between Germany, Hungary, Poland, and a German client state of Slovakia. The Czechoslovak government-in-exile joined the Allies, the occupation and partition of Czechoslovakia amongst the Axis powers was not accepted by the Allied powers. Czechoslovakian military units took part in the war.\n\nThe Dominican Republic was one of the very few countries willing to accept mass Jewish immigration during World War II. At the Évian Conference, it offered to accept up to 100,000 Jewish refugees. The DORSA (Dominican Republic Settlement Association) was formed with the assistance of the JDC, and helped settle Jews in Sosúa, on the northern coast. About 700 European Jews of Ashkenazi Jewish descent reached the settlement where each family received of land, 10 cows (plus 2 additional cows per children), a mule and a horse, and a US$10,000 loan (about dollars at prices) at 1% interest.\n\nThe Dominican Republic officially declared war on the Axis powers on December 11, 1941, after the attack on Pearl Harbor. However, the Caribbean nation had already been engaged in war actions since before the formal declaration of war. Dominican sailboats and schooners had been attacked on previous occasions by German submarines as, highlighting the case of the 1,993-ton merchant ship, \"\"San Rafael\"\", which was making a trip from Tampa, Florida to Kingston, Jamaica, when 80 miles away from its final destination, it was torpedoed by the German submarine U-125, causing the command to abandon the ship by the commander. Although the crew of \"San Rafael\" managed to escape the event, it would be remembered by the Dominican press as a sign of the \"infamy of the German submarines and the danger they represented in the Caribbean.\"\n\nRecently, due to a research work carried out by the Embassy of the United States of America in Santo Domingo and the Institute of Dominican Studies of the City of New York (CUNY), documents of the Department of Defense were discovered in which it was confirmed that around 340 men and women of Dominican origin were part of the US Armed Forces during the World War II. Many of them received medals and other recognitions for their outstanding actions in combat.\n\nGreece was invaded by Italy on 28 October 1940 and subsequently joined the Allies. The Greek Army managed to stop the Italian offensive from Italy's protectorate of Albania, and Greek forces pushed Italian forces back into Albania. However, after the German invasion of Greece in April 1941, German forces managed to occupy mainland Greece and, a month later, the island of Crete. The Greek government went into exile, while the country was placed under a puppet government and divided into occupation zones run by Italy, Germany and Bulgaria. From 1941, a strong resistance movement appeared, chiefly in the mountainous interior, where it established a \"Free Greece\" by mid-1943. Following the Italian capitulation in September 1943, the Italian zone was taken over by the Germans. Axis forces left mainland Greece in October 1944, although some Aegean islands, notably Crete, remained under German occupation until the end of the war.\n\nBefore the war, Luxembourg had pursued a policy of neutrality and only became an Allied member after being invaded by Germany on 10 May 1940. The government in exile fled, winding up in England. It made Luxembourgish language broadcasts to the occupied country on BBC radio. In 1944, the government in exile signed a treaty with the Belgian and Dutch governments, creating the Benelux Economic Union and also signed into the Bretton Woods system.\n\nMexico declared war on Germany in 1942 after German submarines attacked the Mexican oil tankers \"Potrero del Llano\" and \"Faja de Oro\" that were transporting crude oil to the United States. These attacks prompted President Manuel Ávila Camacho to declare war on the Axis powers.\n\nMexico formed Escuadrón 201 fighter squadron as part of the Fuerza Aérea Expedicionaria Mexicana (FAEM—\"Mexican Expeditionary Air Force\"). The squadron was attached to the 58th Fighter Group of the United States Army Air Forces and carried out tactical air support missions during the liberation of the main Philippine island of Luzon in the summer of 1945.\n\nSome 300,000 Mexican citizens went to the United States to work on farms and factories. Some 15,000 US nationals of Mexican origin and Mexican residents in the US enrolled in the US Armed Forces and fought in various fronts around the world.\n\nThe Netherlands became an Allied member after being invaded on 10 May 1940 by Germany. During the ensuing campaign, the Netherlands were defeated and occupied by Germany. The Netherlands was liberated by Canadian, British, American and other allied forces during the campaigns of 1944 and 1945. The Princess Irene Brigade, formed from escapees from the German invasion, took part in several actions in 1944 in Arromanches and in 1945 in the Netherlands. Navy vessels saw action in the British Channel, the North Sea and the Mediterranean, generally as part of Royal Navy units. Dutch airmen flying British aircraft participated in the air war over Germany.\n\nThe Dutch East Indies (modern-day Indonesia) was the principal Dutch colony in Asia, and was seized by Japan in 1942. During the Dutch East Indies Campaign, the Netherlands played a significant role in the Allied effort to halt the Japanese advance as part of the American-British-Dutch-Australian (ABDA) Command. The ABDA fleet finally encountered the Japanese surface fleet at the Battle of Java Sea, at which Doorman gave the order to engage. During the ensuing battle the ABDA fleet suffered heavy losses, and was mostly destroyed after several naval battles around Java; the ABDA Command was later dissolved. The Japanese finally occupied the Dutch East Indies in February–March 1942. Dutch troops, aircraft and escaped ships continued to fight on the Allied side and also mounted a guerrilla campaign in Timor.\n\nNew Zealand was a sovereign Dominion under the New Zealand monarchy, as per the Statute of Westminster 1931. It quickly entered World War II, officially declaring war on Germany on 3 September 1939, just hours after Britain. Unlike Australia, which had felt obligated to declare war, as it also had not ratified the Statute of Westminster, New Zealand did so as a sign of allegiance to Britain, and in recognition of Britain's abandonment of its former appeasement policy, which New Zealand had long opposed. This led to then Prime Minister Michael Joseph Savage declaring two days later:\n\n\"\"With gratitude for the past and confidence in the future we range ourselves without fear beside Britain. Where she goes, we go; where she stands, we stand. We are only a small and young nation, but we march with a union of hearts and souls to a common destiny.\"\"\n\nBecause of its strategic location for control of the sea lanes in the North Sea and the Atlantic, both the Allies and Germany worried about the other side gaining control of the neutral country. Germany ultimately struck first with operation Weserübung on 9 April 1940, resulting in the two-month-long Norwegian Campaign, which ended in a German victory and their war-long occupation of Norway.\n\nUnits of the Norwegian Armed Forces evacuated from Norway or raised abroad continued participating in the war from exile.\n\nThe Norwegian merchant fleet, then the fourth largest in the world, was organized into Nortraship to support the Allied cause. Nortraship was the world's largest shipping company, and at its height operated more than 1000 ships.\n\nNorway was neutral when Germany invaded, and it is not clear when Norway became an Allied country. Great Britain, France and Polish forces in exile supported Norwegian forces against the invaders but without a specific agreement. Norway's cabinet signed a military agreement with Britain on 28 May 1941. This agreement allowed all Norwegian forces in exile to operate under UK command. Norwegian troops in exile should primarily be prepared for the liberation of Norway, but could also be used to defend Britain.\n\nThe Invasion of Poland on 1 September 1939, started the war in Europe, and the United Kingdom and France declared war on Germany on 3 September. Poland fielded the third biggest army among the European Allies, after the Soviet Union and United Kingdom, but before France. The country never officially surrendered to the Third Reich, nor to the Soviet Union, primarily because neither of the totalitarian powers requested an official surrender, and continued the war effort under the Polish government in exile. However, the Soviet Union unilaterally considered the flight to Romania of President Ignacy Mościcki and Marshal Edward Rydz-Śmigły on 17 September as an evidence of \"debellatio\" causing the extinction of the Polish state, and consequently declared itself allowed to invade (according to the Soviet position: \"to protect\") Eastern Poland starting from the same day. The Red Army had invaded the Second Polish Republic several hours before the Polish president fled to Romania. The Soviets invaded on 17 September at 3 a.m., while president Mościcki crossed the Polish-Romanian border at 21:45 on the same day. The Polish military continued to fight, and the last major battle of the war, the Battle of Kock, ended at 1 a.m. on 6 October 1939 with the Independent Operational Group \"Polesie,\" a field army, surrendering due to lack of ammunition.\n\nPolish soldiers fought under their own flag but under the command of the British military. They were major contributors to the Allies in the theatre of war west of Germany and in the theatre of war east of Germany, with the Soviet Union. The Polish armed forces in the West created after the fall of Poland played minor roles in the Battle of France, and important ones in the Italian and North African Campaigns. The Polish People's Army took part in the Battle of Berlin, the closing battle of the European theater of war. They occupied the city alongside the Soviet Red Army.\n\nThe Home Army, the largest underground force in Europe, and other resistance organizations in occupied Poland provided intelligence that enabled successful operations later in the war and led to uncovering of Nazi war crimes (i.e., death camps) to the Western Allies. Notable Polish units fought in every campaign in North Africa and Europe (outside the Balkans). The Soviet Union recognized the London-based government at first. But it broke diplomatic relations after the Katyn massacre of Polish nationals was revealed. In 1943, the Soviet Union organized the Polish People's Army under Zygmunt Berling, around which it constructed the post-war successor state People's Republic of Poland.\n\nSouth Africa was a sovereign Dominion under the South African monarchy, as per the Statute of Westminster 1931. South Africa held authority over the mandate of South-West Africa.\n\nYugoslavia entered the war on the Allied side after the invasion of Axis powers on 6 April 1941. The Royal Yugoslav Army was thoroughly defeated in less than two weeks and the country was occupied starting on 18 April. The Italian-backed Croatian fascist leader Ante Pavelić declared the Independent State of Croatia before the invasion was over. King Peter II and much of the Yugoslavian government had left the country. In the United Kingdom, they joined numerous other governments in exile from Nazi-occupied Europe. Beginning with the uprising in Herzegovina in June 1941, there was continuous anti-Axis resistance in Yugoslavia until the end of the war.\n\nBefore the end of 1941, the anti-Axis resistance movement split between the royalist Chetniks and the communist Yugoslav Partisans of Josip Broz Tito who fought both against each other during the war and against the occupying forces. The Yugoslav Partisans managed to put up considerable resistance to the Axis occupation, forming various liberated territories during the war. In August 1943, there were over 30 Axis divisions on the territory of Yugoslavia, not including the forces of the Croatian puppet state and other quisling formations. In 1944, the leading Allied powers persuaded Tito's Yugoslav Partisans and the royalist Yugoslav government led by Prime Minister Ivan Šubašić to sign the Treaty of Vis that created the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia.\n\nThe Partisans were a major Yugoslav resistance movement against the Axis occupation and partition of Yugoslavia. Initially the Partisans were in rivalry with the Chetniks over control of the resistance movement. However, the Partisans were recognized by both the Eastern and Western Allies as the primary resistance movement in 1943. After that, their strength increased rapidly, from 100,000 at the beginning of 1943 to over 648,000 in September 1944. In 1945 they were transformed into the Yugoslav army, organized in 4 field armies with 800,000 fighters.\n\nThe Chetniks, the short name given to the movement titled the \"Yugoslav Army of the Fatherland\", were initially a major Allied Yugoslav resistance movement. However, due to their royalist and anti-communist views, Chetniks were considered to have begun collaborating with the Axis as a tactical move to focus on destroying their Partisan rivals. The Chetniks presented themselves as a Yugoslav movement, but were primarily a Serb movement. They reached their peak in 1943 with 93,000 fighters. Their major contribution was Operation Halyard in 1944. In collaboration with the OSS, 413 Allied airmen shot down over Yugoslavia were rescued and evacuated.\n\nThe United Kingdom controlled Egypt and used it as a major base for Allied operations throughout the region, especially the battles in North Africa against Italy and Germany. Its highest priorities were control of the Eastern Mediterranean, and especially keeping the Suez Canal open for merchant ships and for military connections with India and Australia.\n\nThe Kingdom of Egypt was nominally an independent state since 1922 but effectively remained in the British sphere of influence with the British Mediterranean fleet being stationed in Alexandria and British Army forces being stationed in the Suez Canal zone. Egypt faced an Axis campaign led by Italian and German forces during the war. British frustration over King Farouk's reign over Egypt resulted in the Abdeen Palace Incident of 1942 where British Army forces surrounded the royal Abdeen Palace and demanded a new government be established, nearly forcing the abdication of Farouk until he submitted to British demands. The Kingdom of Egypt joined the United Nations on 24 February 1945.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, the British Indian Army numbered 205,000 men. Later during World War II, the Indian Army became the largest all-volunteer force in history, rising to over 2.5 million men in size. These forces included tank, artillery and airborne forces.\n\nIndian soldiers earned 30 Victoria Crosses during the Second World War. During the war, India suffered more civilian casualties than the United Kingdom, with the Bengal famine of 1943 estimated to have killed at least 23 million people. In addition, India suffered 87,000 military casualties, more than any Crown colony but fewer than the United Kingdom, which suffered 382,000 military casualties.\n\nAfter a period of neutrality, Bulgaria joined the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944. The Orthodox Church and others convinced King Boris to not allow the Bulgarian Jews to be exported to concentration camps. The king died shortly afterwards, suspected of being poisoned after a visit to Germany. Bulgaria abandoned the Axis and joined the Allies when the Soviet Union invaded, offering no resistance to the incoming forces. In the 1947 peace treaties, Bulgaria gained a small area near the Black Sea from Romania, making it the only former German ally to gain territory from WWII.\n\nAmong the Soviet forces during World War II, millions of troops were from the Soviet Central Asian Republics. They included 1,433,230 soldiers from Uzbekistan, more than 1million from Kazakhstan, and more than 700,000 from Azerbaijan, among other Central Asian Republics.\n\nMongolia fought against Japan during the Battles of Khalkhin Gol in 1939 and the Soviet–Japanese War in August 1945 to protect its independence and to liberate Southern Mongolia from Japan and China. Mongolia had been a Soviet sphere of influence since the 1920s.\n\nBy 1944, Poland entered the Soviet sphere of influence with the establishment of Władysław Gomułka's communist regime. Polish forces fought alongside Soviet forces against Germany.\n\nRomania had initially been a member of the Axis powers but switched allegiance upon facing invasion by the Soviet Union. In a radio broadcast to the Romanian people and army on the night of 23 August 1944 King Michael issued a cease-fire, proclaimed Romania's loyalty to the Allies, announced the acceptance of an armistice (to be signed on 12 September) offered by the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, the United States, and declared war on Germany. The coup accelerated the Red Army's advance into Romania, but did not avert a rapid Soviet occupation and capture of about 130,000 Romanian soldiers, who were transported to the Soviet Union where many perished in prison camps.\n\nThe armistice was signed three weeks later on 12 September 1944, on terms virtually dictated by the Soviet Union. Under the terms of the armistice, Romania announced its unconditional surrender to the USSR and was placed under occupation of the Allied forces with the Soviet Union as their representative, in control of the media, communication, post, and civil administration behind the front.\n\nRomanian troops then fought alongside the Soviet Army until the end of the war, reaching as far as Slovakia and Germany.\n\nTannu Tuva was a partially recognized state founded from the former Tuvan protectorate of Imperial Russia. It was a client state of the Soviet Union and was annexed into the Soviet Union in 1944.\n\nItaly initially had been a leading member of the Axis powers, however after facing multiple military losses including the loss of all of Italy's colonies to advancing Allied forces, \"Duce\" Benito Mussolini was deposed and arrested in July 1943 by order of King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy in co-operation with members of the Grand Council of Fascism who viewed Mussolini as having led Italy to ruin by allying with Germany in the war. Victor Emmanuel III dismantled the remaining apparatus of the Fascist regime and appointed Field Marshal Pietro Badoglio as Prime Minister of Italy. On 8 September 1943, Italy signed the Armistice of Cassibile with the Allies, ending Italy's war with the Allies and ending Italy's participation with the Axis powers. Expecting immediate German retaliation, Victor Emmanuel III and the Italian government relocated to southern Italy under Allied control. Germany viewed the Italian government's actions as an act of betrayal, and German forces immediately occupied all Italian territories outside of Allied control, in some cases even massacring Italian troops.\n\nItaly became a co-belligerent of the Allies, and the Italian Co-Belligerent Army was created to fight against the German occupation of Northern Italy, where German paratroopers rescued Mussolini from arrest and he was placed in charge of a German puppet state known as the Italian Social Republic (RSI). Italy descended into civil war until the end of hostilities after his deposition and arrest, with Fascists loyal to him allying with German forces and helping them against the Italian armistice government and partisans.\n\nAlbania was recognized as an \"Associated Power\" at the 1946 Paris conference and officially signed the treaty ending WWII between the \"Allied and Associated Powers\" and Italy in Paris, on 10 February 1947.\n\nThe Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea was established on 13 April 1919. During the time when the Provisional Government was created, Korea was under Japanese rule. The Provisional Government had governmental tasks and created important organizations for their independence movement, such as the Korean Liberation Army (KLA) on 17 September 1940. The Provisional Government also declared war against the Empire of Japan on 10 December 1941. The Provisional Government is also the first democratic government of Korea.\n\nThe KLA participated in the battles ongoing in China with the Kuomintang forces. In 1943, KLA underground activists, co-operating with British forces in Burma and India, initiated joint operations with British forces.\n\nThe KLA failed to initiate Operation Eagle, a plan to liberate the Korean Peninsula by first attacking the capital region (Seoul and Incheon), on 18 August 1945. The Office of Strategic Services of the United States also promised to assist the KLA with warplanes, submarines, and airborne troops during the operation. However, the plan failed due to the early surrender of Japan on 15 August 1945. The Provisional Government also faced heavy opposition from the United States Army Military Government in Korea after World War II. In addition, other governments in the Treaty of San Francisco did not recognize the Provisional Government as a member of the Allies. The government of the Republic of Korea was established on 15 August 1948, under President Syngman Rhee, and the Provisional Government was disbanded officially.\n\nThe alliance was formalised in the Declaration by United Nations on 1 January 1942. There were 26 signatories:\nThe United Nations began growing immediately after their formation. In 1942, Mexico, the Philippines and Ethiopia adhered to the declaration. The African nation had been restored in its independence by British forces after the Italian defeat on Amba Alagi in 1941, while the Philippines, still dependent on Washington but granted international diplomatic recognition, was allowed to join on 10 June despite their occupation by Japan.\n\nDuring 1943, the Declaration was signed by Iraq, Iran, Brazil, Bolivia and Colombia. A Tripartite Treaty of Alliance with Britain and the USSR formalised Iran's assistance to the Allies. In Rio de Janeiro, Brazilian dictator Getúlio Vargas was considered near to fascist ideas, but realistically joined the United Nations after their evident successes.\n\nIn 1944, Liberia and France signed. The French situation was very confused. Free French forces were recognized only by Britain, while the United States considered Vichy France to be the legal government of the country until Operation Overlord, while also preparing US occupation francs. Winston Churchill urged Roosevelt to restore France to its status of a major power after the liberation of Paris in August 1944; the Prime Minister feared that after the war, Britain could remain the sole great power in Europe facing the Communist threat, as it was in 1940 and 1941 against Nazism.\n\nDuring the early part of 1945, Peru, Chile, Paraguay, Venezuela, Uruguay, Turkey, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Syria (these latter two French colonies had been declared independent nations by British occupation troops, despite big protests by Pétain before, and De Gaulle after) and Ecuador became signatories. Ukraine and Belarus, which were not independent nations but parts of the Soviet Union, were accepted as members of the United Nations as way to provide greater influence to Stalin, who had only Yugoslavia as a communist partner in the alliance.\n\nThe Charter of the United Nations was agreed to during the war at the United Nations Conference on International Organization, held between April and July 1945. The Charter was signed by 50 nations on 26 June (Poland had its place reserved and later became the 51st \"original\" signatory), and was formally ratified shortly after the war on 24 October 1945. In 1944, the United Nations was formulated and negotiated among the delegations from the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, the United States and China at the Dumbarton Oaks Conference where the formation and the permanent seats (for the \"Big Five\", China, France, the UK, US, and USSR) of the United Nations Security Council were decided. The Security Council met for the first time in the immediate aftermath of war on 17 January 1946.\n\nThese are the original 51 signatories (UNSC permanent members are asterisked):\n\nThe following list denotes dates on which nations declared war on the Axis powers, or on which an Axis power declared war on them. Nepal was formally independent. The Indian Empire had a status less independent than the Dominions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198863", "title": "Florida State Road 21", "text": "Florida State Road 21\n\nState Road 21 (SR 21) runs mostly in a southwest-to-northeast direction in the US state of Florida from McMeekin to Jacksonville. It is also known as Blanding Boulevard for much of its length.\n\nSR 21 is one of three routes, along with Roosevelt Boulevard (US 17) and the First Coast Expressway (SR 23), that connect Jacksonville with its surroundings west of the St. Johns River. Congestion has become a problem over the years as local government works to develop infrastructure for the growing populations of Orange Park, Middleburg and Green Cove Springs with the northern connectivity sought and thought to be achieved by drastic road widening despite the decimation of Lake Shore's prewar scale. Residents of both Clay and St. Johns counties' communities rely on Duval's economy (Jacksonville) for employment. As a result, traffic is heavy during morning and evening rush hour, especially near and on I-295. Such has spurred the creation of the Collins Road / I-295 interchange.\n\nSR 21 begins at SR 20, and the western terminus of County Road 20A (CR 20A), in McMeekin in Putnam County. For the first , the road is a relatively flat two-lane rural highway heading north with occasional hills, with the only other notable intersection of importance being CR 21, a connecting spur to Marion County. North of here, the road begins to bear to the northwest, but curves to slightly back along the eastern shore of Lake Melrose. After intersecting SR 26 in Melrose, SR 21 enters Clay County briefly as it starts to move northwest and enters extreme southeastern Bradford County north of the intersection with Melrose Road, intersecting with CR 214 and CR 21B. Passing between Keystone Heights Golf and Country Club, and winding around Lake Geneva, SR 21 re-enters Clay County in Keystone Heights, acquiring the name Lakeside Avenue, and then Lawrence Boulevard. It intersects SR 100 where it makes a sharp turn to the northeast. North of Loch Lommond, SR 21 serves as the southeastern border of Camp Blanding. In this location, it also runs past Mike Roess Gold Head Branch State Park, and has a short concurrency with CR 315, after turning straight north in Belmore. West of Penney Farms, SR 21 intersects SR 16 and ceases to serve as the east side of Camp Blanding, but still remains a two-lane rural highway.\n\nOnly when the road enters Middleburg does SR 21 become a four-lane divided highway just south of the intersection of CR 215 (Kingsley Lake Road), and curves to the northeast again. From here it gains the name Blanding Boulevard from here to its northern terminus. It then crosses CR 218. Shortly after then it serves as the terminus of CR 220 (Everett Avenue), and begins a hidden concurrency with SR 21, and serves as the southern terminus of CR 220A (Long Bay Road) before CR 220 ends the concurrency at Doctors Inlet Road. SR 21 then encounters Branan Field Road, which becomes SR 23 to the north. An interchange between SR 21 and SR 23 is planned to be built slightly to the west of the current intersection as part of the First Coast Expressway. The road crosses CR 220A again at Old Jennings Road. Beyond that, it has two western termini with another suffixed route, known as CR 21B (Jefferson Avenue) in Ridgewood. In Lakeside, SR 21 serves as the northern terminus of CR 224 (College Drive), providing access to Saint Johns River Community College. CR 21B ends at SR 21 again along Cleveland Avenue. Near Orange Park, the road curves straight north again where SR 224 serves as the last major intersection before entering Jacksonville, although SR 21 passes through one more community known as Meadowbrook Terrace, the home of the Orange Park Mall. North of the Clay–Duval county line, SR 21 enters Jacksonville, and then approaches the interchange with I-295, which was recently redesigned to accommodate ramps to Collins Road, a street that intersects with SR 21 north of the interchange.\n\nWithin the rest of Jacksonville, the road intersects state highways such as SR 134 (103rd Street), and later serves as the eastern terminus of SR 208 (Wilson Boulevard), where SR 21 has a wide median as opposed to a center turn lane. Two blocks north of SR 208, Blanding Boulevard crosses over the Cedar River, a tributary of the Ortega River, and enters Lake Shore. Two blocks north of the bridge, the road intersects with the southern terminus of SR 111 (Cassat Avenue). SR 21 heads northeast for several blocks until its intersection with the east-west connector San Juan Avenue SR 128.\n\nPrior to SR 21's northern terminus, Blanding continues to the northeast for several more blocks north of San Juan Avenue until it straightens to the north again and crosses St. Johns Avenue. Blanding Boulevard has a full intersection with Park Street, with eastbound Park Street providing access to US 17 south. North of Park Street, Blanding becomes a limited access connecting overpass crossing over Hamilton Street, a double tracked railroad, and has an interchange with US 17 (Roosevelt Boulevard) northbound at the edge of Florida State College at Jacksonville's Kent Campus, also with access from US 17 Roosevelt Boulevard southbound to SR 21 southbound. SR 21 ends at a second intersection with Park Street and an entrance to Kent campus at the eastern end of the interchange.\n\nCounty Road 21 (CR 21) is a bi-county road that begins in Orange Springs in Marion County. Rather than a true extension of SR 21, the road is a connecting spur. CR 21 begins at CR 315 in Orange Springs, and immediately crosses the Marion–Putnam county line, where it is named Baden Powell Road. The first major intersection it encounters is CR 20A in Johnson, which runs east–west and ends at the southern terminus of SR 21 to the west. This county road is related to a state road that CR 21 later encounters north of here, specifically SR 20 in Whiteville, which is east of the southern terminus of SR 21. The road continues north and then makes a sharp left turn becoming an east–west road before terminating at SR 21 between McMeekin and Melrose.\n\nCounty Road 21B (CR 21B) is a suffixed route of SR 21 on the Bradford County side of Keystone Heights. It begins at SR 21 and winds along the eastern shores of the Santa Fe Lakes, and then the south side of the Santa Fe Swamp before turning north and finally terminating at SR 100 near Theressa.\n\nCounty Road 21A (CR 21A) is a suffixed county route of SR 21 that is officially recognized by FDOT as two different streets in Middleburg, Florida. The first of which is Forman Circle, a loop street on the west side of SR 21, the north end of which runs parallel to Peppergrass Street. The other is Black Creek Drive, which has no connection to SR 21 and begins at CR 218, running south until it reaches a dead end along the South Fork of Black Creek.\n\nCounty Road 21B (CR 21B) is another county suffixed alternative route of SR 21. It begins at SR 21 as Taylor Avenue heading northwest, then turns right onto Washington Avenue a few blocks to the north and runs parallel to SR 21, running northeast through the heard of Ridgewood. Later it makes another turn to the right onto Cleveland Avenue and heads southeast until finally terminating at SR 21 near Lakeside.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198871", "title": "Allies of World War I", "text": "Allies of World War I\n\nThe Allies of World War I or Entente Powers were the coalition that opposed the Central Powers of Germany, Austria–Hungary, the Ottoman Empire, and Bulgaria during the First World War (1914–1918).\n\nBy the end of the first decade of the 20th century, the major European powers were divided between the Triple Entente and the Triple Alliance. The Entente was made up of France, the United Kingdom and Russia. The Triple Alliance was originally composed of Germany, Austria–Hungary and Italy, which remained neutral in 1914.\n\nAs the war progressed, each coalition added new members. Japan joined the Entente in 1914. After proclaiming its neutrality at the beginning of the war, Italy also joined the Entente in 1915. The United States joined as an \"associated power\" rather than an official ally. \"Associated members\" included Serbia, Belgium, Greece, Montenegro, and Romania. The Allies sponsored several revolts in the Ottoman Empire, including the Nejd and Hasa 1915, the Arab Revolt in June 1916, and several Kurdish uprisings in August 1917.\n\nWhen the war began in 1914, the Central Powers were opposed by the Triple Entente, formed in 1907 by the British Empire, the Russian Empire and the French Third Republic.\n\nFighting commenced when Austria invaded Serbia on 28 July 1914, purportedly in response to the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to Emperor Franz Joseph; this brought Serbia's ally Montenegro into the war on 8 August and it attacked the Austrian naval base at Cattaro, modern Kotor. At the same time, German troops entered neutral Belgium and Luxembourg as dictated by the Schlieffen Plan; over 95% of Belgium was occupied but the Belgian Army held their lines on the Yser Front throughout the war. This allowed Belgium to be treated as an Ally, in contrast to Luxembourg which retained control over domestic affairs but was occupied by the German military.\n\nIn the East, between 7–9 August the Russians entered German East Prussia on 7 August, Austrian Eastern Galicia. Japan joined the Entente by declaring war on Germany on 23 August, then Austria on 25 August. On 2 September, Japanese forces surrounded the German Treaty Port of Tsingtao (now Qingdao) in China and occupied German colonies in the Pacific, including the Mariana, Caroline, and Marshall Islands.\n\nDespite its membership of the Triple Alliance, Italy remained neutral until 23 May 1915 when it joined the Entente, declaring war on Austria but not Germany. On 17 January 1916, Montenegro capitulated and left the Entente; this was offset when Germany declared war on Portugal in March 1916, while Romania commenced hostilities against Austria on 27 August.\n\nOn 6 April 1917, the United States entered the war as a co-belligerent, along with the associated allies of Liberia, Siam and Greece. After the 1917 October Revolution, Russia left the Entente and agreed to a separate peace with the Central Powers with the signing of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk on 3 March 1918. Romania was forced to do the same in the May 1918 Treaty of Bucharest but on 10 November, it repudiated the Treaty and once more declared war on the Central Powers.\n\nThese changes meant the Allies who negotiated the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 included France, Britain, Italy, Japan and the US; Part One of the Treaty agreed to the establishment of the League of Nations on 25 January 1919. This came into being on 16 January 1920 with Britain, France, Italy and Japan as permanent members of the Executive Council; the US Senate voted against ratification of the Treaty of Versailles on 19 March, thus preventing American participation.\n\nFor much of the 19th century, Britain sought to maintain the European balance of power without formal alliances, a policy known as splendid isolation. This left it dangerously exposed as Europe divided into opposing power blocs and the 1895–1905 Conservative government negotiated first the 1902 Anglo-Japanese Alliance, then the 1904 Entente Cordiale with France. The first tangible result of this shift was British support for France against Germany in the 1905 Moroccan Crisis.\n\nThe 1905–1915 Liberal government continued this re-alignment with the 1907 Anglo-Russian Convention. Like the Anglo-Japanese and Entente agreements, it focused on settling colonial disputes but by doing so paved the way for wider co-operation and allowed Britain to refocus resources in response to German naval expansion.\nSince control of Belgium allowed an opponent to threaten invasion or blockade British trade, preventing it was a long-standing British strategic interest. Under Article VII of the 1839 Treaty of London, Britain guaranteed Belgian neutrality against aggression by any other state, by force if required. Chancellor Bethmann Hollweg later dismissed this as a 'scrap of paper,' but British law officers routinely confirmed it as a binding legal obligation and its importance was well understood by Germany.\n\nThe 1911 Agadir Crisis led to secret discussions between France and Britain in case of war with Germany. These agreed that within two weeks of its outbreak, a British Expeditionary Force of 100,000 men would be landed in France; in addition, the Royal Navy would be responsible for the North Sea, the Channel and protecting Northern France, with the French navy concentrated in the Mediterranean. Britain was committed to support France in a war against Germany but this was not widely understood outside government or the upper ranks of the military.\n\nAs late as 1 August, a clear majority of the Liberal government and its supporters wanted to stay out of the war. While Liberal leaders H. H. Asquith and Edward Grey considered Britain legally and morally committed to support France regardless, waiting until Germany triggered the 1839 Treaty provided the best chance of preserving Liberal party unity.\n\nThe German high command was aware entering Belgium would lead to British intervention but decided the risk was acceptable; they expected a short war while their ambassador in London claimed troubles in Ireland would prevent Britain from assisting France. On 3 August, Germany demanded unimpeded progress through any part of Belgium and when this was refused, invaded early on the morning of 4 August.\n\nThis changed the situation; the invasion of Belgium consolidated political and public support for the war by presenting what appeared to be a simple moral and strategic choice. The Belgians asked for assistance under the 1839 Treaty and in response, Britain declared war on Germany on 4 August 1914. Although Germany's violation of Belgium neutrality was not the only cause of British entry into the war, it was used extensively in government propaganda at home and abroad to make the case for British intervention. This confusion arguably persists today.\n\nThe declaration of war automatically involved all dominions and colonies and protectorates of the British Empire, many of whom made significant contributions to the Allied war effort, both in the provision of troops and civilian labourers. It was split into Crown Colonies administered by the Colonial Office in London, such as Nigeria, and the self-governing Dominions of Canada, Newfoundland, New Zealand, Australia and South Africa. These controlled their own domestic policies and military expenditure but not foreign policy.\nIn terms of population, the largest component (after Britain herself) was the British Raj or British India, which included modern India, Pakistan, Myanmar and Bangladesh. Unlike other colonies which came under the Colonial Office, it was governed directly by the India Office or by princes loyal to the British; it also controlled British interests in the Persian Gulf, such as the Trucial States and Oman. Over one million soldiers of the British Indian Army served in different theatres of the war, primarily France and the Middle East.\n\nFrom 1914–1916, overall Imperial diplomatic, political and military strategy was controlled by the British War Cabinet in London; in 1917 it was superseded by the Imperial War Cabinet, which included representatives from the Dominions. Under the War Cabinet were the Chief of the Imperial General Staff or CIGS, responsible for all Imperial ground forces, and the Admiralty that did the same for the Royal Navy. Theatre commanders like Douglas Haig on the Western Front or Edmund Allenby in Palestine then reported to the CIGS.\n\nAfter the Indian Army, the largest individual units were the Australian Corps and Canadian Corps in France, which by 1918 were commanded by their own generals, John Monash and Arthur Currie. Contingents from South Africa, New Zealand and Newfoundland served in theatres including France, Gallipoli, German East Africa and the Middle East. Australian troops separately occupied German New Guinea, with the South Africans doing the same in German South West Africa; this resulted in the Maritz rebellion by former Boers, which was quickly suppressed. After the war, New Guinea and South-West Africa became Protectorates, held until 1975 and 1990 respectively.\n\nBetween 1873–1887, Russia was allied with Germany and Austria-Hungary in the League of the Three Emperors, then with Germany in the 1887–1890 Reinsurance Treaty; both collapsed due to the competing interests of Austria and Russia in the Balkans. While France took advantage of this to agree the 1894 Franco-Russian Alliance, Britain viewed Russia with deep suspicion; in 1800, over 3,000 kilometres separated the Russian Empire and British India, by 1902, it was 30 km in some areas. This threatened to bring the two into direct conflict, as did the long-held Russian objective of gaining control of the Bosporus Straits and with it access to the British-dominated Mediterranean Sea.\n\nDefeat in the 1905 Russo-Japanese War and Britain's isolation during the 1899–1902 Second Boer War led both parties to seek allies. The Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907 settled disputes in Asia and allowed the establishment of the Triple Entente with France, which at this stage was largely informal. In 1908, Austria annexed the former Ottoman province of Bosnia and Herzegovina; Russia responded by creating the Balkan League in order to prevent further Austrian expansion. In the 1912–1913 First Balkan War, Serbia, Bulgaria and Greece captured most of the remaining Ottoman possessions in Europe; disputes over the division of these resulted in the Second Balkan War, in which Bulgaria was comprehensively defeated by its former allies.\n\nRussia's industrial base and railway network had significantly improved since 1905, although from a relatively low base; in 1913, Tsar Nicholas approved an increase in the Russian Army of over 500,000 men. Although there was no formal alliance between Russia and Serbia, their close bilateral links provided Russia with a route into the crumbling Ottoman Empire, where Germany also had significant interests. Combined with the increase in Russian military strength, both Austria and Germany felt threatened by Serbian expansion; when Austria invaded Serbia on 28 July 1914, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Sazonov viewed it as an Austro-German conspiracy to end Russian influence in the Balkans.\n\nIn addition to its own territory, Russia viewed itself as the defender of its fellow Slavs and on 30 July, mobilised in support of Serbia. In response, Germany declared war on Russia on 1 August, followed by Austria-Hungary on 6th; after Ottoman warships bombarded Odessa in late October, the Entente declared war on the Ottoman Empire in November 1914.\n\nFrench defeat in the 1870–1871 Franco-Prussian War led to the loss of the two provinces of Alsace-Lorraine and the establishment of the Third Republic. The suppression of the Paris Commune by the new regime caused deep political divisions and led to a series of bitter political struggles, such as the Dreyfus affair. As a result, aggressive nationalism or Revanchism was one of the few areas to unite the French.\n\nThe loss of Alsace-Lorraine deprived France of its natural defence line on the Rhine, while it was weaker demographically than Germany, whose 1911 population was 64.9 million to 39.6 in France, which had the lowest birthrate in Europe. This meant that despite their very different political systems, when Germany allowed the Reinsurance Treaty to lapse, France seized the opportunity to agree the 1894 Franco-Russian Alliance. It also replaced Germany as the primary source of financing for Russian industry and the expansion of its railway network, particularly in border areas with Germany and Austria-Hungary.\n\nHowever, Russian defeat in the 1904–1905 Russo-Japanese War damaged its credibility, while Britain's isolation during the Second Boer War meant both countries sought additional allies. This resulted in the 1904 Entente Cordiale with Britain; like the 1907 Anglo-Russian Convention, for domestic British consumption it focused on settling colonial disputes but led to informal co-operation in other areas. By 1914, both the British army and Royal Navy were committed to support France in the event of war with Germany but even in the British government, very few were aware of the extent of these commitments.\n\nIn response to Germany's declaration of war on Russia, France issued a general mobilization in expectation of war on 2 August and on 3 August, Germany also declared war on France. Germany's ultimatum to Belgium brought Britain into the war on 4 August, although France did not declare war on Austria-Hungary until 12 August.\n\nAs with Britain, France's colonies also became part of the war; pre-1914, French soldiers and politicians advocated using French African recruits to help compensate for France's demographic weakness. From August to December 1914, the French lost nearly 300,000 dead on the Western Front, more than Britain suffered in the whole of WWII and the gaps were partly filled by colonial troops, over 500,000 of whom served on the Western Front over the period 1914–1918. Colonial troops also fought at Gallipoli, occupied Togo and Kamerun in West Africa and had a minor role in the Middle East, where France was the traditional protector of Christians in the Ottoman provinces of Syria, Palestine and Lebanon.\n\nPrior to the Meiji Restoration in 1868, Japan was a semi-feudal, largely agrarian state with few natural resources and limited technology. By 1914, it had transformed itself into a modern industrial state, with a powerful military; by defeating China in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1894–1895, it established itself as the primary power in East Asia and colonized the then-unified Korea and Formosa, now modern Taiwan.\n\nConcerned by Russian expansion in Korea and Manchuria, Britain and Japan signed the Anglo-Japanese Alliance on 30 January 1902, agreeing if either were attacked by a third party, the other would remain neutral and if attacked by two or more opponents, the other would come to its aid. This meant Japan could rely on British support in a war with Russia, if either France or Germany, which also had interests in China, decided to join them. This gave Japan the reassurance needed to take on Russia in the 1905 Russo-Japanese War; victory established Japan in the Chinese province of Manchuria.\n\nWith Japan as an ally in the Far East, John Fisher, First Sea Lord from 1904–1910, was able to refocus British naval resources in the North Sea to counter the threat from the Imperial German Navy. The Alliance was renewed in 1911; in 1914, Japan joined the Entente in return for German territories in the Pacific, greatly annoying the Australian government which also wanted them.\n\nOn 7 August, Britain officially asked for assistance in destroying German naval units in China and Japan formally declared war on Germany on 23 August, followed by Austria-Hungary on 25th. On 2 September 1914, Japanese forces surrounded the German Treaty Port of Qingdao, then known as Tsingtao, which surrendered on 7 November. The Imperial Japanese Navy simultaneously occupied German colonies in the Mariana, Caroline, and Marshall Islands, while in 1917, a Japanese naval squadron was sent to support the Allies in the Mediterranean.\n\nJapan's primary interest was in China and in January 1915, the Chinese government was presented with a secret ultimatum of Twenty-One Demands, demanding extensive economic and political concessions. While these were eventually modified, the result was a surge of anti-Japanese nationalism in China and an economic boycott of Japanese goods. In addition, the other Allies now saw Japan as a threat, rather than a partner, lead to tensions first with Russia, then the US after it entered the war in April 1917. Despite protests from the other Allies, after the war Japan refused to return Qingdao and the province of Shandong to China.\n\nThe 1882 Triple Alliance between Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy was renewed at regular intervals, but was compromised by conflicting objectives between Italy and Austria in the Adriatic and Aegean seas. Italian nationalists referred to Austrian-held Istria (including Trieste and Fiume) and Trento as 'the lost territories', making the Alliance so controversial that the terms were kept secret until it expired in 1915.\n\nAlberto Pollio, the pro-Austrian Chief of Staff of the Italian Army, died on 1 July 1914, taking many of the prospects for Italian support with him. The Italian Prime Minister Antonio Salandra argued that as the Alliance was defensive in nature, Austria's aggression against Serbia and Italy's exclusion from the decision-making process meant it was not obliged to join them.\n\nHis caution was understandable because France and Britain either supplied or controlled the import of most of Italy's raw materials, including 90% of its coal. Salandra described the process of choosing a side as 'sacred egoism,' but as the war was expected to end before mid-1915 at the latest, making this decision became increasingly urgent. In line with Italy's obligations under the Triple Alliance, the bulk of the army was concentrated on Italy's border with France; in October, Pollio's replacement, General Luigi Cadorna, was ordered to begin moving these troops to the North-Eastern one with Austria.\n\nUnder the April 1915 Treaty of London, Italy agreed to join the Entente in return for Italian-populated territories of Austria-Hungary and other concessions; in return, it declared war on Austria-Hungary in May 1915 as required, although not on Germany until 1916. Italian resentment at the difference between the promises of 1915 and the actual results of the 1919 Treaty of Versailles would be powerful factors in the rise of Mussolini.\n\nIn 1817, the Principality of Serbia became an autonomous province within the Ottoman Empire; with Russian support, it gained full independence after the 1877–1878 Russo-Turkish War. Many Serbs viewed Russia as protector of the South Slavs in general but also specifically against Bulgaria, where Russian objectives increasingly collided with Bulgarian nationalism.\n\nWhen Austria annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908, Russia responded by creating the Balkan League to prevent further Austrian expansion. Austria viewed Serbia with hostility partly due to its links with Russia, whose claim to be the protector of South Slavs extended to those within the Austro-Hungarian empire, such as the Czechs and Slovaks. Serbia also potentially gave Russia the ability to achieve their long-held objective of capturing Constantinople and the Dardanelles.\n\nAustria backed the Albanian revolt of 1910 and the idea of a Greater Albania, since this would prevent Serbian access to the Austrian-controlled Adriatic Sea. Another Albanian revolt in 1912 exposed the weakness of the Ottoman Empire and led to the 1912–1913 First Balkan War, with Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria and Greece capturing most of the remaining Ottoman possessions in Europe. Disputes over the division of these resulted in the Second Balkan War, in which Bulgaria was comprehensively defeated by its former allies.\n\nAs a result of the 1913 Treaty of Bucharest, Serbia increased its territory by 100% and its population by 64%. However, it now faced a hostile Austria-Hungary, a resentful Bulgaria and opposition by Albanian nationalists. Germany too had ambitions in the Ottoman Empire, the centrepiece being the planned Berlin–Baghdad railway, with Serbia the only section not controlled by a pro-German state.\n\nThe exact role played by Serbian officials in the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand is still debated but despite complying with most of their demands, Austria-Hungary invaded on 28 July 1914. While Serbia successfully repulsed the Austro-Hungarian army in 1914, it was exhausted by the two Balkan Wars and unable to replace its losses of men and equipment. In 1915, Bulgaria joined the Central Powers and by the end of the year, a combined Bulgar-Austrian-German army occupied most of Serbia. Between 1914–1918, Serbia suffered the greatest proportional losses of any combatant, with over 25% of all those mobilised becoming casualties; including civilians and deaths from disease, over 1.2 million died, nearly 30% of the entire population.\n\nIn 1830, the southern provinces of the Netherlands broke away to form the Kingdom of Belgium and their independence was confirmed by the 1839 Treaty of London. Article VII of the Treaty required Belgium to remain perpetually neutral and committed Austria, France, Germany and Russia to guarantee that against aggression by any other state, including the signatories.\nWhile the French and German militaries accepted Germany would almost certainly violate Belgian neutrality in the event of war, the extent of that was unclear. The original Schlieffen Plan only required a limited incursion into the Belgian Ardennes, rather than a full-scale invasion; in September 1911, the Belgian Foreign Minister told a British Embassy official they would not call for assistance if the Germans limited themselves to that. While neither Britain or France could allow Germany to occupy Belgium unopposed, a Belgian refusal to ask for help would complicate matters for the British Liberal government, which contained a significant isolationist element.\n\nHowever, the key German objective was to avoid war on two fronts; France had to be defeated before Russia could fully mobilise and give time for German forces to be transferred to the East. The growth of the Russian railway network and increase in speed of mobilisation made rapid victory over France even more important; to accommodate the additional 170,000 troops approved by the 1913 Army Bill, the 'incursion' now became a full-scale invasion. The Germans accepted the risk of British intervention; in common with most of Europe, they expected it to be a short war while their London Ambassador claimed civil war in Ireland would prevent Britain from assisting its Entente partners.\n\nOn 3 August, a German ultimatum demanded unimpeded progress through any part of Belgium, which was refused. Early on the morning of 4 August, the Germans invaded and the Belgian government called for British assistance under the 1839 Treaty; by the end of 1914, over 95% of the country was occupied but the Belgian Army held their lines on the Yser Front throughout the war.\n\nIn the Belgian Congo, 25,000 Congolese troops plus an estimated 260,000 porters joined British forces in the 1916 East African Campaign. By 1917, they controlled the western part of German East Africa which would become the Belgian League of Nations Mandate of Ruanda-Urundi or modern-day Rwanda and Burundi.\n\nBrazil entered the war in 1917 after the United States intervened on the basis of Germany's unrestricted submarine warfare sinking its merchant ships, which Brazil also cited as a reason to enter the war fighting against Germany and the Central Powers. The First Brazilian Republic sent the Naval Division in War Operations that joined the British fleet in Gibraltar and made the first Brazilian naval effort in international waters. In compliance with the commitments made at the Inter-American Conference, held in Paris from 20 November to 3 December 1917, the Brazilian Government sent a medical mission composed of civilian and military surgeons to work in field hospitals of the European theater, a contingent of sergeants and officers to serve with the French army; Airmen from the Army and Navy to join the Royal Air Force, and the employment of part of the Fleet, primarily in the anti-submarine war.\n\nGreece almost doubled in size as a result of the Balkan Wars of 1912 and 1913, but success masked deep divisions within the political elite. In 1908, the island of Crete, formally part of the Ottoman Empire but administered by Greek officials, declared union with Greece, led by the charismatic nationalist Eleftherios Venizelos. A year later, young army officers formed the Military League to advocate for an aggressive and expansionist foreign policy; with their backing, Venizelos won a majority in the 1910 Parliamentary elections, followed by another in 1912. He had effectively broken the power of the pre-1910 political class and his position was then further strengthened by success in the Balkan Wars.\n\nIn 1913, the Greek monarch George I was assassinated; he was succeeded by his son Constantine who had attended Heidelberg University, served in a Prussian regiment and married Sophia of Prussia, sister of Emperor William II. These links and a belief the Central Powers would win the war combined to make Constantine pro-German. Venizelos himself favoured the Entente, partly due to their ability to block the maritime trade routes required for Greek imports.\n\nOther issues adding complexity to this decision included disputes with Bulgaria and Serbia over the regions of Thrace and Macedonia as well as control of the Aegean Islands. Greece captured most of the islands during the Balkan Wars but Italy occupied the Dodecanese in 1912 and was in no hurry to give them back, while the Ottomans demanded the return of many others. In general, the Triple Entente favoured Greece, the Triple Alliance backed the Ottomans; Greece ultimately gained the vast majority but Italy did not cede the Dodecanese until 1947, while others remain disputed even today.\n\nAs a result, Greece initially remained neutral but in March 1915, the Entente offered concessions to join the Dardanelles campaign. Arguments over whether to accept led to the National Schism, with an Entente-backed administration under Venizelos in Crete, and a Royalist one led by Constantine in Athens that supported the Central Powers.\n\nIn September 1915, Bulgaria joined the Central Powers; in October, Venizelos allowed Entente forces to land at Thessaloniki or Salonica to support the Serbs, although they were too late to prevent their defeat. In August 1916, Bulgarian troops advanced into Greek-held Macedonia and Constantine ordered the army not to resist; anger at this led to a coup and he was eventually forced into exile in June 1917. A new national government under Venizelos joined the Entente, while the Greek National Defence Army Corps fought with the Allies on the Macedonian front.\n\nUnlike Serbia, with whom it shared close cultural and political connections, the Kingdom of Montenegro gained little from its participation in the 1912–1913 Balkan Wars. The main Montenegrin offensive was in Ottoman-controlled Albania, where it suffered heavy losses during the seven month Siege of Scutari. Austria-Hungary opposed Serb or Montenegrin control of Albania, since it provided access to the Adriatic Sea; despite Scutari's surrender, Montenegro was forced to relinquish it by the 1913 Treaty of London and it became capital of the short-lived Principality of Albania. This was largely an Austrian creation; the new ruler, William, Prince of Albania, was a German who was forced into exile in September, only seven months after taking up his new position and later served with the Austrian army.\n\nIn addition to the lack of substantive gains from the Balkan Wars, there were long-running internal divisions between those who like Nicholas I preferred an independent Montenegro and those who advocated union with Serbia. In July 1914, Montenegro was not only militarily and economically exhausted, but also faced a multitude of political, economic and social issues.\n\nAt meetings held in March 1914, Austria-Hungary and Germany agreed union with Serbia must be prevented; Montenegro could either remain independent or be divided, its coastal areas becoming part of Albania, while the rest could join Serbia.\n\nNicholas seriously considered neutrality as a way to preserve his dynasty and on 31 July notified the Russian Ambassador Montenegro would only respond to an Austrian attack. He also held discussions with Austria, proposing neutrality or even active support in return for territorial concessions in Albania.\n\nHowever, close links between the Serbian and Montenegrin militaries as well as popular sentiment meant there was little support for remaining neutral, especially after Russia joined the war; on 1 August, the National Assembly declared war on Austria-Hungary in fulfilment of its obligations to Serbia. After some initial success, in January 1916, the Montenegrin Army was forced to surrender to an Austro-Hungarian force.\n\nThe Emirate of Nejd and Hasa agreed to enter the war as an ally of Britain in the Treaty of Darin on 26 December 1915.\n\nThe Idrisid Emirate of Asir participated in the Arab revolt. Its Emir, Muhammad ibn Ali al-Idrisi, signed an agreement with the British and joined the Allies in May 1915.\n\nAndorra declared war on Germany in 1914, but did not take part directly in the fighting. Some Andorran volunteers participated in the French Foreign Legion.\n\nEqual status with the main Entente Powers was one of the primary conditions for Romania's entry into the War. The Powers officially recognized this status through the 1916 Treaty of Bucharest. Romania fought on three of the four European Fronts: Eastern, Balkan and Italian, fielding in total over 1,200,000 troops.\n\nRomanian military industry was mainly focused on converting various fortification guns into field and anti-aircraft artillery. Up to 334 German 53 mm Fahrpanzer guns, 93 French 57 mm Hotchkiss guns, 66 Krupp 150 mm guns, and dozens more 210 mm guns were mounted on Romanian-built carriages and transformed into mobile field artillery, with 45 Krupp 75 mm guns and 132 Hotchkiss 57 mm guns being transformed into anti-aircraft artillery. The Romanians also upgraded 120 German Krupp 105 mm howitzers, the result being the most effective field howitzer in Europe at that time. Romania even managed to design and build from scratch its own model of mortar, the 250 mm Negrei Model 1916.\n\nOther Romanian technological assets include the building of Vlaicu III, the world's first aircraft made of metal. The Romanian Navy possessed the largest warships on the Danube. They were a class of four river monitors, built locally at the Galați shipyard using parts manufactured in Austria-Hungary. The first one launched was \"Lascăr Catargiu\", in 1907. The Romanian monitors displaced almost 700 tons, were armed with three 120 mm naval guns in three turrets, two 120 mm naval howitzers, four 47 mm anti-aircraft guns and two 6.5 machine guns. The monitors took part in the Battle of Turtucaia and the First Battle of Cobadin. The Romanian-designed Schneider 150 mm Model 1912 howitzer was considered one of the most modern field guns on the Western Front.\n\nRomania's entry into the War in August 1916 provoked major changes for the Germans. General Erich von Falkenhayn was dismissed and sent to command the Central Powers forces in Romania, which enabled Hindenburg's subsequent ascension to power. Due to having to fight against all of the Central Powers on the longest front in Europe (1,600 km) and with little foreign help (only 50,000 Russians aided 650,000 Romanians in 1916), the Romanian capital was conquered that December. Vlaicu III was also captured and shipped to Germany, being last seen in 1942. The Romanian administration established a new capital at Iași and continued to fight on the Allied side in 1917. Despite being relatively short, the Romanian campaign of 1916 provided considerable respite for the Western Allies, as the Germans ceased all their other offensive operations in order to deal with Romania. After suffering a tactical defeat against the Romanians (aided by Russians) in July 1917 at Mărăști, the Central Powers launched two counterattacks, at Mărășești and Oituz. The German offensive at Mărășești was soundly defeated, with German prisoners later telling their Romanian captors that German casualties were extremely heavy, and that they \"had not encountered such stiff resistance since the battles of Somme and Verdun\". The Austro-Hungarian offensive at Oituz also failed. On 22 September, the Austro-Hungarian \"Enns\"-class river monitor SMS \"Inn\" was sunk by a Romanian mine near Brăila. After Russia signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk and dropped out of the War, Romania was left surrounded by the Central Powers and eventually signed a similar treaty on 7 May 1918. Despite being forced to cede land to Austria-Hungary and Bulgaria, Romania ended up with a net gain in territory due to the Union with Bessarabia. On 10 November, Romania re-entered the War and fought a war with Hungary that lasted until August 1919.\n\nThe United States declared war on Germany in April 1917 on the grounds that Germany violated US neutrality by attacking international shipping with its unrestricted submarine warfare campaign. The remotely connected Zimmermann Telegram of the same period, within which the Germans promised to help Mexico regain some of its territory lost to the U.S nearly seven decades before in the event of the United States entering the war, was also a contributing factor. The US entered the war as an \"associated power\", rather than a formal ally of France and the United Kingdom, in order to avoid \"foreign entanglements\". Although the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria severed relations with the United States, neither declared war, nor did Austria-Hungary. Eventually, however, the United States also declared war on Austria-Hungary in December 1917, predominantly to help hard-pressed Italy.\n\nThree non-state combatants, which voluntarily fought with the Allies and seceded from the constituent states of the Central Powers at the end of the war, were allowed to participate as winning nations to the peace treaties:\nAdditionally, there were also several Kurdish rebellions during World War I. Most of these, except for the uprisings of August 1917, were not supported by any of the allied powers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are estimates of the cumulative number of different personnel in uniform 1914–1918, including army, navy and auxiliary forces. At any one time, the various forces were much smaller. Only a fraction of them were frontline combat troops. The numbers do not reflect the length of time each country was involved.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198874", "title": "Megan Spencer", "text": "Megan Spencer\n\nMegan Spencer (born 1966) is an Australian broadcaster, film critic, journalist, media maker, and teacher.\n\nSpencer studied Speech pathology in Melbourne before pursuing interests in film and radio. In the 1980s, as a volunteer, she co-produced 'Eeek!' a 3RRR cultural theory radio show, hosted by Philip Brophy and Bruce Milne. She later studied Media Arts at RMIT University and completed her first documentary film: \"Heathens\" in 1994.\n\nSpencer has been a guest speaker at various film events around Australia. She has broadcast regularly on ABC Radio National, Sydney and Melbourne metro ABC radio, and regional ABC radio. She has worked as a film programmer (RMIT, VCA, Kingston Arts Centre), and taught documentary and film theory and practice (Melbourne University, VCA, RMIT, AFTRS Melbourne). She has written for publications \"IF Magazine\", \"Real Time\", \"documenter\", \"The Eye\" and \"Like\".\n\nFrom 1996–98 Spencer Co-founded, programmed and ran the VCA Documentary Film Society at the Victorian College of the Arts. In 1999 she joined ABC Radio's Triple J national youth network as resident film critic and journalist. In 2002 she co-founded Triple J's annual Framebreaks National Youth Short Film Festival, and was a member of the MIFF Film Critic's Jury. In 2004 she completed her MA in Media Arts (Documentary) at RMIT University, and from 2004–06 was a film critic on SBS Television's \"The Movie Show\". In 2007 Spencer was the Guest Director of the Revelation Perth International Film Festival, and in 2008 became a radio presenter on 105.7 ABC Darwin. In 2010 she moved to Bendigo, and in 2013 was a radio presenter for ABC Central Victoria.\n\nSpencer has been a judge for film festivals and competitions across Australia, including Sydney Film Festival, Shoot Out, St. Kilda Film Festival, Brisbane International Film Festival, Melbourne International, Underground and Fringe Film Festivals, Real Life on Film Documentary Festival, Queensland's Pandanus Film Festival, the SA Zoom Fest, Melbourne International Queer Film Festival, SPAA Fringe and the annual AFI Awards.\n\nShe is also a teacher of meditation.\n\nIn the 2000s Spencer lived in Berlin, returning to Melbourne in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198884", "title": "New Perspective on Paul", "text": "New Perspective on Paul\n\nThe \"New Perspective on Paul\" represents a significant shift in the field of biblical studies since the 1970s in the understanding of the writings of the Apostle Paul, due to E. P. Sanders' pioneering 1977 work \"Paul and Palestinian Judaism\".\n\nPaul advocates justification through faith in Jesus Christ over justification through works of the Law. Under influence of the Lutheran and Reformed perspective, known as \"sola fide\", this was traditionally understood as Paul arguing that Christians' good works would not factor into their salvation – only their faith would count. In this perspective, first-century Palestinian Judaism was dismissed as sterile and legalistic.\n\nAccording to Sanders, Paul does not address good works in general, but instead questions only observances such as circumcision, dietary laws, and Sabbath laws, which were the \"boundary markers\" that set the Jews apart from the other nations. According to Sanders, first-century Palestinian Judaism was not a \"legalistic community\", nor was it oriented to \"salvation by works\". Being God's chosen people, they were under his covenant. Contrary to what the Protestants thought, keeping the Law was not a way of entering the covenant, but of staying within the covenant.\n\nSince the Protestant Reformation (), studies of Paul's writings have been heavily influenced by Lutheran and Reformed views that are said to ascribe the negative attributes that they associated with sixteenth-century Roman Catholicism to Second Temple Judaism. These Lutheran and Reformed views on Paul's writings are called “the old perspective” by adherents of the \"new perspective on Paul\". The \"new perspective\" is an attempt to lift Paul's letters out of the Lutheran-Reformed framework and interpret them based on what is said to be an understanding of first-century Judaism, taken on its own terms.\n\nIn 1963 the Lutheran theologian Krister Stendahl, who is considered by modern scholarship to have been as influential as Sanders in the development of the “new perspective on Paul”, published a paper arguing that the typical Lutheran view of the Apostle Paul's theology did not fit with statements in Paul's writings, and in fact was based more on mistaken assumptions about Paul's beliefs than careful interpretation of his writings. Stendahl warned against imposing modern Western ideas on the Bible, and especially on the works of Paul. In 1977 E. P. Sanders published \"Paul and Palestinian Judaism\". In this work he studies Jewish literature and Paul's writings, arguing that the traditional Lutheran understanding of the theology of Judaism and Paul was fundamentally incorrect.\n\nSanders continued to publish books and articles in this field, and was soon joined by the scholar James D. G. Dunn. Dunn reports that Anglican theologian N.T. Wright was the first to use the term “new perspective on Paul” in his 1978 Tyndale Lecture. The term became more widely known after being used by Dunn as the title of his 1982 Manson Memorial Lecture where he summarized and affirmed the movement. The work of these writers inspired a large number of scholars to study, discuss, and debate the relevant issues. Many books and articles dealing with the issues raised have since been published. N.T. Wright has written a large number of works aimed at popularising the “new perspective” outside of academia.\n\nThe “new-perspective” movement is closely connected with a surge of recent scholarly interest in studying the Bible in the context of other ancient texts, and the use of social-scientific methods to understand ancient culture. Scholars affiliated with The Context Group have called for various reinterpretations of biblical texts based on studies of the ancient world.\n\nIt is often noted that the singular title \"the new perspective\" gives an unjustified impression of unity. It is a field of study in which many scholars are actively pursuing research and continuously revising their own theories in light of new evidence, and who do not necessarily agree with each other on any given issue. It has been suggested by many that a plural title of \"new perspectives\" may therefore be more accurate. In 2003, N. T. Wright, distancing himself from both Sanders and Dunn, commented that \"there are probably almost as many 'new' perspective positions as there are writers espousing it – and I disagree with most of them\". There are certain trends and commonalities within the movement, but what is held in common is the belief that the historic Lutheran and Reformed perspectives of Paul the Apostle and Judaism are fundamentally incorrect. The following are some of the issues being widely discussed.\n\nPaul's letters contain a substantial amount of criticism of \"works of the Law\". The radical difference in these two interpretations of what Paul meant by \"works of the Law\" is the most consistent distinguishing feature between the two perspectives. The historic Lutheran and Reformed perspectives interpret this phrase as referring to human effort to do good works in order to meet God's standards (Works Righteousness). In this view, Paul is arguing against the idea that humans can merit salvation from God by their good works alone (note that the \"new\" perspective agrees that we cannot merit salvation; the issue is what exactly Paul is addressing).\n\nBy contrast, new-perspective scholars see Paul as talking about \"badges of covenant membership\" or criticizing Gentile believers who had begun to rely on the Torah to reckon Jewish kinship. It is argued that in Paul's time, Israelites were being faced with a choice of whether to continue to follow their ancestral customs, the Torah, or to follow the Roman Empire's trend to adopt Greek customs (Hellenization, see also Antinomianism, Hellenistic Judaism, and Circumcision controversy in early Christianity). The new-perspective view is that Paul's writings discuss the comparative merits of following ancient Israelite or ancient Greek customs. Paul is interpreted as being critical of a common Jewish view that following traditional Israelite customs makes a person better off before God, pointing out that Abraham was righteous before the Torah was given. Paul identifies customs he is concerned about as circumcision, dietary laws, and observance of special days.\n\nDue to their interpretation of the phrase \"works of the law\", theologians of the historic Lutheran and Reformed perspectives see Paul's rhetoric as being against human effort to earn righteousness. This is often cited by Lutheran and Reformed theologians as a central feature of the Christian religion, and the concepts of grace alone and faith alone are of great importance within the creeds of these denominations.\n\n\"New-perspective\" interpretations of Paul tend to result in Paul having nothing negative to say about the idea of human effort or good works, and saying many positive things about both. New-perspective scholars point to the many statements in Paul's writings that specify the criteria of final judgment as being the works of the individual.\n\nWright however does not hold the view that good works contribute to one's salvation but rather that the final judgment is something we can look forward to as a future vindication of God's present declaration of our righteousness. In other words, our works are a result of our salvation and the future judgment will show that. Others tend to place a higher value on the importance of good works than the historic Lutheran and Reformed perspectives do, taking the view that they causally contribute to the salvation of the individual.\n\nAdvocates of the historic Lutheran and Reformed perspectives often see this as being \"salvation by works\", and as a bad thing, contradicting fundamental tenets of Christianity. New-perspective scholars often respond that their views are not so different. For in the perspective of Luther and Calvin, God graciously empowers the individual to the faith which leads to salvation and also to good works, while in the \"new\" perspective God graciously empowers individuals to the faith (demonstrated in good works), which leads to salvation.\n\nSee also Synergism in theosis in the Eastern Orthodox Church and Orthopraxy in Christianity.\n\nAn ongoing debate related to the \"new\" perspective has been over Paul's use of the Greek word \"pistis\" (\"πίστις\", meaning \"trust\", \"belief\", \"faith\", or \"faithfulness\"). Writers with a more historic Lutheran and Reformed perspective have typically interpreted this word as meaning a belief in God and Christ, and trust in Christ for salvation with faith that he will save you. This interpretation is based on several passages from the Christian Bible, notably the epistle to the Ephesians: \"For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast\" (Eph. 2:9). E. P. Sanders has conceded that Ephesians 2:9 teaches the traditional perspective.\n\nBy contrast, many recent studies of the Greek word \"pistis\" have concluded that its primary and most common meaning was \"faithfulness\", meaning firm commitment in an interpersonal relationship. As such, the word could be almost synonymous with \"obedience\" when the people in the relationship held different status levels (e.g. a slave being faithful to his master). Far from being equivalent to \"lack of human effort\", the word seems to imply and require human effort. The interpretation of Paul's writings that we need \"faithfully\" to obey God's commands is quite different from one which sees him saying that we need to have \"faith\" that he will do everything for us. This is also argued to explain why James was adamant that \"faith without works is dead\" and that \"a man is justified by works, and not by faith alone\" (Js. 2:24), while also saying that merely to believe places one on the same level as the demons (see James 2). The \"new\" perspective argues that James was concerned with those who were trying to reduce faith to an intellectual subscription without any intent to follow God or Jesus, and that Paul always intended \"faith\" to mean a full submission to God.\n\nAnother related issue is the \"pistis Christou\" (\"faith of Christ\") debate. Paul several times uses this phrase at key points in his writings and it is linguistically ambiguous as to whether it refers to our faith in Christ (\"objective genitive\"), or Christ's own faithfulness to God (\"subjective genitive\"), or even our faith/faithfulness to God like that which Christ had (\"adjectival genitive\"). There is wide disagreement within the academic community over which of these is the best rendering. The NET Bible translation became the first mainstream English Bible translation to use a subjective genitive translation (\"the faithfulness of Jesus Christ\") of this phrase.\n\nWriters with a more historic Lutheran and Reformed perspective have generally translated the Greek word \"charis\" as \"grace\" and understood it to refer to the idea that there is a lack of human effort in salvation because God is the controlling factor. However those who study ancient Greek culture have pointed out that \"favor\" is a better translation, as the word refers normally to \"doing a favor\". In ancient societies there was the expectation that such favors be repaid, and this semi-formal system of favors acted like loans. Gift giving corresponded with the expectation of reciprocity. Therefore, it is argued that when Paul speaks of how God did us a \"favor\" by sending Jesus, he is saying that God took the initiative, but is not implying a lack of human effort in salvation, and is in fact implying that Christians have an obligation to repay the favor God has done for them. Some argue that this view then undermines the initial \"favor\"—of sending Jesus—by saying that, despite his life, death and resurrection, Christians still have, as before, to earn their way to heaven. However, others note this is the horns of a false dilemma (all grace versus all works). Many new-perspective proponents that see \"charis\" as \"favor\" do not teach that Christians \"earn\" their way to heaven outside of the death of Christ. Forgiveness of sins through the blood of Christ is still necessary to salvation. But, that forgiveness demands effort on the part of the individual (cf. Paul in Phil. 3:12–16).\n\nTo writers of the historic Lutheran and Reformed perspectives the penal substitution atonement theory and the belief in the \"finished work\" of Christ have been central. New-perspective writers have regularly questioned whether this view is really of such central importance in Paul's writings. Generally new-perspective writers have argued that other theories of the atonement are more central to Paul's thinking, but there has been minimal agreement among them as to what Paul's real view of the atonement might be.\n\nThe following is a broad sample of different views advocated by various scholars:\n\nThe \"new\" perspective has been an extremely controversial subject and has drawn strong arguments and recriminations from both sides of the debate.\n\nIn 2003 Steve Chalke, after being influenced by new-perspective writers, published a book targeted at a popular audience which made comments highly critical of the penal substitution theory of the atonement. This caused an extensive and ongoing controversy among Evangelicals in Britain, with a strong backlash from laypeople and advocates of the Lutheran and Reformed traditions. Chalke's views drew much support as well as criticism, with numerous articles, blogs and books being written on both sides of the debate.\n\nThe continuing controversy led to the Evangelical Alliance organising a symposium in July 2005 to discuss the issue. A record of this symposium includes a chapter by Chalke and his views are also contained in \"the atonement debate\". A group of three conservative evangelical theologians responded to Chalke with their book, \"Pierced for our Transgressions\" (Crossway Publishing, 2007), which strongly criticised Chalke's position as inconsistent with some evangelical confessions of faith. However, N. T. Wright endorsed Chalke and spoke out against the latter book, commenting, for instance, that ‘despite the ringing endorsements of famous men, it [\"Pierced For Our Transgressions\"] is deeply, profoundly, and disturbingly unbiblical.’\n\nBoth sides of the debate have attempted to claim the higher, and more accurate, view of scripture. New-perspective advocates claim that supporters of the historic Lutheran and Reformed perspective are too committed to historic Protestant tradition, and therefore fail to take a \"natural\" reading of the Bible; while those of the Lutheran and Reformed perspectives claim that new-perspective advocates are too intrigued by certain interpretations of context and history, which then lead to a biased hermeneutical approach to the text.\n\nThe \"new\" perspective has been heavily criticized by conservative scholars in the Reformed tradition, arguing that it undermines the classical, individualistic, Augustinian interpretation of election and does not faithfully reflect the teachings of the Scriptures. It has been the subject of fierce debate among Evangelicals in recent years, mainly due to N. T. Wright's increasing popularity in evangelical circles. Its most outspoken critics include Calvinists John Piper, Sinclair Ferguson, C. W. Powell, Mark A. Seifrid, D. A. Carson, Tom Holland, Ligon Duncan. Barry D. Smith has claimed that the New Perspective's challenge to the traditional view of Jewish faith practice as legalistic is misplaced.\n\nIn 2015 John M.G. Barclay published \"Paul and the Gift\" which re-frames Paul's theology of grace and, in doing so, provides a nuanced critique of the New Perspective. The book has been praised for keeping grace at the center of Paul's theology (\"pace\" the New Perspective) while illuminating how grace, understood in light of ancient theories of gift, demands reciprocity and thus the formation of new communities based not on ethnicity but the unqualified Christ-gift (much like the New Perspective).\n\nThe \"new\" perspective has, by and large, been an internal debate among Protestant scholars. Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox writers have generally responded favorably to new-perspective ideas, seeing both a greater commonality with their own beliefs and strong similarities with the views of many of the early Church Fathers. From a Catholic point of view, the \"new\" perspective is seen as a step toward the progressive reality of human salvation in Christ. \n\nThe increased importance new-perspective writers have given to good works in salvation has created strong common ground with the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches. Historic Protestantism has never denied that there is a place for good and faithful works, but has always excluded them from justification, which Protestants argue is through faith alone, and to which good deeds do not contribute, whether with or without God's grace. This has, since the Reformation, been a line of distinction between Protestantism (both Reformed and Lutheran) and other Christian communions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198885", "title": "Buddy Sasser", "text": "Buddy Sasser\n\nGeorge F. \"Buddy\" Sasser is a former American football coach and athletics administrator. As commissioner of the Big South Conference between 1989 and 1996, Sasser was responsible for increasing membership, gaining automatic bids to the NCAA Basketball Tournament and adding basketball television exposure for the conference.\n\nBorn in Conway, South Carolina, Sasser played college football for the University of North Carolina Tarheels earning two letters, the last in 1956. Sasser served as athletic director and head football coach at Conway High School from 1963 to 1970, leading the Tigers to a 66–17–5 record. He was assistant football coach and assistant athletic director at Appalachian State University from 1972 until 1977, and was athletic director and head football coach from 1977 until 1982 at Wofford College. He served as Coastal Carolina University's athletic director from 1986 until 1989 and again from 1996 until 1999.\n\nIn 1982, Sasser was named Kodak Coach of the Year for the college division. He was inducted, along with three other Coastal Carolina University athletic administrators and student athletes, in the inaugural class of the Big South Conference Hall of Fame.\n\nEach year, the George F. \"Buddy\" Sasser Cup Trophy (named for him in 2000) is awarded to the Big South member institution that has the most successful year in athletics. Coastal Carolina University's Athletic Hall of Fame was named in honor of Sasser on June 4, 2003.\n"}
{"id": "2198886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198886", "title": "Honda FC50", "text": "Honda FC50\n\nThe Honda FC50, also known as the Honda Beat, was a scooter manufactured by Honda in 1983. It was produced mainly for the Japanese domestic market — although both new and used models were exported from Japan—making it a fairly hard-to-find scooter. It was available in red, black, or white. \n\nThe FC50 was powered by a single cylinder petrol two-stroke engine that was liquid cooled, making it one of the most powerful in its class. The small radiator was fitted behind the grill between the two headlights. It featured 12-volt electric start and CVT transmission; the transmission changed from low to high at around 5500 rpm. It had an automatic centrifugal clutch that engaged gradually from 3000 rpm.\n\nIt was made to carry only one person at a time and had no provisions for a passenger. It featured V-TACS; this was a small valve in the exhaust port that was operated (closed to activate) by a lever via the rider's left heel. Many other larger two-stroke engines use a similar system although most are engaged automatically by electric servos. V-TACS gave it more power from 5500 rpm (but it also made less power if engaged below 5500 rpm).\n\nAn expansion chamber and tuned length exhaust were fitted from factory although they were only \"average\" in design. Top speed was about @ 11,000 rpm. Both front and back brakes were drum brakes. \n\nThe dashboard had a tachometer (rpm), a speedometer, and gauges for engine temperature and fuel level. A small set of lights on the rpm dial illuminated when V-tacs was engaged; other lights on the dash lit up for turn signal, oil low (two-stroke oil) and high beam (head lights). A small light on the speed dial flashed when speed exceeded 35 km/h.\n"}
{"id": "2198889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198889", "title": "Patrick McGrath (novelist)", "text": "Patrick McGrath (novelist)\n\nPatrick McGrath (born 7 February 1950) is a British novelist, whose work has been categorised as gothic fiction.\n\nMcGrath was born in London and grew up near Broadmoor Hospital from the age of five where his father was Medical Superintendent. He was educated at a Jesuit boarding school in Windsor from the age of thirteen, before moving to another Jesuit public school, Stonyhurst College in Lancashire, upon the closure of his first school. In 1967, at the age of sixteen, he ran away from this institution to London. He graduated from the Birmingham College of Commerce with an honours degree in English and American literature in 1971, awarded externally by the University of London, before his father found him a job later that year in Penetang, Ontario working in the Oakridge top-security unit of the Penetang Mental Health Centre.\n\nHe has lived in various parts of North America and also spent several years on a remote island in the North Pacific, before finally settling in New York City in 1981.\n\nMcGrath also worked as a teacher of creative writing to undergraduate and graduate students at the University of Texas at Austin in the fall semester of 2006. He also taught craft courses for a number of years in the MFA program at Hunter College, New York, and since 2007, has taught an MFA program at the New School in New York.\n\nHis archive was acquired by the University of Stirling, Scotland.\n\nHis fiction is principally characterised by the first person unreliable narrator, and recurring subject matter in his work includes mental illness, repressed homosexuality and adulterous relationships.\n\nHis novel \"Martha Peake\" won the Premio Flaiano Prize in Italy and \"Asylum\" was shortlisted for the 1996 Guardian Fiction Prize.\n\nHe is also currently on the writing faculties of both the New School in New York and Princeton University.\n\nProfessor Emeritus of Creative Writing at Princeton, Joyce Carol Oates, makes the case that McGrath is transcribing the \"nightmares of the 'shattered personality' that resonate within us all,\" calling his short stories \"masterful and seductive, ... Bold, original, and disquieting tales are told by narrators who are themselves bizarre (a boot, a fly—to name just two) and are in most cases omniscient.\"\n\nOn 27 June 2018, the University of Stirling, Scotland, conferred on him the degree of Doctor of the University \"for Patrick McGrath's outstanding support of academic research.\"\n\nHe is married to actress Maria Aitken and divides his time between London and New York City. He is the oldest of four siblings.\n\nThree of McGrath's novels and one of his stories have been adapted into films, two of which adaptations (\"Spider,\" 2002 and \"The Grotesque\", 1995) were written by McGrath himself. The film adaptation for \"Asylum\", 2005 was written by Patrick Marber and a short film made of \"The Lost Explorer\" from \"Blood and Water and Other Tales\" was adapted by Tim Walker. \nFrom \"The Wardrobe Mistress\" to the current unnamed novel-in-progress on the Spanish Civil War, McGrath shows increased interest in the fascistic tendencies in international politics and its effects on the psychology of characters.\n\n\nMcGrath has also co-edited and wrote the introduction to a highly influential anthology of short fiction, \"The New Gothic.\"\n\nHe has published many reviews and essays, including introductions to \"Barnaby Rudge\", \"Moby Dick\", \"The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\", and \"In a Glass Darkly.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2198894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198894", "title": "R. S. R. Fitter", "text": "R. S. R. Fitter\n\nRichard Sidney Richmond Fitter (1 March 1913 – 3 September 2005) was a British naturalist and author. He was an expert on wildflowers and authored several guides for amateur naturalists.\n\nFitter was born in London, England, on 1 March 1913 and was educated at Eastbourne College and the London School of Economics. He was the only son of Sidney and Dorothy Fitter.\n\nIn 1938 he married Alice Mary (Maisie) Stewart (died 1996) and they had two sons and a daughter. \n\nHe was recruited to the Institute for Political and Economic Planning in 1936, and in 1940 moved to the social research organisation Mass-Observation to investigate civilian morale for the Ministry of Information. \nDuring the Second World War he worked at the Operations research section of the RAF Coastal Command. During this time he worked for two hours each evening on a comprehensive urban natural history of London, which was published in May 1945 as \"London's Natural History\", his first book.\n\nAfter the war in 1945 he was appointed secretary of the Wildlife Conservation Special Committee of the Ministry of Town and Country Planning, which made proposals for nature conservation as part of the reconstruction after the war.\n\nIn 1946, Fitter became assistant editor of \"The Countryman\" and moved from London to Burford, Oxfordshire, where his writing career flourished. In later life he moved to Great Shelford, Cambridge.\n\nHe died in Cambridge on 3 September 2005, survived by his children.\n\nFitter wrote many books and was active in various areas relating to nature and conservation. His wife Maisie was a colleague and collaborator on many of his researches. They were joint authors of \"The Penguin Dictionary of British Natural History\" (1967).\n\nHis son, Alastair Fitter, is a professor of biology at the University of York. They collaborated on three books: \"Guide to the Countryside\" (1984; \"Field Guide to the Freshwater Life of Britain and NW Europe\" (1986); and \"Wild Flowers of Britain and Ireland\" (2003). In 2002 father and son jointly authored a paper in \"Science\" analysing the changing phenology of plant flowering times due to global warming.\n\nHe wrote the \"Collins Pocket Guide to British Birds\" (1952), which started a series of field guides by various authors, setting a style which was helpful to the inexperienced observer by the way it was organised and explained, placing short texts alongside pictures. This had birds grouped according to habitat, size and colour, rather than the biological classification which traditional books had done. His \"Pocket Guide to Wild Flowers\" (with David McClintock,1956) had pictures grouped by colour for easier identification. His \"Fontana Wild Flower Guide\" (1957) showed which plants might be found in different counties. \n\nHe was heavily involved with nature conservation organisations including the Council for Nature, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and the Fauna and Flora Preservation Society (now Fauna and Flora International) where he was Honorary Secretary. He also served on the councils of the RSPB and the British Trust for Ornithology, and founded the Berkshire, Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire Naturalists' Trust. In 1968 he was one of the founders of the British Deer Society, which aimed to help with study, management and control.\n\nHe was also involved in the search for the Loch Ness Monster, being a director of the Loch Ness Investigation Bureau.\n\n\nIn 2008 the British Naturalists' Association instituted a Richard Fitter Memorial Medal which is awarded annually to an individual who is a dedicated active field naturalist.\n\nFitter collected 'bird inn signs.' He wrote about his hobby in the \"Birmingham Daily Post\", published Tuesday 22 March 1955. Fitter wrote that \"I just note them down in my diary whenever I see them. I started during the second winter of the war, as a kind of light relief from the somewhat grim preoccupations of those days.\" By 1955 Fitter had several hundred signs in his collection of some 38 different bird species.\nhttps://www.britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000619/19550322/326/0015\n\n"}
{"id": "2198912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198912", "title": "Craig Blomberg", "text": "Craig Blomberg\n\nCraig L. Blomberg (born August 3, 1955) is an American New Testament scholar. He is currently a Distinguished Professor of the New Testament at Denver Seminary in Colorado where he has been since 1986. His area of academic expertise is the New Testament. This includes parables, miracles, historical Jesus, Luke-Acts, John, 1 Corinthians, James, the historical trustworthiness of Scripture, financial stewardship, gender roles, Latter Day Saint movement, hermeneutics, New Testament theology, and exegetical method. Blomberg has written and edited multiple books. He is married to Frances Fulling Blomberg and has two grown daughters, Elizabeth Little and Rachel Blomberg.\n\nHis Ph.D. is from the University of Aberdeen, Scotland; his M.A. from Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, IL; and his B.A. from Augustana College in Rock Island, IL., which is also his hometown.\n\nThroughout his career he has taught and guest lectured widely on six continents. He is a member of the Evangelical Theological Society, the Tyndale Fellowship, the Institute for Biblical Research, the Society of Biblical Literature, the Studiorum Novi Testamenti Societas, and the Committee on Bible Translation for the New International Version of the Scriptures. Prior to being hired at Denver Seminary he was a research fellow at Tyndale House Cambridge and an Assistant Professor of Religion at Palm Beach Atlantic College in West Palm Beach, Florida.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198929", "title": "Umbrisol", "text": "Umbrisol\n\nIn soil classification, an Umbrisol is a soil with a dark topsoil and in which organic matter has accumulated within the mineral surface soil—in most cases with low base saturation—to the extent that it significantly affects the behaviour and utilization of the soil. Umbrisols are the counterpart of comparable soils with a high base saturation (Chernozems, Kastanozems and Phaeozems).\n\nUmbrisols develop in weathering material of siliceous rock. They are found in mostly cool humid climates in mountainous regions with little or no moisture deficit, including tropical and subtropical mountains.\n\nMany Umbrisols are under a natural or near-natural vegetation cover. Umbrisols occur above the actual tree line in the Andean, Himalayan and Central Asian mountain ranges; they are at lower altitudes in northern and western Europe where the former forest vegetation has been largely cleared, carry a vegetation of short grasses of low nutritional value. Coniferous forest predominates in Brazil (and in the United States). Umbrisols in tropical mountain areas in South Asia and Oceania are under montane evergreen forest. In the mountains of southern Mexico, the vegetation varies from tropical semi-deciduous forest to much cooler montane cloud forest.\n\nThe predominance of sloping land and wet and cool climate conditions restricts utilization of many Umbrisols to extensive grazing. Management focuses on the introduction of improved grasses and correction of the soil pH by liming. Many Umbrisols are susceptible to erosion. The planting of perennial crops and bench or contour terracing offer possibilities for permanent agriculture on gentler slopes. Where conditions are suitable, cash crops may be grown, e.g. cereals and root crops in the US, Europe and South America, or tea and cinchona in Indonesia. Highland coffee on Umbrisols demands high management inputs to meet its stringent nutrient requirements. In New Zealand, Umbrisols have been transformed into highly productive soils, used for intensive sheep and dairy farming, and production of cash crops.\n\nUmbrisols occupy about throughout the world. In South America, Umbrisols are common in the Andean ranges of Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela, Bolivia and Peru. They also occur in Brazil, in Lesotho and in South Africa. Umbrisols in North America are confined largely to the northwest Pacific seaboard. In Europe, Umbrisols occur along the northwest Atlantic seaboard, e.g. in Iceland, on the British Isles and in northwest Portugal and Spain. In Asia, they are found in the mountain ranges east and west of Lake Baikal, and on fringes of the Himalayas, notably in India, Nepal, China and Burma. Umbrisols occur at lower altitudes in eastern India, in Burma and in Sumatra. In Oceania, Umbrisols are found in the mountain ranges of Papua New Guinea and southeast Australia and in the eastern parts of South Island, New Zealand.\n\n\"Umbrisol\" is a Reference Soil Group of the World Reference Base for Soil Resources (WRB).\n\nMany of such soils are classified in the USDA soil taxonomy as \"Great Groups\" of Entisols and Inceptisols, and as \"Very dark-humus soils\" in the Russian soil classification.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198937", "title": "Syleena Johnson", "text": "Syleena Johnson\n\nSyleena Johnson (born Syleena Thompson; September 2, 1976) is an American R&B and soul singer-songwriter, actress and talk show co-host.\n\nJohnson took to music early, growing up not only with a musical father, Syl Johnson, but also listening to influential artists such as Aretha Franklin, Al Green, Tina Turner, The Dells, Mavis Staples, Whitney Houston, Anita Baker, Prince, and Michael Jackson. She would later apply her taste for soul music as a member of her high school gospel choir. Johnson attended Thornridge High School in Dolton, Illinois. Her music career was inspired by her music teachers, specifically Mr. Eanes and Ms. King. Johnson's road to music was hardly easy. Her father, Syl, was not encouraging, as his own lackluster success with his craft led him to think little of the music industry. On top of that, Johnson suffered from vocal nodules and had to go through speech therapy. And when Johnson was fifteen, her parents split up. Despite these setbacks, Johnson's relationship with both her parents and her music remained strong: she contributed as a singer and songwriter on her father's 1994 album \"Back in the Game\". After having nodes removed from her vocal cords, she took two years of speech therapy. She has seven years of vocal training. That same year, Johnson began attending Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, where she worked in classical and gospel choirs as well as jazz ensembles. Originally a psychology major, success at a talent show convinced her that her strength had always been in music. She switched to a music major and began recording her own songs. In 1996, she transferred to Normal's Illinois State University, and majored in music. In September 1997, Johnson met an assistant scout for Jive Records at a charity basketball game. That contact allowed her to send in a demo tape, which had an immediate impact; days later, she got a callback from a Jive executive with an offer for a deal. \"That's a miracle\", Johnson later observed. \"Demo tapes don't get heard like that.\" The experience renewed her resolve.\n\nJohnson is the daughter of 1960s R&B Hi Records singer Syl Johnson and Brenda Thompson, who was the first black female police commissioner of Harvey, Illinois. Syleena has two older sisters; Syleecia and Sylette. In August 2000, Johnson married former Illinois State University college basketball player Marcus Betts. Betts graduated in December 2000 and became her manager for her first two albums. On July 1, 2007, she married basketball player Kiwane Garris. Garris, a fellow Chicagoan, is a worldwide journeyman basketball player, having played for various NBA and EuroLeague teams. On August 1, 2007, after forty-eight hours of labor, their son Kiwane Garris Jr was born. On Sunday, February 6, 2011, she gave birth to their second son Kingston.\n\nAfter playing overseas in Italy for nine years from 2001–2010, Garris returned home. Fall 2010 he became an Assistant Coach at Prairie State College. Currently he is the Assistant Coach of Mountain View High School Varsity Boys Basketball team in Lawrenceville, Ga. She is a member of Zeta Phi Beta sorority.\n\nBefore being signed by Jive Records, Syleena made a few appearances on the R&B music scene. In 1995, Syleena released an album with her legendary father Syl Johnson, \"This Time Together By Father And Daughter\", featuring songs such as \"Keep On Loving Me\" and \"Piece of the Rock\". A rare video of an early song \"It's On\" has appeared on video-sharing website YouTube. Her official debut recording album \"Love Hangover\" was released on January 26, 1999. The album featured Johnson singing classic R&B songs such as \"Love Hangover\" by Diana Ross and \"Baby I'm Scared Of You\" by Womack & Womack. The album is hard to find, sometimes being sold at an exorbitant price on eBay and Amazon. Both \"Love Hangover\" and \"This Time Together By Father And Daughter\", were released on the independent label Twinight Records. Not long after \"Love Hangover\", Syleena Johnson signed a record deal with major record label Jive Records, and began writing the chapters of her life.\n\nA hiatus from school in 1998 coincided with the collapse of her relationship with an abusive boyfriend. The ordeal gave Johnson the raw material for her debut album \"Chapter 1: Love, Pain & Forgiveness\", which traced a young woman's failed relationship and the healing that followed. Johnson's soulful rasp, reminiscent of old school R&B singers, set the tone for her confessional songs about the pain she endured in a bad relationship with a then-27-year-old man in 1997. Johnson grew from the experience and put it behind her, finding strength in a sense of forgiveness and from the spiritual guidance she says she received from God.\n\nJohnson counted on her own honesty and real-life experiences to produce her compelling music. The young Chicago native confronted her own romantic pitfalls and coming of age story on her debut album, which featured guest appearances by blues guitarist Buddy Guy and contemporary R&B artist R. Kelly.\n\nJohnson wrote all the songs on her debut CD except her first single, \"I Am Your Woman\", penned by R. Kelly. Johnson began writing songs for her debut CD at age 20 in 1997 and sent her demo to Wayne Williams, V.P. of Artist Development at the Chicago office of Jive Records. He signed her and paved the way for the release of her debut album in May 2001. The album received much praise, but despite its No. 1 position on Billboard's Heatseekers chart the week of its release, the album was not a commercial success.\n\nJon Azpiri of \"All Music Guide\" gave the album 4.5/5 stating \"Songs about breakups are a staple of modern R&B, so it's no surprise that Syleena Johnson has dedicated an entire album to a relationship gone wrong. What is surprising is that Chapter 1: Love, Pain & Forgiveness is good enough to keep the listener's attention throughout... Chapter 1: Love, Pain & Forgiveness is a remarkably polished effort and, as the title suggests, Johnson has only just begun.\"\n\nSoon after, Johnson got to work on her follow-up album, \"\", which was released November 2002. Once again, the soulstress explored her personal feelings to find a thematic thread for the featured songs. This time, Johnson's shrinking self-esteem—brought about by the lackluster success of her first album and problems with her weight—provided the inspiration. Johnson realized that her strength came from her talent and her unwavering religious faith. Hence, The Voice is what keeps Syleena going. As with Chapter 1, Johnson got some high-profile help from Busta Rhymes and his Flipmode Squad, who contributed to \"Tonight I'm Gonna Let Go\", which got airplay at urban radio stations. The single also proved a success in the United Kingdom where it was a Top 40 hit; her first appearance on the UK Charts - she would later reach the Top 10 with All Falls Down, her collaboration with Kanye West.\n\n'Chapter 2: The Voice' was recently voted #62 in a list of the best Soul Albums of the 2000s, ahead of fellow soul artists such as Jaguar Wright, Adele, Conya Doss, Ne-Yo and Faith Evans.\n\nThe December 2002 issue of Vibe Magazine gave the album 3.5 discs out of 5, quoting \"Chapter 2: The Voice\" as \"...A distinctive sound, sometimes sweet, a little tart, and always strong...\"\n\nMojo, in its February 2003 issue also gave \"Chapter 2: The Voice\" a glowing review - \"...A coherent and engaging R&B album that explores love's vicissitudes with a confessional candour...Classy...\"\n\nIn 2004, Johnson appeared on the MTV Video Music Awards to perform \"All Falls Down\", her chart hit with Grammy winning rapper Kanye West. Chaka Khan would also appear during the performance. The video to the song earned both West and Johnson four VMA nominations, including \"Breakthrough Video\" and \"Best New Artist in a Video\". That same year she also earned a Grammy nomination and appeared on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\". The song also brought Syleena to the attention of the public outside the United States. The song was a top 10 hit worldwide, including the UK.\n\n2005 saw the return of Syleena Johnson with her album \"\". The record's first single, \"Hypnotic\", featured friend/producer R. Kelly and rapper Fabolous. The single was relatively well accepted; the video for the single was played worldwide and was noted as being Syleena at her sexiest. The second single, \"Another Relationship\", became another radio single and a firm favorite amongst fans and critics. Johnson performed the song live at the Apollo, to a standing ovation. The album included Production from Hitmakers R. Kelly, KayGee, & Terence \"Tramp Baby\" Abney & the Platinum Brothers.\n\nThe album is Johnson's highest peaking album on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, peaking at 75. As with Johnson's previous two chapters, she was again the victim of Label politics. Jive did not promote the album to its full potential, and many would argue they did not capitalize on the success of All Falls Down. Regardless, the album was still a roaring success with fans and critics alike.\n\nFollowing the album, Johnson scored another Billboard R&B hit with Cam'ron and Kanye West on the track \"Down & Out\", which peaked in the Top 30. Furthermore, she featured on rapper Shawnna's album 'Block Music', on the track 'In The Chi' and on DMX's album Grand Champ on the track 'Untouchable'.\n\nContact Music gave a phenomenal 5/5 review, stating \"Third album for Jive from probably the most under-rated artist in the world is just what you expect from an artist of this quality... Quite simply for sheer quality this is one of the albums of the year.\"\n\nJuly 22, 2008 saw the release of \"I Am Your Woman: The Best of Syleena Johnson\", via Sony Legacy. Johnson was not aware that a Best Of collection was going to be released, however she addressed her fans on YouTube saying that she was embracing the release as a way for newcomers to her music 'catching up' to her music before the release of her new album \"Chapter 4: Labor Pains\". The album featured the singles Johnson released through Chapters 1-3, and further includes album tracks such as 's stunning \"I'm Gon' Cry\" and the simply beautiful \"Still Open\" from .\n\nThe album did not feature any new or unreleased music, the track listing shocked many fans as a number of fan favorites were not featured on the collection. It did however feature a commentary of her career thus far and information on Chapters 1-3 by \"Dream Hampton\".\n\nColin McGuire of \"Pop Matters\" stated \"Sure, this is supposed to be just a hold-over release, keeping Johnson's fans busy until her next effort, rumored to be titled Chapter 4: Labor Pains, due in early 2009. But still, I Am Your Woman: The Best of Sylenna Johnson should be more of a reminder of an excellent career-so-far than a simple compilation of tracks. And yes, maybe some spots are missing (Chapter 2's 'The Voice/Intro' should have been considered, regardless of it being insultingly labeled as a simple intro), but more than anything, this collection is worth a listen. Because after all, as this release proves beyond a shadow of a doubt, it sure would be a shame if all Johnson was remembered for was a Kanye West hook.\"\n\n\"\" was released physically on January 13, 2009. The album is Syleena's first on her own record label 'Aneelys Records'. The first single to be released from the album was \"It Is True\", produced by fellow Chicagoan 'Toxic', who has previously produced artists such as Keyshia Cole and Monica. Due to lack of radio support the single did not appear on any of the Billboard Charts, however it was extremely well received by fans and critics.\n\nThe second single to be released from the album was \"Shoo Fly\", which immediately drew comparisons to the Jill Scott classic \"Gettin' In The Way\". The track, as with the debut single, was met with critical acclaim. Neither singles got the video treatment and promotion was minimal, which led to the singles and the album going largely unnoticed.\n\nThe album debuted on the Billboard R&B/Hip Hop Album Chart at number 42 following the physical release.\n\nWhen asked behind the meaning of the title \"Chapter 4: Labor Pains\" Johnson said, \"Chapter 4 is Labor Pains. As a punishment to Eve, He gave her labor pain. As a woman, in this world, we go through labor pains everyday. It's not just about having a baby. It's hard being a woman in our industry. We are expected to take care of kids and household, take care of our husbands, have a job, be adequate in performance, and just as good as the next man at our jobs. That's a lot of responsibilities, that's a lot of pressure, and stress for women. So that's basically what Chapter 4 is about. The album is also about love, and the good things that came of what I went through.\"\n\nAs 2009 drew nearer, Syleena appeared on a single with KRS-One, Twista and Crucial Conflict entitled \"Self Destruction\". According to Grant Parks and Coalmine Music, artists lent their lyrics for a cause they believe in with the statement \"The time is now as we approach the holidays and a new year; it will give us all something to think about and reflect on loved ones that lost their life to senseless violent acts.\"\n\nIn February 2009, Johnson appeared on Maury to perform the song \"Maury Povich\". The writing of the song was inspired by the fact Johnson would watch the show daily during her pregnancy whilst working out, and a recurring theme within the show was that of paternity. Maury Povich commented that it was one of the greatest honors of his career to have a song written about his show.\n\nIn 2009, Johnson became a member of the 'Daughters of Soul', featuring daughters of soul legends. Fellow members include Lalah Hathaway, daughter of Donny Hathaway, Indira Khan, daughter of Chaka Khan and Simone, daughter of Nina Simone. The 'Daughters of Soul' have toured the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Spain, France, and Indonesia.\n\nSteve Jones of \"USA Today\" gave \"Chapter 4: Labor Pains\" 3.5/4 stating \"Despite critical acclaim for her ongoing personal chronicles that began with 2001's \"Chapter 1: Love, Pain & Forgiveness\", the soulful Chicago native never found a mainstream niche. Unfairly, she's best known for Kanye West's \"All Falls Down\".[single, emphasis in original] Here, with her gorgeous voice and evocative storytelling, she continues to offer some of the decade's most stirring R&B.\"\n\n2009 will also see Johnson collaborate with Erick Sermon on a track called \"Serious\". The song is said to sample \"I'm Gon' Cry\" from Johnson's 2002 album, \"\".\n\nJohnson has released her album, \"\" which features Toxic (the producer behind Keyshia Cole & Monica's \"Trust\", as well as much of Twista's work) and a number of other high-profile producers and artists.\n\nThe first single, \"A Boss\" (produced by Unik), was first revealed via her YouTube account on June 13, 2011 along with the official release date for the album (which is September 27, 2011). The song was released digitally on iTunes on June 21, 2011. The video for \"A Boss\" was revealed on YouTube on July 22, 2011. The official track list and the album cover were revealed via her official Facebook page on August 19 and 24, 2011, respectively. \"Angry Girl\" featuring Tweet was released as the second single from the album.\n\nJohnson starred in TV One reality series \"\" from 2012 to 2014; lasting three seasons. The show also features other established artists Faith Evans, Monifah, Keke Wyatt, Nicci Gilbert, Angie Stone, Kameelah Williams (of 702), and LaTavia Roberson (of the original lineup of Destiny's Child). Johnson is currently managed by DYG Management. September 23, 2013, Johnson and Musiq Soulchild released a duet album with entitled \"9ine\". This album was a compilation of nine reggae songs recorded in nine days. The first single from the duet album, \"Feel the Fire\", was released. In 2014 Johnson announced work on her 8th (9th including \"I Am Your Woman: The Very Best of Syleena Johnson\") studio album \"Chapter 6: Couples Therapy\", which is set to be released on October 7, 2014. The first single from the album, \"Perfectly Worthless\",\" \"was released via iTunes on May 27, 2014. The music video was released on June 25, 2014 directed by Tangie B. Moore. The second single, \"My Love\", was released via iTunes on July 29, 2014. On September 15, 2014 the artwork and track listing was released for \"Chapter 6: Couples Therapy\" with 14 songs and includes featured artists Leela James, David Hollister & Willie Taylor.\n\nIn June 2015, Johnson graduated from Drake University where she received her bachelor's degree in nutrition science, \"summa cum laude\", 21 years after she enrolled. She was also inducted into the Alpha Beta Kappa honors society for her academic achievements.\n\nIn 2017, Johnson released a covers album, titled \"Rebirth of Soul\". The album was produced by her father, Syl Johnson.\n\nOn January 31, 2020, Johnson released her ninth studio album, \"Woman\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198939", "title": "New Zealand Cadet Corps", "text": "New Zealand Cadet Corps\n\nThe New Zealand Cadet Corps (also known as Army Cadets and NZCC), is one of the three corps in the New Zealand Cadet Forces, the other two being the Air Training Corps, and Sea Cadet Corps. There is no reference to the Army within the official title of the NZCC, but an army theme is used for the NZCC. All of its members, from the cadets themselves to the officers and the support committees are civilian volunteers. Members have no obligation to head into the New Zealand Defence Force (NZDF); however, some do choose to join the NZDF.\n\nThe NZCC is managed at a national level by the commandant (usually a Regular Force Lieutenant colonel / Wing commander / Commander), and his/her staff at Defence Force Headquarters in Wellington. (The current commandant is Commander Andrew Law, RNZN).\n\nThe country is broken into 3 areas, Northern (Northern half of the North Island), Central (Southern half of the North Island) and Southern (entire South Island).\nEach area has a NZCF training and support unit, commanded by an area co-ordinator, with advisors for New Zealand Cadet Corps units.\n\nEach unit is led and managed by the cadet unit commander, and his/her officers and staff.\n\nThere are currently 36 New Zealand Cadet Corps units in New Zealand.\n\nThe uniform worn by NZCC members is the same as that of the New Zealand Army, except that for all ranks, the lettering on the bottom of the rank insignia shoulder boards reads CADET FORCES rather than NEW ZEALAND to differentiate NZCC personnel from New Zealand Army personnel. Furthermore, NZCC rank insignia are red, a colour no longer used by the New Zealand Army for rank insignia. Officer service dress uniforms have a shoulder flash reading NEW ZEALAND CADET FORCES, rather than NEW ZEALAND for the same reason. The cadets wear a NZCF cap badge (same as NZCC logo) on their beret,\nCadets wear their achievements on a shoulder brassard. Officers who were formerly cadets do not wear their cadet awards on the officer uniform..\n\nUniforms worn by the New Zealand Cadet Forces:\n\n\nFurthermore the New Zealand Cadet Corps plans to get the new New Zealand Multi Terrain Pattern uniform when released in a joint purchase with the NZDF instead of going to MCU's. This is due to the many problems the MCU uniform has meaning NZDPM's and the new NZMTP's are better overall.\n\nCadets can join from the age of 13, and may serve as a cadet or cadet NCO until their 19th birthday. Under officers may serve up until their 22nd birthday. The exception is the sole school-based unit, as opposed to city or regional based units. Hamiltons Fraser High School Cadet Unit permits all students enrolled at Hamiltons Fraser High School to enroll in the unit.\n\nUnits provide uniform, but may hold bonds to ensure that they are returned. Unit fees are set by each unit Parent Support Committee annually. Due to fluctuating operating costs, these vary from unit to unit. \nCadets may in time be promoted to NCO ranks. Cadet NCO ranks are based on the New Zealand Army Infantry ranks, and are \n\nCadets who have received the necessary training, and have the desire and commitment to become an NZCF officer can also serve as under officers. Under officers are officers-in-training and are normally treated as officers, but are, however, not entitled to salutes.\n\n\nThe exception is that under officer is not a rank in the NZ Army. The UO rank slide is based upon the Air Force officer cadet rank, and a similar rank is used in the New Zealand Army Officer Cadet School. In the NZCC, NCO ranks are often abbreviated by omitting the \"cadet\" prefix.\nHowever, not all cadets become NCOs, but all get the chance to train and progress through the different levels of training, Basic, Corps (junior), and Advanced (senior) levels, by demonstrating knowledge of subjects in their training year.\n\nAdult members can serve in two capacities: commissioned officers or civilian instructors. Officers are commissioned into the New Zealand Cadet Forces, with the post-nominal letters NZCF, at the rank of second lieutenant, and can be promoted to lieutenant, captain or major after completing the necessary training and service. To reach captain the officer must have served as the commanding officer of a cadet unit, while officers must be an area support officer to be promoted to major. At the end of 2014, the NZCF introduced a new position of national support officer (NSO). If he or she is an NZCC officer, as opposed to an ATC or SCC officer, they will hold the rank of lieutenant colonel. \nOfficers are unpaid volunteers, therefore they receive no pay for routine parades and unit activities. They are paid when attending training courses run by the New Zealand Defence Force.\nCivilian instructors are civilians who help train cadets. They do not wear uniform, but they are generally treated similarly to officers by cadets.\nMembers of the NZDF are occasionally attached to cadet units to assist in conducting training. This is normally because they know a cadet/officer in that unit, or if they have a particular interest in cadet forces.\n\nEvery unit holds parade nights around 2–3 hours long weekly during school terms. Each parade night usually begins and ends with a parade. The starting parade is used to inspect uniforms, and to inform the cadets on the parade night's activities. The final parade to inform the cadets on upcoming events in the unit. Between the parades, the cadets undergo classroom, or practical instruction.\n\nMost units conduct classroom training in bushcraft and survival skills, and hold regular basic and advanced bushcraft camps in the local area during weekends.\n\nUnits conduct regular range training with smallbore rifles. Some units have their own armouries and ranges at their parade hall. Cadets must pass a TOET (test of elementary training) before being allowed on the range. The rifle used at present is the Marlin XT.\n\n\n\nAlso, senior cadets and officers may be selected to staff these courses (except for the shooting coaches course)\n\n\nAlso, officers may be selected to staff these courses, except for the range safety officer course.\n\nRegional skills test's all the skills that an army cadet should know. such as things like CFK, GFK, Shooting, Navigation and Drill. It is held every year in each area. For Northern Area it is held at Tamaki leadership Center, for Central it is held at Airbase Ohakea and for Southern it is held at Burnham. Every area then sends their winning unit to Nationals.\n\nNational skills unlike regional skills is much more army orientated rather, than cadet orientated and focuses more on field craft and teamwork. unlike regional skills it is meant to provide a challenge comparable to an army exercise. It also gives more freedom for the team's leader allowing them to decide many more choices for the team. it usually changes location annually to each area however it is a focus that it will only be held in Waiouru the home of the army.\n\nThe Ffennell competitions are a group of small-bore rifle matches for the youth of the Commonwealth. New Zealand Cadet Forces units contest the Class B competitions (using issued rifles and sights).\n\nOriginally awarded to the best first year cadet .22 rifle team in the School Cadet Corps now is presented to the winning team of the New Zealand Cadet Corps smallbore postal shoot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198940", "title": "Bio-Dome", "text": "Bio-Dome\n\nBio-Dome is a 1996 American comedy film directed by Jason Bloom. \"Bio-Dome\" was produced by Motion Picture Corporation of America on a budget of $15 million and was distributed theatrically by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.\n\nThe plot of the film revolves around two clumsy, dim-witted slackers who, while on a road trip, look for a toilet stop in what they believe is a shopping mall, which turns out to be a \"bio-dome\", a form of closed ecological system in which five scientists are to be hermetically sealed for a year. The film has themes of environmentalism, combined with drug use, sexual innuendo, and toilet humor.\n\nThe film stars Stephen Baldwin and Pauly Shore, and has cameo appearances by celebrities such as Roger Clinton, Kylie Minogue, Patricia Hearst, and Rose McGowan. Jack Black and Kyle Gass first came to global attention in \"Bio-Dome\" in which they performed together as Tenacious D on-screen for the first time.\n\nThe film grossed $13 million at the box office in North America. Bio-dome received negative reviews from critics.\n\nOn December 18, 2013, Stephen Baldwin appeared on Mancow Muller's radio/TV show, confirming that he is in talks with Pauly Shore about making a sequel to the film revolving around the children of Bud and Doyle, their characters.\n\nBud \"Squirrel\" Macintosh and Doyle \"Stubs\" Johnson are best friends who live together. Bud wins a round of Rock, Paper, Scissors and gets to hit Doyle in the head with a book. Their girlfriends Monique and Jen, who are environmentalists, arrive to take them to an environmental party when they discover the injured Doyle. The girls learn that Bud injured Doyle as an excuse to not go to the party. Annoyed at the boys' lack of respect for the environment, the girls call the boys from a payphone to announce they'll be joining some hot swim team guys at a party down by a lake. Bud and Doyle drive out to the lake, only to find they have been tricked, and the girls are not there.\n\nDriving back home, they pass by the Bio-Dome, where scientist Dr. Noah Faulkner is about to seal his team in for a year without outside contact. Mistaking the Bio-Dome for a mall, Bud and Doyle go inside to use the bathroom, to be sealed in along with the scientists. Dr. Leaky, the project's investor, discovers them and demands that they be kicked out. Dr. Faulkner refuses, claiming it would destroy the purpose of the experiment, and so Bud and Doyle remain. Although things go smoothly at first, this proves to be a mistake, as Bud and Doyle continue their antics, harming themselves and destroying many of the scientists' projects. The scientists plead to Dr. Faulkner, but he only relents after the two find a secret stash of junk food and experiment with laughing gas. Bud and Doyle are then banished to the desert environment section and after three days of being stuck, they discover a key in the lock of one of the windows, which opens a back door, and they escape the Bio-Dome.\n\nAs Bud and Doyle are receiving a pizza delivery at the dome, they learn Jen and Monique are attending an environmental party with other men. Bud and Doyle decide to outdo the party and hold one inside the Bio-Dome to win them back. The party backfires as it throws the experiment into chaos and Jen and Monique disavow the boys. The scientists prepare to exit out the desert through the door, but realizing their idiotic actions, Bud and Doyle intervene and demand they all stay and restore the dome to full health, arguing that the real world itself is currently not a pristine environment, with Doyle swallowing the key as a last resort. The group gets a grip on the situation and begins to fix the dome together, while the boys and the scientists bond with each other as a team, and Bud and Doyle's efforts in restoring the dome soon draw a large group of fans and supporters, with even Monique and Jen joining in as one of the supporters. Meanwhile, Dr. Faulkner, who had disappeared the night of the party, has gone insane and evil and is starting plans to blow up the dome with homemade coconut bombs.\n\nAfter several months pass and Earth Day approaches, Bud, Doyle, and the team are successful in restoring the dome. But on the night before the doors open again, Bud and Doyle discover Dr. Faulkner, hoping to apologize to him and make amends. He tells the two that he is rigging pyrotechnics for the door opening ceremony and gets them to help plant the items, not knowing they are really bombs. Once Bud and Doyle are on their own with the bombs, they goof off with one of the coconuts and, after a failed long pass, they discover their dangerous nature. They alert the others and try to exit the dome early, but the door cannot be opened until the clock hits zero, when the bombs will go off. Bud and Doyle run back into the dome to find Dr. Faulkner and get him to deactivate the bombs. After a chase and struggle, they knock him out and use the remote to disable the coconuts.\n\nWith the Bio-Dome experiment complete, the team gets ready to exit the now open door, but as they begin to walk out, Dr. Faulkner returns with one last coconut bomb, trips, and the bomb detonates at the entrance. It turns out everyone is okay with Bud and Doyle reuniting with Jen and Monique who are proud of what they have been able to achieve. Bud, Doyle, Jen and Monique bid farewell to the Bio-Dome scientists and drive off, where Doyle yet again has to use the bathroom and the car is seen driving toward a mysterious nuclear power plant. Dr. Faulkner, meanwhile, has escaped the dome through the desert window door, having retrieved the key Doyle swallowed, and flees through the desert as the police are heard searching for him to arrest him for his insane criminal actions.\n\n\nProduced on an estimated budget of $15 million, \"Bio-Dome\" grossed $13.4 million in North America.\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, \"Bio-Dome\" received 4% approval from 23 critics. The critical consensus reads: \"Like its two obnoxious protagonists, this dreadfully unfunny Pauly Shore vehicle should remain separated from society.\" Metacritic gives \"Bio-Dome\" a score of 1 out of 100 based on reviews from 10 critics, indicating \"overwhelming dislike\". It is one of ten films to hold this rating; the other nine being \"10 Rules for Sleeping Around\", \"Chaos\", \"inAPPropriate Comedy\", \"Not Cool\", \"The Singing Forest\", \"The Garbage Pail Kids Movie\", \"Death of a Nation\", \"Hardbodies\", and \"United Passions\".\n\nOn December 18, 2013, Stephen Baldwin appeared on Mancow Muller's radio/TV show, confirming that he is in talks with Pauly Shore about making a sequel to the film revolving around the children of their characters Bud and Doyle. Baldwin had also stated that he gets recognized more for his role in \"Bio-Dome\" than any other film he has done thus far. In an interview published in \"Variety\" on January 17, 2017, he reiterated his desire to make a sequel, saying that Shore was interested and he has funding, but is seeking studio approval.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198949", "title": "MakeIndex", "text": "MakeIndex\n\nMakeIndex is a computer program which provides a sorted index from unsorted raw data. MakeIndex can process raw data output by various programs, however, it is generally used with LaTeX and troff.\n\nMakeIndex was written around the year 1986 by Pehong Chen in the C programming language and is free software. Six pages of documentation titled \"MakeIndex: An Index Processor for LaTeX\" by Leslie Lamport are available on the web and dated \"17 February 1987.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198953", "title": "1. FFC Turbine Potsdam", "text": "1. FFC Turbine Potsdam\n\n1. Frauenfußballclub Turbine Potsdam 71 e. V., commonly known as 1. FFC Turbine Potsdam, is a women's football club located in Potsdam, Brandenburg, Germany. They are one of the most successful teams in Germany. The team plays in the Karl-Liebknecht-Stadion in the Babelsberg district of Potsdam.\n\nBefore the reunification of Germany, the team was one of the predominant teams in East German women's football. The team currently plays in the German women's Bundesliga and it is the only team from the former East to win the unified title. The team also won the UEFA Women's Champions League competition in the 2004–05 season, beating the Swedish team of Djurgården/Älvsjö 5–1 overall in the final, and in the 2009–10 season, winning against Olympique Lyonnais on penalties. Their biggest rivals are FFC Frankfurt.\n\nIn 1955, the Betriebssportgemeinschaft Turbine Potsdam was founded. The club was supported by the local energy supplier. The men's football team played with mediocre success on lower levels.\n\nOn New Year's Eve 1970, Bernd Schröder, an employee of the energy supplier, discovered a strange piece of paper on the company's blackboard. It says that a women's football team will be established on 3 March 1971. The identity of the person responsible for this paper was never established.\n\nThe women's team was founded on 3 March 1971, and Bernd Schröder became the first coach. The first match was played on 25 May 1971, at Empor Tangermünde and ended with a 3–0 win for Turbine. The first district championship was played a year later and was won by Turbine.\n\nSchröder was always looking for new players. He concentrated on former track and field athletes who were dropped by their clubs. Schröder became a senior employee in his company, so he could offer jobs and flats for the new players.\n\nIn 1979, the first unofficial women's football championship of the GDR was held – unofficial as women's football was far from being recognized by the Olympic Games. Turbine was the favourite but missed the final tournament. They also missed the final tournament in 1980. The final tournament in 1981 was held in Potsdam and Schröder was under pressure. He held a training camp by the Baltic Sea. However, the team struggled during the qualification. The team was unbeaten in the final tournament and won their first championship. Each player received 50 East German mark and Schröder was awarded the title \"Activist of socialist work\".\n\nTurbine also won the championships of 1982 and 1983. Their success was recognized in the rest of Europe and Turbine was invited for tournaments in the Netherlands and Italy. However, Turbine didn't receive any of these invitations. The GDR forbade the team to travel into capitalist countries. The club wasn't even allowed to travel to tournaments in other communist countries in case some teams from western Europe participated. Schröder once asked a Hungarian club to alter the list of teams. They replaced teams from Austria and Yugoslavia by teams from Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe team went to Hungary and was accompanied by a member of the SED party. He realized that there was something wrong. Turbine played in the tournament and Schröder was banned internationally for a year. After the ban, Turbine was invited to a tournament in Poland. This time, Schröder himself altered the list of the teams. Once again the team was accompanied by an SED member who wanted to force the Polish club to send the Western European teams home. As a compromise, Turbine played a friendly match against the home team. The club was now banned from traveling outside the GDR until further notice.\n\nIn 1989, Turbine won their sixth and final GDR championship. Many players retired, and after the fall of the Berlin wall, the company who supported the club ran into financial difficulties. On 1 January 1990, the BSG Turbine Potsdam became the SSV Turbine Potsdam. A few days later, Turbine played their first match against a team from Western Germany at an indoor tournament. While many male football players from the GDR were transferred to clubs from West Germany, most of the female players remained in the East. In 1991, Turbine finished the season as third and missed the qualification for the Bundesliga.\n\nTurbine became champions of the Oberliga Nordost (second division) but failed in the promotion playoffs. Schröder stepped down from being the head coach after 21 years and became the manager. The club was suffering from financial problems and sometimes the officials were not sure if they could afford the travel to away matches. Many players also lost their jobs. Peter Raupach became the new coach, but he was not successful. Frank Lange took over for the 1993/94 season. He led his team to the championship. After a 3–2 win over Wattenscheid 09, Turbine won promotion to the Bundesliga.\n\nThe first Bundesliga match ended in disaster after Turbine lost 0–11 at home to FC Rumeln-Kaldenhausen. The team lost more and more matches and were knocked out in the cup. At the end of 1994, Turbine had to play at VfB Rheine. Schröder told Rheine's manager Alfred Werner that Lange would be fired if Turbine lost the match. Turbine lost the match but nothing happened at the press conference. Schröder wanted to discuss the situation in private with Lange, but the two were surrounded by journalists and players. Schröder couldn't escape and told Lange that he was fired.\n\nFormer player Sabine Seidel coached the team for the rest of the season. and Turbine got three Russian players in the winter break. The team struggled to avoid relegation and finished sixth in the northern group. Lothar Müller became the new coach. He was from Western Berlin and now Turbine became an option for players from Western Berlin. Strengthened by players from Tennis Borussia Berlin, the defense was much better but the team again finished in sixth.\n\nThe 1996/97 season was the last season where the Bundesliga was played in two groups. To qualify for the single-tier Bundesliga it was necessary to finish the season among the first four teams. Turbine finished fifth after a rollercoaster season but managed to qualify after a playoff. The team reached the cup semi-final for the first time but lost 2–3 against Eintracht Rheine. The club presented Eckart Düwiger as their new coach for the new season. Düwiger was Turbine's first full-time coach.\n\nTurbine acquired the German international Ariane Hingst from Hertha Zehlendorf. Her integration into the team was not easy as Hingst kept a certain distance to her teammates. She did not want to go into the \"east\" of Germany. The situation changed when the club's main sponsor went bankrupt and the club couldn't pay Düwiger's salary. He resigned and Bernd Schröder became the head coach again. Striker Conny Pohlers returned from TuS Niederkirchen during the season and Turbine finished the 1997/98 season in sixth place.\n\nOn 12 March 1999, the women's section of the SSV Turbine Potsdam decided to establish a separate club. The 1. FFC Turbine Potsdam was founded on 1 April 1999. The team finished the season in fourth place. The season saw a legendary 4–4 draw at 1. FFC Frankfurt. Frankfurt led 4–0 at half time before Potsdam came back to draw the game. This was the beginning of the rivalry between the two clubs. Turbine reached the cup semi-final for the second time. However, the FCR Duisburg won 2–0.\n\nThe last season in the 20th century was finished in fourth place again. For the first time, Turbine had a positive record and was unbeaten at home. Ariane Hingst became the team captain and remained in this position until her departure in 2007. Schröder took a certain risk with this decision as he wanted Hingst to take more responsibility. This decision would pay off in the following years. In the same year, the first-ever German Juniors Championship was held. Turbine's girls' team won this title with a 7–1 win over Bayern Munich. Viola Odebrecht became a regular starter in the first team next season.\n\nIn 2001, Turbine finished in second place. For the third time, the team reached the cup semi-final but failed in the penalty shootout against FFC Flaesheim-Hillen. The team remained in second place in the 2001/02 season. They acquired goalkeeper Nadine Angerer before the season. Conny Pohlers became Turbine's first league top scorer with 27 goals. However, even their fourth cup semi-final was not successful. This time, the team lost 2–3 against the Hamburger SV. They acquired striker Petra Wimbersky from Munich, young international Navina Omilade from Brauweiler and the highly talented Anja Mittag from Aue.\n\nThe season started with a shock first cup round exit to second division side Hamburger SV. The Bundesliga season was much better. On the last day of the season, titleholder Frankfurt went to Potsdam's Karl Liebknecht Stadion for the final showdown. Frankfurt was two points clear at the top so Potsdam had to win the match to clinch the title. This Endspiel went into the record books of German women's football, with an attendance of 7,900, the league's record. The match was also shown live on TV. In the 89th minute, Petra Wimbersky scored a goal and the crowds began to celebrate. However, she was offside according to the lineswomen and Frankfurt became champions.\n\nFour Turbine players traveled along with the German national team to the 2003 World Cup in the USA. Nadine Angerer, Ariane Hingst, Viola Odebrecht and Conny Pohlers went on to become world champions. In the third round of the German cup, Potsdam faced the Hamburger SV again. Hamburg led 1–0 until the dying minutes of the game until Viola Odebrecht equalized with a desperate shot. Jennifer Zietz scored the game-winner in overtime. Turbine reached the final for the first time where they faced their archrivals 1. FFC Frankfurt. Turbine dominated the match, won 3–0 and clinched their first German cup. During the winter break, Turbine won the Indoor Championship. This was their first post-reunification trophy.\n\nIn the league, Turbine went from victory to victory. After a 3–1 win over Duisburg, Turbine had a one-point lead over Frankfurt before the last match. Turbine went to Frankfurt for the deciding match. A crowd of 4,800 saw Turbine's 7–2 win. Potsdam finally won their first post-reunification championship. The title qualified the team for the UEFA Women's Cup.\n\nTurbine was unbeaten in Europe and reached the final where they faced Djurgårdens IF/Älvsjö from Sweden. The first match in Stockholm saw a 2–0 win for Turbine. In the second leg, early goals by Conny Pohlers and Petra Wimbersky secured a 3–1 win and Turbine's biggest triumph to date. The match in Potsdam was attended by 8,700, the largest crowd ever at a Turbine home match. Turbine could also defend the German cup and Indoor Championship, both with wins over Frankfurt. However, the 2004/05 Bundesliga season wasn't a success and Turbine finished in third place.\n\nFrankfurt led the Bundesliga for a long time during the 2005/06 season. Then they lost 2–1 at Freiburg and Potsdam came from behind to take the lead. Turbine then won 6–2 at Frankfurt (with four goals scored by Conny Pohlers) and a comfortable 2–0 win over Duisburg. After a 3–1 at Hamburg, Turbine clinched their second post-reunification championship. Conny Pohlers scored 36 goals and was the league's top scorer for the second time. In the cup final, Potsdam won 2–0 against Frankfurt thanks to two late goals by Isabel Kerschowski and Petra Wimbersky. However, Frankfurt won the UEFA Women's cup by two wins over Potsdam.\n\nAfter the season closed, Wimbersky left the club to Frankfurt. Young Finnish international Essi Sainio was the only prominent new player in Turbine's line-up. After a poor start into the season and an early cup exit to Duisburg, Turbine was far from defending their title. In March 2007, Ariane Hingst announced her departure to Djurgårdens. This was followed by the announcements of Conny Pohlers and Navina Omilade that they were leaving the club after the season. Coach Bernd Schröder had to face significant criticism by the fans. However, Schröder put his departing players on the reserve bench and put some young players such as 18-year-old defender Babett Peter or the 16-year-old striker Bianca Schmidt into the starting line-up. This decision would pay off: Turbine was unbeaten in their last 13 matches and clinched the third place.\n\nAt the beginning of 2008, Turbine signed the Norway international Leni Larsen Kaurin, the only Norwegian woman footballer playing in Germany. At the end of the 2008/09 season, Turbine won a bit surprised the hard and close contest to the championship against Bayern Munich and Duisburg.\n\nTurbine won the German Bundesliga in three consecutive years from 2009 to 2011, won the Champions League in 2010 and reached the 2011 final. In this time they also finished runners-up in the German cup 2009 and 2011. They are again participating in the 2011–12 UEFA Women's Champions League knock-out stage.\n\nThe club colours are blue and white. The team plays their home games in an all-blue kit while they use an all-white kit on away matches. Sometimes the players wear a combination of the home and away kit. The third kit is all-red.\n\nThe outer side of the badge is a dark blue circle with the club name written on the top and the bottom. There are three stars each on the left and the right side. The stars don't have a certain meaning. The left part of the inner side shows an eagle. It is taken from the badge of state of Brandenburg. The upper right part shows football. The lower right side shows the letters TP which stand for Turbine Potsdam.\n\nThe club plays their home games at Karl Liebknecht Stadion in Potsdam-Babelsberg. They share this ground with the men's Regionalliga side SV Babelsberg 03. The stadium has a capacity of 9,254 places. The main stand has 1,482 mostly covered seats\n\nThe club has two fan clubs. The Turbine-Adler (Turbine Eagles) was founded on 4 December 2004. The other fan club Turbine-Fans BaWü is a regional organization by fans from the state of Baden-Württemberg.\n\n\n\n\n\"All results (away, home and aggregate) list Turbine Potsdam's goal tally first.\"\n First leg.\n"}
{"id": "2198959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198959", "title": "National Security (2003 film)", "text": "National Security (2003 film)\n\nNational Security is a 2003 American buddy cop action comedy film, directed by Dennis Dugan, and starring Martin Lawrence and Steve Zahn. The supporting cast includes Bill Duke, Eric Roberts, Colm Feore, and Matt McCoy.\n\nThe film was released in January 2003, and grossed over $50 million worldwide at the box office. It was shot at various locations in Greater Los Angeles, including Long Beach and Santa Clarita.\n\nTwo LAPD policemen, Hank Rafferty and Charlie Reed, investigate a warehouse heist and discover a gang of thieves, one of whom kills Charlie before they escape.\n\nMeanwhile, Earl Montgomery's lifelong dream to become a police officer is thwarted when he flunks police academy for accidentally causing an explosion. After Hank receives a warning from Detective Frank McDuff after interfering with the investigation of Charlie's death, he meets Earl when Hank notices him trying to get into his car after locking his keys inside. When Hank questions Earl, Earl race-baits and insults Hank to the point of getting himself arrested. A bumblebee comes along, to which Earl is allergic, causing him to panic. From afar, it appears as if Hank is brutalizing Earl when he is actually attempting to shoo the bee away by swatting it with his baton; a man catches the incident on videotape. Because of the incriminating evidence and a spiteful Earl lying about the accused brutalizing, Hank is terminated from the police force and charged with aggravated assault against Earl. He is sentenced to six months in prison.\n\nAfter being released, Hank takes a job as a security guard and continues investigating Charlie's death. Noticing an alarm being tripped at a soda warehouse, Hank goes to investigate. Earl, who is working for the same security company, is on duty at the warehouse but is slacking off. Hank interrupts the heist, and a gunfight erupts with the thugs, during which Hank and Earl cross paths again. The two give chase to the thieves but are pulled over by the police for speeding.\n\nOne of the thieves drops a cell phone, which leads them to a semi-trailer truck. Inside the truck, Hank and Earl find the thieves' van. Earl tries to hotwire the van but accidentally triggers the alarm, alerting the thieves. After a brief shootout, Hank and Earl drive the van out of the truck and escape. Inside the van are what look like ordinary beer kegs; Hank has them examined at a foundry, where they learn that the kegs are actually made of an atomic aerospace alloy, which is worth millions. Hank takes the van and the kegs to the house of his ex-girlfriend, Denise. They broke up after Hank was arrested, and Hank asks Earl to tell Denise the truth about the \"assault\". Earl promises, but when he sees that Denise is an attractive black woman, he breaks his promise and starts hitting on her, playing the victim again. This causes another fight between them, and Denise kicks both of them out. After a heated argument, Hank punches Earl in the face, before storming off. Later, the pair is cornered by police, learning that they are suspects in the earlier shootout. They escape and Hank realizes that the thieves must have an inside man in the police department.\n\nThat night, the pair trace the van's owner to an address and stake out the place, but Earl rushes inside on his own and is confronted by the thieves. Hank arrives just as Earl is shot in the leg, and before escaping, he recognizes one of the thieves, Nash, as Charlie's murderer. When Hank takes Earl to Denise to get his wound treated (which turns out to be simply a graze), a bee flies into the house and Earl runs for cover, making Denise realize that Hank's story about the \"assault\" on Earl was actually true. She slaps Earl for lying and reconciles with Hank.\n\nBased on something overheard from Nash, they follow him to a meeting at a yacht club and witness him talking to McDuff, who is revealed to be Nash's inside man. Hank and Earl share everything they know with Hank's former boss, Lieutenant Washington, and then pretend to approach McDuff, offering to sell him back the \"beer kegs\" for $1 million. However, Nash learns about their plans and takes Washington hostage first. During the confrontation the next day, Earl and Hank meet with McDuff, Nash, and their men near the coast, rescuing Washington and accidentally starting a shootout, but the trio manage to kill or apprehend most of Nash's gang, including McDuff. Hank is shot, but he survives and kills Nash by dropping a nearby crane's lifting hook onto an unstable slab of rock that Nash is standing on, catapulting him into the ocean.\n\nSix more months later, in honor of their heroic actions, Hank is reinstated in the LAPD and Earl is admitted to the force, and they are made partners. The two encounter a situation similar to where they met, in which a man is apparently locked out of his car. Earl helps the man but learns that he is actually a thief. He successfully stops the thief by shooting at the car, but the vehicle explodes soon after.\n\n\nThe main songs are:\n\nThe film was poorly received by critics, receiving a rating of 11% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 88 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads: \"The action in \"National Security\" is mindless, while the humor says nothing insightful about racial issues.\"\n\nJoe Leydon of \"Variety\" wrote that \"Despite some tasty contributions from Lawrence and Zahn, too much of \"National Security\" has the bland flavor of microwaved leftovers,\" and Tom Long of \"The Detroit News\" wrote that the movie was \"loud, crass, dumb and then even dumber.\" John Monaghan of the \"Detroit Free Press\" highlighted what he saw as an \"off-putting\" racial subtext that made him unable to enjoy the movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198965", "title": "Cross-covariance", "text": "Cross-covariance\n\nIn probability and statistics, given two stochastic processes formula_1 and formula_2, the cross-covariance is a function that gives the covariance of one process with the other at pairs of time points. With the usual notation formula_3; for the expectation operator, if the processes have the mean functions formula_4 and formula_5, then the cross-covariance is given by\n\nCross-covariance is related to the more commonly used cross-correlation of the processes in question.\n\nIn the case of two random vectors formula_7 and formula_8, the cross-covariance would be a formula_9 matrix formula_10 (often denoted formula_11) with entries formula_12 Thus the term \"cross-covariance\" is used in order to distinguish this concept from the covariance of a random vector formula_13, which is understood to be the matrix of covariances between the scalar components of formula_13 itself.\n\nIn signal processing, the cross-covariance is often called cross-correlation and is a measure of similarity of two signals, commonly used to find features in an unknown signal by comparing it to a known one. It is a function of the relative time between the signals, is sometimes called the \"sliding dot product\", and has applications in pattern recognition and cryptanalysis.\n\nThe definition of cross-covariance of random vector may be generalized to stochastic processes as follows:\nLet formula_15 and formula_16 denote stochastic processes. Then the cross-covariance function of the processes formula_17 is defined by:\n\nwhere formula_18 and formula_19.\n\nIf the processes are complex stochastic processes, the second factor needs to be complex conjugated.\n\nIf formula_1 and formula_2 are a jointly wide-sense stationary, then the following are true:\n\nand\n\nBy setting formula_29 (the time lag, or the amount of time by which the signal has been shifted), we may define\n\nThe autocovariance function of a WSS process is therefore given by:\n\nwhich is equivalent to\n\nTwo stochastic processes formula_1 and formula_2 are called uncorrelated if their covariance formula_34 is zero for all times. Formally:\n\nThe cross-covariance is also relevant in signal processing where the cross-covariance between two wide-sense stationary random processes can be estimated by averaging the product of samples measured from one process and samples measured from the other (and its time shifts). The samples included in the average can be an arbitrary subset of all the samples in the signal (e.g., samples within a finite time window or a sub-sampling of one of the signals). For a large number of samples, the average converges to the true covariance.\n\nCross-covariance may also refer to a \"deterministic\" cross-covariance between two signals. This consists of summing over \"all\" time indices. \nFor example, for discrete-time signals formula_36 and formula_37 the cross-covariance is defined as\n\nwhere the line indicates that the complex conjugate is taken when the signals are complex-valued.\n\nFor continuous functions formula_39 and formula_40 the (deterministic) cross-covariance is defined as\n\nThe (deterministic) cross-covariance of two continuous signals is related to the convolution by\n\nand the (deterministic) cross-covariance of two discrete-time signals is related to the discrete convolution by\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198970", "title": "TextMaker", "text": "TextMaker\n\nTextMaker is a word processor developed by the Nuremberg (Germany) based software company SoftMaker and available as part of the SoftMaker office suite. Earlier versions were also sold separately.\n\nSome previously commercial versions of SoftMaker TextMaker were later released as freeware (SoftMaker Office 2006 and SoftMaker Office 2008).\n\nDevelopment of TextMaker started in 1987 under MS-DOS. The program aims at utmost compatibility with Microsoft Word (adding some proprietary features like an object mode for working with frames or a simple built-in database functionality). It reads and writes its own document format (.tmd), Microsoft Word (.doc and .docx), OpenDocument (.odt), Pocket Word (.psw, .pwd), Rich Text Format (.rtf), HTML 4.0 (.htm), and plain text files (.txt). It can also open OpenOffice.org XML (.sxw) files. The standard document format can be .tmd, .docx, .doc, .rtf, or .odt.\n\nMultilingual features include a five language translation dictionary, a thesaurus in ten languages, spell checking in 17, hyphenation in 29, and user interface in 14 languages.\n\nVBA-compatible scripting is supported through SoftMaker's scripting language, called BasicMaker, which is part of its \"SoftMaker Office\" suite for Windows.\n\nFor mobile use, TextMaker can be run from a USB stick without changing any registry or system files of the host PC.\n\nTextMaker 2018 is available for Windows, MacOS, Linux, and Android. TextMaker 2010 is available for Windows Mobile and Windows CE.\n\nIt is the only word processor worldwide to support all these systems. Furthermore, the user interface is as similar as possible across all supported platforms; the PDA versions are full-fledged versions rather than scaled-down versions lacking much of the functionality of the desktop version.\n\nA read-only version of TextMaker is available free-of-charge as \"TextMaker Viewer\". Currently in its 2010 release, it allows opening, viewing, and printing of many common word-processing formats, such as those of Microsoft Word (.doc), Office Open XML (.docx), OpenDocument (.odt), RTF (.rtf), HTML (.htm, .html) and plain text (.txt).\n\nTextMaker Viewer's license allows free unmodified distribution, even commercially.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198981", "title": "Electoral districts of New South Wales", "text": "Electoral districts of New South Wales\n\nThe New South Wales Legislative Assembly is elected from single-member electorates called districts, returning 93 members since the 1999 election. Prior to 1927 some districts returned multiple members, including 1920-1927 when all districts returned 3,4 or 5 members. Parramatta is the only district to have continuously existed since the establishment of the Assembly in 1856.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198984", "title": "Hardware disease", "text": "Hardware disease\n\nHardware disease is a common term for \"bovine traumatic reticuloperitonitis\". It is usually caused by the ingestion of a sharp, metallic object. These pieces of metal settle in the reticulum and can irritate or penetrate the lining. It is most common in dairy cattle, but is occasionally seen in beef cattle. It is very rarely reported in any other ruminants. It can be difficult to conclusively diagnose, but can be prevented by the oral administration of a magnet around the time that the animal reaches the age of one year.\n\nCattle commonly swallow foreign objects, because they do not use their lips to discriminate between materials and they do not completely chew their feed before swallowing. Sharp metallic objects, such as nails or wire, are the common initiators of hardware disease. The object travels into the rumen and is then pushed into the reticulum along with the rest of the feed. In some cases, contractions of the reticulum can push the object through part of the reticulum wall into the peritoneal cavity, where it causes severe inflammation. In rare cases, the metal object penetrates the entire wall of the reticulum and can pierce the heart sac, causing pericarditis. Compression by the uterus in late pregnancy, straining during parturition and mounting during estrus can increase the likelihood of the object penetrating the abdominal wall or the heart sac.\n\nDiagnosis is typically based on history and clinical findings when the veterinarian examines the cow. Symptoms of hardware disease vary depending on where the object penetrates. The cow exhibits an arched back, a reluctance to move and a slow, careful gait. The cow may groan when lying down, getting up, defecating and urinating. The heart rate is normal or slightly elevated, and the respiration is shallow and rapid. In dairy cows, there is often a decrease in milk production. Laboratory tests are not always necessary, but increases in fibrinogen and total plasma protein often result from hardware disease and may be diagnosed with a blood sample. Electronic metal detectors can be used, but not all heavy sharp objects will be metal and it does not distinguish between penetrating and nonpenetrating bodies. Radiographs are also used and are advantageous because the location of the metallic body can be identified. However, if the sharp object is not metallic or dense enough the radiograph is of no use. If there is inflammation in either the Peritoneal cavity or the Pericardium, it can be detected using an ultrasonograph.\n\nIf hardware disease is suspected, a magnet should be administered orally through a tube into the reticulum. Depending on the type of magnet used, inserting a second magnet could cause internal pinching which could lead to serious complications. A broad-spectrum antibiotic should also be given to control infection. The cow should be confined and movement limited in the hopes that the reticulum can repair the hole. Surgery is necessary in some cases and involves rumenotomy with a physical removal of the object. In some advanced cases that don’t respond to medical or surgical therapy, slaughter is often considered from an economic perspective.\n\nGood feed management is also important; in smaller operations, some farmers pass metal detectors or magnets over the feed.\n\nA cow magnet is a veterinary medical device for the treatment or prevention of hardware disease in cattle. Traditionally, cow magnets were strong Alnico magnets about 1 cm by 8 cm (0.4 by 3.1 inches) in the shape of a smoothed rod, but today they are more commonly several ring-shaped ferrite magnets attached to a stainless-steel or plastic core, in the same shape as the single-piece original. Newer designs to help increase effectiveness include a cage design, in which the magnet holds metal objects inside a protective plastic framework. Even newer designs include a stronger array of rare-earth magnets inside a stainless steel body that resembles the original Alnico design. \n\nA rancher or dairy farmer feeds a magnet to each calf at branding time; the magnet settles in the rumen or reticulum and remains there for the life of the animal.\n\nThe magnet is administered after fasting the cow for 18–24 hours. This is most effective if done to the entire herd before the age of one.\n\nThe cow magnet attracts such objects and prevents them from becoming lodged in the animal's tissue. While the resultant mass of iron remains in the cow's rumen as a pseudobezoar (an intentionally introduced bezoar), it does not cause the severe problems of hardware disease. Cow magnets cannot be passed through a cow's 4th bonivial meta-colon.\n\nCow magnets are widely available from veterinary, feed supply, and scientific supply sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198992", "title": "Angélica Gorodischer", "text": "Angélica Gorodischer\n\nAngélica Gorodischer (born 28 July 1928) is an Argentine writer known for her short stories, which belong to a wide variety of genres, including science-fiction, fantasy, crime and stories with a feminist perspective.\n\nBorn in Buenos Aires, Gorodischer has lived in Rosario since she was eight, and this city appears very frequently in her work. In 2007 the city council of Rosario awarded her the title of Illustrious Citizen.\n\nIn the English-speaking world Gorodischer might be best known for \"Kalpa Imperial\" (In Argentina volume 1 appeared in 1983 and both volumes by 1984). Its English translation came in 2003 by United States speculative fiction author Ursula K. Le Guin. A collection of short stories, it details the history of a vast imaginary empire through tales of fantasy, fable, and allegory. It does this in a way that gained in many admirers who deem it to be one of the finest genre work of Argentina. It also gained supporters in the English-speaking world. A part of the work appeared as a story in the American anthology \"Starlight 2\".\nShe also produced many works before \"Kalpa Imperial\" including the collections \"Opus dos\" [Opus two, 1967], \"Bajo las jubeas en flor\" [Under the Flowering Jubeas, 1973], and \"Casta Luna Electronica\" [Chaste Electric Moon, 1977].\nShe was a science fiction author noted for her work about the differences of power among men and women. She focused on the pros and cons of people in power and wrote about corrupt rulers.\n\nGorodischer is author of two novels within the genre of detective fiction. Her detective persona is a female grand dame who reluctantly and haphazardly engages in the world of international intrigue. She made her literary debut in 1985 in Gorodischer's short fictional tale or noveleta entitled \"Floreros de alabastro, alfombras de Bokhara\", reappearing later in different form in \"Jugo de mango\" (1988).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198995", "title": "Conjugal visit", "text": "Conjugal visit\n\nA conjugal visit is a scheduled period in which an inmate of a prison or jail is permitted to spend several hours or days in private with a visitor, usually their legal spouse. The parties may engage in sexual activity. The generally recognized basis for permitting such visits in modern times is to preserve family bonds and increase the chances of success for a prisoner's eventual return to ordinary life after release from prison. They also provide an incentive to inmates to comply with the various day-to-day rules and regulations of the prison.\n\nConjugal visits usually take place in designated rooms or a structure provided for that purpose, such as a trailer or a small cabin. Supplies such as soap, condoms, lubricant, bed linens, and towels may be provided.\n\nIn Australia, conjugal visits are permitted in the Australian Capital Territory and Victoria. Other jurisdictions, including Western Australia and Queensland, do not permit conjugal visits.\nIn Japan, conjugal visits are not allowed.\n\nIn Brazil, male prisoners are eligible to be granted conjugal visits for both heterosexual and homosexual relationships, while women's conjugal visits are tightly regulated, if granted at all.\n\nIn Canada, all inmates, with the exception of those on disciplinary restrictions or at risk for family violence, are permitted \"private family visits\" of up to 72 hours' duration once every two months. Eligible visitors, who may not themselves be prison inmates, are: spouse, or common-law partner of at least six months; children; parents; foster parents; siblings; grandparents; and \"persons with whom, in the opinion of the institutional head, the inmate has a close familial bond\". Food is provided by the institution but paid for by the inmates and visitors, who are also responsible for cleaning the unit after the visit. During a visit, staff members have regular contact with the inmate and visitors.\n\nIn Denmark, conjugal visits are permissible. The State Prison of East Jutland has apartments for couples, where inmates who have been sentenced to more than 8 years in prison can have visitation for 47 hours per visit.\n\nIn France, inmates are permitted conjugal visits. Visits last up to 72 hours and take place in mini-apartments consisting of two small rooms, a kitchen and a dining area.\n\nGermany allows prisoners and their spouses or partners to apply for conjugal visits. Those who are approved are allowed unsupervised visits so that prisoners can preserve intimate bonds with their partners. However, prisoners are searched before being allowed a visit. In 2010, an inmate murdered his girlfriend and attempted suicide during a visit, leading to additional criticism of the allegedly lax security in German prisons.\n\nHong Kong does not permit conjugal visits. \n\nIn 2015, the Punjab and Haryana High Court held that the right of married convicts and jail inmates to have conjugal visits or artificial insemination for pregnancy was a fundamental right.\n\nMarie and Noel Murray, an anarchist married couple imprisoned for a 1976 murder, lost a 1991 appeal for conjugal rights. The Supreme Court ruled that the Constitutional right to beget children within marriage was suspended while a spouse was lawfully imprisoned.\n\nThe Israel Prison Service (IPS) allows standard conjugal visits to inmates who are married or are in a common-law relationship or if their partner has been visiting them frequently for at least two years, and have a record of good behavior. Inmates who receive prison furloughs are not eligible for conjugal visits. Conjugal visits can be withheld on security grounds or as a means of punishment for misbehavior. IPS guidelines were clarified in July 2013 to allow conjugal visits of same-sex partners.\n\nConjugal visits are a universal practice in Mexico, independent of a prisoner's marital status; in some correctional facilities entire families are allowed to live in prisons with their imprisoned relative for extended periods. Specifically in Mexico City, in July 2007, the prison system in that city has begun to allow gay prisoners to have conjugal visits from their partners, on the basis of a 2003 law which bans discrimination based on sexual orientation.\n\nPer December 2015, The Netherlands allows for one conjugal visit ('Bezoek zonder Toezicht' - 'Unsupervised Visit') per month, provided the imprisonment period is at least six months and there's a close and durable relation between the partners. This does not apply to maximum security penitentiaries.\n\nNew Zealand does not permit conjugal visits.\n\nIn Pakistan, conjugal visits prior to 2009 were permitted only under special circumstances. In August 2009, Federal Shariat Court ruled that married prisoners should be allowed conjugal visits at the designated facilities within the jail complex and alternatively, they should be granted a short parole to visit their spouses. Following the ruling, the Province of Sindh was the first to adopt legislation providing conjugal visits for married prisoners within Jail premises. Human Rights Book 2010 reports that Conjugal visits are now available for Prisoners in all Provinces and Federal territories if they are male and married. Since homosexuality is considered a criminal offense in Pakistan and same-sex marriage is not recognized by law, this privilege applies only to heterosexual couples.\n\nIn the Russian penal system, since a campaign of prison reform that began in 2001, well-behaved prisoners are granted an eighteen-day holiday furlough from incarceration to see loved ones. Prisoners also get extended on-site family visits, approximately once per month.\n\nIn Spain, prisoners are allowed conjugal visits every four to eight weeks. They are held in private rooms and can last up to three hours. Couples are provided with condoms, shower facilities, and clean towels.\n\nSince April 2013, the Turkish General Directorate of Prisons and Detention offers conjugal visits as a reward to well-behaved prisoners.\n\nThe English, Welsh, Scottish and Northern Irish prison systems do not allow conjugal visits. However, home visits, with a greater emphasis on building other links with the outside world to which the prisoner will be returned, are allowed. These home visits are usually only granted to prisoners who have a few weeks to a few months remaining of a long sentence. Furthermore, home visits are more likely to be granted if the prisoner is deemed to have a low risk of absconding (i.e. prisoners being held in open prisons have a better chance of being granted home visits than prisoners being held in closed conditions).\n\nIn \"Lyons v. Gilligan\" (1974), the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio held that prisoners have no constitutional right to conjugal visits with their spouses during sentences.\n\nThe United States Federal Bureau of Prisons does not allow conjugal visits for prisoners in federal custody. For prisoners in state custody, the availability of conjugal visits is governed by the law of the particular state. Where conjugal visits are allowed, inmates must meet certain requirements to qualify for this privilege:\n\nThe visitor may be required to undergo a background check, and the inmate must also be free of any sexually transmitted diseases. As a matter of procedure, both visitor and inmate are searched before and after the visit, to ensure that the visitor has not attempted to smuggle any items into or out of the facility.\n\nThe first state to implement conjugal visits was Mississippi in the Mississippi State Penitentiary (Parchman). It was enacted to convince black male prisoners to work harder in their manual labor. Jorja Leap, a professor of social welfare at the Luskin School of Public Affairs at the University of California, Los Angeles stated that criminologists believe allowing conjugal visits would build family ties and reduce recidivism. Over the last 40 years, most new prisons included special buildings specifically designed for \"Sunday visits.\"\n\nBy the early 1990s, 17 states had conjugal programs. According to Leap, conjugal visits declined after an increase in attitudes that prison should be a place for punishment and that conjugal visits were not appropriate for people being punished, and also because academic literature in the 1980s and 1990s argued that it was not possible to rehabilitate some criminals.\n\nIn June 2007, the California Department of Corrections announced it would allow same-sex conjugal visits. The policy was enacted to comply with a 2005 state law requiring state agencies to give the same rights to domestic partners that heterosexual couples receive. The new rules allow for visits only by registered married same sex couples or domestic partners who are not themselves incarcerated. Further, the same-sex marriage or domestic partnership must have been established before the prisoner was incarcerated.\n\nAs of 2008, conjugal visitation programs are now known as the extended-family visits or family-reunion visits because mothers, fathers, and other family members may attend these visits. The focus is on family ties and rehabilitation.\n\nIn April 2011, New York adopted legislation to allow family visits for married partners.\nIn January 2014, the head of the Mississippi Department of Corrections, Chris Epps, terminated the state conjugal program. New Mexico announced it was also ending its program in May 2014. The states with conjugal visits are California, Connecticut, New York and Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198997", "title": "Acacia pycnantha", "text": "Acacia pycnantha\n\nAcacia pycnantha, most commonly known as the golden wattle, is a tree of the family Fabaceae native to southeastern Australia. It grows to a height of and has phyllodes (flattened leaf stalks) instead of true leaves. Sickle-shaped, these are between long, and wide. The profuse fragrant, golden flowers appear in late winter and spring, followed by long seed pods. Plants are cross-pollinated by several species of honeyeater and thornbill, which visit nectaries on the phyllodes and brush against flowers, transferring pollen between them. An understorey plant in eucalyptus forest, it is found from southern New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, through Victoria and into southeastern South Australia.\n\nExplorer Thomas Mitchell collected the type specimen, from which George Bentham wrote the species description in 1842. No subspecies are recognised. The bark of \"A. pycnantha\" produces more tannin than any other wattle species, resulting in its commercial cultivation for production of this compound. It has been widely grown as an ornamental garden plant and for cut flower production, but has become a weed in South Africa, Tanzania, Italy, Portugal, Sardinia, India, Indonesia, New Zealand, as well as Western Australia, Tasmania and New South Wales. \"Acacia pycnantha\" was made the official floral emblem of Australia in 1988, and has been featured on the country's postal stamps.\n\n\"Acacia pycnantha\" generally grows as a small tree to between in height, though trees of up to high have been reported in Morocco. The bark is generally dark brown to grey—smooth in younger plants though it can be furrowed and rough in older plants. Branchlets may be bare and smooth or covered with a white bloom. The mature trees do not have true leaves but have phyllodes—flat and widened leaf stems—that hang down from the branches. Shiny and dark green, these are between long, wide and falcate (sickle-shaped) to oblanceolate in shape. New growth has a bronze colouration. Field observations at Hale Conservation Park show the bulk of new growth to take place over spring and summer from October to January.\n\nFloral buds are produced year-round on the tips of new growth, but only those initiated between November and May go on to flower several months later. Flowering usually takes place from July to November (late winter to early summer) in the golden wattle's native range; because the later buds develop faster, flowering peaks over July and August. The bright yellow inflorescences occur in groups of 40 to 80 on -long racemes that arise from axillary buds. Each inflorescence is a ball-like structure that is covered by 40 to 100 small flowers that have five tiny petals (pentamerous) and long erect stamens, which give the flower head a fluffy appearance.\n\nDeveloping after flowering has finished, the seed pods are flattish, straight or slightly curved, long and 5–8 mm wide. They are initially bright green, maturing to dark brown and have slight constrictions between the seeds, which are arranged in a line in the pod. The oblong seeds themselves are 5.5 to 6 mm long, black and shiny, with a clavate (club-shaped) aril. They are released in December and January, when the pods are fully ripe.\n\nSpecies similar in appearance include mountain hickory wattle (\"A. obliquinervia\"), coast golden wattle (\"A. leiophylla\") and golden wreath wattle (\"A. saligna\"). \"Acacia obliquinervia\" has grey-green phyllodes, fewer flowers in its flower heads, and broader (-wide) seed pods. \"A. leiophylla\" has paler phyllodes. \"A. saligna\" has longer, narrower phyllodes.\n\n\"Acacia pycnantha\" was first formally described by botanist George Bentham in the \"London Journal of Botany\" in 1842. The type specimen was collected by the explorer Thomas Mitchell in present-day northern Victoria between Pyramid Hill and the Loddon River. Bentham thought it was related to \"A. leiophylla\", which he described in the same paper. The specific epithet \"pycnantha\" is derived from the Greek words \"pyknos\" (dense) and \"anthos\" (flower), a reference to the dense cluster of flowers that make up the globular inflorescences. Queensland botanist Les Pedley reclassified the species as \"Racosperma pycnanthum\" in 2003, when he proposed placing almost all Australian members of the genus into the new genus \"Racosperma\". However, this name is treated as a synonym of its original name.\n\nJohann Georg Christian Lehmann described \"Acacia petiolaris\" in 1851 from a plant grown at Hamburg Botanic Gardens from seed said to be from the Swan River Colony (Perth). Carl Meissner described \"A. falcinella\" from material from Port Lincoln in 1855. Bentham classified both as \"A. pycnantha\" in his 1864 \"Flora Australiensis\", though he did categorise a possible subspecies \"angustifolia\" based on material from Spencer Gulf with narrower phyllodes and fewer inflorescences. However, no subspecies are currently recognised, though an informal classification distinguishes wetland and dryland forms, the latter with narrower phyllodes.\n\nIn 1921 Joseph Maiden described \"Acacia westonii\" from the northern and western slopes of Mount Jerrabomberra near Queanbeyan in New South Wales. He felt it was similar to, but distinct from, \"A. pycnantha\" and was uncertain whether it warranted species rank. His colleague Richard Hind Cambage grew seedlings and reported they had much longer internodes than those of \"A. pycnantha\", and that the phyllodes appeared to have three nectaries rather than the single one of the latter species. It is now regarded as a synonym of \"A. pycnantha\".\n\nCommon names recorded include golden wattle, green wattle, black wattle, and broad-leaved wattle. At Ebenezer Mission in the Wergaia country of north-western Victoria the aborigines referred to it as \"witch\".\n\nHybrids of the species are known in nature and cultivation. In the Whipstick forest near Bendigo in Victoria, putative hybrids with Whirrakee wattle (\"Acacia williamsonii\") have been identified; these resemble hakea wattle (\"Acacia hakeoides\"). Garden hybrids with Queensland silver wattle (\"Acacia podalyriifolia\") raised in Europe have been given the names \"Acacia x siebertiana\" and \"Acacia x deneufvillei\".\n\nGolden wattle occurs in south-eastern Australia from South Australia's southern Eyre Peninsula and Flinders Ranges across Victoria and northwards into inland areas of southern New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. It is found in the understorey of open eucalypt forests on dry, shallow soils.\n\nThe species has become naturalised beyond its original range in Australia. In New South Wales it is especially prevalent around Sydney and the Central Coast region. In Tasmania it has spread in the east of the state and become weedy in bushland near Hobart. In Western Australia, it is found in the Darling Range and western wheatbelt as well as Esperance and Kalgoorlie.\n\nOutside Australia it has become naturalised in South Africa, Tanzania, Italy, Portugal, Sardinia, India, Indonesia and New Zealand. It is present in California as a garden escapee, but is not considered to be naturalised there. In South Africa, where it had been introduced between 1858 and 1865 for dune stabilization and tannin production, it had spread along waterways into forest, mountain and lowland fynbos, and borderline areas between fynbos and karoo. The gall-forming wasp \"Trichilogaster signiventris\" has been introduced in South Africa for biological control and has reduced the capacity of trees to reproduce throughout their range. The eggs are laid by adult wasps into buds of flower heads in the summer, before hatching in May and June when the larvae induce the formation of the grape-like galls and prevent flower development. The galls can be so heavy that branches break under their weight. In addition, the introduction in 2001 of the acacia seed weevil \"Melanterius compactus\" has also proved effective.\n\nThough plants are usually killed by a severe fire, mature specimens are able to resprout. Seeds are able to persist in the soil for more than five years, germinating after fire.\n\nLike other wattles, \"Acacia pycnantha\" fixes nitrogen from the atmosphere. It hosts bacteria known as rhizobia that form root nodules, where they make nitrogen available in organic form and thus help the plant grow in poor soils. A field study across Australia and South Africa found that the microbes are genetically diverse, belonging to various strains of the species \"Bradyrhizobium japonicum\" and genus \"Burkholderia\" in both countries. It is unclear whether the golden wattle was accompanied by the bacteria to the African continent or encountered new populations there.\n\nSelf-incompatible, \"Acacia pycnantha\" cannot fertilise itself and requires cross-pollination between plants to set seed. Birds facilitate this and field experiments keeping birds away from flowers greatly reduces seed production. Nectaries are located on phyllodes; those near open flowers become active, producing nectar that birds feed upon just before or during flowering. While feeding, birds brush against the flower heads and dislodge pollen and often visit multiple trees. Several species of honeyeater, including the white-naped, yellow-faced, New Holland, and occasionally white-plumed and crescent honeyeaters, and Eastern spinebills have been observed foraging. Other bird species include the silvereye, striated, buff-rumped and brown thornbills. As well as eating nectar, birds often pick off insects on the foliage. Honeybees, native bees, ants and flies also visit nectaries, but generally do not come into contact with the flowers during this activity. The presence of \"Acacia pycnantha\" is positively correlated with numbers of swift parrots overwintering in box–ironbark forest in central Victoria, though it is not clear whether the parrots are feeding on them or some other factor is at play.\n\nThe wood serves as food for larvae of the jewel beetle species \"Agrilus assimilis\", \"A. australasiae\" and \"A. hypoleucus\". The larvae of a number of butterfly species feed on the foliage including the fiery jewel, icilius blue, lithocroa blue and wattle blue. \"Trichilogaster\" wasps form galls in the flowerheads, disrupting seed set and\n\"Acizzia acaciaepycnanthae\", a psyllid, sucks sap from the leaves.\n\"Acacia pycnantha\" is a host to rust fungus species in the genus \"Uromycladium\" that affect the phyllodes and branches. These include \"Uromycladium simplex\" that forms pustules and \"U. tepperianum\" that causes large swollen brown to black galls that eventually lead to the death of the host plant. Two fungal species have been isolated from leaf spots on \"Acacia pycnantha\": \"Seimatosporium arbuti\", which is found on a wide range of plant hosts, and \"Monochaetia lutea\".\n\nGolden wattle has been grown in temperate regions around the world for the tannin in its bark, as it provides the highest yield of all wattles. Trees can be harvested for tannin from seven to ten years of age. Commercial use of its timber is limited by the small size of trees, but it has high value as a fuel wood. The scented flowers have been used for perfume making, and honey production in humid areas. However, the pollen is too dry to be collected by bees in dry climates. In southern Europe, it is one of several species grown for the cut-flower trade and sold as \"mimosa\". Like many other species of wattle, \"Acacia pycnantha\" exudes gum when stressed. Eaten by indigenous Australians, the gum has been investigated as a possible alternative to gum arabic, commonly used in the food industry.\n\nGolden wattle is cultivated in Australia and was introduced to the northern hemisphere in the mid-1800s. Although it has a relatively short lifespan of 15 to 30 years, it is widely grown for its bright yellow, fragrant flowers. As well as being an ornamental plant, it has been used as a windbreak or in controlling erosion. Trees are sometimes planted with the taller sugar gum (\"Eucalyptus cladocalyx\") to make a two-layered windbreak. One form widely cultivated was originally collected on Mount Arapiles in western Victoria. It is floriferous, with fragrant flowers appearing from April to July. The species has a degree of frost tolerance and is adaptable to a wide range of soil conditions, but it prefers good drainage. It tolerates heavy soils in dry climates, as well as mild soil salinity. It can suffer yellowing (chlorosis) in limestone-based (alkaline) soils. Highly drought-tolerant, it needs winter rainfall for cultivation. It is vulnerable to gall attack in cultivation. Propagation is from seed which has been pre-soaked in hot water to soften the hard seed coating.\n\nAlthough wattles, and in particular the golden wattle, have been the informal floral emblem of Australia for many years (for instance, it represented Australia on the Coronation gown of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953), it was not until Australia's bicentenary in 1988 that the golden wattle was formally adopted as the floral emblem of Australia. This was proclaimed by Governor-General Sir Ninian Stephen in the Government gazette published on 1 September. The day was marked by a ceremony at the Australian National Botanic Gardens which included the planting of a golden wattle by Hazel Hawke, the Prime Minister's wife. In 1992, 1 September was formally declared \"National Wattle Day\".\n\nThe Australian Coat of Arms includes a wreath of wattle; this does not, however, accurately represent a golden wattle. Similarly, the green and gold colours used by Australian international sporting teams were inspired by the colours of wattles in general, rather than the golden wattle specifically.\n\nThe species was depicted on a stamp captioned \"wattle\" as part of a 1959–60 Australian stamp set featuring Australian native flowers. In 1970, a 5c stamp labelled \"Golden Wattle\" was issued to complement an earlier set depicting the floral emblems of Australia. To mark Australia Day in 1990, a 41c stamp labelled \"Acacia pycnantha\" was issued. Another stamp labelled \"Golden Wattle\", with a value of 70c, was issued in 2014.\n\nClare Waight Keller included golden wattles to represent Australia in Meghan Markle's wedding veil, which included the distinctive flora of each Commonwealth country.\n\nThe 1970 Monty Python's Flying Circus Bruces sketch includes a reference, by one of the stereotyped Australian characters, to \"the wattle\" as being \"the emblem of our land\", with suggested methods of display including \"stick[ing] it in a bottle or hold[ing] it in your hand\" - despite the wattle prop itself being a large, forked branch with sparse patches of leaves and generic yellow flowers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199016", "title": "SoftMaker", "text": "SoftMaker\n\nSoftMaker Software GmbH is a software company that produces office software and is located in Nuremberg, Germany. SoftMaker was founded in 1989 by Martin Kotulla. In 1991, it also added digital fonts to its offerings. Best known in Germany and the EU, SoftMaker is slowly pursuing the North American market, where it faces stiff competition from both free and commercial competitors.\n\nStudents, teachers, schools, and universities can purchase SoftMaker Office for a lower price through the \"Schulen ans Netz\" (\"get schools onto the net\") initiative, part of SoftMaker's academic sales program. Additionally, a free version named FreeOffice is available.\n\nTo promote its digital font sales, SoftMaker publishes one font each month free for download from its FreeFont web site.\n\nSoftMaker Office is SoftMaker's flagship product, an office suite marketed to home, small business and educational users. The current version, called \"SoftMaker Office 2018\" consists of the word processor TextMaker (compatible with Microsoft Word), the spreadsheet PlanMaker (compatible with Microsoft Excel) the presentation software application SoftMaker Presentations (compatible with Microsoft PowerPoint) and the scripting language BasicMaker (compatible with Visual Basic for Applications).\n\nSoftMaker Office 2016 and 2012 are available for Microsoft Windows, Linux, and Android. Its predecessor, SoftMaker Office 2010, is available for Windows CE, and Pocket PCs (Windows Mobile handheld devices). The 2006 version was also available for FreeBSD and Handheld PCs. SoftMaker began support for MacOS in their 2018 family of office suites.\n\nCurrently, SoftMaker Office supports all popular Microsoft Office file formats, as well as its own proprietary formats. SoftMaker claims to be working on ODF compliant formats, but currently supports OpenDocument only in its word processor.\n\nThe SoftMaker Office sales strategy is based on cross-platform usability along with reasonable pricing and free post-sale customer service. However, since SoftMaker Office is not free like competitors LibreOffice, Apache OpenOffice, or Calligra Suite, its greatest marketing strength is its high degree of Microsoft Office compatibility. As a major sales point, SoftMaker cites its ability to render graphs and charts within PlanMaker which are often indistinguishable from those created within Microsoft's Excel. Significantly, this level of compatibility extends to non-Windows platforms. Even on Windows platforms, SoftMaker Office competes with native Windows office suites based on its Microsoft Office compatibility.\n\nSoftMaker also claims its Office suite is faster, with smaller memory and hard drive footprints than Microsoft Office or OpenOffice.org.\n\nThe most significant areas of incompatibility, as with all non-Microsoft office suites, are in documents that use VBA scripts. While BasicMaker is a step forward, it still doesn't offer seamless VBA compatibility.\n\nSince November 2016, SoftMaker offers the application \"FlexiPDF\". With FlexiPDF, users can create and edit PDF files.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199017", "title": "In My Arms (Dick Haymes song)", "text": "In My Arms (Dick Haymes song)\n\n\"In My Arms\" is a popular song, recorded by Dick Haymes in 1943.\n\nThe recording was released by Decca Records as catalog number 18557. The B-side was \"You Can't Be Wrong\". The record first reached the \"Billboard\" magazine charts on July 22, 1943, and stayed 7 weeks on the chart, peaking at #7.\n\nIt was covered by Jeff Buckley.\n"}
{"id": "2199024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199024", "title": "B.A.T. (video game)", "text": "B.A.T. (video game)\n\nB.A.T. (expanded: Bureau of Astral Troubleshooters) is a futuristic point and click adventure game with some role-playing video game elements. It was first released in 1989 and available on several home computer platforms, mostly in 1990 and 1991. It was developed by Computer's Dream and published by Ubi Soft. A sequel, \"B.A.T. II – The Koshan Conspiracy\", was released in 1992.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" praised the NPCs and graphics of the Amiga version of \"B.A.T.\", but criticized the combat, puzzles, user interface, and arcade sequences. The magazine advised traditional RPG fans to avoid the game.\n"}
{"id": "2199027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199027", "title": "Finnish Armed Forces radio alphabet", "text": "Finnish Armed Forces radio alphabet\n\nFinnish Defence Forces switched over to the NATO phonetic alphabet in 2005, but the Finnish one is used for Å, Ä, Ö and digits. International operations use only the NATO alphabet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199042", "title": "Linarite", "text": "Linarite\n\nLinarite is a somewhat rare, crystalline mineral that is known among mineral collectors for its unusually intense, pure blue color. It is formed by the oxidation of galena and chalcopyrite and other copper sulfides. It is a combined copper lead sulfate hydroxide with formula PbCuSO(OH). \nLinarite occurs as monoclinic prismatic to tabular crystals and irregular masses. It is easily confused with azurite, but does not react with dilute hydrochloric acid as azurite does. It has a Mohs hardness of 2.5 and a specific gravity of 5.3 - 5.5.\n\nLinarite was first identified in 1822. It is named after the Linares Plateau, Spain. It occurs in association with brochantite, anglesite, caledonite, leadhillite, cerussite, malachite and hemimorphite.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199054", "title": "Myrmarachne", "text": "Myrmarachne\n\nMyrmarachne is a genus of ant-mimicking jumping spiders that was first described by W. S. MacLeay in 1839. They are commonly called antmimicking spiders, but they are not the only spiders that have this attribute. The name is a combination of Ancient Greek (\"myrmex\"), meaning \"ant\", and (\"arachne\"), meaning \"spider\".\n\nThis genus has undergone many changes, and is still under review as more information becomes available. In 2016, several genera were split off, including \"Helicius\" and the monotypic genus \"Panachraesta\". The genus \"Emertonius\" was revalidated in 2018 after being synonymized with \"Myrmarachne\" for nearly thirty years.\n\n\"Myrmarachne\" have an elongated cephalothorax with relatively long chelicerae that projects forward in males. The cephalothorax has a waist, and the opisthosoma often has one too. The colors can vary from black to yellow, depending on ant species it is mimicking, and can change over the course of its life. For example, one African species was observed to mimic a certain species of ants as a juvenile, and another ant species as an adult.\n\nThey tend to wave their front legs in the air to simulate antennae, and many have bodies that also closely resemble ants.\n\nThe genus \"Bocus\" is so similar to \"Myrmarachne\" that it cannot be distinguished without the help of a microscope.\n\nWith about 80 described and many undescribed southeast Asian species, \"Myrmarachne\" is the most diverse genus of jumping spider in this region. A few species, such as the palearctic \"M. formicaria\", occur in temperate regions.\n"}
{"id": "2199057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199057", "title": "Groninger Museum", "text": "Groninger Museum\n\nThe Groninger Museum () is an art museum in the city of Groningen in the Netherlands. The museum exhibits modern and contemporary art of local, national, and international artists.\n\nThe museum opened in 1874. The current post-modernist building consists of three main pavilions designed individually by architects Philippe Starck, Alessandro Mendini, Coop Himmelb(l)au, and was completed in 1994.\n\nSince 2008, it has had 173,000 to 292,000 visitors per year, the highest amount of any museum in the province of Groningen.\n\nThe Groninger Museum was founded in 1874 and opened its own building twenty years later on the Praediniussingel, in 1894. The Menkemaborg, a historic mansion, was donated to the Groninger Museum by the heirs of its last inhabitants in 1921. The current building of the museum was opened in 1994.\n\nThe radically modernist structures that form the Groninger Museum stand in a canal opposite Groningen railway station. They consist of three main pavilions: a silver cylindrical building designed by Philippe Starck, a yellow tower by Alessandro Mendini, and a pale blue deconstructivist space by Coop Himmelb(l)au. A bridge that connects the museum to the train station is part of a cycling and walking path to the centre of the city. \n\nThe architecture's futuristic and colourful style echoes the Italian Post Modern designs of the Memphis Group. Mendini, a former member of the firm, who is noted for his furniture and industrial designs, was asked by museum director Frans Haks in 1990 to design the new museum. Haks wanted something extravagant and insisted on non-architects to create the conceptual studies. American artist Frank Stella was originally approached to design one of the pavilions. However, his plan turned-out to be too expensive because he wanted his structure completely built out of Teflon. The municipality then invited Coop Himmelb(l)au to replace him for the commission.\n\nThe museum was mainly paid for by Gasunie, the Dutch national natural gas company. The company was celebrating its 25th anniversary and wanted to give the city of Groningen a present. Haks, wanting to move out of the old and insufficient exhibition space, suggested a new museum building. Gasunie agreed to Hak's proposal and granted 25 million guilders for the project. \n\nAlderman Ypke Gietema, a strong proponent of the new museum, was responsible for siting the museum at its present location despite acrimonious objections. During site preparation, protesters managed to halt construction for one year via the high court. Citizens' objections centred on the controversial design, fearing their homes would not sell with such a peculiar and eccentric structure nearby. Despite the controversy, building resumed in 1992 and it was completed in 1994. Local residents had to get used to the shapes and colours of the building, but it soon became a popular success.\n\nThe Groninger Museum is home to various exhibitions of local, national, and international works of art, most of them modern and abstract. Some have provoked controversy, such as the photo exhibition of Andres Serrano, but others are more conventional such as the exhibition of the works by Ilya Repin, the \"Russian Rembrandt\". While the exhibition \"David Bowie is\" was taking place at the museum the death of David Bowie was announced. The museum responded by opening a condolence register and opening its doors to visitors on Monday (while the museum is normally closed).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAndreas Blühm has been the museum director of the Groninger Museum since 2012.\n\nThe Groninger Museum is a member of Museumhuis Groningen (Groningen Museum House), which is an umbrella organization for museums and heritage institutions in the province of Groningen.\n\nSince 2008, the museum has had between 180,000 and 292,000 visitors per year, with the exception of 2010, when the museum was closed for renovation from April to December. In 2016, the museum had 290,000 visitors. It is the most visited museum of the province of Groningen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199064", "title": "Makeup sex", "text": "Makeup sex\n\nMakeup sex is an informal term for sexual intercourse which may be experienced after conflict in an intimate personal relationship. These conflicts may range from minor arguments to relationship breakups. Sex under these circumstances may be more gratifying and invested with additional emotional significance. It is sometimes conceived as a physical expression of reconciliation and rediscovery of one's partner following the cathartic experience of a fight and may resolve underlying conflicts.\n\nMakeup sex has been attributed to increased sexual desires stemming from romantic conflict. After conflict during a relationship, arousal transfer may occur which shifts anger into arousal. Experts disagree on the outlook of makeup sex, some believe makeup sex is unhealthy as it rewards \"fighting, drama, and generally bad behavior\". Sexologist and television personality Jessica O’Reilly, describes makeup sex as positive, settling conflicts which can only be resolved through sex. Makeup sex may be more intense, as it may assist in releasing underlying emotions.\n\nWhile makeup sex often seen as a form of reconciliation, breakup sex has been described as \"more like one last 'hurrah' before you part ways\". Both may have positive and negative consequences. Breakup sex \"can confuse boundaries and postpone the inevitable separation\".\n"}
{"id": "2199066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199066", "title": "Paraceratherium", "text": "Paraceratherium\n\nParaceratherium is an extinct genus of hornless rhinoceros. It is one of the largest terrestrial mammals that has existed and lived from the early to late Oligocene epoch (34–23 million years ago). Its remains have been found across Eurasia between China and the Balkans. It is classified as a member of the hyracodont subfamily Indricotheriinae. \"Paraceratherium\" means \"near the hornless beast\", in reference to \"Aceratherium\", the genus in which the type species \"A. bugtiense\" was originally placed.\n\nThe exact size of \"Paraceratherium\" is unknown because of the incompleteness of the fossils. The shoulder height was about , and the length about . Its weight is estimated to have been about . The long neck supported a skull that was about long. It had large, tusk-like incisors and a nasal incision that suggests it had a prehensile upper lip or proboscis (trunk). The legs were long and pillar-like. The lifestyle of \"Paraceratherium\" may have been similar to that of modern large mammals such as the elephants and extant rhinoceroses. Because of its size, it would have had few predators and a slow rate of reproduction. It was a browser, eating mainly leaves, soft plants, and shrubs. It lived in habitats ranging from arid deserts with a few scattered trees to subtropical forests. The reasons for the animal's extinction are unknown, but various factors have been proposed.\n\nThe taxonomy of the genus and the species within has a long and complicated history. Other genera of Oligocene indricotheres, such as Baluchitherium, Indricotherium, and Pristinotherium, have been named, but no complete specimens exist, making comparison and classification difficult. Most modern scientists consider these genera to be junior synonyms of \"Paraceratherium\", and it is thought to contain at least three discernible species; \"P. bugtiense\", \"P. transouralicum\", and \"P. huangheense\". The most completely-known species is \"P. transouralicum\", so most reconstructions of the genus are based on it. Differences between \"P. bugtiense\" and \"P. transouralicum\" may be due to sexual dimorphism, which would make them the same species.\n\nThe taxonomic history of \"Paraceratherium\" is complex due to the fragmentary nature of the known fossils and because Western, Soviet, and Chinese scientists worked in isolation from each other for much of the 20th century and published research mainly in their respective languages. Scientists from different parts of the world tried to compare their finds to get a more complete picture of these animals, but were hindered by politics and wars. The opposing taxonomic tendencies of \"lumping and splitting\" have also contributed to the problem. Inaccurate geological dating previously led scientists to believe various geological formations that are now known to be contemporaneous were of different ages. Many genera were named on the basis of subtle differences in molar tooth characteristicsfeatures that vary within populations of other rhinoceros taxaand are therefore not accepted by most scientists for distinguishing species.\n\nEarly discoveries of indricotheres were made through various colonial links to Asia. The first known indricothere fossils were collected from Balochistan (in modern-day Pakistan) in 1846 by a soldier named Vickary, but these fragments were unidentifiable at the time. The first fossils now recognised as \"Paraceratherium\" were discovered by the British geologist Guy Ellcock Pilgrim in Balochistan in 1907–1908. His material consisted of an upper jaw, lower teeth, and the back of a jaw. The fossils were collected in the Chitarwata Formation of Dera Bugti, where Pilgrim had previously been exploring. In 1908, he used the fossils as basis for a new species of the extinct rhinoceros genus \"Aceratherium\"; \"A. bugtiense\". \"Aceratherium\" was by then a wastebasket taxon; it included several unrelated species of hornless rhinoceros, many of which have since been moved to other genera. Fossil incisors that Pilgrim had previously assigned to the unrelated genus \"Bugtitherium\" were later shown to belong to the new species.\n\nIn 1910, more partial fossils were discovered in Dera Bugti during an expedition by the British palaeontologist Clive Forster-Cooper. Based on these remains, Foster-Cooper moved \"A. bugtiense\" to the new genus \"Paraceratherium\", meaning \"near the hornless beast\", in reference to \"Aceratherium\". His rationale for this reclassification was the species' distinctly down-turned lower tusks. In 1913, Forster-Cooper named a new genus and species, \"Thaumastotherium\" (\"wonderful beast\") \"osborni\", based on larger fossils from the same excavations (some of which he had earlier suggested to belong to male \"P. bugtiense\"), but he renamed the genus \"Baluchitherium\" later that year because the former name was preoccupied, as it had already been used for a hemipteran insect. The fossils of \"Baluchitherium\" were so fragmentary that Foster-Cooper was only able to identify it as a kind of odd-toed ungulate, but he mentioned the possibility of confusion with \"Paraceratherium\". The American palaeontologist Henry Fairfield Osborn, after which \"B. osborni\" was named, suggested it may have been a titanothere.\n\nA Russian Academy of Sciences expedition later found fossils in the Aral Formation near the Aral Sea in Kazakhstan; it was the most complete indricothere skeleton known, but it lacked the skull. In 1916, based on these remains, Aleksei Alekseeivich Borissiak erected the genus \"Indricotherium\" named for a mythological monster, the \"Indrik beast\". He did not assign a species name, \"I. asiaticum\", until 1923, but the Russian palaeontologist Maria Pavlova had already named it \"I. transouralicum\" in 1922. Also in 1923, Borissiak created the subfamily Indricotheriinae to include the various related forms known by then.\n\nIn 1922, the American explorer Roy Chapman Andrews led a well-documented expedition to China and Mongolia sponsored by the American Museum of Natural History. Various indricothere remains were found in formations of the Mongolian Gobi Desert, including the legs of a specimen standing in an upright position, indicating that it had died while trapped in quicksand, as well as a very complete skull. These remains became the basis of \"Baluchitherium grangeri\", named by Osborn in 1923.\n\nIn 2017, a new species, \"P. huangheense\", was named by the Chinese palaeontologist Yong-Xiang Li and colleagues based on jaw elements from the Hanjiajing Formation in the Gansu Province of China; the name refers to the nearby Huanghe River. A multitude of other species and genus namesmostly based on differences in size, snout shape, and front tooth arrangementhave been coined for various indricothere remains. Fossils attributable to \"Paraceratherium\" continue to be discovered across Eurasia, but the political situation in Pakistan has become too unstable for further excavations to occur there.\n\nIn 1922 Forster-Cooper named the new species \"Metamynodon bugtiensis\" based on a palate and other fragments from Dera Bugti, thought to belong to a giant member of that genus. These fossils are now thought to have belonged to an aberrant \"Paraceratherium bugtiense\" specimen that lacked the M3 molar. In 1936, the American palaeontologists Walter Granger and William K. Gregory proposed that Forster-Cooper's \"Baluchitherium osborni\" was likely a junior synonym (an invalid name for the same taxon) of \"Paraceratherium bugtiense\", because these specimens were collected at the same locality and were possibly part of the same morphologically variable species. The American palaeontologist William Diller Matthew and Forster-Cooper himself had expressed similar doubts few years earlier. Although it had already been declared a junior synonym, the genus name \"Baluchitherium\" remained popular in various media because of the publicity surrounding Osborn's \"B. grangeri\".\n\nIn 1989, the American palaeontologists Spencer G. Lucas and Jay C. Sobus published a revision of indricothere taxa, which is followed by most western scientists today. They concluded that \"Paraceratherium\", as the oldest name, was the only valid indricothere genus from the Oligocene, and contained four valid species, \"P. bugtiense\", \"P. transouralicum\" (originally in \"Indricotherium\"), \"P. prohorovi\" (originally in \"Aralotherium\"), and \"P. orgosensis\" (originally in \"Dzungariotherium\"). They considered most other names to be junior synonyms of those taxa, or as dubious names, based on remains too fragmentary to identify properly. By analysing alleged differences between named genera and species, Lucas and Sobus found that these most likely represented variation within populations, and that most features were indistinguishable between specimens, as had been pointed out in the 1930s. The fact that the single skull assigned to \"P. transouralicum\" or \"Indricotherium\" was domed, while others were flat at the top was attributed to sexual dimorphism; it is possible that \"P. bugtiense\" fossils represent the female, while \"P. transouralicum\" represents the male of the same species.\n\nAccording to Lucas and Sobus, the type species \"P. bugtiense\" from the late Oligocene of Pakistan includes junior synonyms such as \"B. osborni\" and \"P. zhajremensis\". \"P. transouralicum\" from the late Oligocene of Kazakhstan, Mongolia, and northern China includes \"B. grangeri\" and \"I. minus\". In 2013, the American palaeontologist Donald Prothero suggested that \"P. orgosensis\" may be distinct enough to warrant its original genus name \"Dzungariotherium\", though its exact position requires evaluation. \"P. prohorovi\" from the late Oligocene of Kazakhstan may be too incomplete for its position to be resolved in relation to the other species; the same applies to proposed species such as \"I. intermedium\" and \"P. tienshanensis\", as well as the genus \"Benaratherium\". Though the genus name \"Indricotherium\" is now a junior synonym of \"Paraceratherium\", the subfamily name Indricotheriinae is still in use because genus name synonymy does not affect the names of higher level taxa that are derived from these. Members of the subfamily are therefore still commonly referred to as indricotheres.\n\nIn contrast to the revision by Lucas and Sobus, a 2003 paper by Chinese palaeontologist Jie Ye and colleagues suggested that \"Indricotherium\" and \"Dzungariotherium\" were valid genera, and that \"P. prohorovi\" did not belong in \"Paraceratherium\". They also recognised the validity of species such as \"P. lipidus\", \"P. tienshanensis\", and \"P. sui\". A 2004 paper by Chinese palaeontologist Tao Deng and colleagues also recognised three distinct genera. Some western writers have similarly used names otherwise considered invalid since the 1989 revision, but without providing detailed analysis and justification.\n\nThe superfamily Rhinocerotoidea, which includes modern rhinoceroses, can be traced back to the early Eoceneabout 50 million years agowith early precursors such as \"Hyrachyus\". Rhinocerotoidea contains three families; Amynodontidae, Rhinocerotidae (\"true rhinoceroses\"), and Hyracodontidae. The diversity within the rhinoceros group was much larger in prehistoric times; they ranged from dog-sized to the size of \"Paraceratherium\". There were long-legged, cursorial forms adapted for running and squat, semi aquatic forms. Most species did not have horns. Rhinoceros fossils are identified as such mainly by characteristics of their teeth, which is the part of the animals most likely to be preserved. The upper molars of most rhinoceroses have a pi-shaped (π) pattern on the crown, and each lower molar has paired L-shapes. Various skull features are also used for identification of fossil rhinoceroses.\n\nThe subfamily Indricotheriinae, to which \"Paraceratherium\" belongs, was first classified as part of the family Hyracodontidae by the American palaeontologist Leonard B. Radinsky in 1966. Previously, they had been regarded as a subfamily within Rhinocerotidea, or even a full family, Indricotheriidae. In a 1999 cladistic study of tapiromorphs, the American palaeontologist Luke Holbrook found indricotheres to be outside the hyracodontid clade, and wrote that they may not be a monophyletic (natural) grouping. Radinsky's scheme is the prevalent hypothesis today. The hyracodont family contains long-legged members adapted to running, such as \"Hyracodon\", and were distinguished by incisor characteristics. Indricotheres are distinguished from other hyracodonts by their larger size and the derived structure of their snouts, incisors and canines. The earliest known indricothere is the dog-sized \"Forstercooperia\" from the middle and late Eocene of western North America and Asia. The cow-sized \"Juxia\" is known from the middle Eocene; by the late Eocene the genus \"Urtinotherium\" of Asia had almost reached the size of \"Paraceratherium\". \"Paraceratherium\" itself lived in Eurasia during the Oligocene period, 23 to 34 million years ago. The genus is distinguished from other indricotheres by its large size, nasal incision that would have supported a muscular snout, and its down-turned premaxillae. It had also lost the second and third lower incisors, lower canines, and lower first premolars.\n\nThe cladogram below follows the 1989 analysis of Indricotheriinae by Lucas and Sobus, and shows the closest relatives of \"Paraceratherium\":\n\nLucas and colleagues had reached similar conclusions in a previous 1981 analysis of \"Forstercooperia\", wherein they still retained \"Paraceratherium\" and \"Indricotherium\" as separate genera. In 2016, the Chinese researchers Haibing Wang and colleagues used the name Paraceratheriidae for the family and paraceratheriine for the subfamily, and placed them outside of Hyracodontidae.\n\n\"Paraceratherium\" is one of the largest known land mammals that have ever existed, but its precise size is unclear because of the lack of complete specimens. Its total body length was estimated as from front to back by Granger and Gregory in 1936, and by the Soviet palaeontologist Vera Gromova in 1959, but the former estimate is now considered exaggerated. The weight of \"Paraceratherium\" was similar to that of some extinct proboscideans, with the largest complete skeleton known belonging to the steppe mammoth (\"Mammuthus trogontherii\"). Despite its roughly equivalent mass, \"Paraceratherium\" might have been taller than any proboscidean. Its shoulder height was estimated as at the shoulders by Granger and Gregory, but by the American palaeontologist Gregory S. Paul in 1997. The neck was estimated at long by the palaeontologists Michael P. Taylor and Mathew J. Wedel in 2013.\n\nEarly estimates of are now considered exaggerated; it may have been in the range of at maximum, and as low as on average. Calculations have mainly been based on fossils of \"P. transouralicum\" because this species is known from the most complete remains. Estimates have been based on skull, teeth, and limb bone measurements, but the known bone elements are represented by individuals of different sizes, so all skeletal reconstructions are composite extrapolations, resulting in several weight ranges. \n\nThere are no indications of the colour and skin texture of the animal because no skin impressions or mummies are known. Most life restorations show the creature's skin as thick, folded, grey, and hairless, based on modern rhinoceroses. Because hair retains body heat, modern large mammals such as elephants and rhinoceroses are largely hairless. Prothero has proposed that, contrary to most depictions, \"Paraceratherium\" had large elephant-like ears that it used for thermoregulation. The ears of elephants enlarge the body's surface area and are filled with blood vessels, making the dissipation of excess heat easier. According to Prothero, this would have been true for \"Paraceratherium\", as indicated by the robust bones around the ear openings. The palaeontologists Pierre-Olivier Antoine and Darren Naish have expressed scepticism towards this idea.\n\nThe largest skulls of \"Paraceratherium\" are around long, at the back of the skull, and wide across by the zygomatic arches. \"Paraceratherium\" had a long forehead, which was smooth and lacked the roughened area that serves as attachment point for the horns of other rhinoceroses. The bones above the nasal region are long and the nasal incision goes far into the skull. This indicates that \"Paraceratherium\" had a prehensile upper lip similar to that of the black rhinoceros and the Indian rhinoceros, or a short proboscis (trunk) as in tapirs. The back of the skull was low and narrow, without the large lambdoid crests at the top and along the sagittal crest, which are otherwise found in horned and tusked animals that need strong muscles to push and fight. It also had a deep pit for the attachment of nuchal ligaments, which hold up the skull automatically. The occipital condyle was very wide and \"Paraceratherium\" appears to have had large, strong neck muscles, which allowed it to sweep its head strongly downwards while foraging from branches. One skull of \"P. transouralicum\" has a domed forehead, whereas others have flat foreheads, possibly because of sexual dimorphism. A brain endocast of \"P. transouralicum\" shows it was only 8 percent of the skull length, while the brain of the Indian rhinoceros is 17.7 percent of its skull length.\n\nThe species of \"Paraceratherium\" are mainly discernible through skull characteristics. \"P. bugtiense\" had features such as relatively slender maxillae and premaxillae, shallow skull roofs, mastoid-paroccipital processes that were relatively thin and placed back on the skull, a lambdoid crest, which extended less back, and an occipital condyle with a horizontal orientation, which it shared with \"Dzungariotherium\". \"P. transouralicum\" had robust maxillae and premaxillae, upturned zygomata, domed frontal bones, thick mastoid-paroccipital processes, a lambdoid crest that extended back, and occipital condyles with a vertical orientation. \"P. huangheense\" differed from \"P. bugtiense\" only in the anatomy of the rear portion of the jaw, as well as its larger size.\n\nUnlike those of most primitive rhinoceroses, the front teeth of \"Paraceratherium\" were reduced to a single pair of incisors in either jaw, which were large and conical, and have been described as tusks. The upper incisors pointed downwards; the lower ones were shorter and pointed forwards. Among known rhinoceroses, this arrangement is unique to \"Paraceratherium\" and the related \"Urtinotherium\". The incisors may have been larger in males. The canine teeth otherwise found behind the incisors were lost. The incisors were separated from the row of cheek teeth by a large diastema (gap). This feature is found in mammals where the incisors and cheek teeth have different specialisations. The upper molars, except for the third upper molar that was V-shaped, had a pi-shaped (π) pattern and a reduced metastyle. The premolars only partially formed the pi pattern. Each molar was the size of a human fist; among mammals they were only exceeded in size by proboscideans, though they were small relative to the size of the skull. The lower cheek teeth were L-shaped, which is typical of rhinoceroses.\n\nNo complete set of vertebrae and ribs of \"Paraceratherium\" has yet been found and the tail is completely unknown. The atlas and axis vertebrae of the neck were wider than in most modern rhinoceroses, with space for strong ligaments and muscles that would be needed to hold up the large head. The rest of the vertebrae were also very wide, and had large zygapophyses with much room for muscles, tendons, ligaments, and nerves, to support the head, neck, and spine. The neural spines were long and formed a long \"hump\" along the back, where neck muscles and nuchal ligaments for holding up the skull were attached. The ribs were similar to those of modern rhinoceroses, but the ribcage would have looked smaller in proportion to the long legs and large bodies, because modern rhinoceroses are comparatively short-limbed. The last vertebra of the lower back was fused to the sacrum, a feature found in advanced rhinoceroses. Like sauropod dinosaurs, \"Paraceratherium\" had pleurocoel-like openings (hollow parts of the bone) in their pre-sacral vertebrae, which probably helped to lighten the skeleton.\n\nThe limbs were large and robust to support the animal's large weight, and were in some ways similar to and convergent with those of elephants and sauropod dinosaurs with their likewise graviportal (heavy and slow moving) builds. Unlike such animals, which tend to lengthen the upper limb bones while shortening, fusing and compressing the lower limb, hand, and foot bones, \"Paraceratherium\" had short upper limb bones and long hand and foot bonesexcept for the disc-shaped phalangessimilar to the running rhinoceroses from which they descended. Some foot bones were almost long. The thigh bones typically measured , a size only exceeded by those of some elephants and dinosaurs. The thigh bones were pillar-like and much thicker and more robust than those of other rhinoceroses, and the three trochanters on the sides were much reduced, as this robustness diminished their importance. The limbs were held in a column-like posture instead of bent, as in smaller animals, which reduced the need for large limb muscles. The front limbs had three toes.\n\nDue to the fragmentary nature of known \"Paraceratherium\" fossils, the skeleton of the animal has been reconstructed in several different ways since its discovery. In 1923, Matthew supervised an artist to draw a reconstruction of the skeleton based on the even less complete \"P. transouralicum\" specimens known by then, using the proportions of a modern rhinoceros as a guide. The result was too squat and compact, and Osborn had a more slender version drawn later the same year. Some later life restorations have made the animal too slender, with little regard to the underlying skeleton. Gromova published a more complete skeletal reconstruction in 1959, based on the \"P. transouralicum\" skeleton from the Aral Formation, but this also lacked several neck vertebrae.\n\nThe British zoologist Robert M. Alexander suggested in 1988 that overheating may have been a serious problem in \"Paraceratherium\" due to its size. According to Prothero, the best living analogues for \"Paraceratherium\" may be large mammals such as elephants, rhinoceroses and hippopotamuses. To aid in thermoregulation, these animals cool down during the day by resting in the shade or by wallowing in water and mud. They also forage and move mainly at night. Because of its large size, \"Paraceratherium\" would not have been able to run and move quickly, but they would have been able to cross large distances, which would be necessary in an environment with a scarcity of food. They may therefore have had large home ranges and have been migratory. Prothero suggests that animals as big as indricotheres would need very large home ranges or territories of at least and that, because of a scarcity of resources, there would have been little room in Asia for many populations or a multitude of nearly identical species and genera. This principle is called competitive exclusion; it is used to explain how the black rhinoceros (a browser) and white rhinoceros (a grazer) exploit different niches in the same areas of Africa.\n\nMost terrestrial predators in their habitat were no bigger than a modern wolf and were not a threat to \"Paraceratherium\". Adult individuals would be too large for any land predators to attack, but the young would have been vulnerable. Bite marks on bones from the Bugti beds indicate that even adults may have been preyed on by -long crocodiles, \"Crocodylus bugtiensis\". As in elephants, the gestation period of \"Paraceratherium\" may have been lengthy and individuals may have had long lifespans. \"Paraceratherium\" may have lived in small herds, perhaps consisting of females and their calves, which they protected from predators. It has been proposed that may be the maximum weight possible for land mammals, and \"Paraceratherium\" was close to this limit. The reasons mammals cannot reach the much larger size of sauropod dinosaurs are unknown. The reason may be ecological instead of biomechanical, and perhaps related to reproduction strategies. Movement, sound, and other behaviours seen in CGI documentaries such as \"Walking With Beasts\" are entirely conjectural.\n\nThe simple, low-crowned teeth indicate that \"Paraceratherium\" was a browser with a diet consisting of relatively soft leaves and shrubs. Later rhinoceroses were grazers, with high-crowned teeth because their diets contained grit that quickly wore down their teeth. Studies of mesowear on \"Paraceratherium\" teeth confirm the creatures had a diet of soft leaves; microwear studies have yet to be conducted. Isotope analysis shows that \"Paraceratherium\" fed chiefly on C3 plants, which are mainly leaves. Like its perissodactyl relatives, the horses, tapirs, and other rhinoceroses, \"Paraceratherium\" would have been a hindgut fermenter; it would extract relatively little nutrition from its food and would have to eat large volumes to survive. Like other large herbivores, \"Paraceratherium\" would have had a large digestive tract.\n\nGranger and Gregory argued that the large incisors were used for defence or for loosening shrubs by moving the neck downwards, thereby acting as picks and levers. Tapirs use their proboscis to wrap around branches while stripping off bark with the front teeth; this ability would have been helpful to \"Paraceratherium\". Some Russian authors suggested that the tusks were probably used for breaking twigs, stripping bark and bending high branches and that, because species from the early Oligocene had larger tusks than later ones, they probably had a more bark than leaf based diet. Since the species involved are now known to have been contemporaneous, and the differences in tusks are now thought to be sexually dimorphic, the latter idea is not accepted today. Herds of \"Paraceratherium\" may have migrated while continuously foraging from tall trees, which smaller mammals could not reach. Osborn suggested that its mode of foraging would have been similar to that of the high-browsing giraffe and okapi, rather than to modern rhinoceroses, whose heads are carried close to the ground.\n\nRemains assignable to \"Paraceratherium\" have been found in early to late Oligocene (34–23 million years ago) formations across Eurasia, in modern-day China, Mongolia, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria, and the Balkans. Their distribution may be correlated with the palaeogeographic development of the Alpine-Himalayan mountain belt. The range of \"Paraceratherium\" finds implies that they inhabited a continuous landmass with a similar environment across it, but this is contradicted by palaeogeographic maps that show this area had various marine barriers, so the genus was successful in being widely distributed despite this. The fauna which coexisted with \"Paraceratherium\" included other rhinoceroses, artiodactyls, rodents, beardogs, weasels, hyaenodonts, nimravids and cats.\n\nThe habitat of \"Paraceratherium\" appears to have varied across its range, based on the types of geological formations it has been found in. The Hsanda Gol Formation of Mongolia represents an arid desert basin, and the environment is thought to have had few tall trees and limited brush cover, as the fauna consisted mainly of animals that fed from tree tops or close to the ground. A study of fossil pollen showed that much of China was woody shrubland, with plants such as saltbush, mormon tea (\"Ephedra\"), and nitre bush (\"Nitraria\"), all adapted to arid environments. Trees were rare, and concentrated near groundwater. The parts of China where \"Paraceratherium\" lived had dry lakes and abundant sand dunes, and the most common plant fossils are leaves of the desert-adapted \"Palibinia\". Trees in Mongolia and China included birch, elm, oaks, and other deciduous trees, while Siberia and Kazakhstan also had walnut trees. Dera Bugti in Pakistan had dry, temperate to subtropical forest.\n\nThe reasons \"Paraceratherium\" became extinct after surviving for about 11 million years are unknown, but it is unlikely that there was a single cause. Theories include climate change, low reproduction rate, and invasion by gomphothere proboscideans from Africa in the late Oligocene (between 28 and 23 million years ago). Gomphotheres may have been able to considerably change the habitats they entered, in the same way that African elephants do today, by destroying trees and turning woodland into grassland. Once their food source became scarce and their numbers dwindled, \"Paraceratherium\" populations would have become more vulnerable to other threats. Large predators like \"Hyainailurus\" and \"Amphicyon\" also entered Asia from Africa during the early Miocene (between 23 and 16 million years ago); these may have preyed on \"Paraceratherium\" calves. Other herbivores also invaded Asia during this time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199069", "title": "Iranian Canadians", "text": "Iranian Canadians\n\nIranian Canadians or Persian Canadians are citizens of Canada whose national background is traced from Iran or are people possessing Iranian and Canadian dual citizenship. From the 2016 Canadian census, the main communities can be found in Southern Ontario, British Columbia, and Quebec. The vast majority, however, live in northern suburbs of Toronto such as Richmond Hill, Vaughan, Markham, and Thornhill, and in certain municipalities of Vancouver, including North Vancouver, West Vancouver, Burnaby, and Coquitlam. a total of 97,110 Iranians reside in the Greater Toronto Area, 46,255 in the Greater Vancouver Area, and 23,410 in the Greater Montreal Area, with the remainder spread out in the other major cities of Canada, based on the 2016 Canadian Census. These numbers represent the people who stated \"Iranian\" as their single or joint ethnic origin in the census survey.\n\nIranian-Canadian is used interchangeably with Persian-Canadian, partly due to the fact that, in the Western world, Iran was known as \"Persia\". On the Nowruz of 1935, Reza Shah Pahlavi asked foreign delegates to use the term Iran, the endonym of the country used since the Sasanian Empire, in formal correspondence. Since then the use of the word \"Iran\" has become more common in the Western countries. This also changed the usage of the terms for Iranian nationality, and the common adjective for citizens of Iran changed from \"Persian\" to \"Iranian\". In 1959, the government of Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi, Reza Shah Pahlavi's son, announced that both \"Persia\" and \"Iran\" could officially be used interchangeably. However the issue is still debated today. \n\nThere is a tendency among Iranian-Canadians to categorize themselves as \"Persian\" rather than \"Iranian\", mainly to dissociate themselves from the Islamic regime of Iran which is in charge since the 1979 Revolution and the negativity associated with it, and also to distinguish themselves as being of Persian ethnicity, which comprise about 65% of Iran's population. While the majority of Iranian-Canadians come from Persian backgrounds, there is a significant number of non-Persian Iranians such as Azeris and Kurds within the Iranian-Canadian community, leading some scholars to believe that the label \"Iranian\" is more inclusive, since the label \"Persian\" excludes non-Persian minorities. The \"Collins English Dictionary\" uses a variety of similar and overlapping definitions for the terms \"Persian\" and \"Iranian\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVarious Persian-language media (including TV and newspapers) are active in Canada, including Shahrvand and Salam Toronto, which cover local events as well.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199076", "title": "Lebanese Canadians", "text": "Lebanese Canadians\n\nLebanese Canadians are Canadians of Lebanese origin. According to the 2016 Census there were 219,555 Canadians who claimed Lebanese ancestry, showing an increase compared to the 2006 Census, making them by far the largest group of people with Arabic-speaking roots.\n\nLebanese immigration began in 1882. The first Lebanese immigrant to Canada was Abraham Bounadere (Ibrahim Abu Nadir) from Zahlé in Lebanon who settled in Montreal. Because of situations within Lebanon and restrictive Canadian laws these immigrants were 90% Christian. These immigrants were mostly economic migrants seeking greater prosperity in the New World.\n\nIn more recent years this pattern has changed, and large numbers of Lebanese Muslims and Druze have come to Canada. Immigration laws were liberalized after the Second World War, and immigration steadily increased in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe greatest influx of Lebanese was during the Lebanese Civil War (1975-1990), and this period saw a number of Lebanon's wealthiest and best educated move to Canada to flee the violence in their homeland. Canada and Australia were the only western countries to set up special programs to enable Lebanese to more easily emigrate. Canada set up an office in Cyprus to process Lebanese refugees.\n\nThe media has reported that as many as 50,000 of Lebanese-Canadians were in Lebanon during the summer of 2006, with about half of them permanently residing there. During 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict the large number of Canadians caught in the middle of the Israeli onslaught led to a major effort to evacuate them from the war zone. It also led some to accuse some of those holding Canadian citizenship of being Canadians of convenience.\n\nMany Lebanese speak French and prefer to settle in francophone Montreal rather than anglophone Toronto and Vancouver, British Columbia. About half the Lebanese-Canadian community is located in and around Montreal, and most Lebanese-Canadian organizations, especially religious ones, are based in that city.\n\nLebanese Canadians account for a larger share of the population of Ottawa than that of any other census metropolitan area across the country, constituting over 2% of the total population of the National Capital Region. Canadians of Lebanese origin also made up more than 1% of the total populations of both Montreal and Halifax, while the figure was close to 1% in both Calgary and Edmonton. In Toronto, people of Lebanese origin made up less than a half a per cent of the total population. There are also substantial Lebanese populations in Vancouver, Windsor, London, Edmonton, Fredericton and Charlottetown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199084", "title": "Ralph Darling", "text": "Ralph Darling\n\nGeneral Sir Ralph Darling, GCH (1772 – 2 April 1858) was a British Army officer who served as Governor of New South Wales from 1825 to 1831. He is popularly described as a tyrant, accused of torturing prisoners and banning theatrical entertainment, but he also built new roads and extended the boundaries of the colony. Local geographical features named after him include the Darling River and Darling Harbour in Sydney.\n\nThe controversy of his Australian tenure somewhat obscures his remarkable early career, in which he rose rapidly from obscure origins to high command.\n\nDarling seems to have been unique in the British Army of this period, as he progressed from an enlisted man to become a general officer with a knighthood. Born in Ireland, he was the son of a sergeant in the 45th Regiment of Foot who subsequently gained the unusual reward of promotion to officer rank as a lieutenant. Like most of the small number of former non-commissioned officers in this position, Lieutenant Darling performed only regimental administrative duties. He struggled to support his large family on a subaltern's pay.\n\nRalph Darling enlisted at the age of fourteen as a private in his father's regiment, and served in the ranks for at least two years on garrison duty in the West Indies. Eventually, as an \"act of charity\" to the family, young Ralph was granted an officer's commission as an ensign on 15 May 1793, without having to make the usual payment. The new officer soon found opportunities to show his ability, alternating front-line activity and high-level administrative duties, and in August 1796 he was appointed as military secretary to Sir Ralph Abercromby, the British commander-in-chief in the West Indies. By the time he returned to Great Britain in 1802, still aged only twenty-nine, the sergeant's son and one-time private soldier was a highly respected lieutenant-colonel.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars, Colonel Darling alternated between periods of regimental command and important administrative appointments, leading the 51st Regiment of Foot at the Battle of Corunna and serving as assistant adjutant general during the Walcheren Expedition, before returning to the headquarters at Royal Horse Guards in London, where he served for almost a decade as head of British Army recruiting. In this role, Darling was subsequently promoted to brevet colonel on 25 July 1810, major general on 4 June 1813, and deputy adjutant general in 1814. General Darling was also able to further the careers of his younger brothers Henry and William, and subsequently his nephew Charles; the three brothers all became generals, and Charles also earned a knighthood.\n\nDarling married in 1817. Between February 1819 and February 1824, General Darling commanded the British troops on Mauritius, before serving as acting governor of the colony for the last three years of his stay. In this role, Darling again exhibited his administrative ability, but he also became very unpopular in Mauritius: he was accused of allowing a British frigate to breach quarantine and start an epidemic of cholera, and he then suspended the island's \"Conseil de Commune\" when it protested his actions; in reality, however, there was no evidence that the frigate had been carrying cholera, and the opposition to General Darling appears to have been motivated in large part by his vigorous actions against the slave trade, and the fact that British rule in Mauritius was still little more than military occupation of a proud French colony. Notwithstanding the criticism from some quarters, it was largely on account of his service in Mauritius that Darling was appointed the seventh Governor of New South Wales in 1824.\n\nDarling initiated the construction, from 1826, of the convict-built Great North Road, linking the Hawkesbury settlements around Sydney with those in the Hunter Valley. In 1826 he also defined the Nineteen Counties in accordance with a government order from Lord Bathurst, the Secretary of State in the British parliament; these were the limits of location in the colony of New South Wales. Settlers were only permitted to take up land within these counties. From 1831 the granting of free land ceased and the only land that was to be made available for sale was within the Nineteen Counties.\n\nWhen Darling was commissioned as governor, the Colony's western boundary – set in 1788 at 135 degrees east longitude – was extended by 6 degrees west to the 129 degrees east longitude. This line of longitude subsequently became the border dividing Western Australia and South Australia. To the south, everything beyond Wilsons Promontory, the southeastern ‘corner’ of the Australian continent, ceased to be under the control of New South Wales and was placed under the authority of the Lieutenant Governor of Van Diemen's Land. He proclaimed Van Diemen's Land as a separate colony on 3 December in 1825.\n\nDarling was a professional soldier, military governor of what was still effectively a penal colony under martial law, and having lived entirely within the authoritarian structure of the army since childhood, he lacked experience in dealing with civilian society. As a result, he came into conflict with the liberal \"emancipists\" who wished to introduce greater political and social freedom in New South Wales. Their accusations of tyrannical misrule were publicised by opposition newspapers in England and Australia (including the \"Australian\", run by William Wentworth and Robert Wardell).\n\nIn keeping with official policy and the governor's own disciplinarian instincts, Darling's administration certainly strengthened the punitive aspects of transportation. Perhaps the most controversial act of his tenure was the harsh treatment of soldiers Joseph Sudds and Patrick Thompson, who had committed theft in the belief that seven years in an outlying penal colony would be an easier life than two decades of army discipline. As an example to others, the Governor had them placed in irons and assigned to a chain gang, leading to the death of Sudds. This was due to a pre-existing illness which the governor had not been properly informed about, but the incident still caused controversy.\n\nGovernor Darling is also said to have \"ruthlessly and implacably countered all attempts to establish a theatre in Sydney\". He even introduced a law effectively banning the performance of drama. The law stated that no form of public entertainment could take place without approval from the colonial secretary, and Darling ensured that all such applications were rejected. He did permit concerts of music to take place.\n\nHis departure for England, upon the ship \"Hooghly\", was greeted by public rejoicing, but his modern biographer has described this display as being \"orchestrated by his opponents\".\n\nDarlinge sought to ensure the education of child prisoners, improve the treatment of female convicts, and promote the use of Christian teaching as a means of rehabilitation, and he made efforts to give the indigenous population the protection of British justice. The annual distribution of blankets to Aboriginal people was initiated by him in 1826, originally as rewards to those who assisted in the capture of bushrangers at the request of the Bathurst magistrates.\n\nRalph Darling left Australia in 1831, returning to England in 1832. Continuing pressure from political opponents led to the formation of a select committee to examine his actions in Australia, but the inquiry exonerated him, and the day after it concluded, he was knighted by the king in a dramatic display of official favour. The controversy in Australia may have contributed to the fact that he was not given any significant new military or political assignments, but further promotion and various honorific appointments did follow, and he was happy to devote much of his time to raising his young children.\n\nHe was given the colonelcy of the 90th Regiment of Foot in 1823, transferring as Colonel to the 41st (Welch) Regiment of Foot in 1837 and to the 69th (South Lincolnshire) Regiment of Foot in 1848, a post he held until his death.\n\nDarling died in Brighton on 2 April 1858 at the age of eighty-six, survived by his widow, three sons and four daughters.\n\nOn 13 October 1817, Darling married the 19-year-old Elizabeth Dumaresq, known as Eliza (1798–1868). She was the daughter of Colonel John Dumaresq, a landowner in Shropshire. The marriage was a happy one. Of ten children, four daughters and three sons survived to adulthood. \n\nEliza's widowed mother Ann Dumaresq was a devout philanthropist, and lived in Cheltenham. Eliza was influenced by Hannah More and Sarah Trimmer. In Australia, she consulted the penal reformer Elizabeth Fry, with reference in particular to female convicts. She was also involved in the establishment of the Female School of Industry at Parramatta.\n\nAfter Darling's position in New South Wales ended, the family returned to England. They lived at Cheltenham, then Brighton where Darling died in 1858.\n\nThe following features are named after Ralph Darling or members of his immediate family:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199088", "title": "Indricotheriinae", "text": "Indricotheriinae\n\nThe subfamily Indricotheriinae are a group of long-limbed, hornless rhinoceroses commonly known as the paraceratheres that evolved in the Eocene epoch and lived until the early Miocene. The first paraceratheres were only about the size of large dogs, growing progressively larger in the late Eocene and Oligocene. They were most common in the rainforest floodplain region which is now Kazakhstan, India, and southwest China, and lived further inland throughout northern and central Asia as well.\n\nThe paraceratheres reached the peak of their evolution from the middle Oligocene to the early Miocene, where they became very large, herbivorous mammals. Most genera were about the size of modern draft horses and the extinct giant horse \"Equus giganteus\", with some growing significantly larger. The largest genus was \"Paraceratherium\", which was more than twice as heavy as a bull African elephant, and was one of the largest land mammals that ever lived. However, they remained confined to Asia, which at the time was mostly lush lowland floodplains. No fossil remains of paraceratheres have been found in Europe or North America, even though the paraceratheres had millions of years of opportunities to reach those regions. The collision with the Indian subcontinent and the Himalayan uplift led to global cooling, desertification, and the disappearance of forest habitats, which resulted in the extinction of these giant ungulates.\n\nAlthough considered a subfamily of the Hyracodontidae by some authors, recent authors treat the paraceratheres as a distinct family, Paraceratheriidae (Wang et al. 2016 recover hyracodonts as more basal than paraceratheres).\n\n"}
{"id": "2199090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199090", "title": "Austrothelphusa", "text": "Austrothelphusa\n\nAustrothelphusa is a genus of freshwater crab endemic to Australia, comprising the following species:\nMost of these species are restricted to Queensland, but \"Austrothelphusa transversa\" is also found in New South Wales, South Australia, Northern Territory and Western Australia.\n\nThese crabs grow to a carapace width of and are omnivores.\n"}
{"id": "2199103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199103", "title": "William Green", "text": "William Green\n\nWilliam Green may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199126", "title": "Peracarida", "text": "Peracarida\n\nThe superorder Peracarida is a large group of malacostracan crustaceans, having members in marine, freshwater, and terrestrial habitats. They are chiefly defined by the presence of a brood pouch, or \"marsupium\", formed from thin flattened plates (oostegites) borne on the basalmost segments of the legs. Peracarida is one of the largest crustacean taxa and includes about 12,000 species. Most members are less than in length, but the largest is probably the giant isopod (\"Bathynomus giganteus\") which can reach .\n\nThe most obvious characteristic of the group is the marsupium in females. This brood pouch is enclosed by the large, flexible oostergites, bristly flaps which extend from the basal segments of the thoracic appendages, which form the floor of a chamber roofed by the animal's sternum. This chamber is where the eggs are brooded, development being direct in most cases. Other characteristics include the possession of a single pair of maxillipeds (rarely 2–3), of mandibles with an articulated accessory process between the molar and incisor teeth in the adults (called the \"lacinia mobilis\"), and of a carapace which is often reduced in size and is not fused with the posterior thoracic somites. In some orders, the young hatch at a post-larval, prejuvenile stage called a \"manca\" which lacks the last pair of legs. In the underground order Thermosbaenacea, there are no oostergites and the carapace of the female is expanded to form a dorsal marsupium.\n\nThere is some disagreement as to which orders should be included within Peracarida. Martin & Davies include the following eleven orders:\n\nbut Ruppert, Fox and Barnes exclude Thermosbaenacea and place it in a separate order, Pancarida. They also place Lophogastrida, Mysida and Pygocephalomorpha in a single order, Mysidacea. This arrangement is disputed by Meland and Willassen who found that molecular data shows that the three orders are not closely related.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199130", "title": "Alexandria Karlsen", "text": "Alexandria Karlsen\n\nAlexandria (\"Lexie\") Karlsen (born October 26, 1978) is a US model, actress and author.\n\nAt age 18, Karlsen obtained her Series 6 and Series 63 securities licenses and worked for The Vanguard Group before posing as Playboy Magazine's Miss March 1999.\n\nKarlsen appeared in the Summer 1997 premiere issue of \"Perfect 10\". She was \"Playboy\"'s Playmate of the Month for March 1999, photographed by Arny Freytag and Stephen Wayda. Karlsen appeared in several Playboy videos and special editions, working for Playboy following her centerfold appearance. Karlsen was featured in the November 2002 issue of \"Stuff\" magazine in the layout titled \"A Day in the Life of a Centerfold\". Karlsen appeared in \"Penthouse\" as its Pet of the Month for July 2006. Her appearance in \"Penthouse\" made her only the third model, following Linn Thomas and Victoria Zdrok, to appear as both a \"Playboy\" Playmate and a \"Penthouse\" Pet.\n\nKarlsen also works extensively in mainstream modeling, represented by Ford/ RBA. Karlsen has appeared in numerous mainstream magazines, including \"Stuff\" (US), \"Stuff\" (UK), \"Maxim\", \"Beverly Hills 213\", \"Scottsdale\" magazine, \"Phoenix\" magazine, and numerous other catalogs, editorial and print.\n\nIn addition to her work with men's magazines, Karlsen was regularly featured on the FX channel's \"The X Show\", UPN's \"Battle Dome\", and as a try-out \"Barker's Beauty\" on five episodes of CBS's \"The Price Is Right\" show. She has also worked on shows such as \"Ripley's Believe It or Not\", \"Talk Soup\", \"The Late Late Show\", \"The Tonight Show\", and others.\n\nAt age 15, Karlsen began writing for then what was \"The Phoenix Gazette\" / \"Arizona Republic\" and the Tribune Newspapers in Arizona as a student correspondent reporter. Karlsen authored a book titled \"The Divorced Guy's Guide to Dating: How to Meet More Women\" plus many other columns and articles for other online and print publications, including a regular column on love and dating for \"Perfect 10\".\n\nKarlsen is the daughter of Thomas Karlsen, long-time Campaign Treasurer for Arizona Senator Dennis DeConcini.\n\nKarlsen dated Philadelphia businessman Andrew Yao for about four months in late 2001. When Yao was later investigated by federal prosecutors for fraud and money laundering, Karlsen was the prosecution's star witness. Yao's gifts to her, including wire transfers from company accounts, jewelry, an automobile and a house, totaled nearly $1 million.\n\nShe changed her name to Alexandria Lexie Wolfe. On 11 November 2015, while a police officer in Scottsdale, Arizona, was pursuing a speeding vehicle, she collided with the police officer's motorcycle. Wolfe suffered injuries to her chest and spine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199131", "title": "Compulsory military training in New Zealand", "text": "Compulsory military training in New Zealand\n\nCompulsory military training (CMT), a form of conscription, was practised for males in New Zealand between 1909 and 1972. Prior to and after this period military training in New Zealand has been voluntary.\n\nCalls for the military training of settlers began in the colony's earliest days. The concern was that settlers were not used to firearms and this could result in their being unable to defend themselves should the need arise. Debate about this continued until in 1843 a militia was formed in Wellington, without the Governor's authorisation, which prompted the Governor to send troops to Wellington to disperse the militia.\n\nThere was further debate, and in March 1845 the Militia Ordinance 1845 was passed by the legislature, enabling the Governor to form a militia if and when required; training would be implemented only when the militia was needed. The ordinance required:\n\nThe first significant use of this legislation was at New Plymouth in 1858, when 400 residents were called up. On 28 May 1858, the Militia Act 1858 replaced the ordinance, but retained the same provisions as the above clauses. Monetary penalties were introduced for not complying with the call-up.\n\nAs a result of the land wars commencing in the early 1860s, the Act was replaced in 1865 by the Militia Act 1865. This new Act changed the requirement to register by reducing the maximum age from 60 to 55 and including all males who had resided in New Zealand for more than three months. The list of exempted professions was expanded, and Militia were classified into three levels of priority, ranging from unmarried men and widowers without children, between eighteen and forty years of age; widowers with children, and married men, between eighteen and forty years of age, unmarried men who could prove that female relatives were dependent upon them for their support; and men between forty and fifty five years of age. Penalties for failing to comply with the Act became considerably tougher, with reference to penalties under Imperial legislation.\n\nThe 1865 Act was repealed and replaced by the Militia Act 1870. The exempted professions were slightly amended, the starting age was lowered from 18 to 17; and the classifications for levels of priority changed to solely age groups – 17 to 30 years old, 30 to 40 years old, and 40 to 55 years old. Penalties in the Act remained mainly fines.\n\nWith the Russian scare of the 1880s the Militia Act was repealed and the Defence Act 1886 set up a permanent military force. The changes relating to the militia expanded those liable for service to include Maori, slightly revised the exempted professions, and revised the priority classifications by making those married and aged 17 to 30 or 30 to 40 one step lower priority than those who were single.\n\nIn the late 1880s people such as Lord Wolseley in England and reported in New Zealand, began to make calls for universal compulsory military training of young men. Switzerland was held up as an example of the success of such a system. Debate quietened down until the Second Boer War, when again the issue began to be raised in the press. In 1903/1904, a Royal Commission considered New Zealand's defence needs and concluded that all able-bodied males should be trained in the use of arms.\n\nIn 1905 the Australasian National Defence League was formed in Australia, with the intent to introduce universal compulsory military training for youths and men on the Swiss system; the proposal differed from the earlier militia in that training was to be organised permanently rather than just when required. This Australian move was widely reported in New Zealand at the time. In 1906 the National Defence of New Zealand organisation was set up with similar objectives. The organisation advocated compulsory training of all boys and youths up to the age of 21. By 1907 Australia had begun to move towards compulsory military training, although not without opposition from trade unions, socialist parties, and others. Legislation was introduced into the Australian Parliament in September 1908. During the New Zealand election campaigns, the Prime Minister, Sir Joseph Ward, stated that he was against forcing compulsory military training on the populace.\n\nWard appears to have changed his mind, because in April 1909 he announced that the government intended to introduce compulsory military training for youths up to 21 years old. There was some opposition to the idea, but it was sporadic and very definitely a minority view. In Wellington there was quite pronounced opposition from socialists. The Society of Friends raised the issue of conscientious objectors with Ward.\n\nThe Defence Act 1909 Section 35 brought in a general training requirement for males 12 to 14 years old (Junior Cadets), 14 to 18 (Senior Cadets), 18 to 21 (General Training Section), and 21 to 30 (the Reserve). There was exemption for religious conscientious objectors, under Section 92 of the Act, but only subject to performing non-combatant duties within the military. Failure to comply with the Act could result in fines, and potentially imprisonment for those who did not pay them. The Act also introduced a range of new offences, a number of which were aimed at the behaviour of those being trained. The Defence Amendment Act 1912 repealed Section 35 (a) and thereby removed the requirement for those aged up to 14 years old to be trained.\n\nThere continued to be mixed opposition to the Act, such as Methodists seeking a broader conscientious objection clause and the Tinsmiths and Sheetmetal Workers Union seeking removal of the compulsory requirements. Anti-militarists, such as Reginald Williams of the Passive Resisters Union, and the National Peace Council also spoke out against compulsory training. These were all very much in the minority of public opinion, conscientious objectors being generally perceived as shirkers. Political opposition to the measures came from the socialists and Federation of Labour.\n\nPublic opinion had tended to harden against conscientious objectors as World War One approached, as the derisive term \"conchies\" emerged. Alternative service suggested by the government was generally rejected by the public in favour of punishment and imprisonment. \nIn 1915 Britain began to move towards conscription, while New Zealand thought the need unlikely. By early 1916 Britain had introduced conscription, and debate in New Zealand papers was generally overwhelmingly in favour of following suit. Those opposing it were considered unpatriotic and shirkers by the general public. However, it is hard to tell what public opinion truly was, as sedition charges were laid against those who expressed a contrary view and deserters and their employers were pursued and given harsh punishments. This attitude was reflected with the introduction of conscription in 1916 in the Military Service Act 1916, which from 16 September 1916 imposed a liability on all men from the 20th birthday up to the day before the 46th birthday to be entered in a ballot for military call-up.\n\nThe only grounds for conscientious objection were:\n\nThat he was on the fourth day of August, nineteen hundred and fourteen, and has since continuously been a member of a religious body the tenets and doctrines of which religious body declare the bearing of arms and the performance of any combatant service to be contrary to Divine revelation, and also that according to his own conscientious religious belief the bearing of arms and the performance of any combatant service is unlawful by reason of being contrary to Divine revelation.\n\nThis was a considerable contraction of the exemption under the Defence Amendment Act 1912 which had allowed under Section 65(2)\n\nOn the application of any person a Magistrate may grant to the applicant a certificate of exemption from military training and service if the Magistrate is satisfied that the applicant objects in good faith to such training and service on the ground that it is contrary to his religious belief.\n\nOnly Christadelphians, Seventh-day Adventists, and Quakers were recognised as conscientious objectors under the 1916 legislation. The combined number of males within these religions was only about 1,200. Of these only 20 to 30 were exempted military service.\n\nThe only political opposition to conscription in Parliament came from five members of parliament and trade unions. Five Labour Party members: Fraser, Semple, Armstrong, O'Brien, and Webb were imprisoned for their opposition to conscription.\n\nOf the 124,211 New Zealand men who served during World War One, 91,941 were volunteers and 32,270 were conscripts.\n\nThe numbers of prosecutions for breaches relating to compulsory military training and military service were 28 in 1911, 3,187 in 1912, 7,030 in 1913, 6,321 in 1914, 3,136 in 1915, 2,478 in 1916, 2,342 in 1917, and 1,501 in 1918. In addition to prosecutions under the Act, some local authorities implemented by-laws to prohibit the distribution of anti-compulsory military training leaflets.\n\nThe compulsory military training provisions of the Defence Act were placed in abeyance in 1930 because of the depression. From July 1931 voluntary training was inaugurated. In this period, high school students were subjected to a few periods each week of military training.\n\nIn May 1939 a voluntary military reserve was established in response to the looming crises in Europe.\n\nIn World War II difficulties in filling the Second and Third Echelons for overseas service in 1939 and 1940 and the Allied disasters of May 1940 led the government reluctantly to reintroduce conscription in June 1940 by the National Service Emergency Regulations of 18 June 1940, made under the Defence Act and the Emergency Regulations Amendment Act of 31 May. Men aged between 18 and 46 again became liable to be called up by ballot. Volunteering for Army service ceased from 22 July 1940, although entry to the Navy and Air Force remained voluntary. From January 1942 workers could be \"manpowered\" or directed to essential industries.\n\nFour members of the cabinet, including Prime Minister Peter Fraser, had been imprisoned for anti-conscription activities in World War I, the Labour Party was traditionally opposed to it, and some members still demanded \"conscription of wealth before men\".\n\nConscientious objection was allowed under the legislation provided the applicant could prove to the satisfaction of the Appeal Board that he had objected on conscientious grounds before the outbreak of war. Only 200 cases were approved, with 800 being imprisoned for failing to comply with the regulations. A total of 194,000 men served in the armed forces during the war.\n\nOn 25 May 1949 Prime Minister Peter Fraser announced that a referendum would be held on the future of CMT. The results on 3 August 1949 strongly approved reintroduction of CMT, with 77.9% in favour and a turnout of 63.5%.\n\nUnder the Military Training Act 1949, which went into effect in 1950, all males became liable for military service upon reaching 18 years of age. They were required to register with the Department of Labour and Employment, and, apart from those exempted for medical, compassionate or conscientious objection reasons, had to undergo 14 weeks of intensive full-time training, three years of part-time service and six years in the Reserve; all had the option of serving with the Royal New Zealand Navy, the New Zealand Army or Royal New Zealand Air Force. A total of 63,033 men were trained before the Military Training Act was replaced by the Labour Government's National Service Registration Act 1958 in early 1958.\n\nIn March 1961 a National Party government, under Keith Holyoake, stopped the registration of 18-year-olds for national service. A new act, the National Military Service Act 1961, was introduced requiring all males to register on their 20th birthdays with the Department of Labour. Ballots based on dates of birth were conducted to decide who would undertake compulsory service. Those selected were required to complete three months initial full-time training, followed by an annual commitment of three weeks part-time training for three years.\n\nAlthough New Zealand sent troops to the Vietnam war, all who served there were full-time professional volunteer soldiers. Conscripts were not sent, unlike Australians or Americans.\n\nIn 1972 a Labour government under Norman Kirk ended National Service, partly as a result of a campaign of civil disobedience and lobbying by the Organisation to Halt Military Service (OHMS, a pun on both resistance and \"On Her Majesty's Service\").\n\nSince 1972 there has been no conscription. There have been sporadic calls for its re-introduction, especially as a measure to reduce youth crime, but no major political party has made it part of their manifesto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199134", "title": "Sitiveni Sivivatu", "text": "Sitiveni Sivivatu\n\nSitiveni Waica Sivivatu (born 19 April 1982 in Suva, Fiji) is a retired New Zealand rugby union footballer, playing on the position of a wing. He was largely successful in the 2005 Super 12 season playing for the Chiefs, and acquired a starting position in the All Blacks. He has scored 29 tries in 45 tests. He also scored 4 tries for the Pacific Islanders in 2004, 2 of which he scored against his current team, the All Blacks and 2 against South Africa. Since the Pacific Islanders team has been sanctioned by the IRB, his 4 tries for them stands.\n\nSivivatu attended Ratu Kadavulevu School in Fiji before moving to New Zealand when he was 15. He attended Wesley College, the school that produced All Blacks great Jonah Lomu. He first played in the NPC with second division side Counties Manukau, eventually moving to the first division with Waikato. He was the only 2nd division player in NZ to win a Super Rugby contract. He regards as his hero Philippe Sella because \"he could just do anything on the field of play. If he decided to drop he could do it from anywhere within his range, and he was an amazing player with ball in hand.\"\n\nSivivatu played for the inaugural Pacific Islanders rugby union team\nagainst the Australian Wallabies in 2004. Among his teammates were Sione Lauaki who also became an All Black. Sivivatu and fellow All Black wing Joe Rokocoko regard themselves as \"cousins\" as Sivivatu lived with the Rokocoko family.\n\nHe was first named in a trials squad for All Black selection in 2004. He made his Test debut against Fiji and broke the All Blacks record by scoring four tries. Sivivatu was selected for the All Blacks in 2005 and started in all three of the All Blacks Tests against the British and Irish Lions on their 2005 tour of New Zealand, scoring tries in the first two Tests.\n\nIn March 2011, he signed a 2-year deal with French rugby giants, ASM Clermont Auvergne. He was signed as a replacement for Fijian flyer Napolioni Nalaga, who returned to Fiji due to personal problems. He was not included in the New Zealand squad for the 2011 Rugby World Cup.\n\nIn June 2016, Sivivatu retired as a player for Castres and joined the staff as a technical adviser and help integrate foreign players.\n\nOn 11 April 2007 Sivivatu pleaded guilty to slapping his wife in March 2007. He was discharged without conviction and ordered to pay a fine. On leaving court Sivivatu said \"I'm clearly sorry about what I did\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199146", "title": "Bronllys", "text": "Bronllys\n\nBronllys is a village and community in Powys, Wales between the nearby towns Brecon and Talgarth. Bronllys is also the name of an electoral ward to Powys County Council. The community includes Llyswen.\n\nThe village is in the historic county of Brecknockshire (Breconshire). It has recently benefited from a new bypass as part of the Talgarth Relief Road and Bronllys Bypass scheme.\n\nDespite being a small village it has a swimming pool and small leisure centre, post office and hospital.\n\nBronllys Castle is a motte and bailey fortress standing south of the village, towards Talgarth. The castle was founded in or soon after 1100, by Richard Fitz Pons, the owner of the adjacent Herefordshire barony of Clifford, who was a supporter of Bernard of Neufmarché, Lord of Brecknock (in which the land around Bronllys fell). Richard's castle was of the motte-and-bailey design, but only wooden.\n\nIn 1521, the year the castle became a crown property, the antiquarian John Leland went to inspect it, reporting that it had fallen into great disrepair; by 1583 the disrepair was substantially worse. It is now in the care of Cadw, the arm of the Welsh Assembly charged with care of historic monuments and is open to the public between April and October.\n\nThe minor Welsh bard Bedo Brwynllys lived in Bronllys in the 15th century. His poetry is characteristic of a follower or imitator of Dafydd ap Gwilym and is mainly love poetry or religious poetry and some eulogistic poems such as his elegy for Sir Richard Herbert of Coldbrook, written in 1469.\n\nAn electoral ward in the same name exists. This ward includes Erwood and at the 2011 Census had a total population of 1,282. The ward elects a county councillor to Powys County Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199148", "title": "Performance (Spacemen 3 album)", "text": "Performance (Spacemen 3 album)\n\nPerformance is the first live album from Spacemen 3, documenting a set from the Perfect Prescription tour. It was recorded on February 6, 1988, at De Melkweg, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199157", "title": "Brāhmanahatya", "text": "Brāhmanahatya\n\nBrāhmanahatya (also known as Brahma Hatya) is the Sanskrit term for \"the act of killing a Brahmin\". \n\nIn a story involving Indra and Vritra, Brāhmahatya is portrayed as a hideous crime. The killer and his/her descendants thereafter bear a curse. It is not limited to the killing of a Brahmin but extends to the harming or killing of all those creatures that may be considered sacred and equivalent to a Brahmin.\n\nHindu scriptures prescribe \"japa\", \"tapa\", \"homa\", yagya, tarpan, \"shradh kriya\" and \"Brahma dosha nivarana pooja\" as means to get rid of the curse. \"Triambaka pooja\" at Triyambakeshwara and pinda daan at Gaya are also suggested.\n\nThe Tiruvidaimaruthur Shiva temple has an idol for Brahmahatya and the legend of this temple is associated with the curse.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199162", "title": "Nosferatu the Vampyre", "text": "Nosferatu the Vampyre\n\nNosferatu the Vampyre is a 1979 horror film written and directed by Werner Herzog. Its original German title is Nosferatu: Phantom der Nacht (\"Nosferatu: Phantom of the Night\"). The film is set primarily in 19th-century Wismar, Germany and Transylvania, and was conceived as a stylistic remake of F. W. Murnau's 1922 German \"Dracula\" adaptation \"Nosferatu\". The picture stars Klaus Kinski as Count Dracula, Isabelle Adjani as Lucy Harker, Bruno Ganz as Jonathan Harker, and French artist-writer Roland Topor as Renfield. There are two different versions of the film, one in which the actors speak English, and one in which they speak German.\n\nHerzog's production of \"Nosferatu\" was very well received by critics and enjoyed a comfortable degree of commercial success. The film also marks the second of five collaborations between director Herzog and actor Kinski, immediately followed by 1979's \"Woyzeck\". The film had 1,000,000 admissions in West Germany and grossed ITL 53,870,000 in Italy. The film was also a modest success in Adjani's home country, taking in 933,533 admissions in France.\n\nA novelization of the screenplay was written by Paul Monette and published by both Avon Publishing () and Picador () in 1979.\n\nThe 1988 Italian horror film \"Nosferatu in Venice\" is an \"in-name-only\" sequel, again featuring Kinski in the title role.\n\nJonathan Harker is an estate agent in Wismar, Germany. His employer, Renfield, informs him that a nobleman named Count Dracula wishes to buy a property in Wismar, and assigns Harker to visit the Count and complete the lucrative deal. Leaving his young wife Lucy behind in Wismar, Harker travels to Transylvania, to the castle of Count Dracula, in a journey that lasts four weeks, carrying with him the deeds and documents needed to sell the house to the Count. On his journey, Harker stops at a village inn, where the locals plead for him to stay away from the accursed castle, providing him with details of Dracula's vampirism. Ignoring the villagers' pleas as superstition, Harker continues his journey, ascending the Borgo Pass on foot and eventually arriving at Dracula's castle, where he meets the Count, a strange, almost rodent-like man, with large ears, pale skin, sharp teeth, and long fingernails.\n\nThe Count is enchanted by a small portrait of Lucy and immediately agrees to purchase the Wismar property, especially with the knowledge that he and Lucy would become neighbors. As Jonathan's visit progresses, he is haunted at night by a number of dream-like encounters with the vampiric Count. Simultaneously, in Wismar, Lucy is tormented by night terrors, plagued by images of impending doom. Additionally, Renfield is committed to an asylum after biting a cow, apparently having gone completely insane. To Harker's horror, he finds the Count asleep in a coffin, confirming for him that Dracula is indeed a vampire. That night, Dracula leaves for Wismar, taking with him a number of coffins filled with the cursed earth that he needs for his vampiric rest. Harker finds that he is imprisoned in the castle and attempts to escape through a window via a makeshift rope fashioned from bedsheets. The rope is not long enough, and Jonathan falls, severely injuring himself. He awakes on the ground the next morning, stirred by the sound of a young Gypsy boy playing a violin. He is eventually sent to a hospital and raves about 'black coffins' to doctors, who assume that the illness is affecting his mind.\n\nMeanwhile, Dracula and his coffins travel to Wismar by ship via the Black Sea Port of Varna, thence through the Bosphorus and Gibraltar straits and around the entire west European Atlantic coast to the Baltic Sea. He systematically kills the entire crew, making it appear as if they were afflicted with plague. The ghost ship arrives, with its cargo, at Wismar, where doctors – including Abraham Van Helsing – investigate the strange fate of the ship. They discover a ship's log that mentions their perceived affliction with plague. Wismar is then flooded with rats from the ship. Dracula arrives in Wismar with his coffins, and death spreads rapidly throughout the town. The desperately ill Jonathan is finally transported home, but when he finally arrives he does not appear to recognize his wife. Lucy later has an encounter with Count Dracula; weary and unable to die, he demands some of the love that she gave so freely to Jonathan, but she refuses, much to Dracula's dismay. Now aware that something other than plague is responsible for the death that has beset her once-peaceful town, Lucy desperately tries to convince the townspeople, but they are skeptical and uninterested. From a book given to Jonathan by the people in Transylvania, she finds that she can vanquish Dracula's evil by distracting him until dawn, at which time the rays of the sun will destroy him, but only at the cost of her own life. That night, she lures the Count to her bedroom, where he proceeds to drink her blood.\n\nLucy's beauty and purity distract Dracula from the call of the rooster, and at the first light of day, he collapses to the floor, dead. Van Helsing arrives to discover Lucy dead but victorious. He then drives a stake through the heart of the Count to make sure that Lucy's sacrifice was not in vain. In a final ironic twist, Jonathan awakens from his sickness, now a vampire, and has Van Helsing arrested for the murder of Count Dracula. He then states enigmatically that he has much to do, and is last seen riding away on horseback, garbed in the same fluttering black as Dracula.\n\n\nWhile the basic story is derived from Bram Stoker's novel \"Dracula\", director Herzog made the 1979 film primarily as an homage remake of F. W. Murnau's silent film \"Nosferatu\" (1922), which differs somewhat from Stoker's original work. The makers of the earlier film could not obtain the rights for a film adaptation of \"Dracula\", so they changed a number of minor details and character names in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid copyright infringement on the intellectual property owned (at the time) by Stoker's widow Florence. A lawsuit was filed, resulting in an order for the destruction of all prints of the film. Some prints survived, and were restored after Florence Stoker had died and the copyright had expired. By the 1960s and early 1970s the original silent returned to circulation, and was enjoyed by a new generation of moviegoers.\n\nHerzog considered Murnau's \"Nosferatu\" to be the greatest film ever to come out of Germany, and was eager to make his own version of the film, with Klaus Kinski in the leading role. In 1979, by the very day the copyright for \"Dracula\" had entered the public domain, Herzog proceeded with his updated version of the classic German film, which could now include the original character names.\n\nHerzog saw his film as a parable about the fragility of order in a staid, bourgeois town. \"It is more than a horror film\", he says. \"Nosferatu is not a monster, but an ambivalent, masterful force of change. When the plague threatens, people throw their property into the streets, they discard their bourgeois trappings. A re‐evaluation of life and its meaning takes place.\" Adjani said about her heroine: \"There's a sexual element. She is gradually attracted towards Nosferatu. She feels a fascination — as we all would, think. First, she hopes to save the people of the town by sacrificing herself. But then, there is a moment of transition. There is a scene when he isn't sucking her blood — sucking and sucking like an animal—and suddenly her face takes on a new expression, a sexual one, and she will not let him go away any more. There is a desire that has been born. A moment like this has never been seen in a vampire picture\". According to Kinski: \"We see Dracula sympathetically [in this film]. He is a man without free will. He cannot choose and he cannot cease to be. He is a kind of incarnation of evil, but he is also a man who is suffering, suffering for love. This makes it so much more dramatic, more double‐edged.\"\n\n\"Nosferatu the Vampyre\" was co-produced by Werner Herzog Filmproduktion, French film company Gaumont, and West German public-service television station ZDF. As was common for West German films during the 1970s, \"Nosferatu the Vampyre\" was filmed on a minimal budget, and with a crew of just 16 people. Herzog could not film in Wismar, where the original Murnau film was shot, so he relocated production to Delft, Netherlands. Parts of the film were shot in nearby Schiedam, after the Delft authorities refused to allow Herzog to release 11,000 rats for a scene in the film. Dracula's home is represented by locations in Czechoslovakia.\n\nAt the request of distributor 20th Century Fox, Herzog produced two versions of the film simultaneously, to appeal to English-speaking audiences. Scenes with dialogue were filmed twice, in German and in English, meaning that the actors' own voices (as opposed to dubbed dialogue by voice actors) could be included in the English version of the film. Herzog himself said in 2014 that the German version was more \"authentic\", but wouldn't disavow the English version.\n\nThe opening sequence was filmed by Herzog himself at the Mummies of Guanajuato museum in Guanajuato, Mexico, where a large number of naturally mummified bodies of the victims of an 1833 cholera epidemic are on public display. Herzog had first seen the Guanajuato mummies while visiting in the 1960s. On his return in the 1970s he took the corpses out of the glass cases in which they are normally stored. To film them, he propped them against a wall, arranging them in a sequence running roughly from childhood to old age.\n\nKinski's Dracula make-up, with black costume, bald head, rat-like teeth and long fingernails, is an imitation of Max Schreck's makeup in the 1922 original. The makeup artist who worked on Kinski was Japanese artist Reiko Kruk. Although he fought with Herzog and others during the making of other films, Kinski got along with Kruk, and the four-hour makeup sessions went on with no outbursts from Kinski himself. A number of shots in the film are faithful recreations of iconic shots from Murnau's original film, some almost perfectly identical to their counterparts, intended as homages to Murnau.\n\nThe film score to \"Nosferatu the Vampyre\" was composed by the West German group Popol Vuh, who have collaborated with Herzog on numerous projects. Music for the film comprises material from the group's album \"Brüder des Schattens – Söhne des Lichts\". Additionally, the film features Richard Wagner's prelude to \"Das Rheingold\", Charles Gounod's \"Sanctus\" from \"Messe solennelle à Sainte Cécile\" and traditional Georgian folk song \"Tsintskaro\", sung by Vocal Ensemble Gordela.\n\nDutch behavioral biologist Maarten 't Hart, hired by Herzog for his expertise with laboratory rats, revealed that, after witnessing the inhumane way in which the rats were treated, he no longer wished to cooperate. Apart from travelling conditions that were so poor that the rats, imported from Hungary, had started to eat each other upon arrival in the Netherlands, Herzog insisted the plain white rats be dyed gray. In order to do so, according to Hart, the cages containing the rats needed to be submerged in boiling water for several seconds, causing another half of them to die. The surviving rats proceeded to lick themselves clean of the dye immediately, as Hart had predicted they would. Hart also implied sheep and horses that appear in the movie were treated very poorly, but did not specify this any further.\n\nReleased as \"Nosferatu: Phantom der Nacht\" in German and \"Nosferatu the Vampyre\" in English, the film was entered into the 29th Berlin International Film Festival, where production designer Henning von Gierke won the Silver Bear for an outstanding single achievement.\n\nFilm review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports a 94% approval critic response based on 54 reviews, with an average rating of 8.2/10. The website's critical consensus states: \"Stunning visuals from Werner Herzog and an intense portrayal of the famed bloodsucker from Klaus Kinski make this remake of \"Nosferatu\" a horror classic in its own right.\"\n\nIn contemporary reviews, the film is noted for maintaining an element of horror, with numerous deaths and a grim atmosphere, but it features a more expanded plot than many \"Dracula\" productions, with a greater emphasis on the vampire's tragic loneliness. Dracula is still a ghastly figure, but with a greater sense of pathos; weary, unloved, and doomed to immortality. Reviewer John J. Puccio of MovieMet considers it a faithful homage to Murnau's original film, significantly updating the original material, and avoiding the danger of being overly derivative.\n\nIn 2011, Roger Ebert added the film to his \"Great Movies Collection\". Concluding his four-star review, Ebert said:\nOne striking quality of the film is its beauty. Herzog's pictorial eye is not often enough credited. His films always upstage it with their themes. We are focused on what happens, and there are few 'beauty shots'. Look here at his control of the color palette, his off-center compositions, of the dramatic counterpoint of light and dark. Here is a film that does honor to the seriousness of vampires. No, I don't believe in them. But if they were real, here is how they must look.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199167", "title": "Cherax quadricarinatus", "text": "Cherax quadricarinatus\n\nCherax quadricarinatus (known by several common names, including Australian red claw crayfish, Queensland red claw, redclaw, tropical blue crayfish, freshwater blueclaw crayfish) is an Australian freshwater crayfish.\n\n\"C. quadricarinatus\" is found in permanent freshwater streams, billabongs and lakes on the north coast of the Northern Territory and northeastern Queensland. Populations are also found in Papua New Guinea. Through translocation by humans, the range has spread down to southern Queensland and into the far north of West Australia. \"C. quadricarinatus\" is considered an invasive species, and has established feral populations in South Africa, Mexico, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Indonesia, Zambia and Singapore.\n\nThis tropical crustacean is very tolerant of environmental changes, and is primarily a detritivore.\n\nThe colour of \"C. quadricarinatus\" ranges from dark brown to blue-green and adult males have a distinct red patch on the outer margin of the claws. They can reach up to .\n\nFemales, which are smaller than males, spawn 300–800 olive-green eggs per brood, which are fertilised from a spermatophore which the male has deposited at the base of her walking legs (pereiopods) during mating. Fertilised eggs are affixed to the female's pleopods, situated on the underside of the tail. Incubation takes approximately six weeks and the newly hatched juveniles rapidly become independent.\n\n\"C. quadricarinatus\" is farmed commercially in Queensland and the Northern Territory, and is harvested at between . \"C. quadricarinatus\" is a sought-after product with a delicate crustacean flavour. They are both non-aggressive in nature as well as highly fertile, and can therefore be bred in large numbers in captivity. Time to sexual maturity, and therefore harvest size, is somewhere between six and twelve months in optimally farmed conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199168", "title": "Fahrenheit (Thai band)", "text": "Fahrenheit (Thai band)\n\nFahrenheit (ฟาเรนไฮต์) is a Thai rock band featuring a female lead vocalist, Piraporn Pranpanas, backed by former members of other well-known Thai rock bands. Guitarist Pichet Kruawan is from Y Not 7 while drummer Kittisak and founding bassist Apirath Sukkhajitr are from Loso. Bassist Apirath left the band to rejoin Loso, with Arkom Nuchanin (from Taxi) joining Fahrenheit in March 2006. Despite no new album during that period, the band's new lineup could be seen in live concerts. Pichet Kruawan left the band after \"Fahrenheit Way\" album and is replaced by Chamnan Khamenchan from SYAM band. The band also plays backup for Asanee-Wasan.\n\nThe band's songs include \"Yah hak lang\" (\"อย่าหักหลัง\", translation \"Don't betray me\"), \"Naam dtaa keu kam dtop\" (\"น้ำตาคือคำตอบ\", \"My tears are my answer\"), \"Ngiap tam-mai\" (\"เงียบทำไม\", \"Why so quiet?\") and \"Pid mai\" (\"ผิดไหม\", \"Is it wrong?\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199175", "title": "Dog show judge", "text": "Dog show judge\n\nA dog show judge, sometimes dog judge, is a person that is qualified to evaluate dogs at a conformation show. At small shows, there might be only one judge for all breeds and classes. At larger shows, there might be several judges, with each responsible for only certain breeds or classes.\n\nBecause dogs are judged based on how well they conform to their breed's breed standard, a judge must be intimately familiar with the particular breed's standard and must be able to analyze the qualities of the dog to determine its relative quality.\n\nUsually a license as a dog judge is granted by either a breed association or a kennel club. The license specifies the different breeds over which the judge is qualified to officiate. Judges may study and, over time, apply for a license to judge a single breed, multiple breeds, or all recognized breeds. A judge who has successfully completed the requirements for judging all of the dog groups is known as a group judge. A judge who is licensed to judge all breeds is often referred to as an \"all-rounder\".\n\nIn some cases the qualification and membership of a National-based organisation is the criteria as to how a judge might operate. A few international groups and accreditation also exist \n\nJudges are most commonly licensed specifically to the registry with which they are affiliated (for example, American Kennel Club judges judge AKC shows). However, some registries choose to recognize licensed judges from other registries and organizations. Judging outside of one's country or registry is often an indication of a particular appreciation of that judge's skills and knowledge.\n\nSome judges who are regulars at the larger English or American dog shows become well known among dog show participants and breeders and gain respect from large audiences for their ability to recognise good examples of the breeds that they judge. The reputations of the founder of Our Dogs, Theo Marples and his son J.W. Marples are examples of a family of well known judges \n"}
{"id": "2199178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199178", "title": "Playing with Fire (Spacemen 3 album)", "text": "Playing with Fire (Spacemen 3 album)\n\nPlaying with Fire is the third studio album by Spacemen 3, released in February 1989. The original CD version included two live bonus tracks recorded in the Netherlands, and an ensuing release on Taang! Records included two more b-sides from the \"Revolution\" single. A reissued version from 2001 has an entire extra disc of demos and rarities. The album was featured in Robert Dimery's \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\n\nIn a similar musical borrowing to those on the band's prior albums, the song \"Revolution\" bears more than a passing resemblance to \"Black to Comm\" by the MC5.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199180", "title": "Morgan Fox", "text": "Morgan Fox\n\nMorgan Fox is the name of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199181", "title": "Shigatse", "text": "Shigatse\n\nShigatse, officially known as Xigazê (; , is a prefecture-level city of the Tibet Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China, with an area of . It is located within the historical Tsang province of Tibet.\n\nThe administrative center of the prefecture-level city is the Samzhubzê District. It is roughly equivalent to the ancient Shigatse urban center, the second-largest city in Tibet, located about southwest of Lhasa and home to the Tashilhunpo Monastery, traditionally the seat of the Panchen Lama.\n\nSome of the towns in the prefecture are: Gyantse (Gyantse County), Tingri (Tingri County), and Nyalam (Nyalam County).\n\nOn 11 July 2014 Shigatse Prefecture was upgraded into a prefecture-level city (the same status as Lhasa).\n\nThe Lhasa–Xigazê Railway connects Xigazê Railway Station with Lhasa and further connects with Qinghai via Qinghai–Tibet Railway. It takes about 3 hours to travel between Lhasa and Shigatse by train.\nIt is possible to get back to Lhasa within the same day by train.\n\nShigatse Peace Airport began operations on 30 October 2010 after an Airbus A319 landed safely, making it Tibet's fifth commercial airport. It is located 43 kilometres from Samzhubzê District at Jangdam Township at an elevation of 3,782 metres. The airport will be capable of supporting 230,000 passengers annually by 2020.\n\nChina National Highway 318 and China National Highway 219 are the main roads in and out of Shigatse.\n\nShigatse has an elevation-influenced humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Dwb\"). \nShigatse Photovoltaic Power Plant\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199182", "title": "Villanova, Pennsylvania", "text": "Villanova, Pennsylvania\n\nVillanova is a community in the United States Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. It straddles Lower Merion Township in Montgomery County and Radnor Township in Delaware County. It is located at the center of the Philadelphia Main Line, a series of highly affluent Philadelphia suburban towns located along the original east-west railroad tracks of the Pennsylvania Railroad. It is served by the SEPTA Paoli/Thorndale Line regional rail train and Norristown High Speed Line.\n\nThe center of the village straddles Lancaster Pike where it intersects Spring Mill. This village center contains the area's post office for ZIP code 19085, an office building, the Wilmington Trust Company's Pennsylvania headquarters, and several smaller shops.\n\nIn 2019, Realtor.com named 19085 the Most Expensive Neighborhood in Pennsylvania. Calling it \"For East Coast elites,” with a median home list price of $1,370,992.\n\nThe Bridge in Radnor Township No. 2 and Camp-Woods are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe most notable feature of Villanova is Villanova University, from which the community gains its name. The university campus extends from County Line Road along Spring Mill Road south to Lancaster Pike, US Route 30, and then east to just beyond Villanova Stadium, home of the Villanova University football, men's and women's lacrosse, women's field hockey and men's and women's track teams. The university's indoor arena, the Pavilion - soon to be Finneran Pavilion, is home to the school's NCAA Division I 1985,2016 and 2018 national champion men's basketball teams. In addition to the undergraduate college Villanova University includes a well-recognized graduate school, a nursing school, a school of continuing studies, numerous certificate programs, and Villanova University Law School.\n\nPublic school children in Villanova that live in Radnor Township attend Radnor Elementary School in Radnor, Pennsylvania, Radnor Middle School in Wayne, Pennsylvania, and Radnor High School in St. Davids, Pennsylvania, all part of the Radnor Township School District. Those children who live in the Lower Merion Township portion of Villanova attend Gladwyne Elementary School in Gladwyne, Pennsylvania, Welsh Valley Middle School in Narberth, Pennsylvania, and Harriton High School in Rosemont, Pennsylvania.\n\nOther schools in the area include the all-boys Haverford School, located in nearby Haverford. Episcopal Academy called among locals as \"EA\" in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, all-girls Baldwin School, all-girls Agnes Irwin School, the Country Day School of the Sacred Heart in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, and the Academy of Notre Dame de Namur, and the coeducational Shipley School in Bryn Mawr. Rosemont School of the Holy Child on Montgomery Avenue is a nearby Catholic elementary school.\n\nThe Bryn Mawr Hospital, at South Bryn Mawr Avenue and Haverford Road, is one of the three nationally ranked community teaching hospitals that serve the Main Line; it is located less than one mile (1.6 km) from the Villanova district line. The hospital has historically been associated with Philadelphia's Jefferson Medical College for many years. The Bryn Mawr Hospital is the chief beneficiary of the area's preeminent social and sporting event, the Devon Horse Show and Country Fair, which is held annually during the last week of May at the fairgrounds in Devon, Pennsylvania.\n\nVillanova is neither an incorporated area nor a census-designated place; all the data is for the ZIP code 19085. As of the census of 2000, there were 9,189 people and 1,932 households residing in the community. The population density was 1,565 people per square mile. The racial makeup of the community was 92.5% White, 3.4% Asian, 3.9% African American, 1.40% from other races, and 0.80% from two or more races. 2.5% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.\n\nThe median income for a household in the community was $159,538, and the median income for a family was $174,511. The per capita income for the community was $50,204. About 1.5% of families and 3.0% of the population were below the poverty line. The estimated median house/condo value in 2009 is $1,435,844.\n\nIn 2009, the eastern section of Villanova was ranked the 39th wealthiest neighborhood in America with a median household income of $366,904.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199194", "title": "Robert Sloman", "text": "Robert Sloman\n\nRobert Sloman (18 July 1926 – 24 October 2005) was an English screenwriter and actor who later worked at \"The Sunday Times\" circulation department for more than 20 years, becoming distribution manager; but is best known for his work on British television.\n\nSloman was born in Oldham, Lancashire but his family moved to Plymouth when he was two years old. He attended Exeter University.\n\nIn the early 1970s he made a significant contribution to the science fiction programme \"Doctor Who\" on the BBC. Together with then producer Barry Letts, he wrote four stories for the Jon Pertwee era on the programme: \"The Dæmons\" (credited as Guy Leopold); \"The Time Monster\"; \"The Green Death\"; and \"Planet of the Spiders\", which was Pertwee's final serial. The first of these is often one of the most well regarded in the programme's history; while the others contained strong moral messages, especially the focus on pollution and globalisation in \"The Green Death\". When \"The Green Death\" was released on DVD in 2004, Sloman contributed a feature on the writing of the story.\n\nSloman had also planned to bring the Daleks back at the end of the third Pertwee season, Season 9, in a serial called \"The Daleks in London\". This plan was dropped when the production staff realised that the show wouldn't have a hook for the start of the season to entice viewers, and Sloman's serial was allegedly shaping up to be too similar to \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\". Instead, writer Louis Marks was asked to alter his serial to include the Daleks – which became \"Day of the Daleks\".\n\nRobert Sloman also co-wrote two plays in the West End, both co-written with Laurence Dobie: \"The Golden Rivet\", and \"The Tinker\"; the latter was later turned into a film, \"The Wild and the Willing\", in 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199196", "title": "Asche zu Asche", "text": "Asche zu Asche\n\n\"Asche zu Asche\" () is a song by German Neue Deutsche Härte band Rammstein. It was released in January 2001, as the fourth single from their album Herzeleid. The single is also included as a bonus disc in the re-released \"Australian Tour Edition\" of \"Sehnsucht\". This release contains the 1995 album version of the song, as well as five live tracks taken from \"Live aus Berlin\". It was released exclusively in Australia, as a promotion for the Big Day Out festival (2001), for which Rammstein were a headlining act.\n\nSince its release, \"Asche zu Asche\" has been a staple in Rammstein's live shows. It was the only Rammstein song to have been played in every one of the band's tours until 2013. During performances, the microphone stands would be set on fire near the end of the song and clouds of smoke would cover the stage. The song was played at almost every concert from 1995 to 2002. Initially it wasn't played during the \"Reise, Reise\" tour, but was included again by the end of February 2005, ultimately replacing the song \"Rein raus\" in the setlists. More recently, \"Asche zu Asche\" has been absent during most of Rammstein's \"Liebe ist für alle da\" tour, but has made some rare appearances in Germany and Denmark, replacing the song \"Ich tu dir weh\", which was \"indexed\" (banned) by the German \"Bundesprüfstelle für jugendgefährdende Medien\". During these performances, the effects for \"Ich tu dir weh\" were used instead of the flaming stand. In the \"Made in Germany 1995–2011\" tour, the song was again on the setlist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199198", "title": "Mavis Leno", "text": "Mavis Leno\n\nMavis Elizabeth Nicholson-Leno (born September 5, 1946) is an American philanthropist, feminist and wife of Jay Leno, the former host of \"The Tonight Show\".\n\nA leading feminist in California, as well as in the United States and internationally, Leno keeps a low profile in comparison to her husband, choosing instead to work behind the scenes of the non-profit, politically charged groups she supports and runs.\n\nLeno has been the chair of the Feminist Majority Foundation's Campaign to Stop Gender Apartheid in Afghanistan since 1997. In 1999, Leno and her husband donated $100,000 to the organization, to further the cause of educating the public about the plight of Afghan women under the Taliban. The organization successfully protested the construction of an oil pipeline through Afghanistan, which could potentially have brought in billions of dollars to the Taliban. According to Melissa Rossi, Leno was a driving force in changing the opinion of U.S. President Bill Clinton and the executives of the now defunct oil company Unocal Corporation concerning the Taliban, after Leno had shed light on the group's treatment of women.\n"}
{"id": "2199203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199203", "title": "Vibo Marina", "text": "Vibo Marina\n\nVibo Marina is a port town in the province of Vibo Valentia, in the Calabria region of southern Italy. It is a \"frazione\" of the town of Vibo Valentia. It has around 10,000 inhabitants.\n\nThe town lies in the Gulf of Saint Euphemia, on the Tyrrhenian Sea. Pizzo and Bivona are nearby; other important towns near Vibo Marina are Vibo Valentia, Lamezia Terme and Tropea.\n\nIn the 3rd century BC, Agathocles the tyrant of Syracuse ordered the construction of a harbour where Vibo Marina now stands. The installation of the harbour goes from the caste of Bivona to the high part of Vibo Marina, where a Roman manor had existed in ancient times.\n\nVibo Marina was originally called \"Porto Santa Venere\" (Saint Venus' Harbour). A legend tells that the local fishermen discovered on the sandy shore a statue of Saint Venus. Under the Fascist government, the name was changed in 1928 to Vibo Marina.\n\nOn 8 September 1943 part of the 8th Army, 231st Brigade landed at what the allies still referred to as Porto San Venere (Vibo Marina) with the intention of cutting off as many German units as possible who were expected to retreat from the main force of the British Commonwealth Eighth Army landings at the toe of Italy at Reggio Calabria via the coast road Strada statale 18 and the rail line passing close to the port. The Operation Ferdy landing force consisted of naval units flagship Motor Torpedo Boat MTB 77; Monitor HMS Erebus (I02); Two Insect Class gunboats HMS Aphis and HMS Scarab; Two Landing Ship Tank (LST), 9 & 65; 18 Landing Craft Tank (LCT) including 4, 306, & 316; Two Landing Craft Gun including LCG 12; Two Landing Craft Flack (LCF); 24 Landing Craft Infantry (LCI) and Harbour Defence Motor Launch HDML 1128. \nThe landings were led by 40 Commando and 3 Commando. Enemy opposition to the landing was unexpectedly heavy included fire from machine guns, mortars and 88mm artillery guns. At 7am German Fw 190 aircraft attacked the ships and sank MTB 77 the flagship of the landing force and the injured Rear Admiral McGrigor was rescued by HDML 1128. Monitor HMS Erebus which was armed with twin 15” guns was called in to provide much needed naval artillery fire at about 17.45pm along with the two shallow draft Insect Class Gunboats Aphis and Scarab with their 6” guns. Fighting continued the next day, an assault from Panzergrenadiers penetrated to within a mile of the landing beaches however by 23.00 that night the German troops ceased their artillery fire, disengaged and headed rapidly north towards Sapri.\n\nIt is an important industrial area in the economy of the Vibo Valentia province. Here there is an important commercial and tourist harbour for the petrol distribution, fish selling (especially tuna), Aeolian Islands sea connection, etc.\n\nThere are some industries for the manufacturing of oil.\n"}
{"id": "2199210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199210", "title": "Rakiura", "text": "Rakiura\n\nRakiura may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2199214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199214", "title": "Germaine of Foix", "text": "Germaine of Foix\n\nGermaine of Foix (; ; 1488 – 15 October 1536) was queen consort of Aragon as the second wife of Ferdinand II of Aragon, whom she married in 1506 after the death of his first wife, Isabella I of Castile in 1504.\n\nGermaine's father was John of Foix, Viscount of Narbonne and son of Queen Eleanor of Navarre. Her mother, Marie of Orléans, was the sister of King Louis XII of France.\n\nFollowing the death of his wife, Isabella I, in 1504, Ferdinand had to yield the government of Castile to his son-in-law Philip of Burgundy (1478–1506), who assumed power in the name of his wife Joanna (1479–1555), Isabella's heiress. Ferdinand objected to Philip's policies and to prevent Philip from gaining Aragon through Joanna, he sought to have a male heir with a new wife. A new male heir would displace Joanna (and by extension her husband) from the line of succession. He negotiated with King Louis XII of France for a marriage, hoping to gain accession to the throne of Navarre. At the Treaty of Blois, Louis agreed to have his niece Germaine of Foix marry Ferdinand; Germaine was Louis' niece (daughter of his sister) and Ferdinand's grandniece (granddaughter of his half-sister). Louis XII also ceded in the treaty his weak claim to the Kingdom of Naples (already controlled by Aragon) and Kingdom of Jerusalem (controlled by neither) to his niece, conditional on a male child being produced. The marriage, between Ferdinand (aged 54) and Germaine (aged 18), took place in March 1506. A short truce and brief alliance between the two kings resulted, despite several wars before and after the Treaty.\n\nIn 1506 Philip of Burgundy died and Ferdinand became regent of Castile for his mentally unstable daughter Joanna. Ferdinand and Germaine did have a son, John, Prince of Girona on 3 May 1509, but he died shortly after birth. Despite the use of love potions, they did not have another. If John had lived, then the Crown of Aragon would have split from the Crown of Castile once again (after being semi-unified by Ferdinand and Isabella's marriage). This included Aragon, Valencia, Majorca, and Catalonia in Spain, and the Kingdom of Naples, Sicily and Sardinia in the Italian peninsula and the Tyrrhenian Sea. With Juan's death, both Castile and Aragon would eventually go to Ferdinand and Isabella's daughter Joanna.\n\nFerdinand's diplomatic deviousness and off-and-on alliances with France infuriated Henry VIII of England (born 1491, reigned 1509–1547), married to Ferdinand and Isabella's youngest daughter, Catherine of Aragon (1485–1536). Seeing this match devalued, Henry in 1514 forced his sister Mary (1496–1533) into a loveless marriage with Louis XII to spite Ferdinand. Louis XII died the next year.\n\nFerdinand died after two years of health problems in 1516, leaving Germaine a widow. Ferdinand's successors were Joanna and her son Charles V. Ferdinand did, however, leave Germaine a yearly income of 50,000 gold florins, and exhorted his grandson Charles V in his last letter not to abandon her.\n\nIn 1517, Charles V moved from the Netherlands to Castile as the new King of Castile and Aragon. Germaine moved from Aragon to Castile to join his court as well, where the 17-year-old king took well to his 29-year-old stepgrandmother. He organized several tournaments and banquets in her honor. On 20 August 1518, Germaine gave birth in Valencia to a daughter, Isabel. It is widely speculated among historians that Charles V was Isabel's father; Germaine refers to her in her will as the \"Infanta Isabel\", a title that would usually only be given to the daughter of a King.\n\nCharles V, Germaine, and Charles V's sister Eleanor moved from Castile to Aragon in 1519, where he would be formally sworn in as King of Aragon. He would spend a year in Aragon, negotiating with its parliament and managing affairs. While in Barcelona, Charles V arranged for Germaine to marry the margrave Johann of Brandenburg-Ansbach, a landless cadet and cousin of Joachim I, Elector of Brandenburg. Germaine left Spain to travel with Charles V to Germany, where she was married.\n\nIn 1523 Charles V appointed the couple jointly viceroys of Valencia. There Germaine, recently returned to Spain, dealt with the fallout of the Revolt of the Brotherhoods by the Valencian guilds (\"Germanies\"). Germaine favored harsh treatment of the \"agermanats\"; she is thought to have signed the death warrants of 100 former rebels personally, and sources indicate that as many as 800 executions may have occurred in total. This undid the more lenient policy of Diego Hurtado de Mendoza, who had favored reconciliation with the rebels. In December 1524, Germaine signed a pardon that officially ended the persecution of all former participants in the rebellion. However, fines imposed on the guilds and guild-aligned cities as punishment would take many years to be repaid.\n\nIt is mantained by Valencian historians that the fact that Germaine moved her court to Valencia was the first step in the degradation of social prestige of the Valencian language in the Kingdom of Valencia, as the higher classes started favouring Castilian/Spanish over their native language to please her.\n\nNext year after Johann's death in 1525, Germaine married Ferdinand, Duke of Calabria, a son of King Frederick IV of Naples (1496–1501) by his second wife Isabella del Balzo. The two continued as viceroys of Valencia and were patrons of the arts and music. Germaine also encouraged the slow integration of Valencia with Castilian-dominated Spain as a whole.\n\nGermaine died on 15 October 1536 in Liria, probably due to obesity related edema, and was interred in the Monastery of San Miguel de los Reyes. The Duke of Calabria continued in office until his death in 1550.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199215", "title": "Sidney Faithorn Green", "text": "Sidney Faithorn Green\n\nSidney Faithorn Green (1841–1916) was a British clergyman who, during the Ritualist controversies in the Church of England, was imprisoned for 20 months for liturgical practice contrary to the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874.\n\nSidney Faithorn Green was born in Kent in 1841. he studied at Tonbridge School and Cambridge University. Green was ordained a priest of the Church of England in Manchester in 1866, and served as a curate in Swinton until his appointment as incumbent of St John the Evangelist, Miles Platting, Manchester. He was a follower of the Oxford Movement who celebrated the Eucharist in the style of Anglo-Catholicism, see Anglican Eucharistic theology.\n\n\nIn 1883, Green was appointed to a curacy at St. John's, Kensington and then in 1889 as rector of Charlton by Dover, an avowedly ritualist parish of which Keble College, Oxford was patron. He became Rector of Luddenham with Stone in Kent in 1914 but soon retired due to ill health. He died in Sydenham on August 11, 1916.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199220", "title": "Aromatization", "text": "Aromatization\n\nAromatization is a chemical reaction in which an aromatic system is formed from a single nonaromatic precursor. Typically aromatization is achieved by dehydrogenation of existing cyclic compounds, illustrated by the conversion of cyclohexane into benzene. Aromatization includes the formation of heterocyclic systems. \n\nAlthough not practiced under the name, aromatization is a cornerstone of oil refining. One of the major reforming reactions is the dehydrogenation of naphthenes into aromatics. The process, which is catalyzed by platinum, is exemplified in the conversion methylcyclohexane (a naphthene) into toluene (an aromatic). Dehydrocyclization converts paraffins (acyclic hydrocarbons) into aromatics. A related aromatization process includes dehydroisomerization of methylcyclopentane to benzene:\n\nAromatases are enzymes that partially aromatize steroids. The specific conversions are testosterone to estradiol and androstenedione to estrone. Each of these aromatizations involves the oxidation of the C-19 methyl group to formic acid to allow for the formation of the aromatic system, conversions which are necessary parts of estrogen tumorogenesis in the development of breast cancer and ovarian cancer in postmenopausal women and gynecomastia in men. Aromatase inhibitors like exemestane (which forms a permanent and deactivating bond with the aromatase enzyme) and anastrozole and letrozole (which compete for the enzyme) have been shown to be more effective than anti-estrogen medications such as tamoxifen likely because they prevent the formation of estradiol.\n\nFor cyclohexane, cyclohexene, and cyclohexadiene, dehydrogenation is the conceptually simplest pathway for aromatization. The activation barrier decreases with the degree of unsaturation. Thus, cyclohexadienes are especially prone to aromatization. Formally, dehydrogenation is a redox process. Dehydrogenative aromatization is the reverse of arene hydrogenation. As such, hydrogenation catalysts are effective for the reverse reaction. Platinum-catalyzed dehydrogenations of cyclohexanes and related feedstocks are the largest scale applications of this reaction (see above). \n\n2,3-Dichloro-5,6-dicyano-1,4-benzoquinone (DDQ) is often the reagent of choice. DDQ and an acid catalyst has been used to synthesise a steroid with a phenanthrene core by oxidation accompanied by a double methyl migration. In the process, DDQ is itself reduced into an aromatic hydroquinone product.\n\nSulfur and selenium are traditionally used in aromatization, the leaving group being hydrogen sulfide.\n\nSoluble transition metal complexes can induce oxidative aromatization concomitant with complexation. α-Phellandrene (2-methyl-5-\"iso\"-propyl-1,3-cyclohexadiene) is oxidised to \"p\"-\"iso\"-propyltoluene with the reduction of ruthenium trichloride.\n\nOxidative dehydrogenation of dihydropyridine results in aromatization, giving pyridine.\n\nNon-aromatic rings can be aromatized in many ways. Dehydration allows the Semmler-Wolff transformation \nof 2-cyclohexenone oxime to aniline under acidic conditions.\n\nThe isomerization of cyclohexadienones gives the aromatic tautomer phenol. Isomerization of 1,4-naphthalenediol at 200 °C produces a 2:1 mixture with its keto form, 1,4-dioxotetralin.\n\nClassically, aromatization reactions involve changing the C:H ratio of a substrate. When applied to cyclopentadiene, proton removal gives the aromatic conjugate base cyclopentadienyl anion, isolable as sodium cyclopentadienide:\n\nAromatization can entail removal of hydride. Tropylium, arises by the aromatization reaction of cycloheptatriene with hydride acceptors.\n\nThe aromatization of acyclic precursors is rarer in organic synthesis, although it is a significant component of the BTX production in refineries.\n\nAmong acyclic precursors, alkynes are relatively prone to aromatizations since they are partially dehydrogenated. The Bergman cyclization is converts an enediyne to a dehydrobenzene intermediate diradical, which abstracts hydrogen to aromatize. The enediyne moiety can be included within an existing ring, allowing access to a bicyclic system under mild conditions as a consequence of the ring strain in the reactant. Cyclodeca-3-en-1,5-diyne reacts with 1,3-cyclohexadiene to produce benzene and tetralin at 37 °C, the reaction being highly favorable owing to the formation of two new aromatic rings: \n\n"}
{"id": "2199227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199227", "title": "Anchor Bay High School", "text": "Anchor Bay High School\n\nAnchor Bay High School is a four-year secondary school located in Fair Haven, Michigan (St. Clair County), and it is part of the Anchor Bay School District.\n\nThe former high school in Chesterfield Township was converted to a middle school when the new high school opened at the beginning of the 2003-04 school year.\n\nThe demographic breakdown of the 1,938 students enrolled in 2014-15 was:\n\n23.9% of the students were eligible for free or reduced lunch.\nThe Anchor Bay Tars compete in the Macomb Area Conference. The school colors are red and white. The following MHSAA sanctioned sports are offered:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199237", "title": "Common yabby", "text": "Common yabby\n\nThe common yabby (\"Cherax destructor\") is an Australian freshwater crustacean in the Parastacidae family. It is listed as a vulnerable species of crayfish by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), though wild yabby populations remain strong, and have expanded into new habitats created by reservoirs and farm dams.\n\nOther names frequently used for \"Cherax destructor\" include the blue yabby or cyan yabby. Its common name of \"yabby\" is also applied to many other Australian \"Cherax\" species of crustacean (as well as to marine ghost shrimp of the infraorder Thalassinidea). \n\nYabbies occasionally reach up to in length, but are more commonly long.\n\nColour is highly variable and depends on water clarity and habitat; yabbies can range from black, blue-black, or dark brown in clear waters to light brown, green-brown, or beige in turbid waters. Yabbies specifically bred to be a vibrant blue colour are now popular in the aquarium trade in Australia.\n\nAn Australian yabby can travel up to across land in search of new waters to make its home.\n\nThe word \"yabby\" comes from the Wemba Wemba, an Aboriginal Australian language.\n\nYabbies are common in Victoria and New South Wales, although the species also occurs in southern Queensland, South Australia, throughout parts of the Northern Territory and even as low as Tasmania, making it the most widespread Australian crayfish. It has been introduced to Western Australia, where it is an invasive species and poses a threat to other \"Cherax\" crayfish species native to the region, such as gilgies (\"Cherax quinquecarinatus\").\n\nYabbies are found in swamps, streams, rivers, reservoirs, and farm dams at low to medium elevations. Yabbies apparently were largely restricted to lower-altitude habitats in inland areas of south-eastern Australia including the Murray-Darling Basin before European settlement, with the \"Euastacus\" spiny crayfish species found in higher-altitude habitats and the coastal river systems. High-altitude yabby populations in Lakes Eucumbene and Jindabyne, on the upper reaches of the coastal Snowy River system, are unusual and may be translocated.\n\nYabbies are found in many ephemeral waterways, and can survive dry conditions for several years by lying dormant in burrows sunk deep into muddy creek and swamp beds. \n\nYabbies are primarily nocturnal detritivores, feeding primarily on algae and plant remains at night, but also opportunistically feeding on any fish or animal remains they encounter at any time of day.\n\nIn Southern Australia, it is commonly accepted that yabbies are active and thereby available to catch during the warmer months. (Colloquially, any month with the letter \"R\" in it.) When temperatures fall below , they enter a state of reduced metabolic activity, or \"partial hibernation\".\n\nYabbies are an important dietary item for Australian native freshwater fish such as Murray cod and golden perch.\n\nCatching yabbies, or \"yabbying\", in rivers and farm dams is a popular summertime activity in Australia, particularly with children. The most popular method involves tying a piece of meat to a few metres of string or fishing line, which in turn is fastened to a stick in the bank, and throwing the meat into the water. The string is pulled tight when a determined yabby grasps the meat in its claws and tries to make off with it. The line is then slowly pulled back to the bank, with the grasping yabby usually maintaining its hold on the meat. When the meat and the grasping yabby reaches the water's edge, a net is used to quickly scoop up both the meat and the grasping yabby in one movement.\n\nOther methods of catching yabbies involve various types of nets and traps. Local fishing regulations must be checked before using any nets and traps for yabbies; many types of nets and traps are banned, as wildlife such as platypus, water rats, and long-necked turtles can become trapped in them and drown.\n\nThe common yabby is a popular species for aquaculture, although their burrowing can destroy dams.\n\nYabbies can also be found in private property dams where permission to fish must first be obtained. Bag limits apply to yabbies in most states. For example, in South Australia it is illegal to catch over 200 yabbies a day. All females carrying eggs under their tails must be returned to the water.\n\nWhile less common than prawns and other crustaceans, yabbies are eaten in Australia much like crayfish in other countries. Usually, yabbies are boiled and eaten plain, or with condiments. They are also occasionally served at restaurants, where they may be prepared in salads, ravioli, pasta, etc. Prior to cooking, it is advisable to 'purge' the yabby in clean salt water, this helps to clear the gut of any muddy flavour, resulting in sweeter tasting meat.\n\nIn New South Wales, yabbies can be sold live at some fish markets such as Sydney Fish Market. In Victoria, whole yabbies can be purchased cooked and ready to eat at Queen Victoria Market.\n"}
{"id": "2199238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199238", "title": "Saxifraga × urbium", "text": "Saxifraga × urbium\n\nLondon pride, Saxifraga \"×\" urbium, is a perennial garden flowering plant. Alternative names for it include St. Patrick's cabbage, whimsey, prattling Parnell, and look up and kiss me. Before 1700 the “London pride” appellation was given to the Sweet William.\n\nIn 1846, Theresa Cornwallis West made a journey to Ireland. Near Dunloe in County Kerry \"heareabouts grew quantities of our London Pride, and upon my expressing a wish for some roots to carry home, Sullivan [the driver] sprang down and tore up a large tuft. 'Ah, then,' said [our guide Spillane], 'that's too much entirely; why wouldn't ye leave some for the next comer?'\" (\"A Summer Visit to the West of Ireland in 1846.\" p. 99).\n\nThe \"true\" London pride is a hybrid between \"Saxifraga umbrosa\", native to the Spanish Pyrenees, and \"Saxifraga spathularis\" (which is the plant to which the name St Patrick's Cabbage more correctly belongs, coming from western Ireland). The hybrid has been known at least since the 17th century.\n\nThe name is sometimes applied to any of several closely related plants of the saxifrage genus. The section \"Gymnopera\" of the genus \"Saxifraga\" are collectively referred to as \"London Pride saxifrages\", and others of them have \"London pride\" in their common names, for example the lesser London pride, \"S. cuneifolia\", and the miniature London pride, \"S. umbrosa\" var. \"primuloides\".\n\nLondon pride is tolerant of dry, shady conditions. It grows to a height of and provides rapid ground cover without being aggressively invasive, and in late spring produces a mass of small pale pink rosette flowers growing from succulent stems. It will grow well in neglected or unfavourable urban spaces where few other flowers flourish, and is a common garden escapee.\n\nThis plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. \n\nIn particular, tradition holds that \"Saxifraga \"×\" urbium\" rapidly colonised the bombed sites left by the London Blitz of the early 1940s. As such it is symbolic of the resilience of London and ordinary Londoners, and of the futility of seeking to bomb them into submission. A song by Noël Coward, celebrating London and the flower, achieved great popularity during the World War II years. In the language of flowers, London Pride is held to stand for frivolity, and its day is 27 July, but this is not widely known.\n\nBishop Walsham How (1823–1897) wrote a poem to the flower rebuking it for having the sin of pride. When told the flower had the name because Londoners were proud of it he wrote another poem apologising to it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199277", "title": "Long Island Power Authority", "text": "Long Island Power Authority\n\nLong Island Power Authority, commonly abbreviated as LIPA (\"lie-pah\"), is a municipal subdivision of the State of New York that owns the electric transmission and electric distribution system serving all Long Island and a portion of New York City known as the Rockaways. LIPA was originally created under the Long Island Power Act of 1985 to acquire the Long Island Lighting Company (LILCO)'s electric and natural gas infrastructure after the cancellation of the Shoreham Nuclear Power Plant. LIPA acquired LILCO's transmission system in May 1998, while the remainder of LILCO's natural gas-related infrastructure merged with Brooklyn Union Gas to form KeySpan Energy.\n\nSince January 1, 2014, LIPA has contracted with New Jersey-based Public Service Enterprise Group to operate LIPA's electric infrastructure on LIPA's behalf for a period of 12 years. Before 2014, LIPA's electric and natural gas infrastructure was run under its own name, though KeySpan operated its electric and natural gas infrastructure under a prior management contract with LIPA until 2007. KeySpan merged with National Grid USA in 2007, and National Grid began operating the electric infrastructure portion of LIPA business until 2013. National Grid handed control of the electric infrastructure portion of LIPA business to PSEG at the close of business on December 31, 2013. KeySpan still operates the natural gas infrastructure on Long Island.\n\nLIPA's Long Island electric system provides service to over 1.1 million customers in Nassau and Suffolk counties, and the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens. LIPA does not own or operate any generation plants or retail natural gas assets on Long Island, although many generation plants are under contract to LIPA to meet its power supply needs. LIPA is listed as the \"Owner, Operator and/or Billing Organization\" for 27 different electric power generation facilities located on Long Island in the 2018 NYISO Gold Book, for a total of about 5,048-megawatts (MW) of nameplate capacity.\n\nLIPA's policy is guided by a 9-member board of trustees. The LIPA management team is headed by Tom Falcone who was appointed CEO in March 2016. Ralph V. Suozzi is the chairman of LIPA's Board of Trustees, and was appointed by Governor Andrew Cuomo. In 2017, LIPA had operating expenses of $3.214 billion, an outstanding debt of $3.574 billion, and a level of staffing of 54 people. Although Public Service Law Section 3-b grants the New York State Public Service Commission the ability to review and make recommendations in regards to LIPA's electric retail rates and spending, the NYSPSC does not have the power to set those rates or expenditure levels. It can, however, inspect LIPA's facilities, books, and records. The New York State Public Service Commission runs its own field office in Long Island to enforce this recommendation and inspection capability.\n\nOn January 24, 2007, then-Governor Eliot Spitzer announced that Kevin Law would replace Richard Kessel as Chairman of LIPA until the fall when a new Chairman would be named and Law would become Chief Executive Officer of LIPA. On October 8, 2007, Law took over as President and CEO. Kevin Law stepped down on September 1, 2010 in order to become the President of the Long Island Association.\n\nLIPA owns electric transmission and distribution lines with the following voltages: \n\nLIPA does not own or operate any generation plants or retail natural gas assets on Long Island, although many generation plants are under contract to LIPA to meet its power supply needs. LIPA is listed as the \"Owner, Operator and/or Billing Organization\" for 27 different electric power generation facilities located on Long Island in the 2018 NYISO Gold Book, for a total of about 5,048 MW of nameplate capacity. For comparison, Long Island had a peak electric demand of 4,972 MW and New York State had a peak demand of 29,699 MW in 2017.\n\nThe Utility Debt Securitization Authority is a separate New York State public-benefit corporation run by a governor-appointed board of trustees that is responsible for LIPA's financial reporting. In 2017, it had operating expenses of $122.2 million, an outstanding debt of $4.262 billion, and a level of staffing of 3 people.\n\nOn December 15, 2011, LIPA selected Public Service Enterprise Group of New Jersey, the largest electric utility of that state, to take over management and operation of the electric grid from National Grid, starting in January 2014.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, LIPA and National Grid caught much media criticism in their response to Hurricane Sandy. As a result, key people at LIPA resigned including Michael Hervey, COO of LIPA, who resigned on November 13, 2012 and, though not officially confirmed as a response to Sandy, Bruce Germano (VP of Customer Service) and X. Cristofer Damianos (Member of the Board of Trustees) who resigned on November 27, 2012, and LIPA chairman Howard Steinberg who resigned on November 30, 2012.\n\nOn January 9, 2013, Governor Cuomo called for the transfer of operations of LIPA in his State of the State speech. Even though the governor appoints five of the nine trustees to serve on the LIPA Board, he cited LIPA's inability to quickly recover from Hurricane Sandy among other incidents. In May, he announced a plan to give PSEG day-to-day operations of LIPA's electric grid under a management contract. The Long Island Power Authority is the owner of the system and holder of its debt. On July 29, 2013 the state legislature passed a law implementing Governor Cuomo's plan. On January 1, 2014 PSEG rebranded the LIPA system \"PSEG Long Island\", effectively removing the LIPA name from the public eye.\n\nThe 2013 LIPA Reform Act has been criticized by the New York State Comptroller for having contributed to a more expensive and less transparent retail electric service provider in LIPA. The comptroller noted that LIPA's debts have risen since its passage and in the case of transparency, noted that PSEG-LI requested three-quarters of rate case plan documents to be kept confidential, even with the New York State Public Service Commission's enhanced review power. The report from the comptroller's office also noted that the new New York State Public Service Commission's Long Island office is costing Long Island rate payers $8 million a year. A bill was introduced in 2016 that would enhance rate setting abilities by the New York State Public Service Commission. It would have also lifted a provision from state law that disallows LIPA from buying cheap hydroelectric energy directly from the New York Power Authority - see the Green Island Power Authority for comparison. A news article stated that the Governor's office was reviewing the bill.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199285", "title": "Church Association", "text": "Church Association\n\nThe Church Association was an English evangelical Anglican organisation founded in 1865. It was particularly active in opposition to Anglo-Catholicism, ritualism, and the Oxford Movement. Founded in 1865 by Richard P. Blakeney, the association stated in its first annual report that the objectives of the association were, \"To uphold the principles and order of the United Church of England and Ireland, and to counteract the efforts now being made to assimilate her services to those of the Church of Rome.\"\n\nAs well as publishing information (including its \"Church Association Tracts\") and holding public meetings, controversially, this also involved instigating legal action against Anglo-Catholics under the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874; for instance, legal action was taken against Sidney Faithorn Green and Richard William Enraght. According to the association this was intended to clarify the law, however the ritualists refusal to comply with the courts verdicts coupled with the bishops unwillingness to act eventually led to such legal action not being pursued.\n\nIn 1950, the association merged with the National Church League to form the Church Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199290", "title": "Lisa Raymond", "text": "Lisa Raymond\n\nLisa Raymond (born August 10, 1973) is an American retired professional tennis player who has achieved notable success in doubles tennis. Raymond has 11 Grand Slam titles to her name: 6 in women's doubles and 5 in mixed doubles. On June 12, 2000, she reached the World No. 1 Ranking in doubles for the first time. Her career high singles ranking was No. 15 in October 1997. Over the course of her career, Raymond won four singles titles and 79 doubles titles, and held the World No. 1 doubles ranking for a total of 137 weeks.\n\nEarning more than US$10 million in prize money in her career, Raymond reached the quarterfinals in singles at the 2004 Australian Open and the 2000 Wimbledon Championships. Raymond, who plays right-handed, has wins over former World No. 1's Venus Williams, Arantxa Sánchez Vicario, Monica Seles, Jennifer Capriati and Martina Hingis, as well as other accomplished former top 10 players such as Magdalena Maleeva, Lori McNeil, Irina Spîrlea, Natasha Zvereva, Conchita Martínez, Marion Bartoli, Svetlana Kuznetsova and Maria Kirilenko. She is one of the few players to win a career Grand Slam in doubles. Among her doubles partners are Lindsay Davenport, Martina Navratilova, Rennae Stubbs, Samantha Stosur, Květa Peschke, Cara Black and Liezel Huber. Raymond is also an Olympic medalist, having won the bronze medal in the mixed doubles competition at the 2012 Summer Olympics for the United States, partnering with Mike Bryan.\n\nBorn in Norristown, Pennsylvania, Raymond is a 1991 graduate of The Academy of Notre Dame de Namur, a private Catholic girls school in Villanova, Pa. She received an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida, where she played for coach Andy Brandi's Florida Gators women's tennis team. As a Gator, she won the NCAA singles title in 1992 and 1993 and led the Gators to their first NCAA national team championship in 1992. She was the first player to win all three collegiate Grand Slam titles in a single season (1992). She received the 1992 Volvo Rookie of the Year award, the 1992 \"Tennis Magazine\" Collegiate Player of the Year award, and twice received the Honda Sports Award for Tennis, recognizing her as the outstanding collegiate female tennis player of the year in 1991–92 and in 1992–93.\n\nAs a junior, Raymond won five U.S. National (USTA) singles and doubles titles, and she was ranked No. 1 in the U.S. for players 18 and under in 1990. She was inducted into the University of Florida Athletic Hall of Fame as a \"Gator Great\" in 2003.\n\nPlayed the first half of the year with Rennae Stubbs before beginning a partnership with Samantha Stosur, winning the US Open, her second doubles crown at Flushing Meadows, and the Season Ending Championships, also her second. Raymond and Stosur won six titles together and were named ITF World Doubles Champions of 2005.\n\nIn 2006, Raymond and Stosur won ten titles including the French Open and their second Season Ending Championships. By winning the French Open, Lisa Raymond became only the 13th person in history to have won all four double Grand Slams. Finished the year as the co-holders of the number one spot. Won a WTA-leading 10 titles. Raymond and Stosur were again awarded by the ITF as World Doubles Chapmpions of 2006. They also received the WTA Team of the Year award for their achievements.\n\nThe year 2007 was a good one for Raymond and Stosur, with the pair winning five titles; also that year Lisa decided to retire from her singles career. However, Stosur was diagnosed with a virus, forcing her to miss the second half of the season meaning Raymond had to play with various partners. Even though they only played half the season together, they had still qualified for the Season-ending Championships but could not compete.\n\nRaymond began 2008 playing with Elena Likhovtseva with solid results but was cut short due to injury but then reunited with former partner Samantha Stosur in May, after the latter's return from injury. They went on to reach the finals of Wimbledon and the US Open, losing both. Raymond also won titles in Memphis and New Haven.\n\nIn 2009, Raymond began a partnership with Květa Peschke, where they reached four finals and two semi-finals before their year was cut short by an injury to Peschke, just before Wimbledon. Lisa played with different partners, winning one title, taking her tally to 68.\n\nRaymond now considers her 2008–2009 seasons to be almost 'lost' due to a lack of drive in her fitness.\n\nRaymond started the year by reuniting with former partner Rennae Stubbs. They lost their first round in Sydney, before reaching the semi-finals of the Australian Open, as the number six seeds, losing to Venus and Serena Williams. Raymond also made the semi-finals of the Mixed doubles tournament. Raymond and Stubbs won the Aegon International against Květa Peschke and Katarina Srebotnik in the final 6–2, 2–6 [13–11]\nBoth Raymond and Stubbs qualified for the WTA Tour Championship at Doha and will face second seeds Květa Peschke and Katarina Srebotnik.\n\nRaymond started the year by teaming up with Julia Görges but in April started a new partnership with Liezel Huber. Starting slowly, by May their results picked up with a quarter-final showing in Warsaw, semi-finals at Roland Garros and Birmingham, runners-up in Eastbourne and Stanford. They were also quarter-finalists at Wimbledon and Cincinnati. They won their first tournament in Toronto and then claimed the US Open and Tokyo, with a semi-final finish in Beijing which qualified them for the WTA Championships in Istanbul. Both have stated they want to continue their partnership in 2012 and hopefully play the London Olympics. Raymond has now won six women's Grand Slam double titles, three at the US Open, bringing her grand total to 9 (three in mixed) and 73 double titles in total.\n\nIn Raymond's first tournament of the year which was at Sydney she and her partner Huber were 2nd seeds. They got to the final where they were against top seeds Peschke and Srebotnik. The final was very close with the first 2 sets shared. In the deciding 3rd set the top seeds won 13–11. In the Australian Open Raymond and Huber got to the quarter-finals without dropping a set but narrowly lost their quarter-final match to Mirza and Vesnina in the deciding 3rd set 7–6. Raymond and Huber won the next 4 tournaments which were in Paris, Doha, Dubai and Indian Wells. In Paris they were the top seeds. Grönefeld and Martić were beaten in straight sets in the final. In Doha Raymond and Huber defeated Kops and Spears in the final in straight sets. In Dubai Raymond and Huber got revenge for their Australian Open defeat to Mirza and Vesnina by beating them in straight sets in the final. At Indian Wells Raymond and Huber beat Mirza and Vesnina in straight sets again in the final. At Wimbledon Raymond and Huber were number 1 seeds but lost to eventual champions Serena and Venus Williams. Raymond's last tournament of the year was the Masters Cup. Her partner in the doubles was Huber. They got to the semi-finals losing to Hlave and Hrade in straight sets.\n\nRaymond started the year ranked No. 6 in doubles. Her first tournament was with partner Maria Kirilenko in Sydney, where they were seeded 3rd. They beat Marina Erakovic and Ekaterina Makarova in straight sets in the 1st round, but then lost in straight sets to Darija Jurak and Katalin Marosi in the 2nd round.\n\nNext, Raymond and Kirilenko played at the Australian Open, where they were seeded 3rd. They were beaten in straight sets in the 2nd round by the Australian duo of 16-year-old Ashleigh Barty (who was playing with a wildcard) and Casey Dellacqua, who later went on to reach the final. After the Australian Open, she dropped to No. 7, being overtaken in the rankings by her partner Kirilenko.\n\nIn February, Raymond teamed up with Sam Stosur to play at the Doha tournament, where they were unseeded and beat 8th seeds Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Sania Mirza in straight sets, then beat Janette Husárová and Shuai Zhang 2:1 sets, but lost in the quarter-finals against 3rd seeded Raquel Kops-Jones and Abigail Spears in straight sets.\n\nNext, in March, Raymond played in Miami, where she teamed up with British teenager Laura Robson (who was playing with a wild card). They reached the semi-finals, where they beat 1st seeds and World #1 pair Errani and Vinci in straight sets with the loss of just 3 games, but then lost in straight sets against 3rd seeds Nadia Petrova and Katarina Srebotnik in the final. This partnership continued into the 2013 Wimbledon tournament.\n\nRaymond started the year ranked 42 in the doubles. She reached the final of her first tournament of the year Hobart with Zhang Shuai as her partner. They narrowly lost to Monica Niculescu and Clara Zakopalová. In the Australian Open she partnered with Hantu. They reached the 3rd round and got knocked out by Marka and Vesni. At Nurenberg she gets as far as semi-final with Huber as her Partner Huber. The same pair lost to eventual French Open champions Hsei and Peng in the 3rd round. At Wimbledon Raymond and Huber were seeded 15th but lost in the 2nd round. In the US Open Raymond teamed up with King and they got to the 3rd round before losing to the eventual tournament winners Makarova and Vesnina. Raymonds best result in the mixed doubles was a 2nd round exit at the Australian Open with Fryst as her partner. In the French Open and US Open she lost in the 1st round with Peers and Lipsk respectively.\n\nCountry: USA\nYears Participated: 1997, 1998, 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008\nBest Result: Winning Team 2000\n\nOverall Record: 14–9\nSingles Record: 3–6\nDoubles Record: 11–3\n\nCountry: USA\nYears Participated: 2006\nBest Result: Winning Team 2006 (w/Taylor Dent)\n\nOverall Record: 3–4\nSingles Record: 0–4\nMixed Doubles Record: 3–0\n\nCountry: USA\nYears Participated: 2004\nBest Result: Doubles Quarter-Finalist (w/Navratilova), Singles 3rd Round\n\nOverall Record: 3–2\nSingles Record: 2–1\nDoubles Record: 1–1\n\n"}
{"id": "2199292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199292", "title": "Tamar Slay", "text": "Tamar Slay\n\nTamar Ulysses Slay (born April 2, 1980) is an American former professional basketball player. A 6 ft 8 in (2.03 m) guard-forward, he was formerly with the NBA's New Jersey Nets and Charlotte Bobcats.\n\nHe graduated from Woodrow Wilson High School in Beckley, WV. He helped lead the school to state AAA basketball championships in 1997 and 1998, two of the five basketball state championships won by Woodrow Wilson High School in the 1990s. Afterwards, he attended Marshall University (Huntington, West Virginia). He was one of the team's most prominent players, averaging 15.7 points per game over his four-year college career.\n\nSlay was the 54th overall pick in the 2002 NBA draft, selected by the New Jersey Nets. He spent two seasons with the Nets. He then played for the Charlotte Bobcats during the 2004-2005 season.\nIn 2005 Slay joined Israeli leading team Hapoel Jerusalem, but after an unstable season he was released in late December 2006. On January 4, 2007, he signed with the Bakersfield Jam of the NBA Development League. For the 2007–08 season, he returned overseas with Pierrel Capo d'Orlando. In July 2008, he signed with Air Avellino. In July 2009, he signed with Carmatic Pistoia. In August 2010 he signed with his third team in Italy, Umana Venezia. He joined Sutor Basket Montegranaro in August 2012. In August 2013, he signed a one-year deal with Basket Brescia Leonessa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199295", "title": "Catherine Murphy", "text": "Catherine Murphy\n\nCatherine Murphy may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199305", "title": "Sam Huntington", "text": "Sam Huntington\n\nSam Huntington (born April 1, 1982) is an American actor. He is best known for his starring role as Josh Levison, a werewolf in the Syfy series \"Being Human\", and for his role as Jimmy Olsen in the superhero film \"Superman Returns\". For its two seasons from September 2015 to April 2017, Huntington had a recurring role on the Fox series \"Rosewood\". He also played Mimi-Siku Cromwell in the Disney movie \"Jungle 2 Jungle\". He played Ox in \"Not Another Teen Movie\". He also had a cameo in the December 2017 USA Network TV-film \"\".\n\nHuntington was born in Peterborough, New Hampshire. His mother, Christine Stabile, owned and operated the Black Box Theatre, where Huntington started his career. Huntington's great-uncle was actor Ralph Bellamy.\n\nHuntington's first role was in the 1996 television movie \"Harvest of Fire\", which starred Lolita Davidovich. He then appeared opposite Tim Allen in Disney's \"Jungle 2 Jungle\" the following year. He has appeared in films: \"Detroit Rock City\", \"Not Another Teen Movie\", \"Rolling Kansas\", \"Freshman Orientation\", \"In Enemy Hands\" and \"River's End\". He has guest starred in \"\", \"\", \"Law & Order\", and \"Veronica Mars\". He was also in the History Channel's documentary \"The States\", when it covered New Hampshire.\n\nHuntington appeared in Bryan Singer's 2006 film \"Superman Returns\" as Jimmy Olsen. He starred in the 2009 comedy film \"Fanboys\", and again co-starred with \"Superman\" actor Brandon Routh in the live action film adaptation of \"\".\n\nIn 2011, he was cast in the Syfy television series \"Being Human\" as Josh Levison, a werewolf. The series lasted four 13-episode seasons (a total of 52 episodes), and its final episode aired in April 2014. He also served as a guest on the second season of the reality television game show \"Face Off\".\n\nFrom autumn 2015 through spring 2017, Huntington appeared as the \"special guest star\" in his recurring role of quirky coroner Mitchie Mendelson on the Fox series \"Rosewood\". The series was cancelled in May 2017 after two seasons.\n\nOn December 7, 2017, Huntington appeared briefly in the role of (detective) Sammy in USA Network's telefilm \"\". The TV-movie is a sequel to the hit USA dramedy \"Psych\", which starred James Roday (also co-writer of this TV-movie sequel) and Dulé Hill, who reprise their original roles. \"Psych\" ran for eight seasons (2006–14) on USA.\n\nHuntington married actress and producer Rachel Klein in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199310", "title": "Ba Ba Ti Ki Di Do", "text": "Ba Ba Ti Ki Di Do\n\nBa Ba Ti Ki Di Do is an EP by Sigur Rós, released in 2004 by Geffen Records. The EP consists of the songs the group composed for Merce Cunningham's dance piece \"Split Sides\", which also involved Radiohead.\n\nThe title refers to the only spoken words throughout the whole piece. Merce Cunningham was recorded saying \"ba ba, ti ki, ba ba, di do\" and this can be heard in the last track, \"Di Do\".\n\nRadiohead wrote music to the second half of \"Split Sides\" but are not planning on releasing their contribution.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199316", "title": "Amstetten", "text": "Amstetten\n\nAmstetten may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2199319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199319", "title": "Shane McEntee (politician)", "text": "Shane McEntee (politician)\n\nShane Alan McEntee (19 December 1956 – 21 December 2012) was an Irish Fine Gael politician who served as Minister of State for Food, Horticulture and Food Safety from 2011 to 2012. He served as a Teachta Dála (TD) from 2005 to 2012.\n\nMcEntee was born in the village of Nobber in County Meath. He had seven siblings. His father Tony died in March 2011 at the age of 86, while his mother Madge outlived him.\n\nHe became an active member of Fine Gael when he joined the party at the age of 15. Before being elected, he worked as a farmer and agricultural sales representative. He ran the \"Dee Local Bar\".\n\nMcEntee was also very involved in the GAA, both as trainer and player (until an injury ended his promising career). He played at the back with Nobber, and won the 1983 Feis Cup, managed the Meath minor team during the 1990s, and led three clubs (Ballinlough, Syddan, and Castletown) to finals of the Meath Intermediate Football Championship, with two wins from the three. His brother Gerry is a renowned surgeon, who won the All-Ireland Senior Football Championship with Meath in 1987 and 1988. Another brother, Andy went on to manage Meath, while Andy's son Shane also played for Meath, both after the death of their brother and uncle respectively.\n\nHe was married with two daughters and a son. His daughter Helen succeeded him as TD for Meath East after his death.\n\nA close friend of Taoiseach Enda Kenny, McEntee's election candidacy began in 2004 when he was selected as the Fine Gael candidate in the Meath by-election, which was triggered by the resignation from Dáil Éireann of Fine Gael's former leader, John Bruton. Polling was on 11 March 2005, and McEntee narrowly beat the Fianna Fáil candidate Shane Cassells, and was elected to the 29th Dáil.\n\nMcEntee was re-elected at the 2007 and 2011 general elections. He was the Fine Gael deputy spokesperson on Agriculture, Fisheries and Food with special responsibility for Food and Fisheries from 2007 to 2011. On 10 March 2011, he was appointed as the Minister of State for Food, Horticulture and Food Safety.\n\nMcEntee was also a successful campaigner on behalf of families in counties Dublin, Meath and Kildare whose homes had been damaged by pyrite in stone used in the foundations.\n\nMcEntee gave an impassioned speech in defence of party leader Enda Kenny during the 2010 Fine Gael leadership challenge.\n\nMcEntee died by suicide on 21 December 2012, two days after his 56th birthday. McEntee had been feeling under pressure because of criticism of a number of Government budgetary decisions. His funeral took place on 24 December 2012.\n\nThe by-election for his seat was held on 27 March 2013, and was won by his daughter Helen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199324", "title": "Evelyn Reed", "text": "Evelyn Reed\n\nEvelyn Reed (1905–1979) was an American communist and women's rights activist.\n\nIn January 1940, she traveled to Mexico to see the exiled Russian Revolutionary Leon Trotsky and his wife Natalia Sedova. There, at the house of Trotsky in Coyoacán, Reed met the American Trotskyist leader James P. Cannon, leader of the Socialist Workers Party (United States). Reed joined in the same year, and remained a leading party member until her death.\n\nAn active participant in the Women's liberation movement of the 1960s and 1970s, Reed was a founding member of the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition in 1971. During these years she spoke and debated on women's rights in cities throughout the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Ireland, the United Kingdom and France.\n\nInspired by the works on women and the family by Friedrich Engels and Alexandra Kollontai, Reed is the author of many books on Marxist feminism and the origin of the oppression of women and the fight for their emancipation. Some of the most notable works by Reed are: \"Problems of Women's Liberation\", \"Woman's Evolution: From Matriarchal Clan to Patriarchal Family\", \"Is Biology Woman's Destiny?\", and \"Cosmetics, Fashions, and the Exploitation of Women\" (with Joseph Hansen and Mary-Alice Waters.)\n\nShe was nominated as a candidate for President of the United States for the Socialist Workers Party in the 1972 United States presidential election. On the ballot in only three states (Indiana, New York, and Wisconsin), Reed received a total of 13,878 votes. The main Socialist Workers candidate was Linda Jenness, who received 37,423 votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199332", "title": "Kurt Asle Arvesen", "text": "Kurt Asle Arvesen\n\nKurt Asle Arvesen (born 9 February 1975) is a Norwegian former professional road bicycle racer, who competed as a professional between 1998 and 2011. Arvesen is from Eresfjord, Nesset. He won the Norwegian National Road Race Championships five times, as well as stages in each of the three Grand Tours.\n\nAfter retiring as a rider, Arvesen became a coach with . He currently works as a directeur sportif for UCI ProTeam .\n\nAfter winning the gold medal at the 1997 Under-23 World Championship as an amateur, Arvesen turned pro with Italian team Asics in 1998, where later Team CSC teammate Ivan Basso rode as a stagiare. The two riders moved on to Davide Boifava's team, Riso Scotti-Vinavil in 1999, which was renamed Amica Chips-Tacconi Sport in 2000, but Arvesen's three years in Italy did not get him the results his World Under-23 Championships win had foretold. In 2001 Arvesen and Basso split up, as Arvesen moved on to Danish Team Fakta, where he experienced his most successful years culminating in a stage win in the 2003 Giro d'Italia.\n\nIn 2004, Team Fakta closed, and Arvesen and sports director Kim Andersen both moved on to . At Team CSC, Arvesen has been riding mostly as a domestique, but he won the stage race Danmark Rundt as well as CSC Classic in 2004. For the 2004 Tour de France, Arvesen helped team captain Basso finish second overall, and he was named the toughest rider in the peloton when he finished the three-weeks long race after crashing severely on several stages.\n\nFor the 2005 Tour de France he would once more ride in support of Basso. This time Arvesen had the strength to ride aggressively, and on the 17th stage of the race, he got in a breakaway with 16 other riders which lasted all the way to the finish line. As the leading group slowly disintegrated, he and Italian rider Paolo Savoldelli were the last riders for the sprint, but Savoldelli was too fast for Arvesen.\n\nIn the 2006 UCI ProTour spring season Arvesen got a handful of top 10 placings. When he crashed into a right-swinging car during a training ride in April, he got away with road rash and a bruised right knee and less than a week later he rode Rund um den Henninger Turm, though he did not ride the race to its end. He finally won Ster Elektrotoer, but that was not sufficient to secure a place in the 2006 Tour de France roster. Arvesen became runner-up in Paris–Tours.\nIn the 2007 Giro d'Italia Arvesen won stage 8 after beating Paolo Bettini in the finish. On July 16 he won stage 11 in the 2008 Tour de France, his first ever stage win in the tour. After engaging in a successful breakaway, he finished winning two centimeters ahead of number two.\n\nArversen's 2009 tour came to a disappointing end on Stage 10 just after passing Guéret. The Norwegian champion claimed his only stage victory in the Tour in Foix 12 months previously, however on Tuesday 14 July 2009 he crashed around the 88 km mark of the stage between Limoges and Issoudun. Curiously, before the start of the 10th Stage he joked on the floor pretending he had fallen.\n\nAfter a week of rumours, it was official on 10 September 2009 that Arvesen would be joining from the 2010-season, along with fellow Norwegians Edvald Boasson Hagen and Lars Petter Nordhaug. The start of the 2010 season with Team Sky was marred by injury for Arvesen. After winning the 1st stage of Tour of Qatar (TTT), Arvesen crashed on the following stage, breaking his collarbone. He returned to the bike in time to participate in Tirreno–Adriatico.\n\nHe ended his racing career after the 2011 season, but remained at as a specialist coach. He became a Sports Director with the team in 2015. In October 2016 it was announced that he would leave Sky and become Sports Director for the Norwegian UCI Continental squad . In March 2017 it was also announced that he had agreed a permanent contract with Eurosport to act as an analyst for the channel, having appeared as a guest commentator with the station for several years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199333", "title": "Angel Face (1953 film)", "text": "Angel Face (1953 film)\n\nAngel Face is a 1953 American black-and-white film noir directed by Otto Preminger. The drama, filmed on location in Beverly Hills, California, features Robert Mitchum and Jean Simmons.\n\nFrank (Robert Mitchum) and Bill, two Beverly Hills ambulance drivers, arrive at the Tremayne mansion, where Catherine Tremayne has been affected by gas poisoning but has already been treated by the police. When Frank tries to reassure Catherine's stepdaughter, Diane, she becomes hysterical, causing them to trade slaps. After they leave, Diane follows Frank to a diner, where they flirt and decide to go to dinner, despite the fact Frank already has a girlfriend, Mary.\n\nAt dinner, Diane tells Frank about her father, and Frank tells her about Mary. We learn that Frank had been a race-car driver and that Mary was saving up money in order to help Frank to buy his own garage. The following day, Diane meets with Mary under the pretense of contributing to Frank's garage. In reality, she wants to make Mary jealous by letting it slip that they had dinner the prior evening.\n\nMary loses confidence in Frank and agrees to go out with Bill, an old boyfriend. Frank tracks down Diane to berate her for telling Mary about their impromptu dinner. But when she tells Frank he can work at the estate as the chauffeur, as well as prepare and drive her sports car in an upcoming race, Frank forgets about what she has done. Diane convinces her parents to hire Frank as chauffeur and let him live in a small apartment on the estate grounds. She further ingratiates herself to Frank by getting her stepmother Catherine to agree to listen to Frank's proposal about investing in a garage. The two begin a romantic involvement.\n\nWhile Catherine is awaiting advice on Frank's proposal from her attorney, Diane lies to Frank, telling him that Catherine wants nothing to do with the project. She further attempts to alienate him from her stepmother by saying Catherine would fire Frank if she ever found out about his and Diane's romance and that Catherine would take it out on both her and Diane's sickly father if she were being defied. Diane claims Catherine even attempted to kill her by turning on the gas in the fireplace. Frank suspects Diane is lying.\n\nFrank goes to Mary and says he is getting out of both the chauffeur job and romantic entanglement, after which they reconcile. But when he goes back to the Tremayne estate to get his gear, Diane cries and begs him to run away with her. He is confused enough to agree to stay for a few more days, but will no longer work as the chauffeur.\n\nCatherine is about to drive herself to a bridge tournament, and Diane's father Charles asks her for a ride to town. Instead of moving forward as expected, the vehicle speeds in reverse, crashing through a guardrail. It careens down a steep cliff, killing them both. As Diane is now the sole heir, she comes under suspicion for murder; police arrest her and Frank as well. Diane is devastated, as she never intended her beloved father to be in the car, and she is admitted to a hospital for treatment. She confesses that she planned and executed Catherine's murder. Doctors believe she is delirious.\n\nDefense attorney Fred Barrett warns Frank that he will take the rap since Diane's suitcase was found in his room. He suggests Frank and Diane marry, which means they cannot be compelled to testify against one another. This could allay suspicions as to why Diane and Frank were both packed to leave.\n\nThe tactic works. Barrett is able to convince the jury that Frank and Diane are simply lovebirds caught up by circumstance and they are both acquitted—this despite the expert testimony of evidence the car's drivetrain was tampered with before the crash.\n\nFrank tells Diane he wants no part of her and will try to get Mary to take him back. Diane scoffs that Mary won't and bets her car on it. Mary refuses him, saying she will stay with Bill. While this is happening, Diane goes to attorney Barrett and confesses everything. He allows her to unburden herself, then assures her she cannot be re-tried because of the legal principle of double jeopardy.\n\nWhen she returns to the mansion, Frank is packed to leave and has called a taxi. She begs Frank to take her to Mexico with him, but he says no. Frank reluctantly agrees to let her drive him to the bus station. In the car, she gives him a steely look, then quickly shifts the car into reverse and steps on the gas pedal, sending them careening to their deaths over the same cliff where the previous murders occurred.\n\nThe taxi that Frank ordered to take him to the station arrives. The driver honks the horn, gets out and waits for Frank to arrive, not aware that he has just gone off the cliff.\n\n\n\nCharacter names are not indicated in on-screen credits.\n\nIn 2018 on Turner Classic Movies Noir Alley, host Eddie Muller claimed that Hughes hired Preminger expressly for the purpose of torturing Simmons. The film had a production schedule of just 18 days, starting June 18, 1952, and a budget of under one million dollars. Previews were held in December 1952, with write-ups appearing throughout the month in \"Box Office\", \"The Film Daily\", \"The Hollywood Reporter\", \"Motion Picture Herald\" and \"Variety\".\n\nNowadays the film receives mostly positive reviews. Dave Kehr from the \"Chicago Reader\" writes: \"This intense Freudian melodrama by Otto Preminger (1953) is one of the forgotten masterworks of film noir... The film is a disturbingly cool, rational investigation of the terrors of sexuality...The sets, characters, and actions are extremely stylized, yet Preminger's moving camera gives them a frightening unity and fluidity, tracing a straight, clean line to a cliff top for one of the most audacious endings in film history.\"\n\nFilm critic Paul Brenner writes, \"Preminger transforms a second rate James M. Cain murder plot, re-orchestrating this textbook tale of passion and murder into a haunting and haunted refrain. The by then clichéd story line is pared away and brought down to an elemental level -- there is not a wasted scene in the film — and the story's familiarity breeds an aftertaste of inevitability and doom. The hallucinogenic nature of the proceedings is accented with Preminger's direction and camerawork, having actors drift from foreground to background or having the camera track to fluid and suffocating close-ups. Preminger, ever the mesmerizer, weaves his style into a half-dreamt haze of nightmare.\"\n\nShortly before his death, critic Robin Wood named it as one of his top 10 films.\n\nIn 1963, Jean-Luc Godard claimed it was the 8th best American Sound film.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199334", "title": "Lancaster City F.C.", "text": "Lancaster City F.C.\n\nLancaster City Football Club is an English semi-professional non-league football club based in the northern city of Lancaster, Lancashire. They currently compete in and play at Giant Axe. They are full members of the Lancashire County Football Association.\n\nTwo Lancaster based clubs, Skerton F.C. (1897–1900) and Lancaster Athletic F.C. (1905–11) had competed in the Lancashire Combination but both clubs folded without completing their final seasons fixtures, with Lancaster Athletic playing their final season in the West Lancashire Football League. The present club was then founded in the spring of 1911 as Lancaster Town F.C. and were admitted to Division Two of the Lancashire Combination for the start of the 1911–12 season after proving to the league and the Lancashire FA that they had no connection with the previous two clubs.\n\nAfter World War I the Combination was reduced to a single division. The club finished as runners-up in 1919–20, and the following season the club made an unsuccessful bid to join the Third Division North of the Football League. However, they won the Combination for the first time in 1921–22 and in 1928–29 reached the first round of the FA Cup for the first time losing 3–1 at home to Lincoln City. The following year they won the Combination for a second time and reached the FA Cup first round again this time losing 4–1 at New Brighton. The first round was reached again in 1930–31, 1931–32 and 1933–34, but the club lost on each occasion. Back-to-back league titles were won in 1934–35 and 1935–36, and in 1937 the club adopted its current name, Lancaster City F.C., after the town was given city status as part of King George VI's coronation celebrations.\n\nThe club continued in the Combination until 1970 with varying degrees of success including an FA Cup second round appearance, losing to Gateshead, in 1947-48 and an Lancashire FA Challenge Trophy final victory in 1951-52, but by the end of the 1960s it was decided that a change was needed so for the 1970–71 season the club left the Combination to join the Northern Premier League, a league that had been established two years earlier. City again reached the second round of the FA Cup in 1972-73, losing 2-1 at Notts County and won the Lancashire FA Challenge Trophy fur a sixth time in 1974-75, but after finishing seventeenth in 1981–82 the club resigned from the Northern Premier League and dropped into the North West Counties League when financial difficulties took hold and forced them to fold and reform. Three years later they were relegated to the second tier after finishing second from bottom of the league. Despite having only finished thirteenth in 1986-87, the club were accepted into the newly formed Division One of the Northern Premier League thanks to in no small part to ground standard and support.\n\nIn 1994-95, after several seasons of consolidation and now managed by former Preston North End and Bury player Alan Tinsley, Lancaster won the Northern Premier League Presidents Cup, their first trophy in twenty years, and the following season, as champions of Division One, were promoted to the Premier Division whilst also winning the Division One League Challenge Cup to complete a League and cup double. Two consecutive Northern Premier League Challenge Cup victories followed in 1999-2000 and 2000-02 under Tony Hesketh and after finishing eighth in 2003–04 the club were placed in the newly established Conference North. This proved to be a hugely successful period for Lancaster with the club enjoying healthy league positions and several cup successes as well as reaching the FA Cup first round proper on four occasions. However, following a club takeover, financial problems led to the club folding at the end of the 2006–07 season, in which they suffered a 10-point deduction for going into administration, and finished bottom of the league with one point. During the summer, the club reformed and were accepted back into Division One of the Northern Premier League.\n\n2008–09 was the final season for ex-player Barrie Stimpson who was replaced as manager by the returning Hesketh. Lancaster lost the 2009–10 play-off final 1–0 at home to Colwyn Bay and unfortunately, despite another Presidents Cup Final triumph in 2011, Hesketh couldn't guide the club to a much desired promotion, finishing 7th in 2010–11 and 6th in 2011–12, eventually leaving early into the following season to be replaced by ex Sunderland and Darlington player Neil Wainwright. Wainwright left in February 2013 due to budget cuts and was in turn replaced by former Newcastle United and Queens Park Rangers defender Darren Peacock who brought in former teammate Trevor Sinclair as his assistant. Both Peacock and Sinclair left the club in September 2015 after a disappointing start to the season and City appointed former player Phil Brown as manager who, after leading the team to a top six finish and a narrow penalties defeat in the Lancashire FA Challenge Trophy final to Chorley, then took City to the 2016–17 Northern Premier League Division One league title. However, after a bright start to the 2017-18 season the team then struggled, finishing in eighteenth position, and Brown left City after a torrid start to the 2018-19 season. Former Nelson and Ramsbottom United manager Mark Fell was brought as his replacement in October 2018 who, along with assistant manager Graham Lancashire, guided Lancaster to safety.\n\nThe club play at Giant Axe, located in a picturesque setting and shadowed to the east by Lancaster Castle, Lancaster railway station and Lancaster Priory, all from where the ground can be seen and reached with a short walk. The River Lune and Lancaster City centre are also in close proximity. It has been their home ground since the formation of the present club in 1911, although the first club to bear the name Lancaster also played there. Giant Axe was given its name as it was the centrepiece of a sports club, the exterior wall which was, when viewed from above, the same shape as an axe head. In those early years tennis, cricket and bowls were also played at the ground, with the football pitch being at the centre of a huge circle of grass called 'the sixpence', which also featured four cricket pitches. The ground has seen many changes since those early days and was renovated in the 1970s when the original main grandstand and then the original social club were both destroyed by fire and a new main stand was built. A social club, The Dolly Blue Tavern was built when the ground was again modernised in the 1990s with the West Road Terrace being added and modern plastic seating being installed in the main stand.\n\nThe Giant Axe layout consists of the 513-seat Main Stand, named the John Bagguley Stand after the club's late president. There are turnstiles located in three corners of the ground. Next to the main stand are the players and officials changing facilities, a supporters' bar named Netbusters, the directors lounge, toilets and The Dolly's Diner refreshments kiosk. The open West Road Terrace is situated behind one goal and a covered terracing called The Shed, now renamed The Neil Marshall Stand in memory of City's legendary and popular long-serving captain, at the other. Opposite the Main Stand is the Long Side, an open terrace that also plays host to a second supporters bar, a raised sponsors hospitality lounge and the dugouts. The club offices are now in the club car park behind the West Road Terrace.\n\nLancaster City's social club The Dolly Blue Tavern, which included the club offices and was built and opened in 1995, was located by the club car park. However, the club closed in August 2012 and has since been redeveloped into sheltered accommodation.\n\nIn the 1990s and early 2000s Lancaster enjoyed a lengthy sponsorship deal with sportswear giants Reebok. However, after financial difficulties had led to relegation and reformation in 2008, the club adopted a raffle sponsorship arrangement with several local businesses entering an annual draw with the winner becoming first team shirt sponsor. This carried on successfully for ten years until they won promotion in 2016-17 and Lancaster teamed up with local media group and radio station Heart North Lancashire and Cumbria signing a three-year shirt sponsorship deal for the start of the 2017-18 season.\n\nLancaster City's official nickname of The Dolly Blues is taken from the dolly blue washing tablets and bags that were manufactured in the early 20th century, the club's team colours being the same colour as the tablets. This is now more often than not abbreviated to The Dollies. Other nicknames adopted by the club are The Blues, City and also (the) Town. Town comes from Lancaster's early name of Lancaster Town.\n\nLancaster City also have several other teams starting with Lancaster City Reserves/development squad who play in the Lancashire Football League, winning both the 2011–12 and 2012–13 titles in a league that includes several other non-league reserve teams from the North West of England. There is also an u18s development team that compete in the FA Youth Cup. Lancaster City Juniors and Youth FC teams, ranging from under 7s to under 17s, play in the Lune and District Junior Football League and the Lancaster and Morecambe Service to Youth League. Lancaster City have in the past had a ladies team that played in the Lancashire FA Women's County League but they folded at the end of the 2015-16 season.\n\nCoaching and Medical Staff\n\n\n\nLancaster City's main and oldest rivals have always been near neighbours Morecambe, however since Morecambe's progression through to the football league very few games have been played between them since the early 1980s. Despite this the rivalry still continues to be strong whenever the two clubs do meet. Similarly, rivalries with Accrington Stanley, Barrow and Fleetwood Town are also on hold for the same reason. However over the years, Lancaster have built up rivalries, some longstanding, against other clubs from the region with Bamber Bridge, Chorley, Clitheroe, AFC Fylde, Kendal Town, Southport and Workington all providing extra interest wherever the clubs meet.\n\nLancaster City's average crowd has declined over the years with the 2012–13 average gate of 171 being its lowest for nearly 30 years. During the 1930s it has been reported that crowds regularly reached 3,000 and by the 1950s gates of 4,500 have been recorded. During the 1960s Lancaster were still attracting around 1,500 for home games, this though dwindled during the 1970s and 1980s and gates dropped to a modest 250. Success on the pitch in the mid 1990s through to the mid-2000 pushed the average gate to a steady 300–400 but this again dropped after the clubs demotion of two leagues in 2007. There have though been games when the crowds have soared once again at Giant Axe especially when neighbours Morecambe have visited for one off cup matches in recent years with crowds getting as high as 2,500 for the 1996 FA Cup game. Gates were also up more recently when City entertained such well supported clubs such as Chester, Halifax Town, Darlington FC and F.C. United of Manchester with gates pushing upwards of four figures and therefore keeping the average gate at around 250. The FC United of Manchester game alone attracted a gate of over 2,200 in 2007. Lancaster also have a passionate traveling support with the club regularly taking a healthy following on away trips, the highlight being when around 500 fans traveled to Glossop North End in 2017 to see Lancaster win the league.\n\nPast averages:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199335", "title": "Digital Jesters", "text": "Digital Jesters\n\nDigital Jesters was a British video game publisher, based in Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire. The company was founded in 2003 by veterans from CDV UK (after the UK office was shut by CDV), and their first UK-releases were TrackMania and Virtual Skipper 3, both by Nadeo.\n\nIn the beginning, they concentrated on the UK market only, but began publishing games in other regions as well. Notable releases included TrackMania Sunrise (UK & Scandinavia), Freedom Force vs. the Third Reich (UK & Scandinavia), the Pro Rugby Manager-series (UK) and Chaos League (UK).\n\nDespite a well publicised investment, on 22 December 2005 a winding-up order was made against the company in the Birmingham District Registry of the UK High Court on the petition of Kaoscontrol Limited. This followed a period where the company was accused of withholding payments to various developers they had worked with, resulting in some developers terminating contracts with the publisher. Their website disappeared soon after.\n\nThe last game the company released was a racing game based on the Crazy Frog licence in November 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199342", "title": "The Church Union", "text": "The Church Union\n\nThe Church Union is an Anglo-Catholic advocacy group within the Church of England.\n\nThe organisation was founded as the Church of England Protection Society on 12 May 1859 to challenge the authority of the English civil courts to determine questions of doctrine. It changed its name to the English Church Union in May 1860.\n\nIn particular, it was active in defending Anglo-Catholic priests such as Arthur Tooth, Sidney Faithorn Green and Richard William Enraght against legal action brought under the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874. This passing of this law was secured by Archbishop of Canterbury Archibald Campbell Tait to restrict the growing Oxford Movement and had the support of the then prime minister Benjamin Disraeli.\n\nOne of the most famous attempts at prosecution under the 1874 act began in 1888. It was aimed against Edward King (bishop of Lincoln), but the Archbishop of Canterbury Edward Benson (bishop) revived his own archiepiscopal court (inactive since 1699) to avoid the prosecution of the saintly King in a lay court.\n\nSuch prosecutions ended in 1906 after a Royal Commission recognized pluralism in worship, but the act was not repealed until the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure 1963. In 1933 the English Church Union merged with the Anglo-Catholic Congress to form the present organisation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199348", "title": "So Long at the Fair", "text": "So Long at the Fair\n\nSo Long at the Fair (US re-release title The Black Curse) is a 1950 British thriller film directed by Terence Fisher and Antony Darnborough, and starring Jean Simmons and Dirk Bogarde. It was adapted from the 1947 novel of the same name by Anthony Thorne. \n\nThe general plot derives from what appears to be a 19th-century urban legend, known variously as \"The Vanishing Hotel Room\" or \"The Vanishing Lady\", which has inspired several fictional works. \n\nThe first published version of the story was written by Nancy Vincent McClelland as “A Mystery of the Paris Exposition” in The Philadelphia Inquirer dated November 14, 1897. It next appeared in the Detroit Free Press in 1898 as “Porch Tales: The Disappearance of Mrs. Kneeb,” by Kenneth Herford. \n\nThe German author 's novel \"Die Erscheinung\" (1912) covers the same idea, and it was filmed as a segment called 'The Apparition\" in \"Unheimliche Geschichten (Uncanny stores)\" (1919, remake 1932). Belloc Lowndes’ 1913 novel \"The End of Her Honeymoon\" also contains the tale, as does Lawrence Rising’s 1920 \"She Who Was Helena Cass,\" Sir Basil Thomson’s 1925 \"The Vanishing Of Mrs. Fraser,\" and Ernest Hemingway’s 1926 \"The Torrent Of Spring\". The German film \"Covered Tracks\" (1938) was based on the story, with a script by Thea von Harbou, and portions of the idea also featured in Alfred Hitchcock's 1938 film \"The Lady Vanishes\" \n\nThe radio play \"Cabin B-13\" by John Dickson Carr tells a similar story. It aired three times in the series \"Suspense\" (twice in 1943 and once in 1949), and gave rise its own short-lived mystery radio series, \"Cabin B-13\", after which it was adapted for television as \"Cabin B-13\" in the series \"Climax!\" (1958). It was then filmed as the theatrical release \"Dangerous Crossing\" (1953) and as the television movie \"Treacherous Crossing\" (1992).\n\nOn television, both the episode \"Into Thin Air\" (1955) of the anthology-series \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" and the episode \"The Disappearance\" (1967) of the TV-series \"The Big Valley\" were based on the same tale. \n\nLater followed \"Maybe You Will Remember\", a variation told in Alvin Schwartz's book \"Scary Stories 3\" (1991).\n\nThe film's title derives from the nursery rhyme \"Oh Dear! What Can the Matter Be?\".\n\nIn 1889, young Englishwoman Vicky Barton (Simmons) and her brother Johnny (David Tomlinson) arrive in Paris to see the Exposition Universelle. This is Vicky's first time in Paris, and after checking into a hotel, she drags her tired brother to dinner and the famous Moulin Rouge. She finally retires for the night, while Johnny has a late-night drink. When English painter George Hathaway (Bogarde) drops off his girlfriend, Rhoda O'Donovan (Honor Blackman), and her mother (Betty Warren) at the hotel, he asks Johnny for change for a 100 franc note to pay a carriage driver; Johnny lends him 50 francs and gives him his name and room number.\n\nThe next morning, Vicky finds a blank wall where Johnny's room used to be. When she questions hotel owner and manager Madame Hervé (Cathleen Nesbitt), the latter claims she arrived alone. The room number now adorns the common bathroom. Madame Hervé's brother Narcisse (Marcel Pontin) and the day porter (Eugene Deckers) back up her story.\n\nFrantic, Vicky goes to see the British consul (Felix Aylmer), followed secretly by Narcisse. She has no proof of her brother's existence, so the consul can only suggest she find a witness, Nina (Zena Marshall), the hotel maid who attended her. Nina had informed her that she was going up in a balloon with her boyfriend at the Exposition that day, so the consul takes her there. Tragically, she is too late. Before she can talk to Nina, the balloon ascends, bursts into flames, and plummets to the ground, killing the two passengers.\n\nVicky tries the French police commissaire (Austin Trevor). He questions Madame Hervé and her brother, but can find nothing amiss in their story. Since her room has been reserved for only two nights, Vicky has to leave the hotel. Madame Hervé offers her a ticket home to England, which she is forced to accept, as she has little money left. However, unbeknownst to either party, Rhoda O'Donovan has been asked by George Hathaway to deliver a letter containing his loan repayment to Johnny. Not finding his room, Rhoda slips the envelope under Vicky's door, where she finds it.\n\nVicky goes to see George. When he confirms having met her brother, she bursts into tears. He offers his assistance. George notices there are six balconies, but only five rooms on the floor, and finds the missing hotel room, the entrance having been covered over to be part of the wall.\n\nUnder questioning by the police, Madame Hervé reveals where Johnny has been taken. It turns out that he became sick with the Black Plague during the night. The news would have been disastrous for the Exposition, so he was secretly taken away to a hospital. George brings along Doctor Hart (André Morell), who tells Vicky her brother has a chance of living.\n\nThe music, by Benjamin Frankel, includes a sequence accompanying a ride in a carriage which went on to become a popular light concert item under the title \"Carriage and Pair\".\n\nBetty Box was appointed producer at the last minute when Antony Darborough was held up on \"The Astonished Heart\". The film was to have cast Francoise Rosay but she dropped out to go to Hollywood.\n\nIt was shot at Pinewood Studios. The film's sets were designed by the art directors Cedric Dawe and George Provis.\n\nThe film performed solidly at the box office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199352", "title": "Chris Carter (British musician)", "text": "Chris Carter (British musician)\n\nChris Carter (born 28 January 1953) is an English musician, best known for being a synthesist and member of Throbbing Gristle and the duo Chris & Cosey, both with his longtime partner Cosey Fanni Tutti.\n\nCarter was born 28 January 1953 in Islington, North London and educated at Friern Barnet Grammar School.\n\nHe began his career in the late 1960s working for various UK TV stations (Thames, Granada and LWT) as a sound engineer on numerous TV shows and documentaries. This gave him an invaluable grounding in audio techniques and theories. He also found himself getting more involved in the visual side of entertainment, which eventually progressed into designing and presenting light shows and visual effects for numerous festivals, events and gigs, including for bands as diverse as Yes and Hawkwind. This led to commissions for the BBC Television shows \"Colour Me Pop\" and \"The Old Grey Whistle Test\". By the early 1970s Carter was touring universities and colleges with a solo multimedia show, playing self-built synthesizers and keyboards and incorporating myriad lighting effects learned from his previous work. During this time he also worked extensively with visual artist John Lacey on many 8 mm & 16 mm experimental films and multimedia presentations.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, through his connection with Lacey, Carter began an experimental music/sound collaboration with Cosey Fanni Tutti and Genesis P-Orridge, who were also working at the time as performance art group COUM Transmissions along with Peter Christopherson. The results of this musical collaboration were the creation of the group Throbbing Gristle, of the music label Industrial Records, and the birth of the 'Industrial Music' genre.\n\nIn 1976 Carter also worked at the London bureau of the ABC News agency as a sound engineer and during that time designed and constructed their London radio studio. In 1977 he was offered a contract to build another ABC studio in Rome but turned it down to continue his involvement as a member of Throbbing Gristle.\n\nDuring the early years of Throbbing Gristle, the four members each continued with other solo projects and work. It was during this period (1980) when Carter recorded his first solo album for Industrial Records called \"The Space Between\", which is now available on Mute Records. Shortly after the demise of Throbbing Gristle in 1981, and with help and backing from Rough Trade Records, Carter and Cosey Fanni Tutti formed their Conspiracy International (CTI) record label, and began working together as Chris & Cosey and CTI. Initially they released only music, but soon moved into producing video works, and with the help of Doublevision released a number of CTI experimental video films and soundtracks. In 1985 Carter released his second solo album \"Mondo Beat\".\n\nAs well as successfully touring all over the world, Chris & Cosey also recorded and collaborated on innumerable releases, most notably with Annie Lennox and Dave Stewart, Robert Wyatt, Coil, Boyd Rice, Lustmord, Monte Cazazza and many more. Chris & Cosey and Carter Tutti have also remixed tracks for Mortal Loom and Erasure, Pantaleimon, Throbbing Gristle, John Cage, Current 93 and Chris Ewan (FBH).\n\nIn 1994 Carter also moved into journalism, and regularly has technical articles and reviews published in the magazine \"Sound on Sound\". He is additionally a keen photographer and graphic designer, and in collaboration with Cosey Fanni Tutti has designed and produced numerous album covers, posters and art works. Carter returned to solo performance work in 1995 after a gap of 15 years. His performances included subtle references to his earlier works, but with obvious influences from his more recent collaborations. In 1998 Carter released a compilation CD entitled \"Disobedient\", consisting of tracks from his 1995 Disobey tour (produced by Paul Smith). In 2000 he released a solo studio album, \"Small Moon\". In 1998 the album \"Caged\", a collaboration with electronic musician Ian Boddy, was released on the DiN label.\n\nIn 2000 Carter, in collaboration with Cosey Fanni Tutti, began producing and releasing a series of albums titled: Electronic Ambient Remixes. The first of these, \"EAR ONE\", consisted of dark ambient remixes of his 1980 \"The Space Between\" album. In 2002 he released \"EAR THREE\", a further solo ambient CD, which consists of radical remixes of original Throbbing Gristle industrial rhythm tracks.\n\nIn 2003 Carter and Cosey Fanni Tutti stopped releasing material and performing as Chris & Cosey, and began producing all their work under the title of Carter Tutti. One of their first appearances as Carter Tutti was a special quadraphonic performance in the Disney Theatre at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles in 2005. Carter and the other original members of Throbbing Gristle regrouped the band in 2003 and released the TG24 CD boxed set, with an accompanying art exhibition in London. TG performances followed in London, Camber Sands, Turin, Berlin, Barcelona and Paris.\n\nDuring 2007 Carter and Cosey Fanni Tutti again worked on numerous Throbbing Gristle projects, recordings, installations, exhibitions and performances. These included their groundbreaking audio/visual performance at Tate Modern turbine hall and their three-day 'public recording session' at the ICA in London. Carter has recently finished working on a new Carter Tutti album entitled \"Feral Vapours of the Silver Ether\", which is released on the Conspiracy International label and is already being heaped with praise and rave reviews and is being acclaimed as \"their finest yet\". Carter continues to work and collaborate with both Cosey Fanni Tutti and Throbbing Gristle. He is also currently working on a new solo experimental audio project titled CCCL, and is producing a new Carter Tutti film, due for release on DVD in 2008.\n\nCarter has invented a sound generator called The Dirty Carter Experimental Sound Generating Instrument—a circuit bending device with a tilt sensor.\n\nCarter also co-invented The Gristleizer, a sound effects unit based on the design of a Guitar Effects Pedal from Roy Gwinn. The Gristleizer effects unit is regarded as a major contributor to the Throbbing Gristle sound.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199359", "title": "Berkut Air", "text": "Berkut Air\n\nState Air Company Berkut, commonly known as Berkut Air, was an airline based in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, operating Government charter flights out of Nursultan Nazarbayev International Airport.\n\nBerkut was founded in 1999. Along with all other commercial Kazakh airlines with the exception of Air Astana, it was banned from entering EU airspace in April 2009, due to the country's poor maintenance standards.\n\nIn 2011 the airline was rebranded as Bek Air.\n\nThe Berkut Air fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of August 2019):\n\nThe airline previously operated the following aircraft:\n"}
{"id": "2199363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199363", "title": "West Quincy, Missouri", "text": "West Quincy, Missouri\n\nWest Quincy is a small commercial area in northeastern Marion County, Missouri, United States, on U.S. Route 24. It has no permanent residents.\n\nWest Quincy was platted in 1874, and named for its location west of Quincy, Illinois. It is the location of the Lock and Dam No. 21 Historic District, listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2004.\n\nWest Quincy is directly across the Mississippi River from Quincy, Illinois and once housed a Chicago, Burlington & Quincy train station, drive-in theater, and corporation. However, since the Great Flood of 1993, many businesses have left.\n\nThe Knapheide corporation headquarters was formerly located in West Quincy, but it has relocated its main location to northern Quincy, Illinois. However, an active Knapheide facility still remains in West Quincy to this day. A tornado hit the drive-in theater and nearly crossed to Quincy but receded once it hit the bluffs.\n\nDuring the flood of 1993, the levee was sabotaged and water filled the floodplain, and a nearby barge was sucked into the break in the levee. It hit a local gas station and caused an explosion. Oil caught fire and the fire snaked across the water before it extinguished itself. All of the Quincy bridges—the only links across the river from Missouri to Illinois for 200 miles—were closed. One bridge, the Bayview Bridge, was closed for 71 days. This forced residents to drive to St. Louis or Burlington, Iowa, fly or take a ferry to get across the river.\n\nA man from the Illinois side of the river, James Scott, was convicted of causing the flood and was sentenced to life in prison.\n\nToday, West Quincy is home to a number of gas stations that largely serve consumers from Quincy. Missouri's lower state taxes on gasoline and cigarettes are the primary draw, as are the seasonal fireworks tents that spring up in the area during the summer. A number of other small businesses, including a pawn shop, a bank, and a number of car dealerships also operate in West Quincy.\n"}
{"id": "2199368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199368", "title": "Chuadanga District", "text": "Chuadanga District\n\nChuadanga (, pron: \"tʃuaɖaŋga\"), Chuadanga district or Chuadanga Zila (চুয়াডাঙ্গা জেলা) is a Western district (zila) of Bangladesh. It is a part of the Khulna administrative division that covers most districts in the south-west of the country.\n\nChuadanga witnessed a number of uprisings during the British rule of India. The uprisings included Wahabi Movement (1831), Faraizi Movement(1838–47), Sepoy Rebellion (1857), Indigo Rebellion (1859–60), Khilafat Movement (1920), Swadeshi Movement (1906), Non-cooperation movement, Violation of Law and Salt Satyagraha (1920–40), and Quit India Movement or August Revolt (1942).\n\nUnder British rule, Chuadanga was a sub-division within Nadia District. During partition, in 1947, excepting Krishnanagar thana (still under Nadia in West Bengal). History of Chuadanga can be found in Nadia District Gazetteer during British rule. During Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, Chuadanga was the location of more than 100 battles between the Pakistan Army and the pro-independence Mukti Bahini. There is a mass graveyard of the victims of the Bangladesh genocide during the Bangladesh Liberation war behind the Chuadanga Government Hospital.\n\nThe district had an outbreak of bird flu and two thousand chickens were culled.\n\nIn April 2016, a government investigation found the building of Biological Research Centre and Lab under the Department of Agricultural Extension was being built with bombos instead of steel rods. The two story building was being constructed by Joy Construction Ltd based in Dhaka for a $24 million contract. \n\nThe district saw some Islamist attacks in the early 2000s. in April 2015, a police camp was attacked by Madrassa students and villagers after police arrested Lakmipur Darus Sunnah Cadet Madrasa students extorting money from the highway. Five police officers and 35 attackers were injured in the attack led by Islami Chhatra Shibir activists. In 8 February 2016, Sacred Heart Catholic Church was attacked by 15 armed men. Bauls, traditional Bengali singers, were attacked in July 2016.\n\nChuadanga district has an area of 1,157.42 km². It shares domestic borders with the Kushtia District on the northeast, Meherpur on the northwest, and Jhenaidah on the south and southeast. On its southwest lies the Nadia District (in the state of West Bengal in India). In January 2018, the district had the lowest temperature in Bangladesh.\nUntil the Partition of India in 1947 Chuadanga sub-division was within Nadia district.\n\nAdministrator of Zila Porishod: Major (Rtd.) Alimuzzaman Zoarder\n\nDeputy Commissioner (DC): Gopal Chandra Das\n\nChuadanga district is divided into five \"Upazilas\".\n\nAccording to 2011 Bangladesh census, Chuadanga District had a population of 1,129,015. Males constituted 50.03% of the population and females 49.97%. Muslims formed 97.459% of the population, Hindus 2.348%, Christians 0.141% and others 0.051%. Chuadanga District had a literacy rate of 44.15% for the population 7 years and above.\n\nThe population of the district was 987,382 during the 2001 national survey with 50.82% male and female 49.18% compositions.\n\nNotable educational institutions according to Banglapedia include the Victoria Jubilee Government High School (est. 1880), Damurhuda Pilot High School (1913), Alamdanga Pilot High School (1914), Natudaôho High School (1906), Carew's High School (1947), Gokulkhali High School (1947), Sarojgonj High School (1948), Jibonnôgor Pilot High School (1957), SSV High School (Dingadha, 1968) and Hajar Duari School.Nilmoniganj High School(1967)\n\nA private university named First Capital University of Bangladesh, Chuadanga was established in 2012 and Primary Training Institute(PTI) at Alamdanga Road, Chuadanga-7200. \n\nMost of this small district is dedicated to agriculture. Occupational distributions clearly show this with agriculture employing 68% of the labour force, while only 12% are involved in commerce. Total cultivable land amounts to 894.20 km², of which 57% is under some sort of irrigation. Cotton is a cash crop grown in the district and in 2013, cotton was cultivated in 4149 hectares.\nBesides agriculture the district is now experiencing industrial growth. Major industries include Zaman Group of Industries, Bangas bread and biscuit, Tallu Spinning mills Ltd,Khatun Plastic Limited (KPL), and Carew & Company Bangladesh Limited. Carew & Co (Bangladesh) Ltd(1933), which is situated at Darshana of Damurhuda Upazila of Chuadanga district. Sugar cane is cultivated in Darshana. Carew & Company has a distillery also which is the lone spirit producing plant of Bangladesh, Carew & Company Bangladesh Limited is an enterprise of Bangladesh Sugar & Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC). BSFIC is an autonomous body of Ministry of Industries.\n\nChuadanga is connected to four of its neighbouring districts (Kushtia, Jessore, Jhenidah and Meherpur) through inter-district highways and connected to Jessore and Kushtia by railway. The district is connected to the rest of the country by three highways and[railway. There are 203 km of finished road, 211 km herring-bone and 132 km mud road. A total length of railway tracks of just over 50 km connects the three railway stations inside the district with the country's railway network. By 2013, five out of the ten stations in the district were shut down due to a lack of manpower. Some stations were turned into markets by Bangladesh Jubo League men.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199387", "title": "Seán Crowe", "text": "Seán Crowe\n\nSeán Crowe (born 7 March 1957) is an Irish Sinn Féin politician who has been a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Dublin South-West constituency since the 2011 general election, and previously from 2002 to 2007.\n\nCrowe was born in Dublin in 1957. He is married to Pamela Kane, and they live in Tallaght. He worked as a community activist in the area, campaigning on such issues as the local hospital, transport, drugs and affordable housing.\n\nDuring the 1990s, when the current Northern Ireland peace process was initiated, Crowe was the head of the Sinn Féin mission to the Forum for Peace and Reconciliation at Dublin Castle and was a member of Sinn Féin negotiating team.\n\nCrowe represented the party in the multi-party negotiations that led up to the Good Friday Agreement in 1998.\n\nHe has been involved in politics since 1989, when he stood unsuccessfully for Dublin South-West at the 1989 general election. He contested the constituency again in 1992 and 1997, significantly increasing his vote share on the latter occasion. In 1999, he was elected as a South Dublin County Councillor, representing the Tallaght South local electoral area. On the same day he was an unsuccessful candidate for the Dublin constituency for the European Parliament.\n\nHe was elected to Dáil Éireann at the 2002 general election. He lost his seat at the 2007 general election. In September 2008, he returned to South Dublin County Council when he was co-opted to replace a party colleague and retained the seat at the 2009 local elections. He regained his Dáil seat in Dublin South-West at the 2011, 2016 and 2020 general elections.\n\nHe is a former member of the Sinn Féin Ard Chomhairle (National Executive).\n\n"}
{"id": "2199388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199388", "title": "Oak Hills High School", "text": "Oak Hills High School\n\nOak Hills High School is a four-year public secondary school located in Bridgetown, Ohio, with a mailing address of Cincinnati. Oak Hills often is referred to as \"OHHS\" by its students and faculty. It is run by the Oak Hills Local School District.\n\nWith approximately 2,500 students enrolled annually, Oak Hills is one of the largest public high schools in Ohio. It is a member of the 10-school Greater Miami Conference.\n\nRunner-up\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199389", "title": "Electrathon", "text": "Electrathon\n\nAn electrathon is a competition to go the farthest in one hour powered only by commercial rechargeable batteries weighing no more than (two car batteries). The record is as of February 2011.\n\nIt involves three- or four-wheeled electric vehicles, somewhat similar in overall appearance to a Go-Kart with an aerodynamic body, but powered by an electric motor and batteries. Electrathon class vehicles are principally defined and constrained by length and width (12 feet long and 4 feet wide or 3.6 m × 1.2 m maximum) and by battery weight and chemistry (, sealed lead acid). Discharged for one hour, this amounts to just under one kilowatt (1.3 hp). Driver's weight is ballasted to for fairness, and the vehicles themselves may weigh from . Safety regulations require features such as braking systems, roll bars, and electrical disconnects.\n\nElectrathon racing started in England, spread to Australia, and arrived in the United States in 1990. The basic format is to determine which car can travel the furthest in one hour within the limitations of battery weight and other factors mentioned above. Design teams must compromise speed in order to gain distance. Success requires efficiency of both the machine and driving technique.\n\nThe relatively low cost of the electrathon racing has made the sport a popular activity for high school age students worldwide who learn skills related to design, problem-solving, teamwork, mathematics, physics, and electricity. Prizes are awarded for high school, college and open divisions, and there are separate classes for solar and advanced battery vehicles, but all generally race together under the same rules. \n\nRaces are held on parking lots, road courses, and oval speedways, but size is a major factor, as cornering friction decreases efficiency. At present, the world record for distance travelled in one hour is , set in July 2009 on the oval at the Ford Michigan Proving Ground, by C. Michael Lewis. Using the USDOE conversion factors, this would be the equivalent of . A significant number of electrathons in the USA are build with body-parts from Blue Sky Design LLC, which sells aerodynamic body-parts specialized for electrathons.\n\nIn 2007, the Utah Salt Flats Racing Association invited several Electrathon Competitors after adding an Electrathon class. It used the same vehicle design rules, but instead of a 60 minute endurance event, it's a straight line top speed event on a one mile course. Speed was/is measured using a 30 foot trap at the end of the 1 mile distance. The first record was set by Kirk Swaney, driving a carbon fiber streamliner designed & built by SHIFT Electric Vehicles LLC (1.6 km). The current record is set by Shannon Cloud in 2008, driving a streamliner designed & built by Dave Cloud.\n\nBefore the 2010 season, the Electrathon America battery weight limit was .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199410", "title": "Potassium fluoride", "text": "Potassium fluoride\n\nPotassium fluoride is the chemical compound with the formula KF. After hydrogen fluoride, KF is the primary source of the fluoride ion for applications in manufacturing and in chemistry. It is an alkali halide and occurs naturally as the rare mineral carobbiite. Solutions of KF will etch glass due to the formation of soluble fluorosilicates, although HF is more effective.\n\nPotassium fluoride is prepared by dissolving potassium carbonate in hydrofluoric acid. Evaporation of the solution forms crystals of potassium bifluoride. The bifluoride on heating yields potassium fluoride:\nPlatinum or heat resistant plastic containers are often used for these operations.\n\nPotassium chloride converts to KF upon treatment with hydrogen fluoride. In this way, potassium fluoride is recyclable.\n\nIn organic chemistry, KF can be used for the conversion of chlorocarbons into fluorocarbons, via the Finkelstein (alkyl halides) and Halex reactions (aryl chlorides). Such reactions usually employ polar solvents such as dimethyl formamide, ethylene glycol, and dimethyl sulfoxide.\n\nLike other sources of the fluoride ion, F, KF is poisonous, although lethal doses approach gram levels for humans. It is harmful by inhalation and ingestion. It is highly corrosive, and skin contact may cause severe burns.\n"}
{"id": "2199412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199412", "title": "Bering Air", "text": "Bering Air\n\nBering Air is an American airline headquartered in Nome, Alaska, United States. It operates domestic scheduled passenger and charter airline services, as well as air ambulance and helicopter services. Its main base is Nome Airport, with hubs at Ralph Wien Memorial Airport (Kotzebue) and Unalakleet Airport\n\nIn early 1975, Jim Rowe and three college friends embarked on a journey from northern Michigan, and traveled across America in a Cessna 195, landing in Mexico's Baja California peninsula, and eventually setting on the beaches of Nome, Alaska. A few months later, in September 1979, Bering Air was established. It commenced operations on October 3, 1979 with a single De Havilland Canada DHC-3 Otter. Later, in 1983, with instigation of the increasingly popular bypass mail system, the airline added other small aircraft, including the Piper Navajo, Beech 18, and Piper Seneca. Bering Air, in favor of modern, turbine powered aircraft, later phased out aircraft equipped with radial engines. Thus, the Beechcraft King Air 200, Beechcraft 1900D, Cessna Caravan, and CASA C-212 were introduced. Furthermore, off airport duties were transferred to helicopters, instead of older piston powered aircraft. In 2015, the airline upgraded its fleet with eight Cessna 208EX Grand Caravan aircraft replacing its older Cessna 208B aircraft. Today, the airline is wholly owned by Jim Rowe (President) and Christine Rowe.\n\nAs of January 2016, the Bering Air fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nBering Air has previously operated the following aircraft:\n\nBering Air, along with Grant Aviation, Frontier Flying Service, Northern Air Cargo, PenAir, and Ryan Air Services, participates in the Flying Can service, which allows rural Alaskan communities to recycle aluminum cans and now number 1 PET bottles in cooperation with Alaskans for Litter Prevention and Recycling.\n\nBering Air provides free delivery on scheduled flights for Airport Pizza, a pizzeria at Nome Airport that takes orders from remote locations served by Bering Air.\n\nPassenger and cargo charter services are flown from Kotzebue and Nome to destinations throughout the United States, and Russia.\n\nBering Air offers scheduled passenger service to 29 cities in Western Alaska from hubs in Nome, Kotzebue and Unalakleet.\n\n\n\nBering Air offers charter service from Nome and Anchorage to Anadyr and Provideniya in the Russian Far East.\n"}
{"id": "2199414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199414", "title": "Jennifer Rovero", "text": "Jennifer Rovero\n\nJennifer Rovero (born December 12, 1978) is \"Playboy\"'s Playmate of the Month for July 1999 and has appeared in numerous \"Playboy\" videos. She appeared as the cover model of the October 1999 edition.\n\nJennifer Rovero was born in Austin, Texas, but during her childhood, she and her younger sister, Jamie, lived in Texas, California and Florida. Most of her time was eventually spent in Jacksonville, Florida, where she graduated from Mandarin High School in 1997.\n\nRovero entered and won the 1998 \"Miss Fiesta Playera pageant\" in Jacksonville Beach, which gave her the confidence to compete in Hawaiian Tropic swimsuit contests around the country. At the Hawaiian Tropic contest in Las Vegas, she was talking to photographer Arny Freytag. Rovero suggested that the beautiful countryside in Venezuela would be a nice place for a Hawaiian Tropic shoot. She was familiar with the country because her father, Raimundo, was a Venezuelan citizen and lived there. Freytag, besides being a respected swimsuit photographer, had taken over 100 centerfold photos for \"Playboy\" since 1975. Freytag suggested that he take pictures of \"her\" in Venezuela.\n\nThe pictures were taken and forwarded to \"Playboy\". The magazine requested a second test shoot, which was provided. On Independence Day in 1998, Rovero met publisher Hugh Hefner at The Playboy Mansion.\nHer centerfold spread was shot in October, 1998 in California and contained 20-pictures. Rovero had no objections to nudity. Her mother, Leslie, was quoted that she raised both her daughters to be open minded about such things. The only real problem came when the photographers asked her to pose with a cat. Rovero has a feline allergy, and within 30 minutes her face was red and puffy, causing the session to be canceled.\n\nRovero has called herself Forrest Gump because she kept finding herself in interesting situations.\n\nRovero was a photographer working for Paris Hilton in June, 2010. She attended the 2010 FIFA World Cup Soccer in South Africa with Hilton where they both stepped outside the stadium to smoke a marijuana cigarette. Consequently, she was arrested and pleaded guilty to the charge. She was sentenced to a R1000 fine (US$130) or 30 days in prison, and given 14 days to leave the country or face deportation. Her name will be placed on a visa and entry stop list.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199417", "title": "Gamma motor neuron", "text": "Gamma motor neuron\n\nA gamma motor neuron (γ motor neuron), also called gamma motoneuron, is a type of lower motor neuron that takes part in the process of muscle contraction, and represents about 30% of (Aγ) fibers going to the muscle. Like alpha motor neurons, their cell bodies are located in the anterior grey column of the spinal cord. They receive input from the reticular formation of the pons in the brainstem. Their axons are smaller than those of the alpha motor neurons, with a diameter of only 5 μm. Unlike the alpha motor neurons, gamma motor neurons do not directly adjust the lengthening or shortening of muscles. However, their role is important in keeping muscle spindles taut, thereby allowing the continued firing of alpha neurons, leading to muscle contraction. These neurons also play a role in adjusting the sensitivity of muscle spindles.\n\nThe presence of myelination in gamma motor neurons allows a conduction velocity of 4 to 24 meters per second, significantly faster than with non-myelinated axons but slower than in alpha motor neurons.\n\nMuscle spindles are the sensory receptors located within muscles that allow communication to the spinal cord and brain with information of where the body is in space (proprioception) and how fast body limbs are moving with relation to space (velocity). They are mechanoreceptors in that they respond to stretch and are able to signal changes in muscle length. The sensitivity of detecting changes in muscle length are adjusted by fusimotor neurons – gamma and beta motor neurons. Muscle spindles can be made up of three different types of muscle fibers: dynamic nuclear bag fibers (bag fibers), static nuclear bag fibers (bag fibers), and nuclear chain fibers.\n\nMuscle spindles are innervated by both sensory neurons and motor neurons in order to provide proprioception and make the appropriate movements via firing of motor neurons. There are three types of lower motor neurons involved in muscle contraction: alpha motor neurons, gamma motor neurons, and beta motor neurons. Alpha motor neurons, the most abundant type, are used in the actual force for muscle contraction and therefore innervate extrafusal muscle fibers (muscle fibers outside of the muscle spindle). Gamma motor neurons, on the other hand, innervate only intrafusal muscle fibers (within the muscle spindle), whereas beta motor neurons, which are present in very low amounts, innervate both intrafusal and extrafusal muscle cells. Beta motor neurons have a conduction velocity greater than that of both other types of lower motor neurons, but there is little currently known about beta motor neurons. Alpha motor neurons are highly abundant and larger in size than gamma motor neurons.\n\nWhen the central nervous system sends out signals to alpha neurons to fire, signals are also sent to gamma motor neurons to do the same. This process maintains the tautness of muscle spindles and is called alpha gamma co-activation. The nuclei of spindle muscle cells are located in the middle of these spindles, but unlike extrafusal muscle fibers, the myofibril contractile apparati of spindle fibers are located only at both ends of spindle. Efferent stimulation of the spindle by gamma motor neurons contracts the myofibrils, tautening the central region of spindle -- which maintains the muscle spindle's sensitivity to muscle's length change.\n\nWithout gamma motor neurons, muscle spindles would be very loose as the muscle contracts more. This does not allow for muscle spindles to detect a precise amount of stretch since it is so limp. However, with alpha gamma co-activation and both alpha and gamma neurons firing, muscle fibers within the muscle spindles are pulled parallel to the extrafusal contraction causing the muscle movement. The firing of gamma motor neurons in sync with alpha motor neurons pulls muscle spindles from polar ends of the fibers as this is where gamma motor neurons innervate the muscle. The spindle is innervated by type Ia sensory fiber that go on to synapse with alpha motor neurons, completing the gamma-loop. The parallel pulling keeps muscle spindles taut and readily able to detect minute changes in stretch.\n\nThe central nervous system controls muscle spindle sensitivity via the fusimotor system. It consists of muscle spindles along with fusimotor neurons - beta motor neurons and gamma motor neurons. Because beta motor neurons innervate extrafusal as well as intrafusal muscle fibers, they are more specifically named skeletofusimotor neurons. Gamma motor neurons are the efferent (sending signals away from the central nervous system) part of the fusimotor system, whereas muscle spindles are the afferent part, as they send signals relaying information from muscles toward the spinal cord and brain.\n\nGamma bias is gamma motor neurons' consistent level of activity. Smaller neurons require a smaller amount of excitatory input to reach its threshold compared to larger neurons. Therefore, gamma motor neurons (smaller in size than alpha motor neurons) are more likely to fire than the larger alpha motor neurons. This creates a situation with relatively few alpha motor neurons firing but some gamma motor neurons constantly firing in conditions where muscle stretch or force is not occurring. The sensitivity of sensory endings (primary and secondary endings - Ia, II) of the muscle spindle are based on the level of gamma bias (i.e. how much background level of gamma motor neuron discharge is taking place.)\n\nStatic gamma motor neurons innervate static nuclear bag fibers (bag2 fibers), a type of nuclear bag fiber and nuclear chain fibers. Both of these fiber types are part of the intrafusal muscle spindle fibers, where the static gamma motor neurons innervate onto. Nuclear chain fibers' nuclei are organized in longitudinal columns, which is where it gets its name from, whereas the nuclear bag fibers' nuclei are clumped in the midsection of the muscle spindle. There is approximately a 2:1 ratio of nuclear chain fibers to nuclear bag fibers. The static gamma motor neurons increase their firing, in response to an increase in magnitude of change in length and controls the static sensitivity of the stretch reflex. For this reason, this type of gamma motor neuron is mostly used in the maintenance of postures and slower movements such as lifting a box, rather than activities requiring rapid changes due to rapid change in muscle length.\n\nDynamic gamma motor neurons innervate the dynamic nuclear bag fibers (bag1 fibers), another type of nuclear bag fiber smaller than the static nuclear bag fibers. This type of gamma motor neuron can enhance the sensitivities of Ia sensory neurons. It is done so because the dynamic nuclear bag fibers, which are innervated by the dynamic gamma motor neurons, receive Ia sensory innervation. Furthermore, the firing of dynamic gamma motor neurons removes the slack in dynamic nuclear bags, bringing Ia fibers closer to the firing threshold. Dynamic gamma motor neurons alter muscle spindle sensitivity and increases its discharge in response to velocity, the rate of change, of muscle length rather than simply the magnitude as it is with static gamma motor neurons. Therefore, this type of gamma motor neuron can be used for activities requiring quick changes in muscle length to adjust such as balancing on a rail.\n\nThe effect of nuclear chain fibers on primary endings is to drive the discharge up to a frequency of around 60 Hz in a linear fashion, above which the discharge can become irregular. The activities of bag fibers show an initial sharp peak in discharge, which gets less as the receptor adapts. Bag fibers also reduce the dynamic sensitivity of the Ia afferent and sometimes also reduce the length sensitivity. Activation of bag fibers has the effect of increasing both the length sensitivity and the dynamic sensitivity of the primary ending.\n\nIt is believed that the secondary sensory endings serve to measure length and muscle contractions of nuclear chain fibers at the pole via the static γ-motoneurons both excite the ending and increase its length sensitivity. Bag and bag fibers receive very little innervation from secondary endings, and activation of these fibers has a minimal effect on the discharge of the secondary ending.\n\nGamma motor neurons develop similarly to alpha motor neurons at the beginning. They originate in the basal plate, which is the ventral portion of the neural tube in the developing embryo. Sonic hedgehog genes (Shh) are an important part of the development process that is secreted by the notochord creating gradients of concentrations. After the hedgehog genes, various other molecular markers and transcription factors play a role in differentiating motor neurons into the specific gamma motor neurons. \n\nGamma motor neurons, like all cells, express specific genetic markers at birth. Muscle spindle derived GDNF neurotrophic factors must also be present for postnatal survival. Wnt7A is a secreted signaling molecule selectively in gamma motor neurons by embryonic day 17.5 of mice. This is the earliest molecule present in gamma motor neurons that differentiates them from alpha motor neurons, illustrating the divergence of these two types of lower motor neurons.\n\nIn addition, serotonin receptor 1d (5-ht 1d) has been concluded to be a novel marker for gamma motor neurons enabling researchers to distinguish between the various types of lower motor neurons. Mice lacking this serotonin receptor 1d, displayed lower monosynaptic reflex (a reflex arc involving only a sensory and motor neuron), which may be caused by a reduced response to sensory stimulation in motor neurons. In addition, knockout mice without this serotonin receptor exhibited more coordination on a balance beam task, suggesting that less activation of motor neurons by Ia afferents during movement could reduce the unnecessary excess of muscle output. \n\nAnother distinguishing molecular marker of gamma motor neurons is transcription factor Err3. It is expressed at high levels in gamma motor neurons, but very little in alpha motor neurons. On the other hand, neuronal DNA binding protein NeuN, are present in significantly greater quantities in alpha motor neurons. Osteopontin, a protein also expressed in bones, hence the \"osteo-\" prefix, is a marker for alpha motor neurons. This in turn can provide scientists a way of eliminating gamma motor neurons if alpha motor neurons are of interest. One study in particular made this conclusion based on the fact that osteopontin was present in larger cell bodies, indicating the alpha motor neurons as they have larger cell bodies than gamma motor neurons.\n\nAlthough muscles can be in a relaxed state, muscles have a general resting level of tension. This is termed muscle tone and is maintained by the motor neurons innervating the muscle. Its purpose is to maintain posture and assist in quicker movements, since if muscles were completely loose, then more neuronal firing would need to take place. \n\nThe amount of tension in the muscles depends primarily on the resting level discharge of alpha motor neurons, mainly the Ia spindle afferents. Gamma motor neurons are also involved through their action on intrafusal muscle fibers. The intrafusal muscle fibers control the resting level of the Ia afferent pathway, which in turn creates a steady level of alpha neuron activity. \n\nMuscle tone can also be due to tonic discharge of gamma motor neurons. The activation to these neurons are mostly from the descending fibers of the facilitatory reticular formation. This leads to the stretching of muscle spindle, activation of alpha motor neurons and finally a partially contracted muscle. The cerebellum is the alpha-gamma motor neuron linkage . Therefore, with the cerebellum the muscle tension is maintained via alpha motor neurons as well as the gamma motor neurons.\n\nHypotonia can be due to damage to alpha neurons or Ia afferents carrying sensory information to the alpha neurons. This creates a decrease in muscle tone. Opposite to this, hypertonia is caused by damage to descending pathways that terminate in the spinal cord. It increases muscle tone by increasing the total responsiveness of alpha motor neurons from its Ia sensory input.\n\nSpasms can be caused by a disparity between how much alpha and gamma motor neurons are firing, i.e. too much gain of one or the other. The imbalance causes an inaccurate reading from muscle receptors in the muscle spindle. Therefore, the sensory neurons feeding back to the brain and spinal cord are misleading. For example, if a patient has over active gamma motor neurons, there will be a resistance to passive movement causing stiffness, also called spasticity. This is often found in individuals with damage to higher centers affecting the descending pathways. This can sometimes cause a gamma-bias (constant discharge of some gamma motor neurons) to be greater or less than usual. In the case for patients with excess gamma bias, the sensory endings within muscle spindles are discharging too frequently causing there to be more muscle activity than appropriate. Furthermore, this hyperactivity in the gamma spindle loop can cause spasticity.\n\nGamma motor neurons assist in keeping the muscle spindle taut, thus adjusting sensitivity. Therefore, if proper gamma motor neuronal firing does not occur, muscle movement can be adversely affected. Fine motor skills such as movements with the fingers and eyes are affected most, since any lack of tautness within the muscle spindle hinders its ability to detect the amount of stretch through the sensory endings. This means that the muscle will not be able to precisely move accordingly. Lesions controlling descending pathways in lower motor neurons to the upper limbs, can cause a loss in patient's ability to have fine movement control. \n\nIn clinical settings, it is possible to test whether someone has an abnormally low or high gamma gain simply by moving the patients arm. Gamma gain is the process where acceleration, velocity, and length of muscle changes are scaled up equally, enabling more accurate movements to take place in the appropriate situation. If it is more difficult to bend a patients arm at the elbow back and forth, then he/she has higher gamma gain while someone whose arm moves very easily will have lower gamma gain. \n\nOscilloscopes can be used to measure action potentials of an axon from a motor neuron in order to assess general muscle activity. Though it cannot distinguish alpha motor neurons from gamma motor neurons, it is useful in understanding whether one has abnormal motor neuron activity. With low rates of activity of the descending pathway, fewer and smaller motor neurons are activated, leading to a small amount of muscle force. This will appear on the oscilloscope as lower peaks on the y-axis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199421", "title": "Two Colors", "text": "Two Colors\n\nTwo Colors (1989), in Ukrainian \"Два Кольори\" - Ukrainian symphonic folk album by Kvitka Cisyk. The title comes from one of the songs, Two Colors (song) by A. Bilash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199441", "title": "John Bromwich", "text": "John Bromwich\n\nJohn Edward Bromwich (14 November 1918 – 21 October 1999) was an Australian tennis player who, along with fellow countryman Vivian McGrath, was one of the first great players to use a two-handed backhand. He was a natural left-hander, though hit his serve with his right hand. Bromwich twice won the Australian Championships singles title, in 1939 (over Adrian Quist in a straight sets final) and in 1946 (a thrilling 5-set final victory over Dinny Pails). He was ranked World No. 3 by A. Wallis Myers in 1938 and again by Harry Hopman in 1947.\n\nAlthough a fine singles player, Bromwich was primarily known as being a brilliant doubles player, winning 13 men's doubles titles and 4 mixed doubles titles in the majors. Tennis great (and near contemporary) Jack Kramer writes in his 1979 autobiography that if \"Earth were playing in the all-time Universe Davis Cup, I'd play Budge and Vines in my singles, and Budge and Bromwich in the doubles. That's what I think of Johnny as a doubles player.\"\n\nIn the 1939 Davis Cup final, just as World War II was starting, Bromwich played arguably the match of his life in beating the American, Frank Parker, in straight sets, to clinch the Cup for Australia. Australia had trailed 0–2 after the first day, and came back to win the tie, 3–2. This remains the only time in Davis Cup history where the winning team has won a Davis Cup final after trailing 0–2.\n\nIn 1948, Bromwich played the American Bob Falkenburg in the Wimbledon final, and had a championship point at 5–3 in the fifth set. He came to the net for a volley but decided that Falkenburg's ball would go long and let it go by. It landed on the baseline and Falkenburg fought his way back into the match. Bromwich later had another two championship points, but was unable to take those either, and Falkenburg came back to win the championship, taking the last four games to win the fifth set, 7–5. Kramer later wrote that \"...it never seemed to me that he was the same player after that. He doubted himself. He was a precision player to start with – he used a terribly light racket weighing less than twelve ounces, and it was strung loosely. He could put a ball on a dime, and I suppose after he misjudged that one shot, the most important in his life, he never possessed the confidence he needed.\" Bromwich also had a championship point in losing the 1947 Australian Championships singles final to Dinny Pails.\nBromwich gained some revenge against Falkenburg in the 1949 Wimbledon quarterfinals, coming back from two sets down to win in five sets. Bromwich then lost to Jaroslav Drobný in the semifinals.\n\nWriting about Bromwich, Kramer says, \"Bromwich was like McMillan today because as a kid John hit from both sides two-handed, and while he eventually had given up the two-handed forehand, he still hit backhand two-handed and could anything back from the baseline. He had strokes very much like Connors.\"\n\nBromwich was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, Rhode Island in 1984. He received a posthumous Davis Cup commitment award in 2017 which was presented to his wife by the ITF and Tennis Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199445", "title": "Gravity train", "text": "Gravity train\n\nA gravity train is a theoretical means of transportation for purposes of commuting between two points on the surface of a sphere, by following a straight tunnel connecting the two points through the interior of the sphere.\n\nIn a large body such as a planet, this train could be left to accelerate using just the force of gravity, since during the first half of the trip (from the point of departure until the middle), the downward pull towards the center of gravity would pull it towards the destination. During the second half of the trip, the acceleration would be in the opposite direction relative to the trajectory, but, ignoring the effects of friction, the speed acquired before would be exactly enough to overcome this deceleration, and as a result, the train's speed would reach zero at precisely the moment the train reached its destination.\n\nIn the 17th century, British scientist Robert Hooke presented the idea of an object accelerating inside a planet in a letter to Isaac Newton. A gravity train project was seriously presented to the Paris Academy of Sciences in the 19th century. The same idea was proposed, without calculation, by Lewis Carroll in 1893 in \"Sylvie and Bruno Concluded\". The idea was rediscovered in the 1960s when physicist Paul Cooper published a paper in the \"American Journal of Physics\" suggesting that gravity trains be considered for a future transportation project.\n\nUnder the assumption of a spherical planet with uniform density, and ignoring relativistic effects as well as friction, a gravity train has the following properties:\n\nFor gravity trains between points which are not the antipodes of each other, the following hold:\n\nOn the planet Earth specifically, since a gravity train's movement is the projection of a very Low Earth Orbit satellite's movement onto a line, it has the following parameters:\n\nTo put some numbers in perspective, the deepest current bore hole is the Kola Superdeep Borehole with a true depth of 12,262 meters; covering the distance between London and Paris (350 km) via a hypocycloidical path would require the creation of a hole 111,408 metres deep. Not only is such a depth 9 times as great, but it would also necessitate a tunnel that passes through the Earth's mantle.\n\nUsing the approximations that the Earth is perfectly\nspherical and of uniform density formula_1, and the fact that within a\nuniform hollow sphere there is no gravity, the gravitational acceleration formula_2\nexperienced by a body within the Earth is proportional to the\nratio of the distance from the center formula_3 to the Earth's radius formula_4.\nThis is because underground at distance formula_3 from the center is like\nbeing on the surface of a planet of radius formula_3, within a hollow sphere\nwhich contributes nothing.\n\nOn the surface, formula_8, so the gravitational acceleration is formula_9. Hence, the gravitational acceleration at formula_3 is\n\nIn the case of a straight line through the center of the Earth, the\nacceleration of the body is equal to that of gravity: it is falling freely\nstraight down. We start falling the surface, so at time formula_12\n(treating acceleration and velocity as positive downwards):\n\nDifferentiating twice: \n\nwhere formula_15. This class of problems, where there is a restoring force proportional to the displacement away from zero, has general solutions of the form formula_16, and describes simple harmonic motion such as in a spring or pendulum.\n\nIn this case formula_17 so that formula_18, we begin at the surface at time zero, and oscillate back and forth forever.\n\nThe travel time to the antipodes is half of one cycle of this oscillator, that is the time for the argument to formula_19 to sweep out formula_20 radians. Using simple approximations of formula_21 that time is\n\nFor the more general case of the straight line path between any two points on the surface of a sphere we calculate the acceleration of the body as it moves frictionlessly along its straight path.\n\nThe body travels along AOB, O being the midpoint of the path, and the closest point to the center of the Earth on this path. At distance formula_3 along this path, the force of gravity depends on distance formula_24 to the center of the Earth as above. Using the shorthand formula_25 for length OC:\n\nThe resulting acceleration on the body, because is it on a frictionless\ninclined surface, is formula_27:\n\nBut formula_29 is formula_30, so substituting:\n\nwhich is exactly the same for this new formula_3, distance along AOB away from O, as for the formula_3 in the diametric case along ACD. So the remaining analysis is the same, accommodating the initial condition that the maximal formula_3 is formula_35 the complete equation of motion is\n\nThe time constant formula_15 is the same as in the diametric case so the journey time is still 42 minutes; it's just that all the distances and speeds are scaled by the constant formula_38.\n\nThe time constant formula_39 depends only on formula_40 so if we expand that we get\n\nwhich depends only on the gravitational constant and formula_1 the density of the planet. The size of the planet is immaterial; the journey time is the same if the density is the same.\n\nThe 1914 book \"Tik-Tok of Oz\" has a tube, that passed from Oz, through the center of the earth, emerging in the country of the Great Jinjin, Tittiti-Hoochoo.\n\nIn the 2012 movie \"Total Recall\", a gravity train called \"The Fall\" goes through the center of the Earth to commute between Western Europe and Australia.\n\nIn the video game Super Mario Galaxy, there are various planets with holes that Mario can jump through to illustrate the gravity train effect.\n\nJasper Fforde's 'alternative Earth' \"Thursday Next\" series uses this method of transportation for long distances - called the Gravitube or 'DeepDrop'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199446", "title": "Yo-yo club", "text": "Yo-yo club\n\nA yo-yo club is a sporting side that is regularly promoted and relegated. The phrase is most typically used in association football in the United Kingdom, especially in reference to promotion to and relegation from the Premier League.\n\nThe name is derived from the toy yo-yo which goes up and down a string. In Germany the equivalent term is \"Fahrstuhlmannschaft\", in Greece it is \"ομάδα ασανσέρ\", in hispanic countries it is \"equipo ascensor\", in Danish \"elevatorhold\" and in Russia they often say \"команда-лифт\", all five of them literally meaning \"lift team\" or \"elevator team\". In the Netherlands the term is \"heen-en-weer club\" (to-and-fro club). In Polish, yo-yo clubs are referred to as \"wańka-wstańka\", which translates to \"roly-poly toy\". In Romanian, clubs oscillating between the first and second tier are called \"ABBA\", in reference to these leagues' former names, Divizia A and Divizia B.\n\nIn England the phrase has been used to describe, among others, Birmingham City, Leicester City, Crystal Palace, Hull City, Norwich City, Queens Park Rangers, Newcastle United and West Bromwich Albion.\n\nWest Brom were an archetypal yo-yo club throughout the first decade of the 21st-century, during which time they were promoted four times and relegated three times. This was seen by some to be a direct result of the policies espoused by the club's chairman Jeremy Peace, who refused to allow the club to spend beyond its means and has insisted on sound financial management. This tended to leave the club at a disadvantage in the Premier League, when other similarly-sized clubs have tended to spend beyond their means, but strongly placed in the second tier (The Championship) due to the parachute payments received on relegation from the Premier League. West Brom has recently been relegated yet again from the Premier League, proving themselves as a yo-yo club. Likewise Crystal Palace reached the Premier League five times, were relegated the following season on the first four occasions, but have now survived since 2013.\n\nBirmingham City have been promoted to and relegated from the top division more times than any other English club, with 12 promotions and 12 relegations.\n\nBirmingham's longest period in one division has been 18 years in the First Division, from 1921 to 1939. Their next longest was 10 years, also in the First Division, between 1955 and 1965.\n\nElected to Division Two in 1892, Birmingham were promoted to Division One in 1894 and relegated in 1896. Their next promotion came in 1901, and was followed immediately by relegation in 1902 and a third promotion in 1903. This time they lasted five years in the First Division, before relegation in 1908.\n\nThe following seventy years (which included breaks for the two world wars) were comparatively stable, with only three relegations and four promotions. After their seventh relegation, in 1979, they were promoted at the first attempt; the same happened in 1984 and 1985, but after their ninth relegation, in 1986, they spent 16 years out of the top flight.\n\nDuring these 16 seasons Birmingham had two separate spells in the Third Division: from 1989 to 1992 (three seasons), and from 1994 to 1995 (one season).\n\nThey were promoted to the Premier League for the first time in 2002. Their first spell in this league lasted four years, but in the four years from 2006 to 2009 they were relegated twice and promoted twice.\n\nIn 2011 they were relegated again, and this was the eighth time since 1979 that this had happened to Birmingham. Six of these relegations were between the top two divisions, and two were between the second and third. They have remained in the Championship since.\n\nBrighton & Hove Albion have had only, until 2017, one brief spell in the top flight of English football, from 1979 to 1983, but in the 53 years since 1958 they have been relegated nine times and promoted ten times.\n\nFounder members of the Football League Third Division in 1920, they remained at that level (Third Division South from 1921) for 31 seasons (38 years, including the break for World War II). Since 1958, the longest period they have spent in any one division has been seven years in the Third, from 1965 to 1972.\n\nAfter winning promotion to the Second Division for the first time in 1958, they suffered consecutive relegations in 1962 and 1963 to reach the Fourth Division for the first time. (The Fourth Division was created in 1958.) Sixteen years later (in 1979) they reached the other extreme when they won promotion to the First Division for the first time, but 17 years after that (1996) they were back in the fourth tier of English football (now known as the Third Division).\n\nIn the six years from 2001 to 2006 Brighton experienced three promotions and two relegations, leaving them in the third tier (now known as Football League One), and in 2011 they were promoted to the Championship for the first time.\n\nIn 2017, Brighton finally achieved promotion back into the top flight for the first time in 34 years, finishing 2nd and gaining automatic promotion.\n\nHull City have been promoted to the Premier League in 2008, 2013 and 2016, with relegations to the Championship in 2010, 2015 and 2017.\n\nLeicester City had three separate spells in the Premier League between 1994 and 2004. The second lasted six years (1996 to 2002), but the other two only one year each (1994-5 and 2003-4). After each of the first two relegations they returned to the Premier League after only one season, but after being relegated in 2004, they were out of the top flight for ten seasons, until their promotion in 2014. In 2008 they were relegated to League One (the old Third Division) for the first time, but they were promoted back to the Championship at the first attempt. The team eventually was promoted back to the Premier League in 2013–14, making a total of five promotions and three relegations in 20 years. They have remained in the Premier League ever since their last promotion, including winning the title in 2015–16, the first league trophy overall for Leicester.\n\nOf the 107 seasons that Manchester City have spent in the English Football League, only 25 have been outside the top flight. But in the 18 years from 1983 to 2001, they were relegated from the top flight four times; and they even spent one season in the third tier.\n\nFounder members of the Football League Second Division in 1892, City gained promotion to the First Division for the first time in 1899. They spent 63 of the following 73 seasons in the First Division (the top tier), despite suffering relegation six times – of their six spells in the Second Division over this period, the longest was three years, from 1963 to 1966. But they were relegated twice in the 1980s, and two years after another relegation in 1996 they dropped into the Third Division (then known as the Second Division) for the first time in their history – their only season at that level, to date, being 1998–99.\n\nCity have now been back in the Premier League since 2002 and, since being bought by Sheikh Mansour of the Abu Dhabi royal family, have won four Premier League titles (2012, 2014, 2018 and 2019) in the last 8 seasons.\n\nMiddlesbrough changed divisions ten times in the sixteen years from 1982 to 1998.\n\nFollowing relegation in 1954 they had been out of the First Division for twenty years, and had dropped into the Third Division for the first time in their history (1966–97).\n\nAfter regaining their First Division place in 1974 they were relegated again in 1982, and in 1986 they dropped into the Third Division again. This time they almost went out of business, but they quickly recovered and two successive promotions took them back into the First Division by 1988. They lasted only one season, and spent three more years in the Second Division before winning promotion to the newly created Premier League in 1992.\n\nThey stayed there for only one season, but regained their Premier League place two years later as First Division champions. Two years later, despite investing over ten million pounds in transfer fees for famous international players, a three-point penalty for failing to fulfil a fixture cost Boro their Premier League status. This time they regained it at the first attempt, and they held on to it for eleven years, but played seven consecutive seasons in the Championship following relegation in 2009. Middlesbrough gained promotion as Championship runners-up in the 2015–16 campaign only to suffer another relegation in the following season.\n\nMillwall have yo-yoed between the second and third tier of English Football throughout their 92 consecutive seasons in the Football League. They have spent two seasons in the top tier, 42 in the second, 43 in the third and five in the fourth tier. They have been promoted eleven times (five as champions) and relegated ten times. They've been promoted a record eight times from the third tier, and relegated six times from the second tier.\n\nWhen the regional divisions were scrapped in 1957, the club was placed in Division Four. The 1960s proved to be a remarkable decade for the club.\n\nPromoted in 1961, Northampton were Division Three champions in 1963 and in 1965 they won promotion to the First Division. \nHaving risen from the Fourth to the First Divisions, their decline was equally spectacular.\n\nRelegated after one season at the top, by 1972 they were applying for re-election to the Fourth Division.\n\nIn 1971–72, Norwich City won the second tier and reached the top flight for the first time. In the next 23 seasons the club was relegated to the second tier three times (1973–74, 1980–81, 1984–85) but they always bounced back to the top flight at the first attempt (1974–75, 1981–82, 1985–86). Since being relegated in 1994–95, the club has been promoted a total of five times (2003–04, 2009–10, 2010–11, 2014–15, 2018–19) and relegated five times (1994–95, 2004–05, 2008–09, 2013–14, 2015–16), with one of those seasons (2009–10) spent in the third tier.\n\nManagers of the team that have celebrated promotion in the Premier League era are Nigel Worthington (2003–04), Paul Lambert (2009–10, 2010–11), Alex Neil (2014–15) and Daniel Farke (2018–19), whereas managers in the same era suffering relegation have been Gary Megson (1994–95), Nigel Worthington (2004–05), Bryan Gunn (2008–09), Neil Adams (2013–14) and Alex Neil (2015–16).\n\nIn 2018, Gregor Robertson, writing in The Times, described Norwich City as \"The perennial yo-yo club\".\n\nOfficially, Notts County are the biggest yo-yo club of the lot – switching divisions a total of 29 times in their history; with 13 promotions and 16 relegations.\n\nPromotion years: 1897, 1914, 1923, 1931, 1950, 1960, 1971, 1973, 1981, 1990, 1991, 1998, 2010\n\nRelegation years: 1893, 1913, 1920, 1926, 1930, 1935, 1958, 1959, 1964, 1984, 1985, 1992, 1995, 1997, 2004, 2015, 2019.\n\nNotts County have spent a total of 30 seasons in the top flight of English football, all of which were in Division 1. They have never played in the Premiership, as they suffered relegation from the old First Division the season before it became the Premiership. They have spent a further 37 seasons in the second tier, 31 in the third tier, and 15 in the fourth tier. After the 2018–19 season, they dropped into the National League for the first time in their history.\n\nPrior to World War II, Sheffield Wednesday were one of England's most successful clubs; they won their fourth Football League title in 1930, and they won the F.A. Cup for the third time in 1935. But they were relegated to the Second Division in 1937, and after promotion in 1950 they experienced three more relegations in the next eight years: in 1951, 1955, and 1958. Each time they \nwon promotion at the first attempt, and it was their manager Eric Taylor who referred to this period as \"the yo-yo years\".\n\nAfter their fourth promotion in nine years, in 1959, Wednesday remained in the First Division until 1970 (and came close to winning their fourth F.A. Cup in 1966, when they lost a memorable final to Everton). But in 1975 they dropped into the Third Division for the first time, and in 2010 they began their third spell at this level. However, in May 2012, they were promoted back to the Championship. Since 1970 they have had two periods in the top flight – totalling 14 seasons – but they have never yet repeated the frequent ups and downs of the 1950s.\n\nFollowing promotion from the Southern League at the end of the 1919–20 season, Watford spent their existence in the Football League's basement Third Division South, restructured to the Fourth Division for the 1958–59 Season, before achieving their first promotion within the Football League structure, to the Third Division, at the end of 1959–60. Watford spent nine seasons at this level before a further promotion to the Second Division at the end of 1968–69. However, their stay at this level was short-lived and they were twice relegated, at the end of the 1971–72 and 1974–75 seasons, to sink back to the Fourth Division.\n\nUnder the auspices of Chairman, Elton John and Manager, Graham Taylor, Watford achieved promotions in consecutive seasons between 1977 and 1979 to reach the Second Division once again. This was followed by three seasons at that level, culminating in achieving runners-up position in 1981–82 and promotion to the First Division.\n\nWatford were league runners-up in their first season as a First Division club, and were F.A Cup losing finalists a year later. But they were back in the Second Division come 1988–89, and slipped into the third tier of the league (by then the new Football League Division Two) at the end of the 1995–96 season. They were promoted back to Division One two years later after winning the Division Two title, and a Division One playoff triumph the following year earned them promotion to the Premiership.\n\nWatford were unable to adjust to the pace of Premiership football and were relegated at the end of their first top-flight season in more than a decade. They won the Championship playoff in 2005–06, but last place in the Premiership the following season ensured their 11th movement in 25 seasons. After finishing runners-up in the Championship in 2014–15, Watford were promoted once again and competed in the Premier League in 2015–16. The club finished 13th, thereby maintaining Premier League status for the first time, and subsequently finished 17th, 14th and 11th in its next three Premier League seasons, while also reaching an FA Cup final.\n\nSince 2002, West Bromwich Albion have provided a classic example of the yo-yo. Between 2002 and 2010 they were promoted to the Premier League four times and relegated back to Division One (known since 2004 as The Championship) three times, and 2011 was the first year since 1999 that they were not involved in either a promotion or a relegation battle, in most cases right up to the last match of the season.\n\nAlbion were promoted in 2002, relegated in 2003, promoted in 2004, achieved what has become known as \"The Great Escape\" in 2005 when they became the first ever club to avoid relegation from the Premier League after being in bottom place at Christmas, relegated in 2006, lost the 2007 play-off Final to Derby County, promoted in 2008, relegated in 2009 and promoted in 2010. They have remained in the Premier League until the end of the 2017–18 season when the club was relegated to the Championship once again.\n\nIn 2000 Albion had been in real danger of relegation to Division Two right up to the last day of the season, and in 2001 they reached the Division One play-offs, losing in the semi-finals to Bolton Wanderers. Albion had also spent two years in the Third Division between 1991 and 1993, after being relegated from the top tier in 1986.\n\nWolves were one of the most famous yo-yo clubs during the 1980s. They began the decade on a high by winning the League Cup in 1980, only to suffer relegation to the Second Division and narrowly avoid bankruptcy two years later. They regained their First Division status at the first attempt, only to endure successive relegations over the next few seasons and slip into the Fourth Division for the first time in 1986. Fourth Division championship glory came two years later and the following year Wolves were Third Division champions and promoted to the Second Division. During the 1980s, Wolves had moved divisions seven times in eight seasons. They have spent all but one of their 17 subsequent seasons in the league's second tier (Second Division, Division One and now the Championship), having been in the Premier League during the 2003–04 season. Wolves won the Football League Championship title in 2009, but were relegated in 2012 after three seasons in the Premier League and relegated again a year later. Wolves finally returned to the Championship at the first attempt as League One champions in 2013–14, and were promoted to the Premier League following the 2017–18 season. They went on to finish 7th on their return, which was their best performance since 1979-80, and claimed victories over four of the Big Six. Their league position was enough to qualify for the 2019-20 UEFA Europa League.\n\nThe table below shows the total number of relegations and promotions (of select clubs) between the top four tiers of English football as of the beginning of the 2016–17 season.\n\nIn German, yo-yo clubs are referred to as \"Fahrstuhlmannschaften\" (lit. \"lift teams\" or \"elevator teams\"). 1. FC Nürnberg has been promoted or relegated 16 times between the first-tier Bundesliga and the second-tier 2. Bundesliga. Arminia Bielefeld (14 moves), VfL Bochum, Hertha BSC (both 12), Karlsruher SC and MSV Duisburg (both 11) each are also considered to be yo-yo clubs in German club football, as well as Hansa Rostock (16 moves) and Union Berlin (12) if the league system in the former East Germany is included in the statistics. More recently, SC Paderborn 07 has become a yo-yo club. In 2014, the club was promoted to the first division. In 2017, it barely avoided relegation to the fourth division. In 2019, Paderborn reached the first division once again.\n\nBofoakwa Tano have been promoted or relegated nine times since finishing bottom in 1979. They were promoted back to the top flight in 1982, but were relegated again in 1985. The club reappeared in the top division in 1989–90, by which time the league had switched to winter. They were relegated again in 1990–91, promoted back in 1994–95, relegated in 1996–97, promoted in 1997–98. In 1999 they finished third from bottom, but avoided another relegation by winning a play-off. However, they were relegated again in 2006–07.\n\nHong Kong Football Club has won many titles in the second-tier competition in Hong Kong Soccer League history, however, they have rarely enjoyed success when playing against the professional sides in top-tier competitions. Therefore, they have the local nickname \"the lift\" (Chinese: 升降機), which is the equivalent of the term Yo-yo club.\n\nIrish club Finn Harps are known as a yo-yo club due to the regular frequency of the club's relegation and promotion to and from the League of Ireland Premier Division and League of Ireland First Division. Drogheda United swapped Divisions every season between 1993/94 and 2000/01.\n\nDutch football club FC Volendam are known as the \"Heen-en-weer club\" (The to-and-fro club): they won promotion from the Eerste Divisie to the Eredivisie in 1959, were relegated in 1960, were promoted in 1961, were relegated in 1964, were promoted in 1967, were relegated in 1969, were promoted in 1970, were relegated in 1972, were promoted in 1977, were relegated in 1979, were promoted in 1983, were relegated in 1985, were promoted in 1987, were relegated in 1998, were promoted in 2003 and were relegated in 2004. In 2008 FC Volendam promoted once again, only to finish last and be therefore relegated the following year. For the 2009–10 season, the club is playing in the Eerste Divisie.\n\nStarting in 1979 and ending in 1987, SK Brann were promoted in every odd-numbered year and relegated in every even-numbered year. This is the world record for consecutive relegations-promotions.\n\nThe Polish club Wisła Płock is often referred to as a yo-yo club (\"wańka-wstańka\" in Polish). They were promoted to the Polish First League in 1994 (known as \"Petrochemia Płock\" at the time), but were relegated after one season. Promoted again in 1997, they again were relegated after one season. Their next promotion came (after shortening their name to \"Petro Płock\") in 2000, and this time they managed to avoid relegation after one season. However, the next season (known now as \"Orlen Płock\") they were again relegated. In 2002, reverting to the original name \"Wisła Płock\", they were promoted to First League, and finally enjoyed relative stability, even reaching the Polish Cup final in 2003 and winning it in 2006. However, relegation was again in order in 2007. After that, they spent 3 years in the second tier before being relegated to the third in 2010. They immediately got promoted to the second tier, but got relegated from it again in 2012. They were once again promoted to the second tier the following season, spending 3 years in it, before finally returning to the Ekstraklasa in 2016. In spite of this \"yo-yoing,\" Wisła have avoided the fate of other relegated clubs in Poland, such as bankruptcy (e.g. Szczakowianka Jaworzno) or further relegation to lower divisions (e.g. Raków Częstochowa).\n\nIn Sweden the term has been used especially for Hammarby IF's men's soccer team but also Katrineholms SK's men's bandy team during the early-mid 1990s.\n\nIn Turkey, these kinds of clubs are called \"asansör takım\" (elevator team). Karşıyaka S.K. relegated from first level in 1964, 1967, 1972, 1991, 1994 and 1996. Karşıyaka also played in third level between 1973–1980 and 2001–2003. Also Sakaryaspor has an interesting statistic. They promoted in 1981, relegated in 1986. But they promoted again after the 1986–87 season. However they could only stay in first level for three seasons and relegated again in 1990. They came back to first level for a single season in 1998–99. They were back again in first level in 2004–05, but relegated same season. They won the 2005–06 play-offs and promoted to first level again, just to relegate after one season. They almost repeated same thing when they reached play-offs in 2007–08 but this time they lost and finally \"stayed\" in second level for a second season in row. Sakaryaspor later relegated to once to third level in 2008–09 season. Sakaryaspor returned second level after play-offs in the 2010–11 season but this return was brief due to money shortage. After two successive relegations between 2011 and 2013, they were placed in fourth level. all in all, Samsunspor was promoted to first level in 1969, 1976, 1982, 1985, 1991, 1993 and 2011 and relegated from first level in 1975, 1979, 1983, 1990, 1992, 2006 and 2012. Samsunspor currently plays in the First League, which is second tier in the Turkish league system.\n\nAdanaspor is one of the most yo-yoed teams. They were promoted to first league in 1971, relegated in 1984, promoted again in 1988, relegated again in 1991, promoted in 1998, relegated in 2001 and promoted to first league last in 2002. They suffered from financial difficulties between 2003–2006 and were relegated to Third League, which is fourth level of Turkish league system in 2006 after three successive relegations. They also didn't win any match at third level in the 2005–06 season. But they recovered to Bank Asya First League in 2008 after two successive promotions.\n\nKasımpaşa S.K. is one of the recent yo-yo clubs, having been relegated from Süper Lig in 2008 and 2011, and promoted in 2007, 2009 and 2012. They also moved to and fro between Bank Asya First League, the second tier of Turkish football, and TFF Second League, the third level, before being promoted to Süper Lig. They also played in amateur level between 1979 and 1984 and fourth level between 2001 and 2005.\n\nOther yo-yo clubs in Turkey are below:\n\nMersin İdman Yurdu:\n\n1st Level: 1967–1974, 1976–1978, 1980–1981, 1982–1983, 2011–2013, 2014–\n\n2nd Level: 1963–1967, 1974–1976, 1978–1980, 1981–1982, 1983–2001, 2002–2006, 2009–2011, 2013–2014\n\n3rd Level: 2001–2002, 2006–2009\n\nAdana Demirspor\n\n1st Level: 1960–1961 (Played home matches in Ankara), 1973–1984, 1987–1990, 1991–1992, 1994–1995\n\n2nd Level: 1963–1973, 1984–1987, 1990–1991, 1992–1994, 1995–1999, 2002–2004, 2012–\n\n3rd Level: 1999–2002, 2004–2012\n\nAmateur Level: 1958–1960, 1961–1963\n\nAntalyaspor (since 2010 as Medical Park Antalyaspor due to sponsorship agreement)\n\n1st Level: 1982–1985, 1986–1987, 1994–2002, 2006–2007, 2008–2014\n\n2nd Level: 1966–1982, 1985–1986, 1987–1994, 2002–2006, 2007–2008, 2014–\n\nDiyarbakırspor (It was dissolved due to enormous unpaid debts in 2013)\n\n1st Level: 1977–1980, 1981–1982, 1986–1987, 2001–2006, 2009–2010\n\n2nd Level: 1976–1977, 1980–1981, 1982–1986, 1987–2001, 2006–2009, 2010–2011\n\n3rd Level: 1968–1976, 2011–2012\n\n4th Level: 2012–2013\n\nŞekerspor (Also played as Şekerhilal, Etimesgut Şekerspor, Akyurt Şekerspor, Beypazarı Şekerspor and Çamlıdere Şekerspor, now is Polatlı Şekerspor)\n\n1st Level: 1959–1963, 1964–1966, 1967–1969, 1972–1973, 1997–1998\n\n2nd Level: 1963–1964, 1966–1967, 1969–1972, 1973–1992, 1994–1997, 1998–2003\n\n3rd Level: 1992–1994, 2003–2005, 2006–2013\n\n4th Level: 2005–2006, 2013–\n\nGöztepe\n\n1st Level: 1958–1977, 1978–1980, 1981–1982, 1999–2000, 2001–2003\n\n2nd Level: 1977–1978, 1980–1981, 1982–1999, 2000–2001, 2003–2004, 2011–2013\n\n3rd Level: 2004–2005, 2009–2011, 2013–\n\n4th Level: 2005–2007, 2008–2009 (Göztepe took place of Aliağaspor in 2008)\n\nAmateur Level: 2007–2008\n\nKayseri Erciyesspor (Kayserispor before 2004–2005 season)\n\n1st Level: 1973–1975, 1979–1980, 1985–1986, 1992–1996, 1997–1998, 2005–2007, 2013–\n\n2nd Level: 1966–1973, 1975–1979, 1980–1985, 1986–1989, 1991–1992, 1996–1997, 1998–2007, 2007–2013\n\n3rd Level: 1989–1991\n\nÇaykur Rizespor (Rizespor before 1990–1991 season)\n\n1st Level: 1979–1981, 1985–1989, 2000–2002, 2003–2008, 2013–\n\n2nd Level: 1974–1979, 1981–1985, 1989–1993, 1994–2000, 2002–2003, 2008–2013\n\n3rd Level: 1968–1974, 1993–1994\n\nGiresunspor\n\n1st Level: 1971–1977\n\n2nd Level: 1967–1971, 1977–1978, 1979–1986, 1988–1991, 1993–1995, 1997–2000, 2007–2012, 2014–\n\n3rd Level: 1977–1978, 1986–1988, 1991–1993, 1995–1997, 2000–2001, 2005–2007, 2012–2014\n\n4th Level: 2001–2005\n\nManisaspor (Before 1965 Manisa Sakaryaspor, aka Vestel Manisaspor twice)\n\n1st Level: 2005–2008, 2009–2012\n\n2nd Level: 1964–1978, 1980–1983, 1985–1986, 1991–1993, 1994–1995, 2002–2005, 2008–2009, 2012–\n\n3rd Level: 1978–1980, 1984–1985, 1986–1991, 1993–1994, 1995–2002\n\nAmateur Level: 1958–1964, 1983–1984\n\nQuilmes Atlético Club is the club with most promotions and relegations in Argentina, with 8 times each.\n\nClub Olimpo is another yo-yo club, commonly referred to as \"\"el ascensor\"\" (the elevator) in Argentina.\n\nSanta Cruz is traditionally a yo-yo club. Playing from 1971 to 1981 on the top flight, since 1982 the club has spent 9 seasons in the Brasileirão Série A, 18 seasons in the second division, 3 in the third division and 3 in the Brasileirão Série D. The team currently competes in Série C. Since 2014, Avaí has been promoted to the top flight on even numbered years and relegated to the second division on odd numbered years. Since 2016, Sampaio Corrêa has been relegated to Série C on even numbered years and promoted back to Série B on odd numbered years.\nOther clubs who recently swung between divisions are América Mineiro, Criciúma, Sport Recife, Náutico, Figueirense, Ponte Preta, Portuguesa, Bahia, Vitória, Guarani, Vasco and Botafogo. Most of them are from the Northeastern region of Brazil and from smaller cities of São Paulo state.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199449", "title": "Frank Field (meteorologist)", "text": "Frank Field (meteorologist)\n\nFranklyn Field (born March 30, 1923) is an American television personality and meteorologist who was on TV in New York City for five decades, reporting not only on the weather but also on science and health topics. He was instrumental in publicizing the Heimlich Maneuver to aid food choking victims. Field carries the Seal of Approval of the American Meteorological Society.\n\nField was a resident of Montclair, New Jersey, before retiring to Boca Raton, Florida.\n\nField is of Ashkenazi Jewish heritage. The original family name was \"Feld\", which is German for \"field\". It was changed to Field to Americanize his last name. His parents emigrated to America in 1909; his extended family that remained in Europe perished during the Holocaust. Field returned on assignment from WCBS to search for remnants of his family and produced a one-hour special \"Journey of the Heart\", which included an emotional interview with Eli Wiesel.\n\nHe was a first lieutenant and meteorologist with the 8th Air Force during World War II in the European Theater. His meteorological training was at Brown University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Field holds a B.A. in geology from Brooklyn College, a B.S. in optometry from Columbia University, and an O.D. degree from the Massachusetts College of Optometry. He was on the faculty of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Department of Preventive and Environmental Medicine. \n\nField began his career in 1958 at WRCA-TV – which became WNBC-TV in 1960 – remaining there for over 25 years. He was friends with Johnny Carson and was a frequent guest on \"The Tonight Show\". On August 12, 1984, Field moved to rival WCBS-TV, where he worked for 11 years. Later, he moved to WNYW-TV for two years before ending his weather forecaster career at WWOR-TV. \n\nField was noted for his science reports on new technology and medicines. In the 1970s and 1980s, he hosted a nationally syndicated program on health originating from WNBC, called \"Health Field\", and anchored a similar health news program on WLNY for the North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System, called \"Medical Update\". He also did a documentary called \"Plan To Get Out Alive\" where he used a simulated house fire to show viewers how to survive that catastrophe. He won a local Emmy Award for his work. Dr. Field has now been replaced from Medical Update to retire in Florida.\n\nField's son, Storm Field (b. 1948) was a meteorologist as well, following his father into weather forecasting. Storm Field joined WABC-TV in 1976 and became the station's chief weather forecaster shortly thereafter, staying on until 1991. Storm would join his father at WCBS the next year, with a humorous ad campaign employed by the station using puns and plays on both Frank and Storm Field's names. Storm Field eventually took over the chief meteorologist's role that his father held before him. He left in 1997 to become chief meteorologist at WWOR-TV where he again got a chance to work with his father. Storm Field presented a special in 2003 that highlighted his father's career. \n\nField's daughter, Allison, was a meteorologist for WCBS-TV. She also appeared in a few movies, playing reporters or newscasters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199454", "title": "Stay of proceedings", "text": "Stay of proceedings\n\nA stay of proceedings is a ruling by the court in civil and criminal procedure, halting further legal process in a trial or other legal proceeding. The court can subsequently lift the stay and resume proceedings based on events taking place after the stay is ordered. However, a stay is sometimes used as a device to postpone proceedings indefinitely.\n\nIn civil procedure, stays of proceedings are governed by the Civil Procedure Rules. In criminal trials, they are governed by the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985. \n\nCourt have the power to stay: \n\nUK courts also maintain an inherent jurisdiction to manage legal proceedings before them, but it is rarely exercised. Stays of proceedings are usually made under case management powers, and may be ordered upon the application by one of the parties or by the court's own motion (the latter being infrequent). \n\nA court may issue a stay in a winding-up upon the creation of an application for rescission, an order being made against a false or mistaken institution, the petition debt being paid in full, the pertaining institution ceasing to exist, or the prior existence of a winding-up order.\n\nIn bankruptcy, a case can be stayed if a certification for annulment exists or an individual voluntary arrangement is being negotiated.\n\nWhen the parties agree to terms of settlement while litigation is on foot, they may file a Tomlin order to stay the proceedings. Once approved by the court, the proceedings are permanently stayed pending an application by one of the parties to enforce the terms of the settlement agreement.\n\nWhen a stay of proceedings is lifted, the proceedings continue. Allowances are made for interference of the stay with any case management directions (which specify dates which the parties must take steps in the action), so that parties are not time prejudiced by the making or interference caused by the stay.\n\nIn \"R v. Crawley and others\" [2014] EWCA Crim 1028 a stay was given. As part of the Conservative government's fiscal austerity policy, the Ministry of Justice decided to cut the fees paid to barristers for Very High Cost Cases (VHCC) by 30% in November 2013. Due to the amount of papers involved this case was classed as a VHCC by the Legal Aid Authority (LAA) who pay the defendant's costs (as free representation (legal aid) is required under the European Convention on Human Rights). Barristers in protest of the cuts refused the instructions to act on behalf of the defendants at the reduced fees, so no suitably qualified barristers could be found to represent the defendants. As the defendants would not be able to have a fair trial without suitable representation (in breach of their right to a fair trial under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights) the case could not proceed and was stayed. An adjournment was found to be unlikely to resolve the case and excessive delay would contradict a further requirement of the ECHR (Article 6(1)) requiring timely handling of prosecution.\n\nStays of execution have a similar effect in respect of execution of judgments. No step may be taken to enforce a judgment while a stay of execution remains in force.\n\nAccording to the legal code, a stay of proceedings can be issued in a case \"brought in any of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to arbitration under an agreement in writing for such arbitration\" when the ruling on the case is pending, can be stayed \"until such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement, providing the applicant for the stay is not in default in proceeding with such arbitration\".\n\nFor example, in the 2010s, as federal and state judges struck down same-sex marriage bans across the country, many judges stayed the rulings during the appeals process. Although a state's ban was struck down, such as that of Louisiana, the stay prevented implementation of their ruling pending a higher court decision and so prevented same-sex couples from obtaining a marriage license.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199457", "title": "Bemidji Airlines", "text": "Bemidji Airlines\n\nBemidji Airlines (Bemidji Aviation Services Inc) is an American airline based in Bemidji, Minnesota USA. It operates domestic cargo flights, as well as extensive charter and air taxi services. Its main base is Bemidji Regional Airport, with a hubs/bases at Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport, Denver International Airport, Sioux Falls Regional Airport, and Fargo International Airport.\n\nThe airline was established in 1946 and started operations in 1947 operating a single Noorduyn Norseman aircraft. After acquisition by a partnership in 1970 the company operated four Cessna 150 aircraft, mainly for fire patrol, flight instruction and passenger charter services. From 1981 to 1991, the airline operated with scheduled service from Bemidji; Thief River Falls, Minnesota; Worthington, Minnesota; and Mankato, MN all to the Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport. In the mid-eighties they expanded the business to include many regional cargo freight runs, and added many larger aircraft. Since 1991, primary activities have been small-feeder cargo services, passenger and cargo charters, and typical fixed-base operations at the Bemidji Airport. In January 2017, Sioux Falls, South Dakota based Business Aviation Courier (DBA Encore Air Cargo) was acquired from BBA Aviation. With the 2017 acquisition, the company now has 120 employees. The company became a 100% ESOP in 2007.\n\nBemidji Airlines operates domestic cargo/passenger services within Minnesota, Wisconsin, Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, North and South Dakota as well as extensive charter and air taxi work within USA and Canada.\n\nThe Bemidji Airlines fleet consists of the following aircraft (at Mar 2020):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199462", "title": "RWD 10", "text": "RWD 10\n\nThe RWD-10 was a Polish aerobatics sports plane, single-seat parasol wing monoplane, used from 1933 to 1939 and constructed by the RWD team.\n\nThe aircraft was designed as a single-seater aerobatic sports plane that could also be used as a trainer for fighter pilots. Its chief designer was Jerzy Drzewiecki of the RWD design team at the DWL (\"Doświadczalne Warsztaty Lotnicze\") aircraft factory. Its silhouette was similar to the RWD-8. The first prototype (registration SP-ALC), was flown in July 1933 by Drzewiecki. Its stability was not satisfactory, but after modifications, including lengthening of the fuselage, it turned out to be a successful design, completing state trials in 1935. In a mock dogfight with the PZL P.11c fighter, the RWD-10 kept on the P.11's tail. The first public aerobatics show of the RWD-10 took place during the Gordon Bennett Cup in ballooning on September 14–15, 1935 in Warsaw.\n\nIn 1936, the LOPP paramilitary organization ordered 20 aircraft, the purchase funded by a public collection for aviation development. They were built in 1937 and then distributed among the Polish regional aero clubs - the largest number going to the Warsaw Aero Club. In 1938, another two were built. In total, approximately 22 serial RWD-10s were produced.\n\nThree aircraft crashed before the war, the rest were probably destroyed during the Invasion of Poland in 1939.\n\nMixed construction single-engine single-seat braced high-wing (parasol wing) monoplane, conventional in layout. Fuselage of a steel frame, covered with canvas on a wooden frame, in aluminum in engine section. Straight double-trapezoid two-part wing, of wooden construction, covered with canvas and plywood in front, two-spar. The wing was supported by a central pyramid and twin struts. Wooden construction cantilever empennage, covered with plywood (stabilizers) and canvas (rudder and elevators). A pilot in an open cockpit, had a windshield. Conventional fixed landing gear, with a rear skid. Four-cylinder air-cooled inverted straight engine PZInż. Junior (licence built Walter Junior) with 82 kW (110 hp) nominal power and 90 kW (120 hp) take-off power. Two-blade wooden propeller Szomański, of a fixed pitch. Fuel tank in the fuselage: 54 l (fuel consumption 25 l/h).\n\n"}
{"id": "2199467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199467", "title": "Gallatin National Forest", "text": "Gallatin National Forest\n\nFounded in 1899, Gallatin National Forest is located in south central Montana, United States. The forest comprises and has portions of both the Absaroka-Beartooth and Lee Metcalf Wilderness areas within its boundaries. Gallatin National Forest borders Yellowstone National Park on the north and northwest and is part of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, a region which encompasses almost . The forest is named after Albert Gallatin (1761–1849), U.S. Secretary of the Treasury and scholar of Native American languages and cultures.\n\nIn descending order of land area the forest is located in parts of Park, Gallatin, Sweet Grass, Madison, Carbon, and Meagher counties.\n\nSince 2014, the Gallatin and Custer National Forests are managed together as the Custer–Gallatin National Forest with headquarters in Bozeman, Montana. There are local ranger district offices located in West Yellowstone, Livingston and Gardiner in Montana for Gallatin, and Ashland and Red Lodge in Montana, and in Camp Crook in South Dakota for Custer.\n\nThere are six separate mountain ranges within the forest including the Gallatin, Madison, Bridger, Crazy, Absaroka, and Beartooth Ranges. The Beartooth's are home to Granite Peak, which at , is the highest point in Montana and also in the forest. Quake Lake on the Madison River is the site of the 1959 earthquake and landslide which formed the lake. A separate section of the forest north of Livingston, Montana is located in the Crazy Mountains which rise over above the great plains to the east. The forest includes two wilderness areas, the Absaroka–Beartooth () and the Lee Metcalf ().\n\nWhile the lower elevations are often covered in grasses and sagebrush, higher altitudes support Douglas fir, with several species of spruce, cottonwood and aspen being the dominant tree species. Of the of streams and rivers there are major tributaries of the Yellowstone River, which bisects the western and eastern sections of the forest running through Paradise Valley. The Gallatin and Madison Rivers, major tributaries of the Missouri River, also are found in the forest. The habitat supports over 300 wildlife species, including the grizzly bear, bald eagle, and peregrine falcon. Many western North American species are represented in this climax ecosystem including elk, mule deer, bison, moose, bighorn sheep, pronghorn, cougar, wolf packs and black bear. Various subspecies of trout are plentiful in the streams and they contribute to the forest being one of the preeminent fly fishing regions in the United States.\nOver of hiking trails are located in the forest providing access into wilderness areas and interlinking with trails in Yellowstone National Park. There are almost 40 vehicle accessible campgrounds scattered throughout the forest, numerous picnic areas and even cabins that can be rented for a nominal fee through the forest's district offices. West Yellowstone, Montana provides access both into the forest and to Yellowstone National Park and is a popular snowmobile center during the winter. Nighttime temperatures can be below freezing any time of the year and mosquitos in the late spring and early summer also pose problems. Summertime high temperatures average in the 70s Fahrenheit (21–26 °C) and the wintertime lows can drop below −40 degrees. Most of the precipitation falls in the form of snow with some places averaging over annually.\n\nAccess the forest off Interstate 90 south on U.S. Highway 89 from Livingston, Montana to Gardiner, Montana or south on U.S. 191 from Bozeman, Montana to West Yellowstone. The forest headquarters is located in Bozeman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199472", "title": "Monition", "text": "Monition\n\nIn English law and the canon law of the Church of England, a monition, contraction of admonition, is an order to a member of the clergy to do or refrain from doing a specified act. Other than a rebuke, it is the least severe censure available against clergy of the Church of England. Failure to observe the order is an offence under the Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction Measure 1963. A monition can be imposed in person by a bishop or by an ecclesiastical court.\n\nHistorically, monitions of a disciplinary character were used to enforce residence on the holder of a benefice, or in connection with actions to restrain allegedly unlawful ritual practices under the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874. Disobedience to such monitions historically entailed the penalties of contempt of court.\n"}
{"id": "2199474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199474", "title": "Rex Tucker", "text": "Rex Tucker\n\nRex Tucker (20 February 1913 – 10 August 1996) was a British television director in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nHe was born in March in the Isle of Ely, Cambridgeshire. Tucker joined the BBC in 1937 to work in radio where he remained for several years before moving to TV work. In 1954 Tucker wrote and directed \"The Three Princes\" which featured future Doctor Who producer Barry Letts and actor Roger Delgado who later became well known for playing the Doctor's opponent The Master. Amongst his work, he was a driving force during the formative stages of \"Doctor Who\" in 1963, acting as a caretaker producer prior to the arrival of Verity Lambert. Tucker's friend, the actor and director Hugh David — whom Tucker had actually approached about playing the leading role in the series — later claimed in interviews that it was Tucker who had named the series \"Doctor Who\", although Tucker himself credited Sydney Newman with this. Tucker was also the director originally assigned to the first serial, \"An Unearthly Child\", and later it had been planned that Tucker would direct more of the programme's introductory season. However, these commitments did not work out, and ultimately he directed only \"The Gunfighters\" in 1966. During the last episode, \"The O.K. Corral\", a dispute arose between Tucker and then producer Innes Lloyd over the editing of the episode, leading to Tucker requesting that his credit be excised.\n\nIn 2013 the BBC commissioned a docudrama about the creation and early days of \"Doctor Who\", called \"An Adventure in Space and Time\", as part of the programme's fiftieth anniversary celebrations. Tucker appears as a character in the drama, played by actor Andrew Woodall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199479", "title": "Arambilet", "text": "Arambilet\n\nÁngel Luis Arambilet Álvarez (born September 16, 1957), generally known professionally as simply Arambilet, is a novelist, poet, screenwriter, painter, graphic artist and filmmaker of Spanish-Dominican descent.\n\nArambilet was one of 34 people interviewed for \"The History of Computer Graphics and Digital Art Project\". His work is mentioned in \"compArt | center of excellence digital art”\" (a project at the University of Bremen).\n\nHe has been awarded by the Ministry of Culture of the Dominican Republic with the National Short Story Award (The Cayenne petals, 1994) and National Novel Prize (Neguri's secret, 2006).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199481", "title": "David Zimmer (disambiguation)", "text": "David Zimmer (disambiguation)\n\nDavid Zimmer (born 1944) is a politician in Ontario, Canada.\n\nDavid Zimmer may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2199482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199482", "title": "Methoxsalen", "text": "Methoxsalen\n\nMethoxsalen (also called xanthotoxin, marketed under the trade names Oxsoralen, Deltasoralen, Meladinine) is a drug used to treat psoriasis, eczema, vitiligo, and some cutaneous lymphomas in conjunction with exposing the skin to UVA light from lamps or sunlight. Methoxsalen modifies the way skin cells receive the UVA radiation, allegedly clearing up the disease. The dosage comes in 10 mg tablets, which are taken in the amount of 30 mg 75 minutes before a PUVA (psoralen + UVA) light treatment. Levels of individual patient PUVA exposure were originally determined using the Fitzpatrick scale. The scale was developed after patients demonstrated symptoms of phototoxicity after oral ingestion of Methoxsalen followed by PUVA therapy.\nChemically, methoxsalen belongs to a class of organic natural molecules known as furanocoumarins. They consist of coumarin annulated with furan. It can also be injected and used topically.\n\nIn 1970, Nielsen extracted 8-methoxypsoralen from four species of the genus \"Heracleum\" in the carrot family Apiaceae, including \"Heracleum mantegazzianum\" and \"Heracleum sphondylium\". An additional 32 species of the genus \"Heracleum\" were found to contain 5-methoxypsoralen (bergapten) or other furanocoumarins.\n\nThe biosynthetic pathway is a combination of the shikimate pathway, which produces umbelliferone, and the mevalonate pathway.\n\nUmbelliferone is a phenylpropanoid and as such is synthesized from L-phenylalanine, which in turn is produced via the shikimate pathway. Phenylalanine is lysated into cinnamic acid, followed by hydroxylation by cinnamate 4-hydroxylase to yield 4-coumaric acid. The 4-coumaric acid is again hydroxylated by cinnamate/coumarate 2-hydroxylase to yield 2,4-dihydroxy-cinnamic acid (umbellic acid) followed by a bond rotation of the unsaturated bond adjacent to the carboxylic acid group. Finally an intramolecular attack from the hydroxyl group of C2' to the carboxylic acid group closes the ring and forms the lactone umbelliferone.\n\nThe biosynthetic route then continues with the activation of dimethylallyl pyrophosphate (DMAPP), produced via the mevalonate pathway, to form a carbo-cation via the cleavage of the diphosphates. Once activated, the enzyme umbelliferone 6-prenyltransferase catalyzes a C-alkylation between DMAPP and umbelliferone at the activated position ortho to the phenol, yielding demethylsuberosin. This is then followed by a hydroxylation catalyzed by the enzyme marmesin synthase to yield marmesin. Another hydroxylation is catalyzed by psoralen synthase to yield psoralen. A third hydroxylation by the enzyme psoralen 8-monooxygenase yields xanthotoxol which is followed by a methylation via the enzyme xanthotoxol O-methyltransferase and S-adenosyl methionine to yield methoxsalen.\n\nPatients with high blood pressure or a history of liver problems are at risk for inflammation and irreparable damage to both liver and skin. The eyes must be protected from UVA radiation. Side effects include nausea, headaches, dizziness, and in rare cases insomnia.\n\nMethoxsalen has also been classified as an IARC Group 1 carcinogen (known to cause cancer) but is only cancerous when combined with light - UVA radiation.\n\nAuthor John Howard Griffin (1920–1980) used the chemical to darken his skin in order to investigate racial segregation in the American South. He wrote the book \"Black Like Me\" (1961) about his experiences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199491", "title": "Belgorod Air Enterprise", "text": "Belgorod Air Enterprise\n\nOJSC \"Belgorod Air Enterprise\" () is a company based in Belgorod, Russia. It was founded in 1995 out of Central Districts Airlines and the Aeroflot Belgorod Division (as a so-called \"Babyflot\"). From 1995 to 2005, it operated domestic charter and scheduled passenger services in central Russia.\n\nIn 2005, its own flying division was liquidated. The company currently operates Belgorod International Airport and provides ground services for aircraft that fly there.\n\nIn March 2017 OJSC \"Belgorod Air Enterprise\" was declared bankrupt. The company is now in the process of liquidation.\n\n\nAs of August 2006 the Belgorod Air Enterprise fleet included six Yakovlev Yak-40 aircraft.\n"}
{"id": "2199503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199503", "title": "Ted Heath (bandleader)", "text": "Ted Heath (bandleader)\n\nGeorge Edward Heath (30 March 1902 – 18 November 1969) was an English musician and big band leader.\n\nHeath led what is widely considered Britain's greatest post-war big band, recording more than 100 albums, which sold over 20 million copies. The most successful band in Britain during the 1950s, it remained in existence as a ghost band long after Heath died, surviving in such a form until 2000.\n\nAfter playing tenor horn at the age of six, encouraged by his father Bert, a trumpeter and the leader of the Wandsworth Town Brass Band, Heath later switched to trombone. Both often played together on numerous dance band recording of the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nEarning a living for his family in the post-war years he, and his brother Harold with three other musicians, formed a band that played to commuters outside London Bridge Station before winding their way along the streets in London to a location outside the Queen’s Hall Gardens venue. It was here that Heath’s professional career began as he was spotted on the street and asked to play with the Jack Hylton Band who had a residence there. He did not last long, not having the experience required, but it gave him the ambition to pursue a career as a professional musician.\n\nHis first real band gig was with an American band on tour in Europe – the Southern Syncopation Orchestra – which had an engagement in Vienna, Austria and needed a trombone player. The drummer for this band, Benny Payton, taught Heath all about Jazz and Swing. Heath had to pay his own way back from Austria when the band ran out of money.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1926 Heath played in the Kit Cat Club band led by American Al Starita. There he heard Bunny Berigan, Tommy Dorsey and Jimmy Dorsey and Paul Whiteman when they toured Europe.\n\nHe next played with the Metro-Gnomes, a small band fronted by Hylton's then-wife Ennis Parkes. In the late 1920s, Heath again joined Hylton's larger stage band (also being present on a number of 12-inch \"concert\" recordings), staying until 1930. Around this time, he also began to play for a number of other dance orchestras.\n\nIn 1928, he joined Bert Ambrose's orchestra at the Mayfair Hotel in London and played there until 1935 when he moved on to Sydney Lipton's orchestra at the Grosvenor House. Ambrose, a strict disciplinarian, taught Heath how to be a bandleader. It was during this time that Heath became the most prominent trombone player in Britain, renowned for his perfect tone. He kept playing on numerous recordings as a studio musician, although he concentrated his efforts on the Ambrose band after 1932.\n\nIn September 1939 the war caused the immediate disbandment of the Sydney Lipton Band, which was on tour in Scotland at the time. Heath, his wife Moira and children went back to London. In late 1939, Heath joined Maurice Winnick's Dorchester Hotel band.\n\nDuring the late '30s and early '40s, Heath also played as a sideman on several Benny Carter sessions.\n\nIn 1940, Heath joined Geraldo's orchestra and played numerous concerts and broadcasts during the war travelling to the Middle East to play to the Allied Forces based there. He often became one of the \"boys\" in Geraldo's vocal group, 'Three Boys and a Girl'.\n\nIn 1941, Geraldo asked his band members to submit a favourite tune to include in their broadcasts. Heath had composed a song \"That Lovely Weekend\", after his wife had written him a poem on a rare weekend together amongst his war travels, and he set this to music. Heath suggested \"That Lovely Weekend\" to Geraldo and it was orchestrated, with Dorothy Carless on vocal, and was an immediate wartime hit. The royalties from this song and another composition \"Gonna Love That Guy\" allowed Heath to form his own band.\n\nHeath was inspired by Glenn Miller and his Army Air Force Band and spoke with Miller at length about forming his own band when Miller toured Britain with the USAAF Orchestra. Heath admired the immaculate precision of the Miller ensemble and felt confident that he could emulate Miller’s success with his own orchestra.\n\nIn 1944, Heath talked Douglas Lawrence, the Dance Music Organiser for the BBC's Variety Department, into supporting a new band with a broadcasting contract. Lawrence was sceptical as Heath wanted a much larger and more jazz orientated band than anyone had seen in Britain before. This band followed the American model, and featured 5 saxes, 4 trombones, 4 trumpets, piano, guitar, Bass and Drums. The new Ted Heath Band, originally organised as a British \"All Star Band\" playing only radio dates, was first heard on a BBC broadcast in 1944.\n\nIn 1945, the BBC decreed that only permanent, touring bands could appear on radio. So Ted Heath and his Music was officially formed on D-Day, 1944.\n\nIn late 1945, American bandleader Toots (Tutti) Camarata came to UK as musical director for the film \"London Town\" (1946) starring comedian Sid Field. This film was intended to be Britain's first attempt to emulate the American film musicals of studios such as MGM and Camarata commissioned Heath to provide his band as the nucleus for the film's orchestra. The film was not a success.\n\nHeath arranged a stint at the Winter Gardens at Blackpool in 1946, a Scandinavian tour, a fortnight at the London Casino with Lena Horne, and backed Ella Fitzgerald at the London Palladium.\n\nHuge popularity quickly followed and Heath's Band and his musicians were regular Poll Winners in the \"Melody Maker\" and the \"NME\" (\"New Musical Express\") – Britain’s leading music newspapers. Subsequently Heath was asked to perform at two Royal Command Performances in front of King George VI in 1948 and 1949.\n\nIn 1947 Heath persuaded impresario Val Parnell, uncle of the band's star drummer Jack Parnell, to allow him to hire the London Palladium for alternating Sundays for his Sunday Night Swing Sessions. The band caused a sensation and eventually played 110 Sunday concerts, ending in August 1955, consolidating the band's popular appeal from the late 1940s. These concerts allowed the band to play much more in a jazz idiom than it could in ballrooms. In addition to the Palladium Sunday night concerts the band appeared regularly at the Hammersmith Palais and toured the UK on a weekly basis.\n\nAt this time, the teenage Alma Cogan applied to work with Heath, who told her she was too young. Later he admitted that the missed opportunity was one of the biggest mistakes of his life.\n\nIn April 1956 Heath arranged his first American tour. This was a reciprocal agreement between Heath and Stan Kenton, who would tour Britain at the same time as Heath toured the United States. The tour was a major negotiated agreement with the British Musicians' Union and the American Federation of Musicians, which broke a 20-year union deadlock. Heath contracted to play a tour that included Nat King Cole, June Christy and the Four Freshmen that consisted of 43 concerts in 30 cities (primarily the southern states) in 31 days (7,000 miles) climaxing in a Carnegie Hall concert on 1 May 1956. At this performance, the band's instrument truck was delayed by bad weather. The instruments finally arrived just minutes before the curtain rose. The band had no time to warm up or rehearse. There were so many encore calls at the Carnegie Hall performance that Nat King Cole (who was backstage, but not on the bill) had to come out on stage and ask people to leave.\n\nDuring the tour, Nat King Cole was attacked on stage in Birmingham, Alabama by a group of white segregationists. Heath was so appalled he nearly cancelled the remainder of the tour but was persuaded by Cole to continue. They remained firm friends until Cole died in 1965 and collaborated musically on many occasions. Heath later successfully toured the US again and also toured Australia and Europe.\n\nThe 1950s was the most popular period for Ted Heath and His Music during which a substantial repertoire of recordings were made. In 1958 nine albums were recorded. He became a household name throughout the UK, Europe, Australasia and the US. He won the \"New Musical Express\" Poll for Best Band/Orchestra each year from 1952 to 1961. Heath was asked to perform at a third Royal Command Performance for King George VI in 1951, and for Elizabeth II in 1954.\n\nHe was the subject of \"This Is Your Life\" in 1959 when he was surprised by Eamonn Andrews at the BBC Television Theatre. During this period, Heath and his band appeared in several more films (following \"London Town\") including \"Dance Hall\" (1950); \"It’s a Wonderful World\" (1956) and \"Jazz Beat\" (1960).\n\nIn addition to Cole, Heath established close personal and professional relationships with Woody Herman, Count Basie, Marlene Dietrich, Johnny Mathis and Tony Bennett. He worked with Sarah Vaughan, Ella Fitzgerald Lena Horne; June Christy; Mel Torme; The Four Freshmen; Donna Hightower and others. His band members included Ronnie Scott, an early member of the band, the pianist Stan Tracey, trumpeters Kenny Baker, Eddie Blair, Duncan Campbell, sax players Don Rendell and Tommy Whittle, trombonists Don Lusher and Wally Smith, drummers Jack Parnell and Ronnie Verrell and double bass Johnny Hawksworth. The addition of singers Dickie Valentine, Lita Roza and Dennis Lotis in the '50s gave the band more teenage appeal. He commissioned scores from all the top arrangers of the era with more than 800 original arrangements as part of the band’s library. Arrangers included Tadd Dameron, George Shearing, Reg Owen, John Keating; Kenny Graham; Ken Moule; Bob Farnon; Woolf Phillips; Ron Roullier; Bill Russo; Johnny Douglas; Ron Goodwin; and Ralph Dollimore.\n\nHeath used Decca’s Phase 4 Stereo recording methods in the early '60s. He continued to commission a huge number of original scores and arrangements and some of his biggest US chart successes came during this time. He performed continuously and successfully until his health faltered in 1964 suffering a cerebral thrombosis on his 62nd birthday and collapsing on stage in Cardiff. Thereafter the band toured less, but continued to record several albums.\n\nHe died in 1969 at the age of 67, but the band re-formed after a Thames Television tribute broadcast in 1976 with the approval of the Heath family, and went on performing concerts. Initially some early 1970s recordings were recorded under the musical direction of Roland Shaw, Ralph Dollimore and Stan Reynolds, but thereafter all recordings were supervised by trombonist Don Lusher, who led the band for 25 years until 2000, with mostly original Heath alumni. The final concert in December 2000, was a sell out at London’s Royal Festival Hall, attended by most Heath personnel past and present and the Heath family. The band at that performance was made up almost entirely of players who had played under Ted Heath's leadership. Numerous radio and television tributes have been broadcast over the years.\n\nThe band compared favourably with the best of America’s big bands in the opinion of Count Basie in his testimonial to Heath on Heath’s 21st Anniversary album, and is generally accepted as the best swing band that Britain ever produced.\n\nHeath was married twice, firstly in 1924 to Audrey Keymer who died in 1932. There were two sons from the marriage, Raymond and Robert. His second marriage was to Moira Tracey—a ballet dancer who appeared in one of the first television transmissions by John Logie Baird on the BBC, and became a prolific lyricist and songwriter. She received a special award for services to television, the 'Freedom of the City of London' in recognition of her services to songwriting and a British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors 'Gold Badge Award'. She died on 24 January 2000 in Weybridge, Surrey, England, UK. There were four children from this marriage, Martin, Valerie, Nicholas and Timothy.\n\nTwo of Heath’s sons, Nick Heath and Tim Heath, continued the musical and entertainment tradition in the family by becoming successful artiste managers, record company and music publishing company owners, and Nick Heath continues his entertainment business career as a music producer and owner of Birdland Records. James Heath (Heath’s grandson—Nick Heath's son) is a film and music video director.\n\nLeeds College of Music in Leeds, Yorkshire, United Kingdom has a wide collection of Ted Heath recordings and memorabilia available for research.\n\nGuildhall School of Music and Drama in London has established, in conjunction with the Heath family, \"The Ted and Moira Heath Award\" for promising jazz musicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199519", "title": "Umlazi", "text": "Umlazi\n\nUmlazi is a township on the east coast of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, located south-west of eThekwini Municipality. It is the fourth largest township in South Africa, after Soweto, Tembisa and Katlehong. Umlazi is the only township in the country that has its own registration plate, which is NUZ. It is divided into 26 sections, A through to Z, with the exception of I, O and X, but with an addition of AA, BB and CC.\n\nOriginated from first Indian ship and NOT from a Zulu name.\n\nAccording to legend, the name Umlazi comes from \"umlaza\", the Zulu word for the sour acid produced from fermented or sour milk. It is believed that when King Shaka was passing through the area, he refused to drink from a local river claiming it had the taste of \"umlaza\". The area was called Umlazi after this incident.\n\nUmlazi, like many townships in the urban areas of Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Durban, and Johannesburg, is witnessing increased private and government investments, as seen in the construction of new shopping complexes, primary and secondary schools, universities of technology and libraries.\n\nThe new educational infrastructure is particularly important, as an affordable, easily accessible quality secondary education is valuable for many children in Umlazi, particularly with regards to their search for employment following school. Most young residents do not attend tertiary institutions due to their family's limited financial resources.\n\nMangosuthu Highway is the most popular road in Umlazi and it links the residents to the many sections. There are now three shopping malls in Umlazi, the Mega-Philani Shopping Centre, Kwa-Mnyandu Shopping Centre and Umlazi Mega City Mall which is located just off the freeway that exits to Umlazi. The recently built KwaMnyandu Shopping Centre opened its doors on the 5th of June 2014. \n\nAlmost all sections in Umlazi have a clinic and a police station. The King Zwelithini Stadium, which is located on the Mangosuthu Highway (Griffiths Mxenge Highway), has been revamped for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nThe township has two FET Colleges, Umlazi Coastal College V and BB Campuses, which are the equivalent of American Community Colleges, and a university, Mangosuthu University of Technology\nThere are schools that produce 100% Matric (Grade 12) pass rate, including Ogwini Comprehensive Technical High School Umlazi Comprehensive Technical High School (ComTech), Menzi High School, Velabahleke High School and Zwelibanzi High School. About 30% of homes in Umlazi are informal settlements (tin and wooden shacks). Most of these informal settlements have been demolished and replaced with brand new homes and roads that are part of the Residential Development Project (RDP).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199522", "title": "Methler", "text": "Methler\n\nMethler is a quarter of the city Kamen in the district Unna in North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany.\n\nMethler is a part of Kamen since January 1, 1968. It was an independent commune until the first level of the communal rearrangement in 1967. After that, it was merged along with the communes Westick and Wasserkurl to the commune Methler.\n\nSeveral archaeological founds in Westick indicate that there was Roman colonisation long before the name \"Methler\" was first established in 898 AD.\n\nMethler has about 12000 inhabitants, which makes it the largest quarter of Kamen (except from inner Kamen, which has about 22000 inhabitants). \nThere is a small railway station with connections to the Ruhr Area (especially Dortmund) and the city of Hamm. Train stops to Dortmund are 2 times an hour.\nMethler has borders with Dortmund, Lünen and Unna, which makes it a well placed small town at the edge of the Ruhr Area.\n"}
{"id": "2199525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199525", "title": "Niall Blaney", "text": "Niall Blaney\n\nNiall Blaney (born 29 January 1974) is an Irish politician who has been a Senator for the Agricultural Panel since April 2020. He was a member of Independent Fianna Fáil until he joined Fianna Fáil in 2006, he served as a Teachta Dála (TD) for Donegal North-East from 2002 to 2011. For personal reasons, he decided not to contest the 2011 general election. He had since contested a number of Seanad elections and attempted, but failed, to win a Fianna Fáil nomination in the Midlands–North-West constituency for the 2019 European Parliament election.\n\nNiall Blaney hails from a family with a long political history. His grandfather Neal Blaney, his uncle Neil Blaney, and his father Harry Blaney all preceded him as TDs.\n\nNiall Blaney was born in Letterkenny, County Donegal in 1974. He graduated from Letterkenny Institute of Technology with a diploma in civil engineering. He married Rosaleen in August 2002 and the couple had three children together. On 9 January 2011, at a political meeting at the Silver Tassie Hotel, Letterkenny, Blaney disclosed that he and his wife had agreed to an amicable separation and that he had moved out of the family home in Rosnakill, Fanad.\n\nBlaney first became involved in politics when he was elected to Donegal County Council in 1999. Three years later, in the 2002 general election, he won election to Dáil Éireann, capturing the third seat in the Donegal North-East constituency after Fianna Fáil's Jim McDaid and Cecilia Keaveney.\n\nBlaney started his political career as a member of Independent Fianna Fáil, a splinter group created by his uncle Neil T. Blaney when he was expelled from Fianna Fáil over the Arms Crisis of 1969–70. As a supporter of the Fianna Fáil–led coalition government upon his election to the Dáil, Blaney was widely anticipated to join Fianna Fáil and stand as a candidate for that party at the 2007 general election. Although some members of the Blaney family opposed the move, Niall Blaney announced on 26 July 2006 that he had joined the Fianna Fáil party, a move that marked the effective end of Independent Fianna Fáil.\n\nAt the 2007 general election, Blaney again won the third seat in the constituency, after Fine Gael's Joe McHugh and Fianna Fáil's Jim McDaid. He was elected on the eighth count after a closely fought struggle with Sinn Féin councillor Pádraig Mac Lochlainn.\n\nIn a surprise statement on 30 January 2011, just hours before a Fianna Fáil selection convention for his constituency, Blaney announced that he would not be contesting the 2011 general election. He cited \"personal reasons\" for his decision. His retirement ended one of the longest family dynasties in Irish politics; a Blaney had served in the Oireachtas with only a few short breaks from 1927 to 2011.\n\nBlaney was an unsuccessful candidate for the Industrial and Commercial Panel of Seanad Éireann in the April 2016 election.\n\nHe was also an unsuccessful candidate at the Seanad by-election in April 2018. The vacancy was caused by the resignation of Trevor Ó Clochartaigh of Sinn Féin from the Agricultural Panel. The seat was won by former Fine Gael TD Anthony Lawlor.\n\nBlaney tried, but failed, to win a Fianna Fáil nomination in the Midlands–North-West constituency for the 2019 European Parliament election.\n\nWith the support of game shoot bodies regulator the National Association of Regional Game Councils (NARGC), Blaney was a candidate for the Agricultural Panel of Seanad Éireann in the March 2020 Seanad election. The move set him up against incumbent Senator Brian Ó Domhnaill (also with a history in Fianna Fáil). With only eleven seats available, Ó Domhnaill expressed surprise at Blaney's campaign, particularly as it was on a different panel than the one to which he sought admission in 2016. In March 2020, Blaney was elected to the Seanad, while Ó Domhnaill lost his seat.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2199529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199529", "title": "No. 32 Squadron RAAF", "text": "No. 32 Squadron RAAF\n\nNo. 32 Squadron is a Royal Australian Air Force unit based at RAAF East Sale in Victoria. It currently flies training and transport operations. The squadron was raised in February 1942 for service during World War II. Equipped with Lockheed Hudsons, the squadron was tasked with anti-submarine, anti-shipping operations, bombing and reconnaissance missions in New Guinea. In late 1942, the squadron was withdrawn to Sydney and re-equipped with Bristol Beauforts, which it operated along the east coast of Australia until the war ended. The squadron was disbanded in November 1945, but was re-formed in 1989 and currently operates King Air 350s.\n\nThe squadron was established as a reconnaissance and bomber unit, equipped with Lockheed Hudson aircraft, at Port Moresby on 21 February 1942. It was formed from elements of other RAAF Hudson squadrons deployed from their home bases for combat operations against Japanese forces. No. 32 Squadron played an important role during the early stages of the New Guinea campaign, conducting anti-submarine and anti-shipping patrols, flying bombing sorties against enemy airfields and flying boat bases, as well as conducting reconnaissance and supply missions.\n\nNo. 32 Squadron's first mission took place the day it was formed, when aircraft were launched to search for a reported enemy submarine. A few days later, the squadron undertook the first of many bombing raids on the Japanese air base at Gasmata. After only a few weeks of operations, due to enemy raids on Port Moresby's Seven Mile airfield, the squadron was withdrawn to Horn Island, Queensland, but continued to stage out of Seven Mile on its missions, its aircraft refuelling there en route to their targets. In March 1942, one of the squadron's Hudsons was the first to spot the Japanese convoy transporting the forces for the invasion of the New Guinea mainland. Later the same month, the squadron engaged Japanese forces landing at Lae and Salamaua. In July 1942, No. 32 Squadron was active in the Gona area and during the lead-up to the Battle of Milne Bay.\n\nThe skill and fighting spirit of a lone, outnumbered crew from No. 32 Squadron impressed Saburō Sakai, who would become among the highest-scoring Japanese aces of the war. Pilot Officer Warren Cowan, Pilot Officer David Taylor, Sergeant Russell Polack and Sergeant Lauri Sheard, in Hudson Mk IIIA \"A16–201\" (bu. no. \"41-36979\"), were killed in action after being shot down by Sakai on 22 July 1942. \"A16–201\" was intercepted over Buna, New Guinea by nine Mitsubishi A6M \"Zeroes\" of the \"Tainan Kaigun Kōkūtai\", led by Sakai. The Hudson's crew surprised the Zero pilots by taking the initiative in a turning dogfight and were apparently unscathed for at least 10 minutes. Sakai observed that after he killed or wounded the Hudson's rear/upper gunner, the pilot became less able to evade his rounds. It caught fire and crashed in jungle near the coastal village of Popogo. So impressed were the Japanese pilots by their opponents that, many years after the war's end, Sakai asked Australian researchers to help him identify the pilot. In 1997, Sakai took the unusual step of writing to the Australian government, recommending that Cowan be \"posthumously awarded your country's highest military decoration\". The suggestion was rejected on the grounds that all such recommendations had been closed at the war's end.\n\nRedeployed to Sydney in September 1942, No. 32 Squadron conducted anti-submarine patrols, initially from RAAF Base Richmond and then from Camden. In March 1943, the Hudsons were replaced by DAP-built versions of the Bristol Beaufort, which it used until the end of the war. The squadron was disbanded in November 1945.\n\nNo. 32 Squadron was reformed on 1 July 1989 at RAAF Base East Sale as a training and transport squadron equipped with Hawker Siddeley HS 748 aircraft. In 1997, leased Beechcraft B200 Super King Airs joined the squadron, although it continued to operate some of the HS 748s as well. No. 32 Squadron was re-equipped with leased Beechcraft King Air 350 aircraft commencing in 2003 and the remaining HS 748s were retired on 30 June 2004. There are eight King Air 350s in service.\n\nThe King Air 350s have been heavily modified and are used in three main roles: for Air Combat Officer and Maritime Aviation Warfare Officer; for low-level tactical and maritime operations training under the auspices of the School of Aviation Warfare; and as light transport aircraft. Typical low-level training missions are conducted at 200 to 500 feet (61 to 153 metres) above sea or ground level, while transport missions may be undertaken at altitudes as high as 35,000 ft (10,675 m). The current squadron motif is a sulphur-crested cockatoo with the Southern Cross depicted on a blue background.\n\nIn May 2018, a King Air belonging to No. 32 Squadron deployed to the South Pacific for a two week rotation as part of the RAAF's support to Operation Solania. The operation is focused upon detecting illegal fishing and policing economic exclusion zones, and involves air and naval forces from Australia, New Zealand, the United States and France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199533", "title": "RAAF Base East Sale", "text": "RAAF Base East Sale\n\nRAAF Base East Sale is a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) military air base and training school, located in , Victoria, Australia. The base is one of the main training establishments of the RAAF, including where Australian Air Force Cadets from 4 Wing (Victoria) have their biannual General Service Training as well as being home to No. 409 Squadron Australian Air Force Cadets. It is home to \"The Roulettes\" aerobatic team. It is also now the home of the RAAF's Officers' Training School (OTS) following its relocation from Point Cook Base. East Sale was upgraded to house the new OTS, which had its first intake of students in January 2008. The base houses approximately 700 air force personnel.\n\nRAAF Base East Sale opened as a training base on 22 April 1943. Initially, the base was home to No.1 Operational Training Unit (1 OTU) equipped with Bristol Beaufort light bomber aircraft, relocated from airfields at West Sale and Bairnsdale. The base was primarily responsible for training air crew, but units from East Sale also operated in some convoy protection and maritime surveillance roles. Over 3,000 aircrew were trained at the base between its opening and the end of World War II. In addition to the Beauforts, a variety of different aircraft types were operated from the base during this time, including the Lockheed Hudson on which future Prime Minister of Australia Gough Whitlam undertook training as a navigator. Other types used by 1 OTU included Airspeed Oxfords and Fairey Battles.\n\nFollowing the war, the RAAF Central Flying School was relocated from RAAF Base Point Cook to East Sale in 1947. By 1953, the school had received its first De Havilland Vampire jet aircraft. In 1962, four Vampire jets from CFS at East Sale formed \"The Red Sales\" aerobatic display team. However while practising aerobatic routines on 15 August, all four Red Sales crashed in formation after failing to recover from a manoeuvre, killing six Central Flying School staff. Six months later, a second display team, \"The Telstars\" was formed, also flying Vampires and later Aermacchi MB-326 (Macchi) jets. The display team was disbanded in May 1968 due to budget constraints and a shortage of available Macchi airframes. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Royal Australian Air Force, the current Roulettes aerobatic display team was formed in 1970, initially operating Macchi MB-326s.\n\nOn 24 November 1987, the first two of 67 Pilatus PC-9 aircraft for the RAAF arrived at East Sale. This would become the primary aircraft used by the Central Flying School until the present.\n\nOn 1 July 1989, 32 Squadron - formerly a bomber and reconnaissance unit during World War II - was reactivated at East Sale and equipped with Hawker Siddeley HS 748s. These aircraft were operated on general transport and training duties, including RAAF Navigator and Airborne Electronics Analyst training, and Royal Australian Navy Observer training. By June 2004, the squadron had completed conversion to new Beechcraft King Air 350 equipment.\n\nIn 1992, the RAAF restructured its flight training programs, handing responsibility for ab-initio training and screening to civilian contractors and retiring its fleet of CT-4 aircraft. The successful bidder to operate the Basic Flight Training School was the Ansett/BAe Systems Flight Training College at in New South Wales using new build and ex-Australian and New Zealand Airforce CT-4s. Central Flying School operates four BAe-owned CT-4s for training military flight instructors.\n\nIn 2000 the nearby Dutson Bombing Range ceased to be used for bombing practice.\n\nIn 2015 the RAAF announced that Basic Flight Training would be returning to East Sale in 2019 with Lockheed Martin selected to provide support for this new program using Pilatus PC-21 aircraft that will replace the current PC-9 fleet. Until this time BAE will continue to provide support to the existing training program in Tamworth.\n\nToday it remains the RAAF's primary training base, operating continuously in this role since 1943.\n\nDuring the 2019–2020 Australian bushfire season the base is being used for operations to assist with firefighting and relief operations. Many aircraft deployed to the base, including Australian Army UH-60 Blackhawk, MRH-90 and CH-47 Chinook helicopters, Republic of Singapore Air Force CH-47s, New Zealand NH-90 helicopters and C-27J Spartan aircraft of the RAAF.\n\nIn 1962, four Vampire jets from CFS at East Sale formed \"The Red Sales\" aerobatic display team. However while practising aerobatic routines on 15 August, all four Red Sales crashed in formation after failing to recover from a manoeuvre, killing six Central Flying School staff.\n\nOn 29 October 1991 a Boeing 707 of No. 33 Squadron crashed into the sea south of RAAF Base East Sale while on a training flight. The aircraft stalled after an asymmetric flight condition was mishandled, causing an unrecoverable loss of control. All five RAAF crew were killed in the accident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199541", "title": "Monkey hanger", "text": "Monkey hanger\n\n\"Monkey hanger\" is a colloquial nickname by which people from the town of Hartlepool in north eastern England are sometimes known.\n\nAccording to local folklore, the term originates from an incident in which a monkey was hanged in Hartlepool, England. During the Napoleonic Wars, a French ship of the type \"chasse marée\" was wrecked in a storm off the coast of Hartlepool. The only survivor from the ship was a monkey, allegedly dressed in a French army uniform to provide amusement for the crew. On finding the monkey on the beach, some locals decided to hold an impromptu trial; since the monkey was unable to answer their questions and because they had seen neither a monkey nor a Frenchman before, they concluded that the monkey must be a French spy. Being found guilty, the animal was duly sentenced to death and was summarily hanged on the beach.\n\nAn alternative theory is that it was a young boy who was hanged (the term \"powder-monkey\" was commonly used at the time for children employed on naval warships to prime the cannon with gunpowder).\n\nAn earlier and remarkably similar monkey-hanging legend with a similar associated song refers to the inhabitants of Boddam, Aberdeenshire. With similar lyrics and scansion (\"And the Boddamers hung the Monkey, O\") it is plausible that Ned Corvan heard and adapted the song while travelling the Scottish Lowlands with Blind Willie Purvis.\n\nThe story may also have its origins in the rivalry between Hartlepool (the small coastal village) and West Hartlepool (the growing industrial town based around the docks). The comic song may have been popular in one of the West Hartlepool's music halls, where the audience would have enjoyed poking fun at the Hartlepool ‘yokels’ who hanged the monkey.\n\nThe earliest evidenced mention of the hanging is from the popular song, written and performed by 19th century comic performer, Ned Corvan, \"The Monkey Song\". Given that \"only after Corvan's appearances in Hartlepool is there any strong evidence for the development of the Monkey story\", the song itself seems the most plausible origin for the myth.\n\nThe local football club, Hartlepool United F.C., capitalised on their \"Monkey Hangers\" nickname by creating a mascot called \"H'Angus the Monkey\" in 1999. Two of the town's six rugby clubs use variations of the hanging monkey, Hartlepool Rovers crest being a beret wearing monkey hanging from a gibbet, while Hartlepool RFC neckties sport a rugby ball kicking monkey suspended from a rope. One wearer of the monkey suit, Stuart Drummond, unexpectedly became the first directly elected mayor of Hartlepool in 2002 while in the guise of H'Angus, but was forbidden from wearing the costume while in office. A statue of the monkey has been erected on the Headland; another at Hartlepool Marina (formerly in West Hartlepool) also serves to collect coins for a local hospice. Although some Hartlepool residents find the term \"monkey hanger\" insulting, a large number of residents have embraced the term and celebrate it as an important and unique characteristic of the town; as seen in the 2014 documentary \"Heart of the Pools\".\n\nThe French comic book \"Le Singe de Hartlepool\" by Wilfrid Lupano and Jérémie Moreau published in 2012 tells this story.\n\nThe Electric Six song \"Unnatural Beauty\" from their 2013 album \"Mustang\" makes reference to the term Monkey Hanger and its association with Hartlepool with the lyrics:\nIn 2008, a novel based on the legend called \"The Hartlepool Monkey\", written by Sean Longley, was published. The novel tells the story of the monkey, named Jacques LeSinge by the French doctor who discovers him, that was supposedly hanged. In the book, the monkey talks and possesses several other human characteristics.\n\nThe Hartlepool Monkey also featured prominently in the play \"Bestiary\", written by Jim Burke and broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 2003.\n\nIn 2014, a documentary was made about the Hartlepool Monkey and its long-lasting significance to the city and its inhabitants called \"Heart of The Pools\".\n\nA radio play by Ian Martin, \"The Hartlepool Spy\", was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on Christmas Day 2018, with a cast including Michael Palin, Vic Reeves, Toby Jones, Gina McKee and Monica Dolan. The Hartlepool monkey is mentioned in Jonathan Coe's novel Middle England (published by Penguin Random House, 2018).\n\nThe Northumbrian singer/songwriter Jez Lowe has a satirical song \"The Simian Son\" (originally known as \"The Monkey's Revenge\") that was performed first in 2012. In it, the grandson of the ill-fated monkey reveals the simian curse under which Hartlepool has been living since the hanging.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199545", "title": "Fingerpoke of Doom", "text": "Fingerpoke of Doom\n\nThe nickname Fingerpoke of Doom (FPOD) refers to an infamous incident in American professional wrestling which occurred on January 4, 1999 at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta, Georgia, during a live broadcast of \"Nitro\", the flagship show of World Championship Wrestling (WCW).\n\nThe incident occurred during the main event of \"Nitro\", featuring WCW World Heavyweight Champion Kevin Nash, who was the leader of the Wolfpac faction of the New World Order (nWo), and Hollywood Hogan, the leader of the Hollywood faction of the nWo, with whom Nash and his group had been feuding since April 1998 when the original faction split up, and Hogan had retired from wrestling. The Wolfpac faction were babyfaces (heroes), while the Hollywood faction were heels (villains), as was the original nWo.\n\nThe match saw Hogan poke Nash in the chest with his index finger, prompting Nash to theatrically throw himself onto the mat and allow Hogan to pin him; the victory marked the reunion of both nWo factions into one villainous group. During the same broadcast, WCW announcer Tony Schiavone gave away the results of their Monday Night Wars rival World Wrestling Federation's \"Raw Is War\" (which was taped six days earlier, and aired from tape at the same time Nitro was being aired live), revealing that wrestler Mick Foley (as Mankind) was set to win the WWF Championship. Although this revelation was meant to deter \"Nitro\" viewers from switching to \"Raw Is War\", it instead reportedly prompted 600,000 viewers to change channels in order to see Foley's victory, with most viewers only tuning back in to \"Nitro\" when there were five minutes left in the broadcast. The incident was named \"The Fingerpoke of Doom\" both for Nash's deliberately over-selling the finger poke, and for the negative ramifications the incident had for the company as a whole, with some wrestling journalists crediting it as the beginning of WCW's ultimate downfall and loss of the Monday Night Wars.\n\nThe match was directly related to a controversial main event that occurred at Starrcade in December 1998, during which Kevin Nash pinned Goldberg to win the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. At the time of the match, Goldberg had been undefeated in his WCW career; and his defeat came about due to the interference of Nash's former tag team partner Scott Hall.\n\nThe following evening, Nash professed dissatisfaction with Hall's interference, and offered Goldberg a rematch for the following episode of \"Nitro\" in Atlanta. However, Goldberg was kayfabe arrested halfway through the three-hour \"Nitro\" at the Georgia Dome and accused of \"aggravated stalking\" by Miss Elizabeth (Goldberg was originally to have been accused of rape, but refused to go along with that particular storyline). Although Goldberg was later released when Elizabeth could not keep her story straight, he would not make it back to the arena in time to compete against Nash; it was noted in \"The Death of WCW\" by R.D. Reynolds and Bryan Alvarez that the entire skit was proven to make no sense after it was revealed that the police station was across the street from the Georgia Dome.\n\nMeanwhile, Hollywood Hogan showed up for the first time since declaring his retirement one month prior. Hogan and Nash had been in a feud since April 1998, when Nash became a fan favorite by breaking away from Hogan's nWo stable in order to form his own rival faction, nWo Wolfpac; Hogan remained a villain, leading his own nWo faction, nWo Hollywood. In Goldberg's absence, Nash offered the title shot to Hogan, who accepted the offer.\n\nHogan came out to the ring accompanied by Scott Steiner, who had taken over the leadership role in nWo Hollywood. Nash came out next, then revealed a surprise to Hogan and the crowd by stopping at the end of the entrance ramp and pointing backwards. The surprise was Hall, who had been a part of nWo Hollywood for most of the last seven months and who entered wearing a Wolfpac T-shirt. This marked the reunion of The Outsiders, who had broken up as a tag team at Slamboree in May 1998.\n\nThe match started with the two men circling each other. Nash tried intimidating Hogan by pushing him hard into the corner. In retaliation, Hogan then hinted at punching Nash only to poke him in the chest. Nash fell on his back in a theatrical manner, which has been compared to \"getting hit in the chest with a cannonball\". Hogan then covered him to get the pinfall and was declared the new WCW World Heavyweight Champion.\n\nAfter this occurred, Hall and Steiner entered the ring and celebrated with Nash and Hogan to signify the Wolfpac and Hollywood factions were reuniting again. As Hogan had done before each time he had won the title since August 1996, he spray-painted the belt's faceplate with \"nWo\". However, to signify the reunion with the Wolfpac, Hogan used red spray paint. Meanwhile, the dissatisfied crowd began pelting the ring with food and other debris.\n\nGoldberg then reentered the building and ran to the ring to attack the reunited nWo members. Wolfpac member Lex Luger followed him, appearing to assist him, but instead jumped Goldberg from behind and showed he was also part of the reunited nWo. Goldberg was handcuffed to the ropes, repeatedly shocked with a taser, and had \"nWo 4 Life\" painted in red and black paint all over his back. A loud \"We want Sting!\" chant erupted from the fans in the Georgia Dome, hoping that Sting would come to rescue Goldberg and even things up for WCW. However, Sting had been out since Bret Hart attacked him at Halloween Havoc in October and would not appear again until March 1999; by that time the nWo reunion story had largely petered out in favor of Ric Flair taking control of WCW, and most of the nWo members had been sidelined due to injuries.\n\nAiring opposite \"Nitro\" this night was the episode of \"Raw Is War\" in which Mick Foley (as Mankind) won the WWF Championship from The Rock. As per their procedures at the time, the WWF had taped this particular episode of \"Raw Is War\" six days in advance of the program's airing and even acknowledged the title change on their website immediately after the taping had concluded. Earlier that night, armed with knowledge of what happened, WCW announcer Tony Schiavone, who was acting on orders from Eric Bischoff, gave away the result of the match before it aired: \nWithin minutes, as shown by Nielsen ratings, several hundred thousand viewers switched channels from \"Nitro\" on TNT to \"Raw Is War\" on the USA Network. After the Steve Austin run-in, the title match finish, and the post-match celebration, many fans then switched back to \"Nitro\", which still had five minutes of air time left. The final ratings for the night were 5.7 for \"Raw Is War\" and 5.0 for \"Nitro\".\n\nThe next week on \"Raw Is War\", there were signs in the crowd that said: \"Mick Foley put my butt in this seat\".\n\nIn \"WrestleCrap: The Very Worst of Pro Wrestling\", R.D. Reynolds says of the match, \"That was that. Fans had been burned one time too many by WCW and the nWo. From that point on in 1999, ratings steadily dropped for the company\".\n\nWWE refers to the match as \"one of the most scandalous title changes of all time\" and states that \"shocking does not even adequately describe this moment\". According to wrestling writers Brian Fritz and Christopher Murray, the event insulted fans, upset viewers, and alerted other wrestlers in the company of problems. They draw a direct link between the title change and the drop in ratings that took place in its aftermath. In \"The Death of WCW\", Reynolds and Alvarez expand on this link, stating that the January 4 incident \"more than any other, started the ball rolling towards the company's inevitable doom\". They believe that the \"now-legendary\" event made the episode \"the single most destructive \"Nitro\" in the history of the company\" and call it a \"disaster of epic proportions\". The \"New York Daily News\" stated that the match \"is widely considered the beginning of the end for WCW\".\n\nIn an interview with RF Video, Nash claimed that he had nothing to do with the booking of the incident. When discussing what RF Video refers to as \"infamous one finger pin with Hogan\", Nash said that Goldberg was the one who caused that rumor to be spread and that he had not begun booking until February 1999. In \"The Rise and Fall of WCW\", Goldberg said that the incident was Hogan and Nash playing their own little games against the wrestling world. Furthermore, Reynolds and Alvarez contended in \"The Death of WCW\" that the actions of Hogan and Nash from the time Goldberg beat Hogan in Atlanta until their own match in the same venue six months later, including the match itself, were part of an ongoing plot between the two wrestlers.\n\nOn the August 31, 2009 episode of \"Raw\", Dusty Rhodes, Shawn Michaels, and Triple H were shown watching and discussing footage of the Hogan–Nash match backstage.\n\nIn his autobiography, \"Hollywood Hulk Hogan\", Hulk Hogan rejected the idea that the Fingerpoke of Doom was pivotal in WCW's fall. He claimed that \"watering down the whole concept\" of the New World Order by splitting the group and creating spinoffs such as the Latino World Order and an inability to compete with the WWF's more risqué \"Attitude style\" were more responsible for WCW's downfall.\n\nEric Bischoff's autobiography \"Controversy Creates Ca$h\" includes a chapter entitled \"The Turning Point That Wasn't\". In it, Bischoff claimed that singling out the Fingerpoke as the reason WCW went under to be an over-simplification. He did acknowledge that people switched from watching \"Nitro\" to \"Raw Is War\" after Schiavone's remark about Foley winning the WWF Championship, but claimed that \"the tide had turned so significantly that us talking about one match didn't matter\".\n"}
{"id": "2199552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199552", "title": "Neale Fraser", "text": "Neale Fraser\n\nNeale Andrew Fraser (born 3 October 1933) is a former number one amateur male tennis-player from Australia, born in Melbourne, Victoria, the son of a Victorian judge. Fraser is the last person to have won the singles, doubles and mixed doubles titles at a Grand Slam tournament on two consecutive occasions in 1959 and 1960 (both times at US National, now known as US Open). Since that time, nobody has equalled that feat at any Grand Slam tournament even once.\n\nAfter his playing days were over, he was non-playing captain of Australia's Davis Cup team for a record 24 years.\n\nHe was the son of barrister and politician Archibald Fraser. \n\nFraser won the Wimbledon singles in 1960 and the US Championships singles in 1959 and 1960. Fraser failed to win the Australian Championships, finishing as runner-up on three occasions (1957, 1959 and 1960) and held a championship point in the 1960 final. Team play – doubles and Davis Cup – proved nearest to Fraser's heart. In doubles, Fraser took three Australian (1957, 1958, and 1962), French (1958, 1960, and 1962) and US (1957, 1959, and 1960) titles, and two Wimbledon (1959, and 1961) with three different partners, Ashley Cooper, Lew Hoad, and Roy Emerson.\n\nFraser was also successful in the mixed doubles, winning the Australian in 1956 with Beryl Penrose, Wimbledon in 1962, and the US from 1958 to 1960 with Margaret Osborne duPont. He holds the distinction of having won the US National (now Open) singles, doubles and mixed doubles titles in 1959 and then successfully defending those titles a year later. Since that time, no one has equalled that feat at a grand slam tournament, let alone successively.\n\nFraser was ranked the World No. 1 amateur in 1959 and 1960 by Lance Tingay of \"The Daily Telegraph\", and was in the top 10 every year between 1956 and 1962.\n\nFraser became Davis Cup Captain for the Australian team in 1970, holding the position for a record 24 years and piloting Australia to four wins in 1973, 1977, 1983 and 1986, and recording 55 wins from 75 ties played.\n\nFraser is one of the 20 men to win all four majors in doubles, and in 1984, he was elected into the International Tennis Hall of Fame.\n\nFraser was honoured with an MBE in 1974 and an AO in 1988. He was chairman of the Sport Australia Hall of Fame from 1997 until 2005. In 2008, he received the International Tennis Federation’s highest honour: the Phillippe Chartier Award for outstanding achievements in tennis.\n\nFraser was also the centenary ambassador for Davis Cup, and was the first recipient of the ITF and International Hall of Fame’s Davis Cup Award of Excellence.\n\nNeale Fraser is married with children and grandchildren. He was voted Victorian Father of the Year in 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199558", "title": "Chiquititas", "text": "Chiquititas\n\nChiquititas (literally translated as \"Little Girls\", known in English as Tiny Angels) is a children's musical Argentine soap opera, created and produced by Cris Morena. It starred Morena's daughter Romina Yan, and Agustina Cherri.\n\nThe soap opera focuses on a group of orphans living in a manor, known as Rincón de Luz. Their lives are gradually touched and changed by Belén, a sweet-hearted, dedicated young woman. The story explores their experiences and coming-of-age dramas such as discovering first love, deceptions, sadness, loneliness and friendship, as they form a family altogether. In the fifth season, the show was rebooted with a new setting, new characters and a new story. The soap opera is complemented with musical themes and videos.\n\n\"Chiquititas\" spawned two spin-offs, \"Rincón de Luz\", which aired in 2003 on Canal 9 and a 2006 production, \"Chiquititas Sin Fin\", which aired on Telefe. \"Sin Fin\" was created to celebrate the 11th anniversary of the series, and later had versions in Portugal and Romania. A game based on \"Sin Fin\" was also released for PS2 and Wii in 2009.\n\n\"Chiquititas\" has been aired in 25 countries and adapted for Brazilian and Mexican audiences. The series originally ran between 1995 and 2001, the year the show's feature film \"\" was released.\n\nIn its first two seasons, the series followed the typical telenovela format with more mature themes, which changed from the third season onwards.\n\nSoon after Gabriela had a child, the baby was taken away from the young woman by her father, Ramiro Morán. Being a snobbish man, he did not accept the result of his daughter having a romance to one of the servants, so Gabriela was told her child was stillborn. The girl, named Mili, was sent to an orphanage created by Ramiro, the \"Rincón de Luz\". Mili grows up in the house alongside eight other little girls, actual orphans that are later upheld by in manor.\nThe orphans are Georgi, Cinthia, Vero, Michelle, Romina, Laura and Maru. Spearheaded by Mili, the oldest among them, the seven chiquititas became a family altogether.\n\nThe girls are supervised by Ernestina, the rigorous janitor who is usually a victim of their pranks, and the adorable Spanish cook Saverio. Emilia administrates the house, and is very loved by the orphans as well. Jime is an orphan taken from the streets and set in the manor, being welcomed by the girls. However, she initially does not get along with them, until Mili calms her down, the two becoming good friends.\n\nThe girls' lives are touched by an adorable young woman named Belén. She lives with her fumbling brother Felipe \"Piojo\", and her friends Leticia and Clarita. Together, they make a family for Sol, Leticia's little daughter. Belén, Leticia and Clarita work for the Morán's industries, and in the factory Belén meets Ramiro's oldest son, Martín. Martín and Belén fall for each other, which causes Ramiro's anger, doing the impossible to keep them apart, as Belén is part of a lower social class. Belén and Martin help Mili in the search for her true identity, finding out the first clues about the little girl's past.\n\nMartín is back from London, primally due to his sister's emotional status. Over the years, Gabriela has lived in deep depression, believing in her father's lies about her baby not being alive. Her condition is gradually softened by Mili herself, both unaware of their blood ties. The Morán's secret is also kept by Carmen, Ramiro's ambitious sister, who wants his fortune for her own. Carmen takes Emilia off her position as Rincón de Luz' administration, assuming her place and frustrating the little girls. For Carmen's ire, Ramiro nominates his several years younger fiancée Ginette as their newest admin. Ginette demonstrates herself to be amiable to the orphans, but what she really wants is to assume their house, which Ramiro supposedly took off her father. Ginette is later debunked by Jime (an orphan who arrives at Rincón de Luz later).\n\nRamiro starts blackmailing Belén, making her break up with Martín. A repentant Ramiro decides to reveal the truth he has kept, but dies in a car crash. Believing she is no longer in love with him, Martín leaves with a now sane Gabriela, for Belén's sadness. However, she meets a new man in her life after Jime suffers a serious accident, Doctor Facundo Brausen.\n\nCarmen is once again Rincón de Luz's administrator. Facundo and Belén are in love with each other, although she still misses Martín. With Jime's intervention, her two friends Roña and Corcho are upheld in the manor, being the first boys to live in the place. Carmen does not agree with boys living in the institution, but the Juvenile Court intervenes and allows them to stay. Their decision leads to the definitive return of Mosca, and the arrival of Guille. Ernestina is replaced by Matilde, an eerie and smarter woman which uncovers the secret about Mili. She tells Carmén about what she has found out, and Carmen ends up in the hospital. In her absence, Belén assumes the position of administrator, struggling against the Court in order to stay with the children, using her social assistance learning. She also becomes a mother to Sol, after Leticia's sudden death, moving into the manor with the little girl and Clarita.\n\nClarita becomes a dance instructor to the little girls, and her skills lead her to become a professional dancer. Cinthia and Laura are adopted and new interns, such as Tamara and Mecha, increase the family inside the Rincón de Luz manor.\n\nCarmen manages to close down the house and separate the group administered by Belén. But she and the kids receive the help of a mysterious man named Pedro Vega who donates his old mansion to them. Alongside Facundo, Piojo and Tommy, Belén and the \"chiquititas\" find the huge, beauteous manor at the corner of the Pasaje del Sauce. Despite being astonished with the attractive facade, the orphans discover a creepy place full of traps and secret passages, inhabited by a mysterious woman named Elena, and her granddaughter Lucia. Belén introduces them to the Magic Window (\"La Ventatina de los Sueños\"), which allows them to glare at their deepest dreams and illusions. Similar to the Window is the Magic Mirror, in which they must look with only one eye, to watch their dreams become true. A complete makeover is made by the group, and the Juvenile Court allows them to live in the place. Living with Elena becomes a torment as she wants the kids out of the place and far away from Lucia. Roña discovers the little girl hidden in the inner parts of the manor and, alongside Belén, struggles against the hag to free her. For Elena's desperation, Lucia gradually becomes part of the family, thanks to Roña.\n\nThe kids also have to interact with their new neighbors, starting feuds (in a series of misunderstandings), making new friends and discovering first love, as Jime falls in love for the first time with Matías, and Mosca develops a troubled relationship with Delfina, the spoiled girl next door. Facundo moves to the house in front of the manor to become closer to Belén and the orphans. Belén and the kids receive a Brazilian orphan named Mora, and Nico, a young boy who loves flying and aircraft whose dream is to be reunited with his father, an aircraft pilot.\n\nHowever, their relationship as a group starts to be torn apart thanks to Andrea, Facundo's ex-wife, and the unscrupulous Alejo Méndez Ayala, who wants his daughter Sol back.\n\nMeanwhile, as Gabriela and Mili become closer each day, Carmen follows them closely, trying to keep them from knowing their true ties.\n\nAs Mili still is blind, Gabriela invites her to live with her, feeling it will be more secure compared to the manor. Mili deeply reflects about leaving Belén, her best friend Jime and the other \"chiquititas\", until Jime understands it will be better for her. Carmen creates a bond with Caro, the ambitious orphan among the other kids, to assume her place as Gabriela's real daughter. The girl actually aspires everything Mili has, including her boyfriend Paul.\nBut the truth comes out after Belén discovers everything Carmen was trying to hide. At the Mothers Day, she receives a gift made by the grateful orphans and reunites them to tell the story behind the creation of the Rincón De Luz institution, revealing that Mili is the main reason of it. The girl becomes hysterically excited after finding out she finally found her family, but is hijacked by an angry Carmen. All the orphans's attempts to save Mili go wrong, but Carmen's final plans then fail, as Gabriela herself discovers the tied and desperate young girl. With the two of them reunited, Carmen is arrested and sent into rehabilitation, pleading for their forgiveness. Gabriela tells her they expect Carmen's regeneration, and so they will become a real family. Mili says goodbye to Belén, Jime and the other \"chiquititas\" and leaves with her mother. \nBelén and the orphans then travel to Walt Disney World.\n\nBelén and the orphans celebrate a party at their street, the Pasaje del Sauce, but the event is ruined by an unknown saboteur. Six new orphans (the older ones Patricio, Martina and Micaela and the tiny ones Nacho, Catalina and Luna) are added to the group. Patricio is a problematic and troublesome boy, whose behaviour is a consequence of his traumatic past. He does not get along with the other orphans and becomes a challenge to Belén. Martina is an attractive but ambitious girl, who causes jealousy in Georgi. Mosca and Delfina's relationship is intensified, and Belén meets Alejo's supposed identical twin brother, Manuel. Unlike his brother, Manuel is an adorable, sweet-hearted saxophonist, who gives help to Belén and the orphans whenever they need (even softening Patricio's behaviour). However, his presence does not eases Sol's longing for her father.\n\nLike Mili, Jimena is reunited with her mother after discovering that Mosca is her brother only by her father's side. A tragedy reaches the life of the \"chiquitita\", when her mother is shot to death during and expedition in the jungle. Lost in the forest, she used her memories and clues from the other kids to survive (such as creating a sundial), and well as Belén's messages about keeping faith and hope. She makes friends with a monkey and meets Yago, a jungle boy who knows everything about wild life and lost her father. When Jime is rescued by Manuel and Mosca, she takes Yago with her to the manor. The boy takes some time to adjust himself into the civilized life. Elena returns, now rich after inheriting Vega's fortune, decided to take revenge on Belén and the orphans, after taking off Lucia from her.\n\nGeorgi is reunited with her older sister and her family, and emotionally leaves the group and the manor. After they start a relationship, Manuel asks Belén in marriage, which she accepts. At the wedding ceremony, Belén tells the orphans that she and Manuel are planning to adopt them all. However, at the same night she discovers the truth about him, through an unknown woman, that being that Manuel and Alejo are in effect, the very same person. Heartbroken with such a lie, she runs away from him. As he follows her, Alejo is hit by a car and ends up seriously damaged. Even after everything they have been through, Belén takes care of Alejo, as a new admin is introduced to the manor. Belén has lost her position after her decision of adopting the orphans, and the Court replaces her by Martirio. Initially adorable with the kids, Martirio reveals her true face as the manor's ultimate hag. Applying severe punishments and methods on them, she plans to stay with their permanent custody. Belén and Alejo fight on court against Martirio, using video messages sent by Georgi and Nico, who are grateful for everything Belén did for them. Belén also exposes to the judge the horrible conditions of a previous institution Martirio took over. She is sent in jail as Belén and Alejo win the orphans's custody, adopting them all. Belén gives her children the Book of Life, in which she writes about the future of each of them.\n\nMaria is a little girl who lives in the streets with some other kids. Somehow, she received the Book of Life written by Belén, and from her messages Maria believes that she and her friends will find a place to live altogether, just like the Rincón de Luz manor. The group meet some other homeless kids and discover a huge granary in their way. The place is inhabited by an enormous tree and a nice but lonely old man, named Joaquín. He welcomes the group in his place as the kids ease her loneliness. \nThe barn is located nearby a mansion which belongs to Joaquín's son Juan Maza, where he lives with his seven children (Mariano, Ines, Javier, the twins Luisana and Titán, Juanita and Agustín). The loss of their mother shattered Juan's relationship with them. The family receives a distant teenager cousin, Candela, whose differences cause issues between her, Mariano and Ines. Candela brings her little brothers Hosana and Facundo with her.\n\nJuan is engaged to an ambitious woman, Pía Pacheco, who has just arrived with her little daughter Tali and personal assistance Elza. Despite Juan is not sure about his feelings for Pía, their wedding ceremony is materialized, but it is interrupted with the arrival of Ana, a sweet-hearted woman, who falls with her balloon right on their wedding cake. Juan falls in love instantly for Ana, and she is well received by Joaquín and the orphans, settling in their granary. Ana talks to Anita, an angel in the form of a young girl only her is able to see. She also notices that Juan's children are living in sadness or emotional need, and starts touching and changing their lives (starting from Javier). Ana's presence also changes the situation between children and father, as Pía becomes increasingly annoyed with her presence. The barn becomes a legal orphanage and receives new children.\n\nThe orphans start interacting with the Maza children and with Candela, who develops a troubled relationship with Mariano. She actually is unsure between him and Matías, a handsome neighbor boy. The attention and love Candela receives from everyone cause intense jealousy in Ines. Despite Pía's attempts to separate them, Ana and Juan become lovers, and she decides to ruin their family starting with the orphans. She sends Bautista and Santiago to the Hogar de las Sombras, a horrible child prison, soon before Ana and Juan's wedding. The couple tries to avoid her decision, but since Pía legally assumed the orphanage, Ana authorizes believing the boys are going to a travel. Ana and Juan get married and Candela chooses Mariano over Matías. The orphans emotionally say goodbye to Ana, and Candela is left on their care. However, Pía hires thugs to get rid from the children (the orphans and the Maza kids). Mariano loses contact with his father and he and Candela attempt to escape with the kids from her men, until the group is caught. Candela realizes Pía is mentally ill and Mariano discovers she legally assumed the children. Their last attempt is to fly in Ana's balloon, but only Mariano and Candela are able to flee. As the couple lift off, they are told by Camila to be happy together. The group is then taken to the Hogar de Las Sombras, where they are reunited with Santiago and Bautista. In the horrible place, they have to deal with its rigorous janitors and violent interns, until Maria mitigates them using the messages written in the Book of Life. The group decides to escape from the child prison, struggling against its guards. While they escape, Pía insanely burns the granary, dying in the fire. As the kids flee from their prison, Maria has a vision of Ana and Juan in the skies, and realises that is the right moment to find the Rincón de Luz manor, their last chance to have a family again.\n\nAna and Juan died, Pía burned down the granary and the children escaped from the Hogar de las Sombras. The group formed by Felipe-nicknamed \"Mexicano\" or \"The Mexican\" by the others-(Felipe Colombo, who played Felipe is, in fact, Mexican-Argentine), Tali, the Maza children (Luisana, Titán, Juanita and Agustín) and the granary orphans (Camila, Bautista and Maria) was left in sadness, all of them homeless and hopeless. Juanita ended up traumatized and became unable to communicate. Fearing being sent back to the horrendous child prison, the \"chiquititas\" need to find a new place to live. María decides it is the perfect time to find the original Rincón de Luz described in her Book of Life, which she faithfully keeps. Following a magic shooting star, the group is led to the house on the corner. The manor seems to be abandoned and scary, as they find the place completely covered in branches and leaves. However, the sinister facade actually covers an utopic place full of toys, puppets and dolls. Camila insists the group is invading a private property (which in fact they are doing), but the Magic Window in the attic reveals that they actually found the Rincón de Luz manor. The orphans glare as a spiritual Belén appears, welcoming them home and stating that, even after all the sorrow the children have been through, they shall not stop dreaming and keeping their faith. \nThe kids then discover that the place was sold to a Phantom of the Opera-like mysterious figure named Refael Sander. He was involved in an accident in which he lost a son and got half of his face burned. Since then he has lived in bitterness in the dark, hidden places of the Manor with half of the face covered with a mask, as the place became known as a haunted house. His only company is Enzo the Valet, a bald, funny man who initially lurks and scares the newly arrived children. Camila insists to him that, since they are orphans in an orphanage, they will not leave the manor. As time goes by, Sander allows the children to live in his house, as he discovers that there is a possibility of one of them to be his lost son. Juanita is the first one among them to meet him, and they become good friends. Paula, Sander's deceased wife twin sister, arrives with a girl named Olivia. Paula believes the manor belongs to her and still is in love with Sander, and Olivia is a troublesome compulsive liar. She is ordered by Paula to get as closer to the orphans as possible. She then intervenes in both Camila and Felipe, and Luisana and Bautista relationships.\n\nA young and brave woman named Luz arrives in the manor, after she runs away from her abusive and very violent boss and Maria immediately recognizes her as their \"mother\", because of Camila's jealousy. Sander secretly watches Luz and falls in love for her. As she discovers the story behind the manor, Luz is decided to bring him to life again. The younger girls discover a library in which fairytales come to life; the manor also hides a magical world inhabited by elfs, where Maria befriends a tiny elf named Tok.\n\nAs Luz, Sander and Juanita go in search for his lost son, who is supposedly still alive, the orphans are left under the cares of Enzo. However, the Juvenile Court hires a vicious woman named Lidia to be in charge of the house's administration. After Lidia starts ruling their home, the children are once again deprived from their dreams and good life. Camila and Luisana are worried since Felipe and Bautista have not sent news since their travel, some time before Luz and Rafael's wedding. They were actually kidnapped by Paula's henchmen, and had to cause a car crash to escape from them. Felipe falls unconscious and Bautista loses his memories. They are rescued by Miki, an adorable girl who lives in a trailer. As Felipe awakens, he notices that Bautista has amnesia and tells him they should go back home. Even without remembering anything, Bautista goes with him and they take Miki with them, away from her abusive mother.\n\nAfter her mother dies, a young girl moves to the neighborhood, and starts working at a nearby bar. She is Mili, the original \"chiquitita\" and the reason the original orphanage was created. Mili comes back following her memories of her life in the manor, alongside her friends Jime, Georgi, Guille, Mosca and everybody else, and foremost, following Belén's lessons. She is decided to help the orphans ruled by Lidia (who had blocked up the Magic Window), giving back their dreams and their happiness. To deceive Lidia, she joins the manor as a \"rigorous\" janitor named Greta. Mili receives help in her mission from Enzo and his brother Renzo, and from the handsome bar owner Ramiro. She reveals herself to the kids, but they do not believe in her words with the exception of Maria. Aspiring their house, Lidia tries to send the kids back to the Hogar de las Sombras and ties up Ramiro and Mili to chairs after she discovers her true intentions. Ramiro manages to escape, releasing Mili. As the kids struggle against the guards, Bautista recovers his memories while saving Luisana from them, and the group runs back to the manor. Mili, Ramiro and the orphans are reunited, but Lidia performs her final act even though she is arrested. Stating that if the house will not belong to her then it will not be anyone else's, Lidia reveals to Ramiro that she has implanted explosives in the manor. He desperately runs towards the place, in order to evacuate it. After everybody apparently leaves the manor, Tali misses Agustín and Mili goes back to rescue him. As they run out, the manor explodes, leaving the kids in desperation. As an insane Lidia delights, Mili tells her that she is wrong, and nothing will knock down their home, if the \"chiquititas\" stand together. The group is surprised by a white radiance in the sky, which reveals itself to be Belén. She states that the Rincón de Luz will always exist while each child in the world keep his or her dream, and while love exists, as the manor magically starts rebuilding itself, amazing the orphans. Among them, the orphans that lived with Mili (Jime, Corcho, Georgi, Mosca and the others) appear one by one.\n\nMaria passes on the Book of Life to other orphaned children, and as her family formed by her fellows, Mili and Ramiro is shown, she ends the story by telling the audience to never give up their dreams, and if sometime they grow up and think they have lost them, to just look deep inside the heart, where will always be their \"chiquitita\", giving them care.\n\nThe series premiered on August 7, 1995, occupying \"Jugate Conmigo\"'s former time-slot years before. Part of the \"Jugate\" cast, including Luciano Castro and Romina Yan herself, is featured in the show's first season. The series started in the traditional dramatic telenovela format, with an adult cast sharing space with the young cast on screen. This aspect changed gradually in the following years (starting with the third season, in 1997), with the young characters receiving more prominence in the storyline. Fantasy elements were also added to the plot.\nActress Agustina Cherri had an exclusivity contract with Telefe and was cast as the young protagonist among the orphans, Mili Urién. Romina Yan auditioned for the role of Belén Fraga with few other actresses and was cast.\nThe series is also known for being the first using the serialized format, unusual in the telenovela genre. Season One has 155 episodes; Seasons Two to Six have the very same number of episodes each year, in a total 210. As a consequence of the series's cancellation, the shortest season is the last one, with only nine episodes. Despite having a sudden ending, the seventh season features the return of Agustina Cherri as a 20-year-old Mili.\n\nRomina Yan left the series in 1998 (Season Four), and the storyline was rebooted in the following year, \"Chiquititas 1999\" (Season Five), with new characters, a new story and setting, co-starring Grecia Colmenares and Marcela Kloosterboer. Although having different roles, some young actors from previous seasons remained (such as Guillermo Santa Cruz and Camila Bordonaba), which initially caused confusion on the audience. In 2000 (Season Six), the setting went back to the Rincón de Luz manor, where the series ended in 2001.\nEach season received a respective soundtrack with three additional albums, all of them released by Sony Music. The songs are without exception composed by Carlos Nilson and Cris Morena.\nActor, singer and musician Felipe Colombo was brought by Cris Morena from the Mexican version of the series, where he portrayed Julio. He was introduced in Season Five, alongside Luisana Lopilato. Camila Bordonaba was introduced in Season Two as Pato and Benjamin Rojas in Season Four. They were all cast in \"Rebelde Way\", an Argentine hit television series also created and produced by Morena, in which they portrayed its protagonists and members of the band Erreway.\n\nAnnual stage presentations at the Gran Rex theatre, written and directed by Cris Morena complemented the series from the second year onwards, featuring the whole cast of each season. The fourth year holds to this day the record of most tickets ever sold by that theatre. An incident occurred in the Season Five performances (\"Chiquititas 1999\"), in which a fire generated by short circuit destroyed part of the scenario, specifically the thematic giant tree. Gran Rex did not return the money to the present and frustrated audience.\n\nBetween 1996 and 2000, 1.100.432 of Argentine people watched the \"Chiquititas\" presentations.\n\n\"Chiquititas\" was canceled after financial disagreements between Cris Morena and Claudio Villarruel, Telefe's newly employed chairman. In the seventh and final season, the running was changed from daily to weekly, being aired at Sundays, and being replaced by a retrospective of \"Chiquititas\" previous seasons, entitled \"Chiquititas: la historia\", which was aired daily on the original time slot (weekdays at 6 PM). Morena moved to Canal 9, for which she created \"Rincón de Luz\", a new series with similar concept. The show had to be renamed since the title of \"Chiquititas\" contractually belonged to Telefe.\n\n\"Chiquititas\" was panned by critics that deemed the program to be over sexualized and having a bad quality. The idea of an orphanage being portrayed as a beautiful place full of pretty well-dressed white children was also heavily panned. The Season Five ending, where the adult characters were removed from the storyline after an accident, and the children are sent to the Hogar de las Sombras child prison from where they escape, was considered by some reviewers as \"anything but ingenious\" and too \"traumatic\" for children, and received criticism for the writer's \"incoherence and unjustified cruelty\".\n\nDespite receiving bad reviews, the series became a hit among the young audience, and spawned 150 licensed products and a monthly magazine, \"La Revista de Chiquititas\". The Season Three released soundtrack, \"La Música de Chiquititas Vol. 3\", sold 2.500 copies, and the Season Four album is the top selling among the twelve volumes. Themes such as \"Mentiritas\", \"Corazón con Agujeritos\" and \"Pimpollo\" are the most remembered songs to this day.\n\nChiquititas Sin Fin, also known as Chiquititas 2006 is an Argentine 2006 television series created and produced by Cris Morena, to celebrate the 11th anniversary of the original series \"Chiquititas\". Written by Walter Ferreira Ramos and Delia Maunas, and produced by Cris Morena and RGB Entertainment, the series has been aired on Disney Channel in some South American countries, Mexico, Greece and Spain. SBT also aired the show to Brazil in 2008. \"Sin Fin\" was adapted in Portugal and Romania, and is the basis for the Wii game \"Chiquititas: The Magical Journey\". Stage presentations at the Gran Rex were also featured.\n\nThe series focuses on the search of a young woman for her lost son. After discovering that her child may be living at an orphanage, she goes to the place under the alter ego of a humorous and magical nanny figure, touching and changing their lives.\n\nMagali Garcia (Jorgelina Aruzzi) is a strict businesswoman who got pregnant in the past, and after revealing it to her father Vítor (Ernesto Claudio), was sent to an abandoned place. Her son was sent by the Garcia's servant, under Vítor's orders, to an orphanage, and she had to lie by saying to Magali that her little child was stillborn. Repentant, the servant told Magali the truth, which made daughter hate father since then. Magali started looking for their child, and is sure that the kid lives in an orphanage named \"Modelo Dumont\". She goes there under a new identity: with the help of her best friend Lúcia (Mariana Richaudeau), she is now an adorable, a little bit crazy and funny woman, the sweet Lili. Under this alter ego, she ends up assuming a maternal figure to the orphans of the place, appearing as a Magali's distant cousin. Beyond them, Lili meets Terezinha (Mariana Briski), an arrogant housekeeper who is seen by the kids as an \"evil witch\", the orphanage's owners, Julieta (María Carámbula) and Pierre (Alejo García Pintos) Dummont, and their little spoiled children, Marcel (Luciano Ruiz) and Talita (Delfina Varni). The Dummonts are an ambitious, greedy and perverse family that aspire for money. Kili (Gastón Ricaud) is the handsome and adorable chef of the orphanage, and he and Lily soon fall in love for each other. The \"chiquititas\" of this series are Miki, Guta and Mosquito, teenagers forming a loving triangle, the younger orphans Luana, Anita, Nando, Paula, Pulga, Josep, Eduardo and Francisco.\n\nThe soundtrack \"24 Horas\" is among the ten 2006 top-selling albums, the \"Sin Fin\" Gran Rex presentation was released on DVD. The series finale was watched by the cast alongside fans at the Shopping Abasto, in Buenos Aires.\n\nChiquititas: The Magical Journey is a fantasy-action 2009 game based on \"Chiquititas Sin Fin\", produced by Biodroid Productions and distributed by Emergent. Available for PS2 and Wii, the game provides two playable characters from the 2006 show, Lily and Kili, exploring levels and fighting against enemies.\n\nRincón de Luz is a 2003 series created by Cris Morena for Argentine channel Canal 9. This show has the same concept and some of the actors of her previous telenovela \"Chiquititas\", which she could not keep the original title for legal rights.\nStarring the popular singer Soledad Pastorutti and Guido Kaczka (who had acted in \"Chiquititas\" first four seasons as Piojo, Belén's brother), the show did not reach the amount of popularity the first version of the program achieved. However, it was extremely successful in Israel and the complete cast of the show visited Tel Aviv for a series of concerts at Nokia Arena.\n\nIn 2001, while leaving Telefe, Cris Morena made it clear that, despite of legal rights, she would not stop producing \"Chiquititas\", stating that it was \"more than a title\". Morena was actually moving the show's concept to another channel with a different title because the program rights were owned by Telefé, not her.\n\n\nThe original show includes twelve soundtracks, which were recorded by the actors of \"Chiquititas\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199563", "title": "Donald Cotton", "text": "Donald Cotton\n\nDonald Henry Cotton (26 April 1928 – 28 December 1999) was a British writer for radio and television during the black and white era. He also wrote numerous musical revues for the stage. His work often had a comedic bent.\n\nCotton's scripts for the BBC Third Programme include \"Echo and Narcissus\" (1959), \"The Golden Fleece\" and \"Stereologue\" (both 1962) and \"The Tragedy of Phaethon\" (1965, described as a comedy despite the name). In 1960, he introduced \"Voices in the Air\", a programme whose script included work not only by Cotton but also by other notable contributors including Harold Pinter, John Betjeman, Michael Flanders, Antony Hopkins, N. F. Simpson, Donald Swann, and Sandy Wilson.\n\nIn April 1965, Donald Tosh replaced Dennis Spooner as story editor on the popular BBC science fiction programme \"Doctor Who\", and soon thereafter contacted Donald Cotton, an old acquaintance, to write for the programme. Tosh and incoming producer John Wiles were keen to push the boundaries of the programme, and felt that Cotton might be able to deliver a high comedy. His first script, \"The Myth Makers\", a tongue-in-cheek historical based like several of his radio plays on Greek mythology, pushed comedic elements to the limit. Cotton's planned episode titles were altered due to BBC disapproval of the punning theme the author had devised for them. Only the original name for the second episode, \"Small Prophet, Quick Return\" survived at Tosh's insistence. William Hartnell is reputed to have been particularly unimpressed by the story and clashed with several members of the cast and crew during filming. None of the episodes of \"The Myth Makers\" still survive in the BBC Archives.\n\nTosh and Wiles were so pleased with his first script that Donald Cotton was quickly asked to submit another idea for \"Doctor Who\" and on 30 November 1965 Cotton was commissioned to write \"The Gunfighters\". The idea was that this would, again, be a humorous take on the historical story; this time, the target would be the American Wild West (a setting which William Hartnell would later claim to have suggested), and specifically the infamous Gunfight at the O.K. Corral, which took place on 26 October 1881. Eschewing detailed historical research, Cotton opted to hew closer to the version of the Gunfight which had passed into contemporary mythology, with Wyatt Earp as a stolid enforcer of the law and Doc Holliday as a rascally anti-hero. Once more, Cotton's script played fast and loose with other elements of true Wild West history.\n\nTo Cotton's chagrin, both Wiles and Tosh resigned from Doctor Who at the end of December 1965, to be replaced by producer Innes Lloyd and story editor Gerry Davis. Lloyd and Davis disliked the historical genre, believing that the viewing audience was more interested in science-fiction stories, and also felt that the comedic bent of \"The Gunfighters\" did not fit with their more serious vision of Doctor Who. For a time, the production team considered cancelling the story altogether and replacing it with Ian Stuart Black's \"The Savages\", which would end up following Cotton's adventure into production. The production team's fears about the quality of \"The Gunfighters\" appeared to be borne out when the final three episodes equalled or exceeded the series' lowest Audience Appreciation scores to date. Indeed, \"The O.K. Corral\" episode, rating only 30%, would prove to be the all-time low-water mark for \"Doctor Who\". These disastrous figures helped strengthen Lloyd's conviction that historical serials should be eliminated from Doctor Who altogether. This was not the only controversy surrounding \"The O.K. Corral\": a dispute had arisen between director Rex Tucker and Lloyd over the editing of the episode, leading to Tucker requesting that his credit be excised.\n\n\"The Gunfighters\" was Donald Cotton's last contribution to \"Doctor Who\". Another submission entitled \"The Herdsmen of Aquarius\" (or \"The Herdsmen of Venus\") was rejected by Gerry Davis in June 1966. It would have featured an \"explanation\" for the Loch Ness Monster, which the storyline explained away as livestock kept by aliens.\n\nAfter helping to create \"Adam Adamant Lives!\", Donald Cotton mainly confined his attention to writing and performing for the stage, although he would also become a novelist and columnist. He helped Tony Snell write the satirical 1968 album \"Medieval & Latter Day Lays\", also known as \"Englishman Abroad\". In the 1980s, Cotton novelised his \"Doctor Who\" serials as well as \"The Romans\" for Target Books. For this, he took a comedic and unusual approach and presented them in the first person. His \"Romans\" adaptation takes the form of an epistolary novel told by, among other narrators, the Doctor's companion Ian Chesterton. The Gunfighters is told by Doc Holiday and has Johnny Ringo take the contract to kill the Earps in order to afford a copy of the Cambridge Encyclopedia of Classical Biography. He wrote a novel entitled \"Bodkin Papers\" in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199564", "title": "Shia view of Umar", "text": "Shia view of Umar\n\nUmar ibn al-Khattab was one of the earliest figures in the history of Islam. While Sunnis regard Umar ibn al-Khattab in high esteem and respect his place as one of the \"Four Righteously Guided Caliphs\", the Shia do not view him as a legitimate leader of the Ummah and believe that Umar and Abu Bakr conspired to usurp power from Ali. Shia believe that the Sunni view of Umar was created by the later Umayyad dynasty to honour the man that gave power to the first Umayyad ruler and third Sunni Caliph, Uthman. In this way, it gives legitimacy to Umar's consultation that started their own dynasty. Shia believe that the Umayyad view was propagated with lethal force and heavy duress and as time went on, that view became predominant and eventually taken as truth, cemented by the works of Bukhari. \n\nA Sh'ia scholar states:\n\nHafsa, the daughter of Umar, was originally married to Khunais ibn Hudhaifa. When he died, Umar sought to find a husband for her. He approached his friend Uthman who said \"I am of the opinion that I shall not marry at present\", after thinking about the proposal for a few days. Umar became angry with Uthman and asked Abu Bakr the same thing. Abu Bakr did not give him a reply, causing Umar to become even more angry with him than he was with Uthman. Umar then preceded to Muhammad to discuss the previous two incidents. Muhammad reassured Umar by saying that \"Hafsa will marry one better than Uthman will marry one better than Abu Bakr.\" Umar was obviously alluding to the fact that Hafsa was to marry Muhammad and that Uthman was to marry a daughter of Muhammad.\n\nHafsa was married to Muhammad in 625. Muhammad's household was not always peaceful as his wives were in two groups. Umar said on one occasion:\n\n writes:\n\nShia claim that the despair felt by Umar at the time of Muhammad's death was not genuine, they insist that there was no despair, only threats aimed to delay matters so that his friend and confederate Abu Bakr could return before Ali was confirmed as the successor. As for Ali's allegiance to Abu Bakr's rule, this too was made up to support Abu Bakr's claim to power.\n\n writes:\n\nShi'a view Umar as the \"khalifa-maker\" of Abu Bakr and that during Abu Bakr's khilafat, Umar was his principal adviser. Ali is quoted saying:\n\n(Then he quoted al-A'sha's verse):\n\n states:\nThe majority of Shi'a's are in agreement that Umm Kulthum, the daughter of the Ali, was not married to Umar. One narration concerning the marriage is,\nAli is further quoted in the same sermon:\n\nIt is recorded in some Shi'a texts that Ali said:\n\nEdward Gibbon wrote:\nAnd he also writes that Ali...\nDavid Samuel Margoliouth offers this assessment of Umar:\n\n"}
{"id": "2199565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199565", "title": "Kropatschek rifle", "text": "Kropatschek rifle\n\nA Kropatschek is any variant of a rifle designed by Alfred von Kropatschek. Kropatschek's rifles used a tubular magazine (constructed of nickel-plated steel) of his design, of the same type used in the German Mauser Gewehr 1871/84 and the Japanese Type 22 Murata. While designed for black powder, the Kropatschek action proved to be strong enough to handle smokeless powder.\n\nThe Kropatschek was the basis for the French Lebel Rifle.\n\nAustria-Hungary:\n\nFrance:\n\nPortugal:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199572", "title": "George Anderson (footballer, born 1891)", "text": "George Anderson (footballer, born 1891)\n\nGeorge Walter Anderson (born 25 May 1891 in Cheetham, Manchester; died 1959, buried in Blackley Cemetery) was an English footballer. Anderson was a forward with Manchester United whose career started in 1911. Anderson went on to score 39 goals for United, and scored another 39 unofficial goals during the First World War.\n\nAnderson was involved in a match fixing scandal that ended his career. In a game at Old Trafford on 29 December 1917 against Burnley, he was accused of fixing the match after three United players complained to the team president. He was then banned from Old Trafford on 8 January 1918 and later sentenced to eight months in prison after his trial in Liverpool. In 1915, Anderson had already testified during the investigation of the 1915 British football betting scandal, which led to the banning of seven Manchester United and Liverpool players.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199580", "title": "Alkyl phosphate", "text": "Alkyl phosphate\n\nAlkyl phosphates belong to a group of organic compounds called organophosphates. They are esters of phosphoric acid HPO and corresponding alcohol. For example, the formula of methyl phosphate is CH-HPO, dimethyl phosphate – (CH)HPO and trimethyl phosphate – (CH)PO. \nAlkyl phosphates are widely distributed in nature, and form the basis of most biological processes. For example, high energy metabolites such as ATP and PEP are alkyl phosphates, as are nucleic acids such as DNA and RNA. Alkyl phosphates are also important medicinally, for example the HIV drug AZT is inactive until it becomes an alkyl phosphate in vivo.\n\nIn Dialkyl phosphates, two of the hydrogens in phosphoric acid are replaced by alkyl groups, e.g. dimethyl phosphate – (CH)HPO\n\nDialkyl phosphates or dialkyl phosphate esters are used in many agricultural chemicals.\nLevels in the urine have been used as a method of trying to determine levels of exposure to organophosphates; however, it is unclear how well they do this.\n\nExposure to dialkyl phosphate during pregnancy appears to increase the risk of ADHD.\n\nIn Trialkyl phosphates, all three hydrogens in phosphoric acid are replaced by alkyl groups, e.g. trimethyl phosphate – (CH)PO.\n"}
{"id": "2199582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199582", "title": "Mark Bright", "text": "Mark Bright\n\nMark Abraham Bright (born 6 June 1962) is an English sports correspondent and former footballer.\n\nBorn to a Gambian father and English mother, he was adopted into a foster family in Stoke-on-Trent at an early age. He played non-league football for local side Leek Town, before joining nearby Football League side Port Vale in 1981. He turned professional at the club the following year, though would only enjoy an extended run in the first-team during the 1983–84 season. He signed with First Division club Leicester City in June 1984. He failed to find success with Leicester however and was sold on to Crystal Palace in November 1986. He helped Palace to win promotion out of the Second Division via the play-offs in 1989 and went on to play on the losing side of the 1990 FA Cup final, before winning the Full Members' Cup in 1991. Building an effective strike partnership with Ian Wright, he scored 114 goals in 286 league and cup games for Crystal Palace and was also named on the PFA Second Division Team of the Year in 1987–88 and as the club's Player of The Year in 1990.\n\nHe was sold to Premier League rivals Sheffield Wednesday for a fee of £1,375,000 in September 1992, where he would stay for the next five years, scoring a further 70 goals in 170 games in all competitions. He featured in the 1993 League Cup final and 1993 FA Cup final, which ended in defeat to Arsenal both times. He lost his first-team place in the 1996–97 season and was loaned out to Millwall, also spending time at Swiss club Sion, who were unable to play him in competitive fixtures after failing to come to an agreement with Sheffield Wednesday. He eventually signed with Charlton Athletic in March 1997 and helped the club to win promotion to the Premier League with victory in the 1998 First Division play-off final, before announcing his retirement the following year shortly before his 38th-birthday. After retiring as a player he worked as a pundit on various television and radio programmes. He married singer Michelle Gayle in 1996 and divorced in 2007; they have one son.\n\nBright was born in Stoke-on-Trent, to Edwin Bright, a Gambian forklift truck driver, and Maureen Bright, a white English woman. His mother left home in November 1964, and his father put Bright and his brother, Phillip, up for adoption. His first foster home was with Helena Parton, where he and his brother stayed with while his sisters lived with his mother, who divorced Edwin in 1968. Parton ceased fostering the two boys in 1969 after she developed health problems and the boys went on to live with a new foster family in Kidsgrove, Bob and Irene Davies, who were experienced foster parents. The rest of his childhood was relatively happy and stable under their care until he left home at the age of 18. As the only black children at Dove Bank Primary, the two brothers were a target for bullies and were put in the same class to help the pair feel more comfortable. A clumsy attempt to combat the racism from the headteacher in a school assembly worked and the boys began to be accepted by the other children due to their natural footballing ability. Edwin went on to father more children and settled in Burnley; one of Edwin's sons, Roy Bright, went on to become the frontman of rock band Exit State.\n\nBright spent a year as a youth-team player at Port Vale before being released at the age of 16. He then played part-time football at Cheshire County League outfit Leek Town and for Sunday league side Mason's Arms, before he rejoined Port Vale as an amateur in October 1981 on the recommendation of Mason's Arms co-manager Russell Bromage. Manager John McGrath handed him his full debut on the last day of the 1981–82 season, in a 2–0 win over Torquay United at Vale Park, two weeks after coming on as a substitute in a goalless home draw with York City on 1 May 1982. In the game against Torquay, he provided as assist for Paul Bowles, although missed an opportunity to score himself, telling a local reporter that, \"I was waiting for the ball to bounce instead of having a go straight away\". He went on to sign an initial one-year part-time contract on £10-a-week, while also working as an apprentice for Staffs Hydraulics in Kidsgrove.\n\nHe played just once in the 1982–83 Fourth Division promotion campaign, scoring Vale's second goal in a 2–0 home win over Hereford United on 9 October. At the end of the season he turned down an initial full-time professional contract offer as it paid less than his factory job, though he did sign a revised offer of £110-a-week with appearances and goal incentives. Bright came to prominence for the \"Valiants\" under the stewardship of new boss John Rudge towards the end of the 1983–84 season, scoring ten goals in 31 games, though this was not enough to save the club from relegation out of the Third Division. Graham Barnett advised him to reject John Rudge's offer of a two-year contract, and Bright was consequently sold to Leicester City for £33,333 in June 1984. This fee was later doubled due to a top-up clause. Bright turned down a contract offer from Sheffield Wednesday manager Howard Wilkinson as he had already promised Leicester manager Gordon Milne he would sign for Leicester.\nBright's contract with Leicester ran for three years and earned him £300-a-week, nearly tripling his Port Vale wages, as well giving him a £10,000 signing-on bonus. The \"Foxes\" struggled in the lower half of the First Division table in the 1984–85 season and Bright was limited to 18 appearances and spent most of his time on the bench as Gary Lineker and Alan Smith were the club's established strike partnership. Lineker finished as the First Division's top-scorer, but was sold to Everton in summer 1985, leaving Bright with an opportunity to establish himself in the starting eleven at Filbert Street. Bright opened the 1985–86 season by scoring two goals in a 3–1 home win over Everton. However, he struggled to match this performance for the rest of the campaign and lost confidence, which was worsened when a section of the Leicester crowd turned on him with racially aggravated abuse. \n\nAt a low point in his career, he was diagnosed with depression after seeking treatment for sleeping problems. Milne was moved upstairs at Leicester at the start of the 1986–87 season to become the club's general manager and Bright was not rated by new manager Bryan Hamilton. Bright turned down the offer of a move to Brian Horton's Hull City, as he did not want to move too far north, although took Horton's advice to ask Leicester for a move as the club were not willing to let Bright reach 50 club appearances and so trigger another top-up payment to Port Vale.\n\nBright was signed to Crystal Palace by manager Steve Coppell for a £75,000 fee in November 1986. The initial contract was only a temporary three-month deal as there were medical concerns with his Osteitis pubis, meaning that if he was unfit at the end of this period he would be returned to Leicester. However, he went on to sign a permanent contract after completing the trial period. Palace already had a successful strike partnership in Ian Wright and Andy Gray, though Coppell moved Gray into central midfield to accommodate Bright up front. The \"Eagles\" were pressing for promotion out of the Second Division, but finished two points outside the play-offs in 1986–87. Bright was named on the PFA Team of the Year and earned the Golden Boot for the highest scorer in the division in 1987–88 with 24 goals, although the club finished one place and two points outside of the play-offs. A third-place finish in 1988–89 secured them a place in the play-offs and Bright scored in the semi-final victory over Swindon Town, which helped Palace to reach the play-off final; Palace then beat Blackburn Rovers 4–3 on aggregate to win promotion to the top-flight.\n\nPalace competed well in the First Division, except for the trip to Anfield where they were beaten by a club-record 9–0 margin by Liverpool, an experience Bright described as \"numbing\". He ended the 1989–90 season with 12 league goals, including a brace against Manchester United at Old Trafford, helping the team to finish five points above the relegation zone. The club's greatest achievement would come in the FA Cup however, as they gained revenge on Liverpool by beating them 4–3 after extra-time in the semi-finals at Villa Park to secure a place in the 1990 FA Cup final, with Bright scoring the first of Palace's four goals. The club's first ever FA Cup final appearance, they held Manchester United to a replay after an initial 3–3 draw at Wembley Stadium, but lost the replay 1–0 to a late Lee Martin goal as Alex Ferguson won his first trophy as Manchester United manager. Bright was particularly disappointed as he felt he had not performed in the original game. One consolation for Bright was that he was named as Crystal Palace's Player of The Year for the 1989–90 season.\n\nAs Palace impressed in the First Division throughout 1990–91, Bright proved his predatory skills at the highest level with a sequence of seven top-flight goals in just ten midwinter games as the \"Eagles\" secured their highest ever league finish of third. The potency of Bright and Wright's partnership was demonstrated on 25 September, when both players scored hat-tricks in an 8–0 win over Southend United at Selhurst Park in the League Cup. Palace went on to win the Full Members' Cup, beating Bristol Rovers, Brighton & Hove Albion, Luton Town, Norwich City and then Everton in the Wembley final, with Wright scoring a brace in extra-time. After Wright had left the club, Bright continued his great form for Palace and hit a total of 22 goals in the 1991–92 season. However, Coppell failed to adequately replace Wright, and Marco Gabbiadini was bought and sold on within the space of four months for a loss of £600,000. Bright scored on the opening day of the 1992–93 season, the start of the newly created Premier League, before being sold on to Sheffield Wednesday.\n\nBright joined Sheffield Wednesday in September 1992 in a cash plus player exchange deal involving fellow striker Paul Williams that was rated at a total transfer value of £1,375,000. The Wednesday players were experienced and at the peak of their careers; manager Trevor Francis was eager to win trophies at Hillsborough and felt Bright would prove a good partner to club stalwart David Hirst, particularly with the highly talented Chris Waddle in midfield. After scoring six goals in the League Cup, Bright played in the League Cup final, which ended in a 2–1 defeat to Arsenal. Wednesday also reached the final of the FA Cup, where they would again face Arsenal, with Bright scoring an extra-time header against derby rivals Sheffield United to secure victory in the semi-finals. The final proved to be a disappointment however, as he controversially elbowed Arsenal defender Andy Linighan in the face, causing a broken nose. Later, with the scores level in the last minute of extra time, a heavily bandaged Linighan out-jumped Bright from a corner to score the winning goal. After the game, Bright phoned Linighan to apologise.\n\nBright finished as the club's top-scorer for three consecutive seasons, eventually became the \"Owls\" highest goalscorer in the Premier League as of December 2019, scoring 48 goals between 1992 and 1996. With 19 goals, he was the Premier League's seventh-highest scorer in 1993–94. He then hit 13 goals in the 1994–95 season, in Francis's last season in charge. He signed a new two-year contract in summer 1995, having rejected an approach from West Ham United manager Harry Redknapp. Wednesday then finished 15th in the league in 1995–96 under the stewardship of David Pleat, with Bright scoring 14 goals in all competitions despite playing a complete league game only 15 times. Pleat paid £2.7 million for Huddersfield Town forward Andy Booth in July 1996, signalling the end of Bright's time at Hillsborough. Having been almost entirely frozen out of the first-team during the 1996–97 season, Bright was loaned to South London derby rivals Millwall in the Second Division and scored on his debut for the \"Lions\" in a 1–1 draw at Bournemouth.\n\nBright began training with Swiss club Sion in January 1997. He left soon after due to unpaid wages and issues with his transfer fee with Sheffield Wednesday. Despite being unwanted at Leicester, the club still demanded a transfer fee of £60,000, which Sion chairman Christian Constantin refused to pay, which meant that Bright trained with the squad at Stade Tourbillon but was unable to feature in any competitive games. Despite this, he enjoyed his time training under manager Alberto Bigon and alongside Roberto Assis, the elder brother and later agent of Ronaldinho.\n\nBright eventually signed with Charlton Athletic in March 1997 on a contract to run until the end of the 1996–97 season. After two substitute appearances, he scored a brace in his first start for the \"Addicks\", in a 2–1 win over Portsmouth at The Valley on 19 April. Manager Alan Curbishley was keen on experienced players to bolster his young squad, therefore signed Bright to a one-year deal in the summer. He scored seven goals in the 1997–98 campaign to help Charlton to a fourth-place finish in the First Division and a place in the play-offs. Charlton overcame Ipswich Town in the semi-finals and then beat Sunderland in the play-off final, which was won 7–6 on penalties after a 4–4 draw; Bright started the final, although did not take a penalty in the shoot-out as he was taken off in extra-time. He then agreed a new one-year contract, accepting a role mainly as a squad player and experienced pro for the younger players to learn from. Charlton failed to survive in the Premier League however, and Bright retired from professional football at the end of the 1998–99 season. Bright wrote in his autobiography that he earned a total of £1.2 million from his 18-year career as a professional player.\n\nAfter retiring, Bright became a football correspondent on \"The Big Breakfast\" and co-presented \"The Wright Bright Show\" with former teammate Ian Wright on BBC Radio 5 Live. He also commentates on some international matches, often alongside Jonathan Pearce and Steve Wilson on \"Match of the Day\". He has worked as a sports correspondent for the BBC on \"BBC London News\", \"Football Focus\", \"Fighting Talk\", \"5 live Sport\", and on \"Final Score\". He has also provided punditry for \"Match\" magazine and British Eurosport. In summer 2009, he joined the Crystal Palace academy set-up, along with his former teammate John Salako. He was inducted into the City of Stoke-on-Trent Hall of Fame in 2019. He published his autobiography, \"My Story - from foster care to footballer\", in November 2019.\n\nHe met British singer and actress Michelle Gayle in 1995 and the couple married in Las Vegas the following year. They divorced in 2007, although they remain as friends. Their son, Isaiah, was born in April 2000. Bright has completed six half marathons since his retirement in 1999, all of them in the Great North Run. He is also a regular competitor in the London Marathon, raising funds for cancer research in 2000, the Willow Foundation in 2005 and The Rhys Daniels Trust in 2006.\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199585", "title": "Tom Manley (footballer)", "text": "Tom Manley (footballer)\n\nThomas Ronald Manley (7 October 1912 – 4 July 1988) was an English professional football Utility player who made over 300 appearances in the Football League for Manchester United and Brentford. He later managed hometown club Northwich Victoria.\n\nManley began his career with junior clubs Brunner Mond and Norley United, before joining Cheshire County League club Northwich Victoria in 1929. He remained at Drill Field until September 1930.\n\nManley was brought to First Division club Manchester United by scout Louis Rocca on an amateur basis in September 1930. At the end of the 1930–31 season, after the club's relegation to the Second Division, he signed a professional contract. Manley broke into the team over the course of the 1932–33 and 1933–34 seasons and scored 15 goals in United's 1935–36 Second Division title-winning campaign. After suffering relegation straight back to the Second Division at the end of the 1936–37 season, he helped the team to an immediate return to the top-flight one season later. 1938–39 was Manley's final season at Old Trafford and he finished his Manchester United career having made 195 appearances and scored 41 goals. Predominantly an outside left, he also performed the role of a Utility player at Old Trafford by also playing in half and full back positions.\n\nManley joined First Division club Brentford for a \"substantial fee\" in August 1939 and was immediately named captain. Just three matches of the 1939–40 season were played before the season was abandoned and competitive football was suspended for the duration of the Second World War. Manley's duties with the RAF meant that he appeared sparingly for the club during the war, making just 36 appearances and scoring six goals by the end of the 1945–46 season. Competitive football resumed for the 1946–47 season and Manley would go on to make 122 appearances and scored 8 goals for the club before making his final appearance in September 1950. He remained as Griffin Park as a reserve team player for the 1951–52 season (playing one match as a goalkeeper) before retiring at age 39 in May 1952. Manley was awarded a joint-testimonial with Ted Gaskell versus a Tommy Lawton XI in April 1954.\n\nManley managed Cheshire County League club Northwich Victoria, with whom he began his career as a player, between March and October 1954.\n\nManley served in the RAF during the Second World War. After his retirement from football, he became the licensee of a pub in Northwich.\n\nManchester United\n"}
{"id": "2199587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199587", "title": "Herbert McCabe", "text": "Herbert McCabe\n\nHerbert John Ignatius McCabe (2 August 192628 June 2001) was an English-born Irish Dominican priest, theologian and philosopher. \n\nHerbert McCabe was born in Middlesbrough in the North Riding of Yorkshire. He studied chemistry at Manchester University, but influenced by Dorothy Emmet switched to philosophy. He contributed a number of pieces to \"Humanitas\", and became friends with Eric John among others. \n\nMcCabe joined the Dominicans in 1949, where under Victor White he began his lifelong study of the works of Thomas Aquinas. Born John Ignatius McCabe, his novice master, Columba Ryan, gave McCabe the religious name \"Herbert\", perhaps ironically, in honour of Saint Herbert of Derwentwater, a seventh-century Lakeland hermit. Ordained in 1955, was a pastor in Newcastle for three years before being assigned as chaplain to De La Salle College, where one of his pupils was Terry Eagleton.\n\nIn 1965, he was sent to Cambridge as editor of the journal \"New Blackfriars\" in 1965 but was removed in 1967 following a now-famous editorial in that journal in which he criticised the theologian Charles Davis for having left the Catholic Church. Davis left publicly, denouncing the church as corrupt. McCabe countered that of course the Church was corrupt but that this was no reason to leave it. He was reinstated three years later, and began his editorial that month in characteristically combative style: \"As I was saying, before I was so oddly interrupted...\" He spent many years teaching at Blackfriars, Oxford University, writing four books, \"The New Creation\", a study of the Sacraments, in 1964; \"Law, Love and Language\", on the centrality of language in ethics, in 1968; \"The Teaching of the Catholic Church\", a short catechism, in 1986; \"God Matters\" in 1987; and \"God Still Matters\", a collection of his articles, in 2002. He was a member of the \"Slant\" group, and combined a commitment to the thought of Aquinas and Wittgenstein with a socialist political stance.\n\nMcCabe's sermons were carefully prepared and delivered with great intelligence and wit. A major theme was a caution against making God a god, of reducing the Creator to an object within this world, and thus committing idolatry. In 1974 McCabe became an Irish citizen.\n\nTerry Eagleton attributed to his friend McCabe the view that 'If you don't love, you're dead, and if you do, they'll kill you.' \nMcCabe died at Oxford on 28 June 2001, and was buried at Wolvercote Cemetery on 5 July. His memorial service included a Spanish revolutionary song sung by his blue-denimed, wild bearded, 80-year-old brother Bernard, a Joyce expert.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199590", "title": "Radivoj Korać", "text": "Radivoj Korać\n\nRadivoj Korać (; 5 November 1938 – 2 June 1969) was a Serbian and Yugoslav professional basketball player. He represented the Yugoslavia national basketball team internationally. Korać is well known for holding the EuroLeague's all-time single-game scoring record (since 1958), at 99 points scored, in a game versus Alviks, during the 1964–65 season, and for once making 100 out of 100 free throws on a live television show in Belgium.\n\nKorać died in a car crash in 1969, at the age of 30, and FIBA Europe later established the European-wide third-tier level FIBA Radivoj Korać Cup, in his remembrance, in 1971. Korać was named one of FIBA's 50 Greatest Players in 1991. In 2002, the Basketball Federation of FR Yugoslavia named its top national domestic cup competition, the Radivoj Korać Cup, after him. He was enshrined into the FIBA Hall of Fame in 2007, and was named one of the 50 Greatest EuroLeague Contributors the following year.\n\nKorać was born in Sombor, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. He started playing for OKK Beograd, at the age of 16, and played as a left-handed forward-center. Popularly nicknamed, Žućko ('Ginger'), he became one of the best, if not the best, player of the Yugoslav First Federal League in the 1960s. In 1960, Korać was named The Best Athlete of Yugoslavia, and Yugoslav Sportsman of the Year. He was the best scorer of the Yugoslav First Federal League for seven seasons, which was a record. He scored a total of 5,185 points, in 169 games played in the Yugoslav League, for a career scoring average of 30.7 points per game. Korać once scored 74 points in a Yugoslav League game. \n\nWith OKK Beograd, he won four Yugoslav League titles. Korać also played in multiple FIBA European Champions' Cup (EuroLeague) competitions with OKK Beograd. Korać was named a part of the best European selection, in both 1964 and 1965. In a two-game playoff series against Swedish League champions Alviks, during the 1964–65 season of the FIBA European Champions' Cup (EuroLeague), he scored 170 points. He scored 71 points in the first game of the series, and 99 points in the second game of the series, for a series scoring average of 85 points per game.\n\nKorać was also the best scorer in the Belgian League in 1968, while playing with Standard Liège, and the Italian League's best scorer in 1969, while playing with Padova.\n\nKorać entered into the senior Yugoslavian national basketball team in 1958, and went on to win five silver medals, and one bronze medal with them, in a total of 157 international games. He was the EuroBasket's Top Scorer 4 times (1959, 1961, 1963, 1965), and was named the MVP of EuroBasket 1961. He also won the silver medal at both the 1963 FIBA World Championship, and the 1967 FIBA World Championship. \n\nHe was the Top Scorer of the 1960 Summer Olympic Games, and he won the silver medal at the 1968 Summer Olympic Games. With Yugoslavia's senior men's national team, he scored 3,153 points in 157 games played, for a scoring average of 20.1 points per game.\n\nAway from the basketball court, Korać enjoyed theatre, music, and reading books. He was a senior undergraduate, from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering (ETF), at the University of Belgrade. Surprisingly, he once turned down a contract offer to play with Red Star Belgrade.\n\nOn Monday 2 June 1969, Korać died in a car crash, just outside of Sarajevo, on the road between Vogošća and Semizovac. The Yugoslav Basketball Federation decided that no basketball games would be played in Yugoslavia, on the 2nd of June again. He is interred in the Alley of Distinguished Citizens in the Belgrade New Cemetery.\n\nIn 1971, FIBA Europe established the FIBA Radivoj Korać Cup. After the third-tier level European-wide Cup folded in the year 2002, the Basketball Federation of FR Yugoslavia renamed its national domestic cup competition to \"Kup Radivoja Koraća\", a name it still carries today in Serbia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199597", "title": "Jimmy Turnbull", "text": "Jimmy Turnbull\n\nJimmy Turnbull (born 23 May 1884) was a Scottish footballer, who played as a forward, most notably for Manchester United, with whom he won the Football League and the FA Community Shield in 1908 and the FA Cup in 1909. Turnbull is the first player to net a hat-trick in a Community Shield game.\n\nHe played for Scottish clubs Dundee, Falkirk and Rangers, before signing for Preston North End and later the now dissolved Leyton. In May 1907 he was bought by Manchester United, where he won a league title, an FA Cup and the Community Shield. He scored a total of 45 goals in 78 games for the club, with his best season being 1908–09, in which he scored 22 times in 28 appearances in all competitions. Turnbull was sold to Bradford Park Avenue in September 1910.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199608", "title": "Sheffield and Rotherham Railway", "text": "Sheffield and Rotherham Railway\n\nThe Sheffield and Rotherham Railway was a short railway in England, between Sheffield and Rotherham and the first in the two towns.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century, when news broke of the building of the North Midland Railway, it was clear that George Stephenson would follow the gentle gradient of the Rivers Rother and Don, bypassing Sheffield. Stephenson known for his railway building techniques never built lines with gradients higher than 1 in 130. Despite representations by Sheffield people, who engaged Joseph Locke to state their case, and from Charles Vignoles and George Hudson to convince Stephenson to bring the NMR to Sheffield, the NMR was built via the Rother valley, to the east of Sheffield.\n\nMuch work had already been done in surveying the land between Rotherham and Sheffield with plans being put forward for a canal linking Tinsley to Sheffield earlier in the century. This was originally planned to follow a route to the north of the River Don to a basin in (or near) Saville Street. Plans were changed when it was realised that this route would preclude coal from the Duke of Norfolk's estate from directly reaching the waterway, and a new route to the south of the river used. The railway was aligned approximately north-northeast so that it also followed a gentle gradient, making use of the same route as was planned for the canal.\n\nThe act for the incorporation of the company received the Royal assent on 4 July 1836, authorising a capital of £100,000 and the facility to raise a loan of a further £30,000. A second act was obtained on 23 March 1840.\n\nThe first director was George Wilton Chambers, a coal master. Its secretary was Thomas Pearson, a civil engineer and also a coal master. The engineers were John Stephenson (not known to be a relation of George) who introduced scientific methods into earthwork construction and the excavation of deep cuttings, and Isaac Dodds whose \"talent for invention was highly respected in his day\" Superintending the construction was Frederick Swanwick, a pupil of George Stephenson, who was nominally engineering chief.\n\nFrom Wicker Station in Sheffield the line proceeded to the first stopping place at Grimesthorpe Bridge. It then followed the River Don to the next stop at Holmes then a short lived station called Blackburn Forge (closed 1839), then passing close to Masbrough where the North Midland Railway would later cross it. The line then crossed the River Don arriving at Westgate Station in Rotherham.\n\nThe whole line was just over 5 miles more or less straight, with gentle gradients apart from a one in 68 section just before Rotherham. There were 13 bridges, six level crossings and five footpath crossings.\n\nThe track was laid to the standard gauge of , since it would meet the North Midland Railway, and used fish bellied rail at about 50 lb. to the yard, on stone blocks or plain larch sleepers.\n\nAlthough earthworks were unfinished and the second track had not been laid, the railway opened on 31 October 1838.\n\nThe first train, on 31 October, transported Earl Fitzwilliam and guests to Rotherham. A celebration breakfast followed by the obligatory speeches were held at the Court House. The Rotherham proprietors used the return train to Sheffield. On the following day, 1 November 1838, came the public opening. The first train was pulled by \"Victory\" and consisted of six yellow and black carriages, holding 300 passengers. The line's trackside, trees and bridge were filled with crowds who'd turned up for the event. \"Victory\" travelled to Rotherham in 17 minutes. Locomotive \"London\" was the next one to travel to Rotherham and followed 2 minutes later. The first returning train met locomotive \"Leeds\" at Meadow Hall.\n\nThe number of passengers in the first year was double that which had been predicted when the line was put before Parliament. Advertised fares were 1s first class, 9d second and 6d third class. No tips were allowed, and neither was smoking in the station.\n\nPassenger trains were usually of three carriages, and made the journey in about 20 minutes, including two intermediate stops. Departures from Wicker were timetabled at 8 am, 9 am, 10 am, 12 noon, 2 pm, 4 pm and 6 pm (plus a departure at 7 pm on Mondays) and 8.30 am, 9.30 am, 10.30 am, 2.30 pm, 4.30 pm and 6.30 pm from Rotherham.\n\nThe North Midland Railway opened in 1840, crossing the S&R near Masbrough. A branch was built to link the railway to the North Midland in a northerly direction from Sheffield at Rotherham Masborough station. A path to the south was installed in 1869.\n\nOn 7 August 1839 the railway opened a branch from its main line at Holmes to the head of the Greasbrough Canal, where it connected with the colliery wagonways of Earl Fitzwilliam. The facilities at Greasbrough were rather primitive and were felt to be the cause for poor results on coal traffic operations. At a meeting of shareholders on 15 February 1840, were discussed arrangements for working after the North Midland Railway opened later in the year. It was hoped that traffic would increase and so the decision to build a booking office at Wicker station as well as a locomotive depot was taken. The decision to allow NMR stock to work throughout the S&R was taken in April 1840, avoiding the need to change train at Masbrough.\n\nThe line from Leeds opened on 1 July 1840, and a corresponding service with trains form Sheffield was established. The first train from Leeds was scheduled to arrive at Masbrough 0945, but the train from Sheffield saw no sign of the Leeds train. Having left at 8 am, it arrived at 1030 due to weather conditions. The Sheffield portion of the train was attached at the back of the Leeds train, and it then progressed south. The train arrived in Derby at 1.15 pm. Popular railway travel for citizens of Sheffield arrived on Monday 28 September 1840 when the NMR ran a half-price excursion to Leeds. On the first day this operation, 61 carriages were pulled by 5 locomotives.\n\nNMR fares from Derby to Sheffield were 11s first class and 7s second class. The S&R dispensed with second class altogether. Locomotive \"Sheffield\" was chosen to pull one carriage on the full line. It departed on 11 April and was expected to arrive in Birmingham on 13 April. The train's only passengers were Mr and Mrs Vickers, who were joined by George Stephenson and Michael Longridge in Derby. The London & Birmingham Railway obviously had a great sense of humour as they fined the Sheffield & Rotherham £10 for running over L&B lines without a fourteen-day notice.\n\nNevertheless, as Whishaw put it: \"Before the introduction of railways, a journey from London to this place was attended with considerable fatigue, and occupied the best part of twenty-four hours; whereas, by the united efforts of four private companies, Sheffield is now within little more than an eight hours' easy drive of the metropolis.\" \n\nAmong the first of the duties which fell to Isaac Dodds was designing the railway's first engine \"The Cutler\". While up to that time, locomotive boilers had been fastened rigidly to the frames, Dodds fastened it at the front only, allowing for movement with expansion at the firebox end. Whether this locomotive was built by him, or whether the railway itself built any, is unclear, though Dodds left in 1842 to set up in business on his own. Certainly, at that time, demand may have been outstripping supply.\n\nOne engine, the 2-2-2 \"Agilis\" was supplied in 1839 by Fenton, Murray and Jackson, who provided another \"Rotherham\", built under subcontract by Bingley and Company of Leeds. Another, the \"Sheffield\", said to be the first to have been built in that city, was provided in 1840 by Davy Brothers. This was a six-wheeled locomotive to design of a Mr. William Vickers. The 5 ft 6 inch drivers were connected to the other wheel by four-inch belts which provided traction on all wheels. It was later, it is believed, converted to a conventional pattern.\n\nBy 1840 the line owned six locomotives, all six-wheeled, with one or more supplied by Robert Stephenson and Company.\n\nAlthough services began with three classes of carriage, the second class was soon discarded. The first class consisted of the usual three compartments each holding six people and had Losh's patent wheels. The third class coaches apart from two were enclosed and held about 40 passengers, probably standing, and had the usual cast-iron wheels. Apart from one sheep truck, all the goods wagons belonged to Earl Fitzwilliam the coal owner.\n\nEconomic stagnation in 1841 and 1842 meant that the S&R saw little profit the following years. In January 1843, the line's only intermediate station, Grimesthorpe Bridge closed. By February 1844 the S&R had decided that expansion regardless of cost was the only way to protect itself. A start was made in 1847 by the construction of a small connecting line with the Sheffield, Ashton-under-Lyne and Manchester Railway (SA&MR) at Bridgehouses. This short steeply graded line, enclosed within a tunnel for almost its entire length was known locally as the \"Fiery Jack\". The company’s half-yearly meeting held in August 1844 was a messy affair. The exact date at which the meeting was to be held was not known, and no agenda had been established. Accusations of share trafficking were made. The recession faded away in 1843 and the Great Midland Amalgamation Bill passed parliament on 10 May 1844, creating the Midland Railway. In September, the S&R began negotiations with the MR for either sale or lease of its railway to the MR. Terms were agreed upon quickly, and the MR started operations on 10 October 1844. The title of S&R existed on paper until the takeover was finally authorised by an Act on 21 July 1845. In 1870 the Midland built a line from Chesterfield through Sheffield via the Bradway Tunnel, which rejoined the old line at Masbrough. The majority of the line is still in use today.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199610", "title": "Subtext (programming language)", "text": "Subtext (programming language)\n\nSubtext is a moderately visual programming language and environment, for writing application software. It is an experimental, research attempt to develop a new programming model, called Example Centric Programming, by treating copied blocks as first class prototypes, for program structure. It uses live text, similar to what occurs in spreadsheets as users update cells, for frequent feedback. It is intended to eventually be developed enough to become a practical language for daily use. It is planned to be open software; the license is not yet determined.\n\nSubtext was created by Jonathan Edwards who submitted a paper on the language to OOPSLA. It was accepted as part of the 2005 conference.\n\nEarly video previews of the Subtext environment were released circa 2006, which demonstrated the semantics of Subtext programs, and the close integration with the Subtex environment and runtime.\n\nSubtext programs are declared and manipulated (or mutated) by adding and linking elements of various types to a syntax tree, and entering in values or names as necessary, as opposed to typing out textual programs. Due to the design of the Subtext language and environment, there is no distinction between a program's representation and its execution. Like spreadsheets, Subtext programs are live executions within an environment and runtime, and programming is direct manipulation of these executions via a graphical environment. Unlike typical functional programming languages, Subtext has simple semantics and is easily applicable to reactive systems that require mutable state, I/O, and concurrency, under a model known as \"Reactive Programming\". Console input (\"invocations\") can be utilized via data flow within a Subtext program, allowing users to manipulate values interactively.\n\nA continuation and subset of the Subtext language using other principles, is Coherence, an experimental programming language and environment, which uses a new model of change-driven computation called \"Coherent reaction\", to coordinate the effects and side-effects of programs interactively as they are being developed. The language is specialized for interactive application software, and is being designed by the creator of Subtext, Jonathan Edwards, who reports upon its development by publishing white papers.\n\nState changes trigger events called reactions, that in turn change other states. A coherent execution order is one in which each reaction executes before any others that are affected by its changes. A coherent order is discovered iteratively by detecting incoherencies as they occur and backtracking their effects. The fundamental building block of Coherence is the dynamically typed mutable tree. The fundamental abstraction mechanism is the virtual tree, whose value is lazily computed, and whose behavior is generated by coherent reactions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199627", "title": "Dual role", "text": "Dual role\n\nA dual role (also known as a double role) refers to one actor playing two roles in a single production. Dual roles (or a larger number of roles for an actor) may be deliberately written into a script, or may instead be a choice made during production, often due to a low budget. In film and television, dual roles are often used for comic effect, or to depict identical twins. In a theatrical production where more than one actor plays multiple characters, it is sometimes referred to as an \"Ironman\" cast. Can also be spelled dule, ask LB.\n\nIn theatre, the use of multiple roles may be budget-related, may be intended to give an accomplished actor more stage time or a greater challenge, or may be of thematic significance to the story. The combination of factors leading to such a decision may often remain unknown. For example, debate exists over the significance of William Shakespeare's use of dual roles, with a notable example being whether the characters of Cordelia and the Fool in \"King Lear\" were intended to be one and the same, or whether the mysterious Third Murderer in \"Macbeth\" is actually Macbeth himself.\n\nMore recent examples include:\n\n\n\"The Prisoner of Zenda\", based on a book about a lookalike who assumes the identity of a king, includes a dual role that has been played by Lewis Stone (1922 version), Ronald Colman (1937 version), Stewart Granger (1952 version), and Peter Sellers (1979 version).\n\nAn early and unusual example of double casting was the 1925 silent film \"Lady of the Night\", in which two women were portrayed by Norma Shearer to spotlight their very different social classes, and nobody took any notice of their identical appearance.\n\nIn \"The Wizard of Oz\" (1939), the actors who played the Tin Man, the Cowardly Lion, and the Scarecrow also played farmhands in scenes set in Kansas. Margaret Hamilton played both the roles of Miss Gulch and the Wicked Witch of the West, and Frank Morgan played multiple characters in addition to the title role of the Wizard.\n\nLee Marvin won an Academy Award for Best Actor for a dual role in \"Cat Ballou\" (1965), and Nicolas Cage was nominated for Best Actor for a dual role in \"Adaptation\" (2002).\n\nJean-Claude Van Damme played a dual role in several movies: \"Double Impact\" in 1991, \"Replicant\" in 2001.\n\nHayley Mills played a dual role in \"The Parent Trap\", as did Lindsay Lohan in the 1998 remake.\n\nIn some low-budget films, actors have been cast in more than one role to save money. For example, in one of Peter Jackson's early films, \"Bad Taste\", Jackson played two characters; in one scene, one of them tortures the other.\n\nMultiple casting has been used for comic effect in film, with notable examples that include:\n\nParticularly in comedies, multiple casting has often included the casting of an actor as multiple members of the same family. For example:\n\nPrior to Bollywood, the first double role in Indian cinema was played by Ashok Kumar in his film \"Kismet\" in 1943. Later on several veterans like Dev Anand played double role in film Hum Dono 1961, Dharmendra in Izzat (1968),Yakeen(1969), Rajesh Khanna in film Sachha Jhutha (1970). Tamil film actor M. N. Nambiar played eleven parts in the early 1950s film \"Digambara Samiyar\", as a sage using nine disguises to defeat an evil lawyer.\n\nTelugu actor N.T.Rama Rao portrayed multiple characters in many of his films which also includes Mythlogical films from the 60s, He's known for playing Karna , Duryodhana and krishna in the famous film Daana veera soora karna, And his performance as identical twins in the film Ramudu Bheemudu (1964).\n\nStarting in the 1970s, having a living double in a Bollywood film became \"almost a genre in itself,\" according to filmmaker Govind Nihalani. The first double role in Bollywood, played by Amitabh Bachchan, was in the film \"Bandhe Haath\" in 1973. \"Angoor\" (1982) featured two pairs of identical twins, played by Sanjeev Kumar and Deven Verma.\n\nKamal Hassan had ten roles in the 2008 film \"Dasavathaaram (The Ten Avatars)\". Sivaji Ganesan played nine roles in the Tamil film \"Navarathiri\". Priyanka Chopra played the roles of twelve eligible girls in the movie \"What's Your Raashee?\", and Mehmood Ali portrayed three generations of the Kapoor family (Prithviraj, Raj, and Randhir) in the movie \"Humjoli\"\n\nIn television, soap operas have commonly used the technique to either portray twins (or even similar looking relatives), or to bring an actor back whose character has been killed. In primetime television, since at least the 1960s, dual roles have been the basis or a key element in several comedies and dramas:\n\n\nDual casting has also been used as a stunt or gimmick in episodes of ongoing shows, often to create a one-time or recurring \"evil twin\" character as a counterpart for one or more of the lead characters:\n\n"}
{"id": "2199633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199633", "title": "Massimo Ellul", "text": "Massimo Ellul\n\nMassimo Ellul is a Maltese businessman and active in the voluntary organisational field.\n\nEllul is the chief executive of a group of companies in the marketing and management consultancy field operating in Malta, Manchester, Edinburgh, Sicily and Dubai, He specialised his studies in marketing and management in Malta, the UK and the US and is an alumnus of the Judge Business School of the University of Cambridge. He was also an elected official of the Executive Committee of the European Forum for Urban Security under the aegis of the Council of Europe and represents Malta in the European Disability Forum and the European Union of Supported Employment. In Scotland, Dr. Ellul was very much involved with the Friends of Rosslyn [Chapel], and has lectured extensively in the region. He was admitted as Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Marketors of the City of London and in 2005 was granted the Freedom of the City of London. \n\nHe is a published author in Malta, the US and the UK on subjects varying from medieval and modern history to social independent living. Some of his books have been translated into other languages, including Russian and Hungarian. \n\nHe occupied various posts in the Malta Labour Party, including Secretary of the Youth Commission, International Secretary of the Young Socialists, President of the Young Students' Movement, Assistant General Secretary and Assistant Education Secretary of the Malta Labour Party.\nThroughout his political career, he chaired a number of important party committees and was responsible for extensive mass events in Malta. He was a Parliamentary Candidate for the Malta general elections of 1996 and 1998.,\n\nIn 2002, he was appointed as Chancellor of the Grand Priory of the Mediterranean of the Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of Jerusalem and is the Chairman of the Saint Lazarus Foundation. In 2008, he was appointed as the Grand Chancellor of the Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of Jerusalem. Ellul was elected as the Honorary Secretary of the Malta Federation of Organizations and Persons with Disability (MFOPD) and Vice President of the Malta Association of Supported Employment. \nMassimo Ellul was also the Chairman of the annual Malta International Folk Festival, and sits on/consults the board of directors of various firms and organisations in Malta, England, Scotland, Sicily and Dubai. In Malta, his management firm was instrumental in projecting a number of innovative firsts, including the management and promotion of international arena bands on the island, exporting and managing Maltese talent, the promotion of live music and the innovative use of marketing tools such as billboarding. His firm has been solicited on various occasions to give marketing and management consultancy services to a number of government ministries and entities in regions as diverse as Malta, Dubai, Al Ain, Hungary, Slovenia, the Sultanate of Oman, the United Kingdom and others. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and a Companion of the Institute of Sales & Marketing Management, amongst other international institutions.\n"}
{"id": "2199635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199635", "title": "Archie Samuel", "text": "Archie Samuel\n\nArchie Peyton Samuel (July 26, 1866 – January 26, 1875) was the half brother of American outlaws Frank James and Jesse James.\n\nBorn in 1866, he was the last child born to Zeralda James Samuel and her third husband Dr. Reuben Samuel. He had three siblings from the same parents, Sarah Ellen (born 1858), John Thomas (born 1861) and Fanny Quantrill (born 1863).\n\nHe also had 5 half-siblings, from his father's side, and possibly a sixth one Perry Samuel born of a slave, and on his mother's side Frank James (born 1841), Robert B. James (born and died in 1845), Jesse James (born 1847) and Susan Lavenia James (born 1849).\n\nArchie had a hard time growing up, his elder half-brothers Frank and Jesse were always in trouble with the law, so the Samuel farm was often ransacked. Archie may also have had an intellectual disability.\n\nOn January 26, 1875 detectives hoping to track down Frank and Jesse surrounded the farm, they threw a smoke bomb through the window, Archie believed the bomb was a log, so he threw it into the fire, it exploded, killing him instantly and wounding his mother.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199637", "title": "Siku (comics)", "text": "Siku (comics)\n\nSiku is the pseudonym of British/Nigerian artist and writer Ajibayo Akinsiku, best known for his work in \"2000 AD\".\n\nSiku studied design and printing at the Yaba's School of Art, and theology at the London School of Theology.\n\nSiku's fully painted work (particularly on \"Judge Dredd\" and the \"Pan-African Judges\" stories) has been appearing in \"2000 AD\" and the \"Judge Dredd Megazine\" since 1991.\n\nSiku also works in the computer games industry and as a freelance illustrator and artist.\n\nHis latest work is \"\", an adaptation of Today's New International Version of the Holy Bible into manga format.\n\nComics work includes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199640", "title": "Andrew Landeryou", "text": "Andrew Landeryou\n\nAndrew John Clyde Landeryou (born c. 1969-70) is a former Australian political blogger. He is the husband of Victorian Senator Kimberley Kitching.\n\nLanderyou is the son of Bill Landeryou, a former Leader of the Opposition and then the Government in the Victorian Legislative Council and a minister in the Australian Labor Party Victorian state government of John Cain. Andrew Landeryou was active in the Labor Party, and particularly the Labor Right faction. He was elected as President of Melbourne University Student Union, taking office in January 1991. A referendum of union members removed him after five months when he proposed commercialising the union's services. He then became managing director of IQ Corporation, a sports statistics company, which was invested in by Solomon Lew until it went into liquidation in 2003. He was also a co-owner of Marbain, a company with a contract with MUSU. After he failed to answer a court summons in December 2004, Landeryou spent five months in Costa Rica. In May 2005, he was arrested on his return to Australia and required to attend at a liquidator's examination of the affairs of MUSU. Landeryou was declared bankrupt by the Federal Magistrates Court in May 2006.\n\nIn 2005, Landeryou established a weblog commenting on Australian party politics called \"The Other Cheek – Andrew Landeryou's Blog of Freedom\". Lucy Saunders, a political activist linked to the Socialist Left who had been criticised by Landeryou, wrote on ABC News Online that \"The overwhelming majority of what Landeryou prints is vague rumour, personal vendettas and outright fiction. Very occasionally, though, some actual facts sneak through.\"\n\nHe clashed with another political blogger, Stephen Mayne, in 2006 when they accused each other of being spivs.\n\nAfter \"The Other Cheek\" was deleted in 2008, Landeryou launched the short-lived tabloid website \"VEXNEWS\", which closed in 2013. Andrew Bolt from the Herald Sun referred to Landeryou as \"always entertaining\" and \"often compelling,\" while The Age newspaper described the site as \"dirt-dishing\".\n\n\"VEXNEWS\" broke a story revealing AFL footballer Brendan Fevola's attack on a Melbourne journalist. Landeryou also broke a story drawing on Liberal party sources when he revealed that the authors of an anti-Ted Baillieu website were employees of Baillieu's own party.\n\nOther front-page stories prompted by Landeryou include a Fairfax story about Australian politicians sanitising their Wikipedia articles and a story about a Christian Family First candidate who had exposed himself in photographs. Landeryou declared him 'Australia's smallest loser', an epithet repeated by MSNBC's Keith Olbermann when he covered the story for US cable news.\n\nLanderyou was arrested along with two other men in St Kilda at 2.40am on the morning of the 2016 federal election, with police stating that they seized box cutters from the car the men were travelling in. They were charged over an alleged vandalism spree in the Melbourne electorate of Labor MP Michael Danby.\n\nAt the time, Bill Shorten said “anyone in an election who is conducting vandalism deserves to have the book thrown at them”. Victorian Nationals senator Bridget McKenzie told the Federal Parliament that the four men had been arrested “for allegedly vandalising Greens and Liberal polling material at multiple polling stations from Elwood to Port Melbourne” and “allegedly driving at volunteers who tried to stop them”. Landeryou was reportedly charged with five counts of damaging and five counts of stealing rival Liberal and Greens campaign advertising material. On 28 April 2017 he pleaded guilty to the charges. Magistrate Ann Collins ordered Landeryou and his co-accused David Boutros-Asmar, George Droutsas and Dean Sherrif to pay $1,000 to the court and told them \"You acted more like schoolboys than like adults\". They were ordered to write letters of apology to people whose signs they had taken down and letters of gratitude to prosecutors who had recommended them for the court diversion program, which allows people to avoid convictions for minor crimes if they take responsibility for them.\n\nIn 2018, Landeryou purchased the domain name davidlangsam.com, and used it to portray David Langsam – a journalist who edits \"Biotech Daily\" – as \"some kind of Rene Rivkin-style tout pitching stocks without a financial services licence\". Langsam, who does not offer stock tips, successfully applied for an interim intervention order against Landeryou in the Melbourne Magistrate's Court, which prohibits Landeryou from contacting him, approaching him, or writing about him. The two parties then reached an out-of-court settlement where Landeryou agreed to turn the domain over to Langsam.\n"}
{"id": "2199641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199641", "title": "Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies", "text": "Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies (AIATSIS), established as the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies (AIAS) in 1964, is an independent Australian Government statutory authority. It is a collecting, publishing and research institute and is considered to be Australia's premier resource for information about the cultures and societies of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. The Institute is a leader in ethical research and the handling of culturally sensitive material and holds in its collections many unique and irreplaceable items of cultural, historical and spiritual significance. The collection at AIATSIS has been built through over 50 years of research and engagement with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities and is now a source of language and culture revitalisation, native title research and family and community history. AIATSIS is located on Acton Peninsula in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory.\n\nIn the late 1950s, there was an increasing focus on the global need for anthropological research into 'disappearing cultures'. This trend was also emerging in Australia in the work of researchers of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, leading to a proposal by W.C. Wentworth MP for the conception of an Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies (AIAS) in 1959.\n\nThe proposal was made as a submission to Cabinet, and argued for a more comprehensive approach by the Australian Government to the recording of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and cultures.\n\nIn 1960, a Cabinet sub-committee assessed the proposal and formed a working party at the Australian National University (ANU) to consider the viability of the proposal. One of their first actions was to appoint W.E.H. Stanner to organise a conference on the state of Aboriginal Studies in Australia, to be held in 1961 at the ANU.\n\nAcademics and anthropologists in the field of Aboriginal Studies attended the conference, and contributed research papers published in a conference report in 1963. No Aboriginal people were present at the conference.\n\nThe Prime Minister, Robert Menzies appointed an Interim Council in 1961. The role of the Interim Council was to plan for a national Aboriginal research organisation and establish how this organisation would interact with existing research and scientific bodies. The Interim Council was also tasked with immediately developing a programme that would identify and address urgent research needs.\n\nThe Interim Council consisted of 16 members and was chaired by Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the ANU, Professor AD Trendall, officially recognised as the first Chair of the institute now known as AIATSIS.\n\nIn August 1962, a draft constitution for the institute was submitted to the Menzies government, and rejected. The Interim Council completed a revised constitution in July 1963. Amendments to the document included the change from the title 'director' to 'principal' of the institute.\n\nThis version of the constitution would go on to form the basis for the creation of the new Australian Institute for Aboriginal Studies the following year.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies was established as a Statutory authority under an Act of Parliament in June 1964. The mission of the Institute at that time has been described as \"to record language, song, art, material culture, ceremonial life and social structure before those traditions perished in the face of European ways\".\n\nThis notion is also reflected in the Institute’s official functions, as recorded in the Reading of the Bill in Parliament. These were:\n\nAIAS had a twenty-two member Council, composed mainly of academics, and had a foundation membership of one hundred. The founding Principal of the newly formed institute was Frederick McCarthy, a professional anthropologist and graduate of Sydney University who had spent nearly 30 years working in the field.\n\nThe creation of the AIAS provided an opportunity for greater cross-discipline interaction in fields relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander studies in Australia.\n\nThe Institute’s founding principal, Fred McCarthy, was an advocate of film as an important part of research methodology as early as his tenure as curator of anthropology at the Australian Museum in Sydney in the 1940s. This was evident in the contributions he made during his involvement in establishing the AIAS and also as its principal, in continuing to support the development of the AIAS Film Unit and championing ethnographic film in global forums.\n\nIn the early years of the AIAS, the Film Unit largely outsourced early filmmaking work to other companies, or worked in collaboration with the Commonwealth Film Unit (as early as 1962). But over the next 30 years, the Film Unit would go on to produce \"one of the largest assembly of ethnographic films created in the world\".\n\nIn keeping with the AIAS official function \"to publish and to support the publication of the results of research\", a publishing arm of the Institute was established in 1964. Publishing under the name Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the publishing arm released a range of papers and research findings, including in the fields of linguistics, demography, physical anthropology, history and musicology.\n\nThe early work of the AIAS is credited with increasing interaction between academics in different fields, as well as establishing the foundations for the extensive collections AIATSIS holds today. But before 1970, there had never been an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander member on the AIAS Council.\n\n\"Money and other resources are in short supply for Aboriginal control of their livelihood, but not, it seems, for discussing it.\" – Eaglehawk and Crow letter, 29 March 1974The 1970s marked a period of change for the AIAS. This began with the appointment of the first Aboriginal member of the AIAS Council in 1970. Phillip Roberts, an Alawa man, served on the Council from September 1970 until June 1972.\n\nThis was followed in 1971 with a second Aboriginal Council member, Senator Neville Bonner, who served on Council until 1974 and for a second term in the late 1970s. And again in 1972, with the appointment of Dick Roughsey to replace Phillip Roberts at the end of his term.\n\nThe appointment of Phillip Roberts to the Council reflected a growing pressure for an increase in Aboriginal representation within the Institute. But the move did not allay the belief held by some Aboriginal activists that the AIAS was engaging in 'tokenism' in the extent to which Aboriginal people were involved in the administration of Aboriginal Studies.\n\nThe changes to the Institute that would take place in the following decade were also influenced by the shifting social and political landscape in Australia. The Aboriginal rights movement was growing and Aboriginal people were demanding a voice on Council, consultation with communities and an increased focus on projects relevant to the needs of Indigenous people.\n\nIn 1972, the Whitlam government was elected. Their policy of Self-determination for Aboriginal people echoed calls for greater Aboriginal involvement in the administration and functions of the AIAS. The new government was also responsible for a significant boost to AIAS funding.\n\nThe appointment of Peter Ucko in 1972 as Principal of the AIAS has since been described as the beginning of an increase in involvement of Aboriginal people in the workings of the Institute.\n\nIn his time as Principal, Ucko was responsible for implementing a policy later labelled \"Aboriginalisation\", which was aimed at opening up the Institute to Aboriginal involvement and representation. This policy was influenced by a document circulated in 1974, called the Eaglehawk and Crow letter, which criticised the current model of academic research. The letter asserted that anthropologists \"should not pretend that their studies are objective when the overwhelming factor in the lives of Aborigines is our oppression by the society of which the anthropologist is, to a greater or lesser extent, a part of.\" Its authors called for increased participation of Aboriginal people in the running of the Institute and for greater control over commissioning and funding of research into their cultures.\n\nThe policy and structural changes to the Institute continued throughout the 1970s.\n\nThe Aboriginal Advisory Committee was established in 1975, and consisted of the six Aboriginal members of the AIAS Council. Early recommendations including increased representation of Aboriginal people on committees and the AIAS Council as well as employment at the Institute. The committee was renamed in 1978, to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Advisory Committee.\n\nIn 1975–1976, a category of research grants for Aboriginal researchers was introduced. The emergence of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people filling the role of 'cultural practitioner', travelling to the AIAS to provide advice on projects and research being undertaken, was also documented from around 1976 onwards.\n\nThe time Peter Ucko spent as Principal of the AIAS saw a phase of \"rapid expansion\" for the Institute.\n\nThe AIAS Film Unit that had operated in Sydney until 1973 was re-established in Canberra in 1975. Prominent American-born ethnographic filmmaker David MacDougall was appointed as the Director of this new AIAS Film Unit. With his wife and filmmaking partner Judith, and Kim McKenzie, the Film Unit operated until 1988 when its functions were absorbed back into the Institute.\n\nDuring the MacDougall/McKenzie era, a new style of ethnographic film was explored. One that moved away from film as a scientific record in favour of telling the story of individuals lives. The filmmakers also practised a more collaborative approach to their films, and chose to use translations and subtitles to give direct access to the subjects voice and thoughts rather than the dominant 'voice of god' narration style.\n\nOne of the most notable films produced towards the end of this period was \"Waiting for Harry\", a prize-winning film directed by Kim McKenzie with anthropologist Les Hiatt and now considered to exemplify the \"style of collaborative filmmaking\" the Film Unit favoured in their work.\n\nThe power of film to \"influence opinion\" was becoming increasingly recognised and with this, the lack of representation of Aboriginal people telling their own stories. In 1978, a meeting chaired by prominent activist and academic Marcia Langton expressed these concerns, arguing for greater access to film and video in Aboriginal communities, and training in film production by the AIAS.\n\nBy the following year, the AIAS Film Unit had begun to implement a training program and had started employing trainee Aboriginal filmmakers on productions by the early 1980s.\n\nThe AIAS began presenting a biennial Wentworth Lecture in 1978, named as a tribute to W.C. Wentworth for his role in establishing the Institute. The lecture is presented by prominent person with knowledge or experience relating to issues affecting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in Australia today.\n\nThe expansion of the Institute continued into the 1980s. The Aboriginal Studies Press began publishing the Australian Aboriginal Studies Journal in 1983, a peer-reviewed journal aimed at \"promoting high-quality research in Australian Indigenous studies\".\n\nIn 1982, the AIAS established a task force that identified the prevailing need for further 'Aboriginalisation' of the Institute’s workforce. At the time, there were four Aboriginal staff members, making up around 7% of the total staff. This was followed in 1985 with the creation of the role of Aboriginal Studies Coordination Officer within the AIAS, whose responsibilities involved improving access for Aboriginal people to the research and resources of the Institute.\n\nThe 'After 200 Years' project was launched in 1985, aiming to fill some of the gaps in the AIAS photographic collection; particularly images of daily life in the southern, urban parts of Australia. Aboriginal involvement in selecting subject matter, photographing and documenting the collection was a major part of the project. The three-year project culminated in the publication of a book containing hundreds of photographs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, and selected by them to represent their community.\n\nThe Rock Art Protection Program (RAPP) commenced in 1986 following a request for such an initiative by the then Minister of Aboriginal Affairs Clyde Holding. The aim of the RAPP was to protect Australian Indigenous rock art. Grants were approved by the Institute to fund various projects related to rock art protection.\n\nThe collections were also expanding, and by 1987 the AIATSIS library encompassed the print collections, a special Bibliographic Section and the Resource Centre (which contained the Institute’s audiovisual materials).\n\nBetween 1987 and 1989, the survival of the AIAS as an independent statutory body was tied to a proposal for a new statutory commission that would take over all aspects of the Aboriginal Affairs portfolio. This commission would become the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC), conceived in an Act of Parliament in 1989. The AIAS would not be folded into this commission; instead it would be recreated under a new Act with a new name.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies (AIATSIS) Act was passed by parliament in 1989, replacing the AIAS Act. The newly established AIATSIS had a reduced Council consisting of nine members, with the AIATSIS Act specifying that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people hold a minimum of five of these Council positions.\n\nThe new Act also established a Research Advisory Committee, to assess research applications and advise the Council.\n\nThe Aboriginal Studies Press published their best-selling Aboriginal Australia map in 1996, based on research conducted for the Encyclopaedia of Aboriginal Australia.\n\nIn 2001, the Institute launched a two-year Library Digitisation Pilot Program (LDPP). Among the items digitised, catalogued and made available online were 267 volumes of the Dawn and New Dawn magazines held in the AIATSIS collection. AIATSIS also distributed over 2000 free copies of these magazines on CD-Rom, to Indigenous organisations, schools and libraries in New South Wales.\n\nThroughout this period, AIATSIS continued to undertake projects focused on the digitisation of collection materials, including their holdings of the complete back catalogue of Koori Mail. This involved scanning over 35,000 pages from 500 editions of the newspaper, with searchable copies launched on the AIATSIS website in partnership with Koori Mail in 2011.\n\nAs part of their research functions, AIATSIS also initiated a number of public programs and research related events during this time that are still run today. The Institute has convened the National Indigenous Studies Conference every two years since 2001 and the National Native Title Conference every year since 2002.\n\nThe 'After 200 Years' photographic project was revisited in 2014 with an exhibition of images at Parliament House, to coincide with AIATSIS' 50-year anniversary.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies Act 1989 is a Commonwealth Act of Parliament that establishes the purpose and functions of AIATSIS.\n\nThe main functions of AIATSIS under the Act are:\n\nThe AIATSIS Act 1989 also established a Research Advisory Committee and sets out the framework for the AIATSIS Council; specifying the number of members and the minimum representation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander members on Council.\n\nOther legislation that governs the operations of AIATSIS are the \"Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013\" and the \"Public Service Act 1999\".\n\nThe Minister for Education and Training is responsible for the Institute, as AIATSIS is part of the portfolio of the Department of Education and Training.\n\nThe AIATSIS Council is a governing body designed to oversee and steer the functions and direction of the Institute. The role and responsibilities of the Council are mandated in the AIATSIS Act 1989 and detailed in the AIATSIS Council Charter.\n\nThe Council consists of nine members, four are elected by the Institute's membership and five appointed by the Minister.\n\nAccording to the AIATSIS Act 1989, one person appointed by the Minister must be a Torres Strait Islander and the four other people appointed by the Minister must be Aboriginal persons or Torres Strait Islanders. The four Council members elected by the Institute’s membership must be members themselves.\n\nCurrent AIATSIS Council Chairperson:\n\nThe first Aboriginal Chairperson of AIATSIS Council:\n\nThe first Aboriginal woman to be Chairperson of AIATSIS Council:\n\nThe Research Advisory Committee (RAC) is responsible for assessing and advising on AIATSIS research projects and programs, including research grants.\n\nThe functions of the Research Advisory Committee are established in the AIATSIS Act, 1989. They are:\n\nThere are twelve members of the RAC. Three Council members are appointed by the Council and eight members of the Institute are elected by the members. The final RAC member is the AIATSIS Principal.\n\nThe Research Ethics Committee (REC) is responsible for advising AIATSIS on the ethics of the research proposals by staff or grantees of AIATSIS, as well as research carried out through the Institute’s external collaborations.\n\nThe roles in the Research Ethics Committee are based on guidelines published by the National Health and Medical Research Council. There are eight members appointed by the AIATSIS Council, with at least four being Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander people, as follows:\n\n\nThe functions of the REC are governed by the AIATSIS Research Ethics Committee Charter.\n\nThe Native Title Research Advisory Committee (NTRAC) was established by the AIATSIS Council to oversee the work of the Native Title Research Unit and provide advice to the AIATSIS Principal.\n\nThere are ten members of the NTRAC, held by people fulfilling the following criteria:\n\n\nThe NTRAC shares oversight of the quality, independence and ethical research of the Native Title Research Unit with the AIATSIS Council and the Research Ethics Committee.\n\nThe Publishing Advisory Committee (PAC) is responsible for making recommendations to the AIATSIS Principal on the selection of manuscripts for publication by the Aboriginal Studies Press.\n\nManuscripts are first submitted to and read by Aboriginal Studies Press staff and are then subject to peer review by scholars and professionals before being assessed by the PAC.\n\nThe PAC members contribute the following range of skills: academic credentials; Indigenous community and language knowledge; and writing and publishing expertise.\n\nThe Indigenous Caucus is a working group within AIATSIS providing a forum for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander staff to meet and discuss workplace issues. The Caucus also provides advice to the AIATSIS Principal, as well as the broader Institute and its Committees.\n\nCaucus also has representatives on the AIATSIS Consultative Committee, a forum for staff and management of the Institute to discuss issues.\n\nThe Indigenous Caucus was revitalised in 2003–2004 and contributed to the development of policies and procedures in that year, notably AIATSIS' Indigenous Training and Career Development Plan.\n\nIn 2013, the Indigenous Caucus developed a formal Service Charter and elected an Executive consisting of three members.\n\nThe AIATSIS Act sets the organisation the task of conducting, facilitating and promoting research in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies and training Indigenous researchers. For over 50 years, AIATSIS has conducted research across a range of areas of study relevant to Indigenous peoples, culture, heritage, knowledge and experiences. This has led to a diverse research history; from languages and archaeological research, land rights and political engagement to contemporary topics in health and commerce.\n\nThe AIATSIS collections not only contain priceless records of Australia’s Indigenous cultural heritage, but provide a significant national and international research infrastructure for research by, for and about Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.\n\nAIATSIS is one of Australia’s Publicly Funded Research Agencies, alongside organisations such as CSIRO and the Australian Institute of Marine Science. AIATSIS is Australia's only non-science PFRA.\n\nCurrently AIATSIS undertakes research in six priority areas.\n\n\nAIATSIS publishes the Guidelines for Ethical Research in Australian Indigenous Studies (referred to as GERAIS), a document considered to be the leading ethics guidelines for conducting research in and with Indigenous communities in Australia.\n\nThe guidelines consist of 14 principles. These principles broadly fit under the following themes:\n\n\nThe GERAIS document is required reading for researchers applying for Ethical Clearance for research sponsored by AIATSIS. However, the guidelines are also intended by AIATSIS to inform all research in the field of Indigenous studies.\n\nOriginally published by AIATSIS in 2000, the latest version of the GERAIS document was published in 2012. This update was made to reflect legal and technological developments that had occurred since original publication. In particular, in the area of intellectual property and the rights of Indigenous people in their traditional knowledge and cultural expressions as well as progress in digitisation technologies and data and information management.\n\nThese changes reflect AIATSIS' support for the importance of research projects involving appropriate ethical conduct and rights protection for both the way data is collected during research and the findings and materials generated through that research.\n\nThe GERAIS document is the first point of reference in the ethical review process researchers must undergo before AIATSIS will sponsor a research project. All research projects are reviewed by the Research Ethics Committee for approval, using the following project documents:\n\n\nIn 2013, AIATSIS was involved in the review of two National Health and Medical Research Council research ethics guidelines relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health research.\n\nAIATSIS began undertaking Native Title research activities through the Native Title Research Unit in 1993, following the 1992 Mabo v Queensland High Court decision. Native Title research at AIATSIS is primarily funded through the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet but research has also been conducted in partnership with other departments and organisations including the Australian National University, the Australian Conservation Foundation and the Federal Court of Australia.\n\nThe Native Title Research Advisory Committee, the Research Advisory Committee and the AIATSIS Council oversee the work conducted in Native Title and traditional ownership research at AIATSIS.\n\nAIATSIS conducts a range of research projects relating to Native Title and traditional ownership, including Native Title and cultural heritage, Native Title and fresh and sea water, and Prescribed Body Corporates.\n\nThe role of Native Title research at AIATSIS is to monitor outcomes of Native Title and through research and study, provide advice on Native Title policy development. The Institute publishes a range of materials relating to Native Title including books, discussion papers, research reports and a Native Title Newsletter.\n\nAIATSIS also provides a Native Title Research and Access Officer, who is responsible for assisting Native Title claimants to access materials from the AIATSIS collections in support of their claim.\n\nAIATSIS also contributes to Native Title policy and research by co-organising the Annual National Native Title Conference.\n\nAIATSIS publishes a number of resources for anyone wishing to undertake research into their own family history.\n\nThe \"Family History kit\" is aimed at providing the basics for tracing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander heritage. It contains guides to AIATSIS' own resources, including the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Biographical Index (ABI) and digitised collection materials, as well as guides to external resources that may help with family history research.\n\nGeneral guidance is also provided regarding research resources specific to Indigenous family history research, historical name conventions and usage and confirmation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander heritage.\n\nAIATSIS also provides research support to Link-Up case workers and researchers around Australia, who are assisting members of the Stolen Generations to reconnect with their family and heritage.\n\nAIATSIS is the only Commonwealth institution responsible for collecting and maintaining materials documenting the oral and visual traditions and histories of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. The Institute identifies its collection as a \"keeping place for culturally significant objects\" that is \"a resource for anybody looking to improve their knowledge of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander history and culture\". The Institute's holdings represent thousands of years of history and more than 500 Australian Indigenous languages, dialects and groups. This collection supports, and is a result of, research in the fields of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies.\n\nAn independent assessment in 2014 confirmed that AIATSIS holds over 6 million feet of film, over 40,000 hours of audio, 12,800 unpublished manuscripts and record series, 653,000 photographs, and 120,000 print and published materials (3,000 of which are rare books) among other miscellanea.\n\nThere are a number of items within the AIATSIS collection that have been both nationally and internationally recognised as significant:\n\nThe Audiovisual Archives also holds copies of the first audio recorded in Australia; a series of ethnographic wax cylinder recordings made in the Torres Strait Islands in 1898. The Cambridge Anthropological Expedition to the Torres Strait, led by Alfred Cort Haddon, recorded songs and speech from Mer/Murray Island, Mabuiag/Jervis Island, Saibai Island, Tudu Island and Iama/Yam Island.\n\nThe AIATSIS collection is housed and managed through the Library and the Audiovisual Archive, and is broadly categorised into the following groups:\n\nArt and artefact: a collection of items including ritual objects, folk art, children’s art and modern or 'high art' and span from the late 19th century to the present day. This sub-collection comprises around 600 artworks and 500 artefacts, acquired either as a result of AIATSIS-sponsored field research or through donation or purchase.\n\nBooks and printed material: a collection of books, pamphlets, serials including magazines and government reports, reference publications such as dictionaries and other published material. This sub-collection holds over 175,680 titles, including 16,000 books and 3740 serials consisting of 34,000 individual issues and is used to support research, especially in Native Title cases and Link-Up services for members of the Stolen Generations.\n\nFilm: a collection of historical ethnographic films, documentaries and other published film and video titles, consisting of over 8 million feet of film and 4000 videos. Many of the films in the collection were produced by the AIAS Film Unit, which operated between 1961 and 1991.\n\nManuscripts and rare books: a collection of more than 11,700 manuscripts, 2,600 rare books dating from 1766, 2,200 rare pamphlets and 1,700 rare serial titles consisting of 14,650 issues held in secure, environmentally controlled storage. Items are included in this classification on the basis of their age, rarity, value or sensitivity of the content for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Among these items are the Sorry Books and the WEH Stanner papers.\n\nPictorial: this collection contains roughly 650,000 photographs that date from modern day as far back as the late 1800s, and more than 90% of images in the pictorial collection are unique to AIATSIS, making it the most comprehensive record of its kind relating to Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.\n\nSound: a collection of many unique and unpublished sound recordings totalling approximately 40,000 hours of audio. The recordings represent a breadth of cultural and historical information including languages, ceremonies, music, oral histories and interviews with participants in significant events such as the 1965 Freedom Rides and Prime Minister Kevin Rudd’s Apology to the Stolen Generations.\n\nSince the establishment of the Institute in 1964, the AIATSIS collection has been developed through acquisition by donation, gift and purchase or, through materials created and collected during the work of ethnographic field researchers and filmmakers funded by the AIATSIS grants program. The collection has also been built through deposits of materials, an arrangement which permits the original owners to assign access and use conditions appropriate to the cultural information contained in the items.\n\nAIATSIS' approach to collection building is based on three primary criteria:\n\nOnce material has been acquired by AIATSIS, the Institute faces the challenges of maintaining a cultural resource collection. This is achieved through a collection management plan that involves processes of recording and cataloguing, and appropriate storage and handling to extend the life of physical items and preserving their content through format shifting.\n\nPreservation of physical items in the collection is achieved in two key ways:\n\nThere are a wide variety of analogue photograph, tape and film formats held in the AIATSIS collection, which pose special preservation and future access risks. The age of some of these formats and materials, combined with the varying conditions in which they were stored prior to their acquisition by AIATSIS, heightens the deterioration of the media. Another preservation issue inherent in these analogue materials is the machines that can play back that particular format, as in some cases the material and the playback device are no longer manufactured. To manage these risks and maintain future access to the collection, preservation of the actual content contained in collection items is also achieved through a program of digitisation.Due to the potential issues of long-term archiving and storage of digital items, the opposite process is often employed to ensure access and preservation. In the case of digital publications and manuscripts, the originals will often be printed and incorporated into the print collections as an additional preservation measure.\n\nThe AIATSIS collection holds material that is sensitive and/or secret/sacred to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. In accordance with its founding Act, and as part of their collection management plan, AIATSIS adheres to strict protocols when handling and processing these sensitive items. The Institute also supports and adheres to the protocols developed by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Library, Information and Resource Network (ATSILIRN). Restricted visual media such as photographs and printed items are stored separately to the rest of the collection and audio and moving image items are not played until any cultural requirements are checked. Restricted material must also be carefully handled during digitisation, which means that the work is carried out in secured conditions such as enclosed booths and by staff that can meet the protocols of the item being digitised.\nAIATSIS launched its Library Digitisation Pilot Program in 2001, before which the Library had no dedicated digitisation equipment or policies for managing digital materials. This two-year program was originally funded by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC), and involved the creation of digital collections across the institution.\n\nSince then AIATSIS has continued to incorporate digitisation of the collection into its management plan, but have publicly stated that an increase in funding is required for the Institute to digitise some of the at risk formats held in the collection before those items are lost.\n\nGiven these limitations, AIATSIS prioritises the selection of materials for digitisation using factors including significance of the item/s, the level of deterioration, cultural protocols, copyright status, and client demand. One of the identified priorities of the program is to digitise and preserve all of the audiovisual collection currently on endangered magnetic tape formats by the 2025 deadline set by UNESCO.\n\nThe collection is housed in the AIATSIS building on Acton Peninsula and is accessible through a number of resources. The AIATSIS Library is open to the public and holds a range of printed materials including manuscripts, journals, readers in different Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages, dictionaries, published books and rare books, maps, and posters.\n\nAccess to AIATSIS' print and manuscript collections can be made through the Library's Stanner Reading Room and the film, sound and pictorial collections by appointment through the Access Unit. These physical access points are open limited hours.\n\nThe AIATSIS Digitisation Program contributes to increased access to the collection; whether access is through on site resources, the provision of copies of materials or the sharing of the collection online. Due to increasing obsolescence of analogue formats, AIATSIS identifies digitisation as the way to preserve those items for future generations to access. This is considered to be particularly important for facilitating \"remote access by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities\" as well as for access by researchers and the general public.\n\nThe AIATSIS Access Unit runs a program called Return of Material to Indigenous Communities (ROMTIC), through which Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander clients are provided with up to twenty copies of collection materials that relate to their language group or family. This service is limited to items that have been preserved, so AIATSIS' digitisation program has allowed an increasing number of digital items available to ROMTIC clients.\n\nAIATSIS also makes the collection available through a series of online exhibitions and digitised collection material published on their website. These showcase different themes or discrete collections of material, including:\n\n\nAccess to the AIATSIS collection is also dictated by legislation governing the Institute and in some instances by legal agreements outlining the terms under which collection materials can be used.\n\nThe terms for access to the AIATSIS collection are in the first instance set by the AIATSIS Act, Section 41. This section states:\n1. \"Where information or other matter has been deposited with the Institute under conditions of restricted access, the Institute or the Council shall not disclose that information or other matter except in accordance with those conditions.\n\n2. The Institute or the Council shall not disclose information or other matter held by it (including information or other matter covered by subsection (1)) if that disclosure would be inconsistent with the views or sensitivities of relevant Aboriginal persons or Torres Strait Islanders.\"\nThe conditions referred to in Section 41(1) of the AIATSIS Act are usually covered in the agreement that AIATSIS enters into when material is deposited. These agreements, along with the section 41(2) of the Act, can govern the way that unpublished material can be accessed and used.\n\nAccess to and use of material in the AIATSIS collection is also subject to the terms set out in the Copyright Act (1968).\n\nWhen a donation or deposit is being made, AIATSIS requests to be made aware of any sensitive items included in the material. The secret or sacred nature of information contained in many collection items is an important factor in access to the AIATSIS collection. To protect items of high cultural sensitivity and reflect appropriate cultural values, access to items that contain culturally sensitive information are restricted to groups or individuals who have the permission of the relevant Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander community and the depositor if restrictions have been applied by them.\n\nAIATSIS also acknowledges the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and in particular Article 31's recognition of the right of Indigenous people to \"maintain, control, protect and develop their cultural heritage, traditional knowledge and traditional cultural expressions.\"\n\nIn response to these complex issues AIATSIS developed an overarching Access and Use Policy in 2014, to \"manage legal and cultural rights over material while maximising accessibility\".\n\nSince its inception, AIATSIS has developed and maintained a range of resources to enhance discoverability of the collection.\n\nOne of the most significant of these resources is the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Biographical Index (ABI). The ABI had its beginnings in 1979 as a non-selective biographical register of names, constructed using information on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people from published material in the collection. In the early years of the biographical register, it was hoped it could \"provide an important record of the achievements of Aboriginal people, and be a source of pride for generations to come\".\n\nToday the index continues to be updated, now containing over 70,000 records and searchable online through AIATSIS' collection catalogue.\n\nOther resources available on site include the Perfect Pictures Database, which contains over 140,000 digitised images from the AIATSIS Photographic Collection. This database is added to as more images are digitised and only includes images that are free of secret/sacred access restrictions.\n\nAIATSIS also hosts or contributes to a number of online resources, aimed at facilitating access to and understanding of the collection. These include:\n\n\nIn keeping with its mandated functions, AIATSIS publishes the results of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies through their publishing arm, Aboriginal Studies Press (ASP). The Institute began publishing in 1962 with \"A demographic survey of the Aboriginal population of the Northern Territory, with special reference to Bathurst Island Mission\". This and other early publications were released under the imprint Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the former title of AIATSIS. The ASP publishing imprint was trademarked in 2002, but was operating as the publishing arm of AIATSIS as early as the publication of Helen Ross' \"Just For Living\" in 1987.\n\nThe AIATSIS Research Publications became an imprint in 2011 and its stated purpose is to publish scholarly research that is derived from the AIATSIS Research Program. Along with the Research program, ASP also publishes the Australian Aboriginal Studies (AAS) journal. All Aboriginal Studies Press-branded titles are peer-reviewed and the majority are published concurrently in print and several ebook formats. The first phone app was published in 2013, and was shortlisted for the 2013 Mobile Awards.\n\nTitles published by ASP have included research reports, monographs, biographies, autobiographies, family and community histories, and children’s books. Since 2005 the list has aligned more closely with the Institute’s research focus. Most publications derive from academic research, some funded by AIATSIS. ASP publishes books by both Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and non-Indigenous authors who are writing in the field of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies. In some cases Aboriginal authors, like Doreen Kartinyeri and Joan Martin, have chosen to write in collaboration with non-Aboriginal oral historians.\n\n\"Cleared Out\" (2005) won two WA Premier’s Book Awards and inspired the multi-award-winning documentary film, \"Contact\". The creation of both the book and film reflect strong family and community engagement.\n\n\"The Little Red Yellow Black Book\" (updated 2008, 2012) was shortlisted with its companion website in the Australian Publishers Association Educational Awards, and is a widely recognised as an educational and cross-cultural training resource.\n\nAnother widely used resource published by Aboriginal Studies Press is the Aboriginal Australia map. The Aboriginal Australia map represents the general locations of larger groupings of Aboriginal people, using research that was conducted during the development of \"The Encyclopaedia of Aboriginal Australia\", which was another significant ASP publication. Previous milestone publications included the book \"After 200 Years\", a collaboration showcasing photographs and stories of Aboriginal people as selected by members of those communities. Both books are now out of print and only available in libraries.\n\nASP also publishes the Stanner Award winner for a manuscript by an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander, which recognises the importance of being published to emerging academics. The prize includes mentoring and editorial support by ASP, as well as publication of the manuscript.\n\nThe Publishing Advisory Committee makes recommendations to the AIATSIS Principal and Aboriginal Studies Press about which manuscripts to publish from those submitted.\n\nAboriginal Studies Press has relationships with distributors and resellers for both national and international print and ebook distribution.\n\n\nThe AIATSIS website hosts the AUSTLANG database, an informative source of information on all known Aboriginal Australian languages. With its beginnings on a card file compiled in the 1990s, the Indigenous Languages Database (ILDB) was developed based on the Language Thesaurus maintained by the AIATSIS library since the 1960s. The online version of AUSTLANG was developed in 2005, revised and released to the public in 2008, and after more redevelopment work, a refined version was released in 2018.\n\nAIATSIS hosts a range of special events and research workshops, symposiums and conferences. Yearly and two-early events and conferences include:\n\n\nAIATSIS is located on the Acton Peninsula in a building that was newly built for the Institute and opened in 2001. The building was officially opened by the Honourable W.C. Wentworth and Mr Ken Colbung. As part of the opening the Ngunnawal people, the traditional owners of the land on which the AIATSIS building stands performed a Welcome to Country and smoking ceremony, and the Anbarra people from North Central Arnhem Land performed a friendship ceremony, known as Rom.\n\nThe architect, Howard Ragatt of the firm Ashton Raggatt McDougall designed the building for AIATSIS and for its neighbour on the Acton Peninsula, the National Museum of Australia. The building cost $13.75 million and was funded by the Commonwealth Government’s Centenary of Federation Grants Program.\n\nThe design of the AIATSIS building has been the subject of differing interpretations. The rear of the building has been described as a black copy of pioneer architect Le Corbusier's 1920s Villa Savoye in France. The architect, Howard Raggatt, was quoted as confirming this influence but has also stated that it is designed to be reminiscent of Sidney Nolan's famous paintings of Ned Kelly.\n\nDuring design of the AIATSIS building, it was reoriented from original plans to save two Apple Box trees that were identified as significant to the Peninsula.\n"}
{"id": "2199644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199644", "title": "Zombies (video game)", "text": "Zombies (video game)\n\nZombies is a video game adaptation of the popular tile-based board game by Twilight Creations Inc, publisher of the original game. The game was initially to be developed by Big Rooster for PlayStation Network, Xbox Live Arcade and Windows PCs through Steam, with possible versions for the Wii and the Nintendo DS. However, only Xbox Live Arcade and Windows Phone 7 versions have been confirmed after development of the game was resumed by Babaroga. The Xbox Live Arcade version has never been released.\n\nThe game play of \"Zombies\" is closely modeled on the original board game. Players move their \"shotgun guy\" (player piece) around the board trying to reach the helipad tile to escape the ever-growing zombie horde. Alternately, players can win the game by killing 25 zombies.\n\nThe Windows Phone 7 version of \"Zombies\" uses the touchscreen of the device for all control input. For example, players tap a die graphic to roll for character movement, zombie movement, and combat. Players can use touchscreen gestures to zoom in and out of the board as well as scroll to view different areas of the board.\n\nThe initial Windows Phone 7 release of \"Zombies\" supports single-player as well as multiplayer game play on one device. Human players can play against up to four CPU or human opponents in a \"pass and play\" game. In this style of play, Player 1 takes their turn, then passes the device to Player 2, who takes their turn and passes to Player 3, etc. According to developer Babaroga, on-line multiplayer for \"Zombies\" is in development for a future update to the game which may also include play \"across multiple hardware setups.\"\n\nSingle-player game play in \"Zombies\" is a \"Survival Mode\" in which the \"shotgun guy\" is placed in a randomly generated town full of zombies. The player must move their \"shotgun guy\" to the helipad tile (as in a standard multi-player game) or kill all the zombies in the town in order to win the game.\n\nDevelopment of \"Zombies\" by Big Rooster was originally announced in October 2008.\n\nIn October 2009, videogame news site Joystiq reported that Twilight Creations was looking for another company to develop the game, but could not \"disclose the status of [former developer] Big Rooster.\"\n\nNo further word on the game appeared until Microsoft announced a list of Xbox Live-compatible titles for their Windows Phone 7 platform at Gamescom 2010. Developed by Babaroga, the Windows Phone 7 version of \"Zombies\" was released on 12 January 2011. A version of the game for Xbox Live Arcade has been confirmed and is in active development.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199647", "title": "Page and Plant", "text": "Page and Plant\n\nJimmy Page and Robert Plant, both formerly of the English rock band Led Zeppelin, recorded and toured in the mid-1990s under the title Page and Plant. The pair re-united in 1994 and, after recording a live acoustic album, they embarked on a world tour. They then recorded a second full studio album of original songs, followed by another world tour, before disbanding at the end of 1998. They later briefly reunited in 2001.\n\nThe initial plans for a reunion were made in 1993, with discussions between the two of collaborating emerging from casual small talk and then an invitation to perform on MTV Unplugged. Music producer Bill Curbishley, who had been managing Plant since the 1980s and who assumed management of Page in 1994, was integral in the reuniting of Page and Plant. Despite failed attempts by others to reunite the pair, Curbishley was able to persuade the previously reluctant Plant into working with Page again. In an interview he gave in 2004, Page recounted the background:\n\nPlant's recollection of the reunion was as follows:\n\nLed Zeppelin's main songwriters reformed on April 17, 1994 as a part of the Alexis Korner Memorial Concert at Buxton, England. On August 25 and 26, they taped performances in London, Wales, and Morocco with Egyptian and Moroccan orchestration of several Led Zeppelin tunes along with four new songs. The performances aired on October 12, and were so successful commercially and artistically that the two coordinated a tour which kicked off in February 1995. The Unplugged performance was released as an album in November 1994 as \"\".\n\nPage and Plant toured the world with a line-up including Charlie Jones playing bass and percussion, Michael Lee on drums, Porl Thompson (of The Cure fame) performing guitar and banjo, Najma Akhtar providing backup vocals, Jim Sutherland on mandolin and bodhrán, Nigel Eaton playing hurdy-gurdy, and Ed Shearmur adding Hammond organ with orchestral arrangements. Page:\n\nAfterwards, the two artists entered the studio with engineer Steve Albini to record \"Walking into Clarksdale\", an album composed of entirely new material with more traditional rock enterprises. The album was not as commercially successful as \"Unledded\" had been, and after a supporting tour, the Page/Plant reunion slowly dissolved, with both members going on to perform with other side projects. As Page explained:\nIn an interview he gave to \"Uncut\" magazine in 2005 Plant recounted:\nThey reunited once more in July 2001 for the Montreux Jazz Festival.\n\n\nMartin Meissonnier Preproduction\n"}
{"id": "2199649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199649", "title": "9M113 Konkurs", "text": "9M113 Konkurs\n\nThe 9M113 \"Konkurs (; ; NATO reporting name AT-5 \"Spandrel) is a Soviet SACLOS wire-guided anti-tank missile.\n\nA development of the 9K111 Fagot with greater firepower, the 9M113 Konkurs can use the same launchers and is very similar visually, distinguishable only by a slight bulge towards the end of the Konkurs' missile tube.\n\nThe 9M113 Konkurs was developed by the Tula Machinery Design Bureau (Tula KBP). Development began with the aim of producing the next generation of SACLOS anti-tank missiles, for use in both the man-portable role and the tank destroyer role. The 9M113 Konkurs was developed alongside the 9M111; the missiles use similar technology, differing only in size.\n\nThe original 9M113 with a single-charge warhead can penetrate 600 mm of rolled homogeneous armor (RHA).\n\nThe missile entered service in 1974. Iran bought a license for the Konkurs in 1991 and began producing a copy, the Tosan (not to be confused with the Toophan), sometime around 2000.\n\nThe missile is designed to be fired from vehicles, although it can also be fired from the later models of 9M111 launchers. It is an integral part of the BMP-2, BMD-2 and BRDM-2 vehicles. The missile is stored and carried in a fiberglass container/launch tube.\n\nThe system uses a gas generator to push the missile out of the launch tube. The gas also exits from the rear of the launch tube in a similar manner to a recoilless rifle. The missile leaves the launch tube at 80 meters per second, and is quickly accelerated to 200 meters per second by its solid fuel motor. This initial high speed reduces the missile's deadzone, since it can be launched directly at the target, rather than in an upward arc. In flight, the missile spins at between five and seven revolutions per second.\n\nThe launcher tracks the position of an incandescent infrared bulb on the back of the missile relative to the target and transmits appropriate commands to the missile via a thin wire that trails behind the missile. The system has an alarm that activates when it detects jamming from a system like Shtora. The operator can then take manual control, reducing the missile to MCLOS. The SACLOS guidance system has many benefits over MCLOS. The system's accuracy is quoted in some sources as 90%, though its performance is probably comparable to the BGM-71 TOW or later SACLOS versions of the 9K11 Malyutka.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199657", "title": "Daughters Courageous", "text": "Daughters Courageous\n\nDaughters Courageous is a 1939 American drama film starring John Garfield, Claude Rains, Jeffrey Lynn and featuring the Lane Sisters: Lola Lane, Rosemary Lane and Priscilla Lane. Based on the play \"Fly Away Home\" by Dorothy Bennett and Irving White, the film was directed by Michael Curtiz. It was released by Warner Bros. on June 23, 1939.\n\nFreewheeling Jim Masters returns home after a 20-year absence, during which he was declared dead, to find that his wife, Nancy, is about to marry Sam Sloane, a stable local man in Carmel, California. She must now choose between her ex-husband and her new fiancé. The Masters daughters are also upset that their irresponsible father has re-entered their lives after so long an absence. Meanwhile, the youngest daughter, Buff, is drawn to tough-guy Gabriel Lopez, a man that reminds Jim Masters of himself.\n\n\n\"Daughters Courageous\" follows 1938's \"Four Daughters\", by the same stars and director, but is unrelated to the other three films in the Lane Sisters' series because it is about a different family. However, the storyline of \"Four Daughters\" and the Lemp family is continued in the 1940 film \"Four Wives\", and 1941's \"Four Mothers\".\n\nFrank S. Nugent of \"The New York Times\" called the film \" a thoroughly pleasant entertainment—howbeit reminiscent—with a thoroughly pleasant cast to grace it.\" \"Variety\" wrote: \"Few of the situations can stand up under too close scrutiny, but the flavor of the film as a whole is entertaining, amusing, and occasionally emotional.\" \"Harrison's Reports\" called it \"Good entertainment ... Although it is not as impressive as 'Four Daughters,' it nevertheless holds one's attention well, since one is in sympathy with all the characters.\" \"Film Daily\" called it \"A production with a high voltage of sentimental of romantic appeal\" with a \"super-duper\" cast. John Mosher of \"The New Yorker\" wrote that Garfield added \"a touch of color or adventuresome liveliness\" to help along the story, but found \"a quantity of bungalow patter that wears one down at times\" and \"a slight dullness\" to the picture.\n\nWarner Archive released the film on DVD in August 1, 2011. The film was also released by Warner Archive in the \"Four Daughters Movie Series Collection\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2199659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199659", "title": "Starship (band)", "text": "Starship (band)\n\nStarship is an American rock band. Initially a continuation of Jefferson Starship, it underwent a change in musical direction, the subsequent loss of personnel, and a lawsuit settlement that led to a name change.\n\nIn June 1984, Paul Kantner, the last remaining founding member of Jefferson Airplane, left Jefferson Starship. In October 1984, Kantner took legal action over the Jefferson Starship name against his former bandmates. In March 1985, Kantner settled out of court and signed an agreement that neither party would use the names \"Jefferson\" or \"Airplane\" unless all members of Jefferson Airplane Inc. (Bill Thompson, Paul Kantner, Grace Slick, Jorma Kaukonen, Jack Casady) agreed. The band briefly performed as \"Starship Jefferson\" while legal proceedings occurred, before settling on the shortened name \"Starship\". David Freiberg stayed with the band after the lawsuit and attended the first studio sessions for the next album. He became frustrated with the sessions because all the keyboard work in the studio was being done by Peter Wolf (who had played on the sessions for \"Nuclear Furniture\" and briefly joined the band on the road for the follow-up tour) and that was the instrument Freiberg was supposed to be playing. Freiberg was dismissed from the band in 1985. The next album was finished with the five remaining members, consisting of Slick, co-lead singer Mickey Thomas, guitarist Craig Chaquiço, bassist Pete Sears, and drummer Donny Baldwin. In 1984, Gabriel Katona (who had previously played in Rare Earth and Player) joined the band to play keyboards and saxophone on the road with them through to the end of the 1986 tour.\n\nThe next album, \"Knee Deep in the Hoopla\" was released in September 1985 and scored two number-one hits. The first was \"We Built This City\", written by Bernie Taupin, Martin Page, Dennis Lambert, and Peter Wolf and was engineered by Grammy-winning producer Bill Bottrell and arranged by Bottrell and Jasun Martz; the second was \"Sara\". The album itself reached No. 7, went platinum, and spawned two more singles: \"Tomorrow Doesn't Matter Tonight\" (#26), and \"Before I Go\" (#68). The band had not had a number-one hit record since previous incarnation Jefferson Starship released \"Red Octopus\" in 1975.In 1986, the group recorded \"Cut You Down to Size\" for the film \"Youngblood\". By the time the sessions for \"No Protection\" began, bassist Pete Sears had left the band. Sears went on to play keyboards with former Jefferson Airplane members Jorma Kaukonen and Jack Casady in Hot Tuna for ten years. In early 1987, \"Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now\", recorded while Sears was still with the band, was featured in the film \"Mannequin\" and hit No. 1. At that time, the song made Slick the oldest female vocalist to sing on a number-one \"Billboard\" Hot 100 hit, at the age of 47 (she held this record until Cher broke it at the age of 52, in 1999 with \"Believe\"). \"No Protection\" was released in 1987, and also featured the singles \"It's Not Over ('Til It's Over)\" (#9), and \"Beat Patrol\" (#46). \"Wild Again\" (which reached No. 73 on the \"Billboard\" singles chart) was also used in the film \"Cocktail\". The last song on the album, \"Set the Night to Music\", would later become a hit in 1991, re-recorded as a duet by Roberta Flack and Maxi Priest. Following the completion of the album sessions in 1987, Brett Bloomfield was brought in to replace Sears and Mark Morgan joined the band on keyboards.\n\nSlick left Starship in February 1988, going on to join the reformed Jefferson Airplane for an album and tour in 1989, before announcing that she was retiring from music. As Kantner, Sears and Freiberg had left the band, all the new and remaining members were more than a decade younger than she was. Slick has been quoted as saying that \"old people don't belong on a rock and roll stage\".\n\nWith Thomas the sole lead singer, the revamped lineup released \"Love Among the Cannibals\" in August 1989 and went on another tour to support the album; recruiting backing singers Christina Marie Saxton and Melisa Kary to fill the gap left by Slick's departure. On September 24, 1989, while the band was in Scranton, Pennsylvania for a show, Baldwin and Thomas got into a violent altercation during which Thomas was seriously injured and required facial surgery, and two titanium plates implanted in his skull. Baldwin resigned from the band immediately afterward. The remainder of the tour was postponed until Thomas had recovered and was able to tour again.\n\nAfter Thomas was well enough to tour, the band continued to tour in support of \"Cannibals\". Kenny Stavropoulos was recruited to be the band's new drummer. After the \"Cannibals\" tour wound up in 1990, Chaquico, the last remaining original Jefferson Starship member, handed in his notice. Thomas attributes the comparative lack of commercial success of the last album to the interruption of the tour, among other factors. \"Cannibals\" remains his personal favorite Starship album. Brett Bloomfield, Mark Morgan, and Kenny Stavropoulos also departed the group in 1990. Peter Wolf was added as a member on keyboards at this time. In May 1991, RCA assembled a compilation album, \"Greatest Hits (Ten Years and Change 1979-1991)\". The collection also included two new tracks, \"Don't Lose Any Sleep\" with Thomas and Chaquico (recorded before Chaquico had left) and \"Good Heart\" (#81) featuring Thomas, Wolf, and session musicians. A third track originally recorded during this time period, \"Keys to the City\", was released in October 2012 on the album \"Playlist: The Very Best of Starship\". Shortly after the release of the 1991 greatest hits album, manager Bill Thompson decided to fire the group and told RCA that the band was done making records. The band was let go by RCA. Starship became inactive. \n\nIn early 1992, Thomas revived Starship as \"Mickey Thomas' Starship\" before changing the name to \"Starship featuring Mickey Thomas\", which has toured steadily ever since. Although Thomas has been supplemented by a mostly new cast of performers, bassist Brett Bloomfield did return to the fold for several years. Melisa Kary and Christina Marie Saxton, who had both performed with the group as backing singers on tour in 1989 through 1990, also had stints as full band members in \"Starship featuring Mickey Thomas\". Darrell Verdusco, formerly of KBC Band, has served as drummer since 1995. Keyboard player Phil Bennett also joined in 1995. The band recorded the album \"Live at Stanley Cup\" in 1997. Jeff Adams came aboard on bass in 2000. \n\nIn 2003, \"Starship featuring Mickey Thomas\" released a DVD documentary \"Starship: Greatest & Latest\". The album accompanying this release contained re-recordings by \"Starship featuring Mickey Thomas\" of some of the Starship's biggest hits, songs originally from the period of Thomas's tenure in Jefferson Starship, as well as \"Fooled Around and Fell in Love\", which Thomas sang with the Elvin Bishop Group in 1976. Female vocalist Stephanie Calvert joined the band in 2006. A live album, \"Layin' it on the Line Live in Las Vegas\" was released in 2007. \"Starship featuring Mickey Thomas\" released the non-album single \"Get Out Again\" in 2007. \n\nA new Starship album, \"Loveless Fascination\", produced by Jeff Pilson of Foreigner, was released on September 17, 2013. The band performed at the Streamy Awards on September 8, 2014. The non-album single \"My Woman\" was released in 2016. On February 1, 2019, Rhino Entertainment acquired the rights to the Starship catalog for all the albums released between 1985 and 1991.\n\nFormer Starship trumpet player Max Haskett, who performed with the band from their reformation in 1992 until the following year, died in 1999 as a result of pancreatic cancer. Lead guitarist Erik Torjesen, who performed with the band between 1996 and 2000, died of cancer, aged 34, in 2001. Torjesen's replacement, Mark Abrahamian, died from a heart attack, aged 46, following a concert on September 2, 2012. Abrahamian was replaced as guitarist by John Roth.\n\nCurrent members\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199665", "title": "Fortress (1992 film)", "text": "Fortress (1992 film)\n\nFortress is a 1992 science fiction action film directed by Stuart Gordon and shot at Warner Bros. Movie World in Queensland, Australia. The story takes place in a dystopian future. The main character in the movie, John Henry Brennick (Christopher Lambert) and his wife Karen B. Brennick (Loryn Locklin) are sent to a maximum security prison because they are expecting a second child, which is against strict one-child policies. It was followed by a sequel, \"\" in 2000.\n\nThe film was a financial success, but critical reviews were mixed.\n\nIn a dystopian 2017, ex-army officer John Henry Brennick and his wife Karen are attempting to cross the Canada–United States border to Vancouver to have a second child. Strict one-child policies forbid a second pregnancy, even after their firstborn has died, so Karen wears a magnetic vest to trick the security scanners. A guard notices and raises the alarm.\n\nBrennick is caught, believing Karen to have escaped, and sentenced to 31 years at the Fortress, a private maximum security prison run by the Men-Tel Corporation. To maintain discipline all inmates are implanted with \"Intestinators\" which induce severe pain or death as a form of physical control and mental conditioning. The prison is co-run by Director Poe, who oversees Zed-10, a computer that monitors day-to-day activities. The prison is located underground, in the middle of the desert, inside a deep pit that can only be crossed by a retractable bridge, while the prisoners are kept in overcrowded cells secured by laser walls.\n\nJohn is imprisoned with inmates Abraham, a model prisoner who works as Poe's manservant and is awaiting parole; D-Day, a machine and demolitions expert; Nino Gomez and Stiggs, who tries to extort John. John learns his wife has been captured and is held in another level with his unborn child who, being illegal, is now officially owned by Men-Tel and will be confiscated at birth.\n\nStiggs has a friend, Maddox, who intimidates John and the two are involved in a brawl which culminates with Maddox being shot by a security turret. John manages to grab Maddox's Intestinator and gives it to D-Day before he is taken away to be subjected to a mind-wipe procedure as punishment.\n\nPoe, infatuated with Karen, tells her that if she lives with him he will treat John well and release him from the mind-wipe chamber. She accepts to help John. Poe is revealed to be a cyborg, powerfully enhanced by Men-Tel cybernetics. Four months later, a heavily pregnant Karen manages to use her access to the prison computer in Poe's quarters to help John by restoring him from his mind-wiped state. Karen steals a holographic map and gives it to Abraham to give to John. D-Day dismantles Maddox's Intestinator and uses a magnetic component to pull out the others' Intestinators.\n\nDuring their next work shift John's group puts their Intestinators in an air-duct and stage a brawl, causing Zed to trigger the devices and blow the duct open to prepare their escape. Poe promptly flushes the duct with steam and sends in \"Strike Clones\", networked cyborgs armed with flamethrowers and machine guns. Stiggs surrenders and gets shot dead, but the rest of the group kill a Strike Clone, steal its weapon and use it to kill the remaining clones.\n\nZed alerts Poe of Karen's actions. He reveals to her that her child, like all MenTel-owned babies, will be extracted in a fatal Caesarean to be made a cyborg. Abraham and Karen resist, but are powerless against the cyborg Poe and Abraham dies of strangulation.\nHijacking one of the gun turrets and using it as an elevator, John's group travels to Zed's control room. John takes Poe hostage and orders him to release Karen. Poe gives the order, but Zed refuses the command while stating that MenTel does not engage in any negotiations during hostage situations and a gun turret blasts Poe, blowing him to pieces and leaving John's group with no leverage. Once brought over to the core computer, D-Day hacks into Zed and accesses a powerful virus confiscated at the start of his sentence. D-Day manages to activate the virus after being shot and incapacited, causing a complete systems crash and all automated security to fail. John and Gomez rescue Karen, hijack a truck, and escape to Mexico where Karen enters labor in an abandoned barn and gives birth to her and John's child.\n\nThe original ending of \"Fortress\" has been edited from some versions of the film. After reaching Mexico, Brennick, his wife, and Gomez end up at a barn where she starts going into labor. Gomez goes out to the truck to get a blanket for the soon-to-arrive baby. The Fortress computer manages to establish a remote linkup with the truck, overriding its internal controls. The truck suddenly comes to life and runs Gomez down, killing him. Brennick shoots the truck with the Strike Clone machine gun. He then sets it on fire with the flamethrower attachment. The truck crashes into the barn, exploding. Brennick climbs into the burning ruins to find his wife sitting against an old tractor, clutching her newborn baby.\n\n\nThe film received mixed reviews from critics. Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" said: \"Like so many other futuristic movies, \"Fortress\" is a lot better at setting up its premise than in developing a story around it, [but] for all its faults, [it] has an unusually energetic imagination. At its best, it blends \"RoboCop\", \"The Handmaid's Tale\", and \"Brave New World\" into something scary, original and grimly amusing.\"\n\nNathan Shumate of Cold Fusion Video Reviews said: \"It’s a good little film, kept very interesting by a multitude of plot twists. [...] The beauty of this movie is that it’s not terribly ambitious; [director Stuart] Gordon knew that it was not meant to be this generation’s defining science fiction film, and so instead had fun with it. The characters are colorful and engaging, and the actors are b-movie all-stars; the story moves along at a fair clip; and the prison itself is a novel setting, with plenty of inconsistencies in future technology but none that sit up and insist that you notice them.\"\n\nJames Berardinelli of ReelViews said: \"\"Fortress\" has [...] an impressive visual style, [...] the set design is excellent, and the action scenes are well-paced, [but it's] hampered by a poorly-constructed story line [and] never gets on track. Instead of entering the rarefied atmosphere inhabited by such films as \"Aliens\" and the original \"Terminator\", it falls in line with the likes of \"Freejack\" and \"Alien 3\".\"\n\n\"Fortress\" grossed $2,855,154 at the box office in Australia. Internationally it grossed 40 million dollars, turning into a very profitable movie for having been shot with a budget of $12,000,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199672", "title": "Jack Angel", "text": "Jack Angel\n\nJack Angel (born October 24, 1930) is an American voice actor and former radio personality. He has provided voice-overs for animation and video games. Angel has voiced characters in shows by Hasbro and Hanna-Barbera such as \"Super Friends\", \"The Transformers\" and \"\" and has been involved in numerous productions by DreamWorks, Disney and Disney Pixar. Before becoming involved with voiceover work, Angel was initially a disc jockey for radio stations, namely KMPC and KFI.\n\nAngel was born in Modesto, California, the second child of John Angel, a Greek immigrant, and Lucille (née Parsons). He graduated from San Francisco State University in 1957, and at the same time, he was hired as a disc jockey for a California radio station and decided to focus on a career in radio programs. A decade later, he had become one of the most popular radio personalities with his radio programs being heard on stations KMPC and KFI, Los Angeles. In the early years of his career, he also landed roles in stage productions at The Actor's Ring and the Portland Civic Theater. It was during his broadcasting career that he began experimenting with voiceovers he would produce for clients; while at KMPC, Angel's demo ended up in the hands of Gary Owens, who already had made his own inroads as an animation voiceover actor and forwarded Angel's demo tape to his agent. After almost 20 years in radio, Angel shifted to voice acting on a full-time basis.\nAngel's first jobs in the voice-over industry came in the mid-1970s, voice acting on the series \"Super Friends\", in which he played Hawkman, The Flash and Super Samurai, including \"The All-New Super Friends Hour\", \"Challenge of the Super Friends\", \"Super Friends\", \"The Legendary Super Powers Show\" and \"\". During that time, he made guest appearances in \"Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo\" and \"The Smurfs\".\n\nIn the second season of the \"Transformers\" series (1985), Angel was the voice of Astrotrain, Smokescreen, Ramjet, and Omega Supreme, and he reprised the roles of Ramjet and Astrotrain in \"\" (1986). In the third and fourth seasons of \"The Transformers\" (1986-1987), Angel voiced Ultra Magnus (who had been played by Robert Stack in \"The Transformers: The Movie\") and in the fourth season he voiced Cyclonus following the death of Roger C. Carmel.\n\nHe also lent his voice to the character Dr. Zachary Darret in the 1984 CBS animated series \"Pole Position\", and also voiced Wet Suit on Sunbow's \"\" and several characters on \"Dino-Riders\".\n\nIn 1995, he was the voice of Nikki in the animated film \"Balto\". He played the SWATbots on \"Sonic the Hedgehog\", The Liquidator on \"Darkwing Duck\", The Chief of Police in \"Goof Troop\", and Nick Fury on \"Spider-Man: The Animated series\".\n\nIn 2001, Angel was the voice of \"Teddy\" in the movie \"A.I. Artificial Intelligence\". He provided voices for animated films such as \"A Bug's Life\", \"Monsters, Inc.\", \"\", \"Cars\", \"Horton Hears a Who\", \"The Prince of Egypt\", \"The Iron Giant\", and \"Aladdin\".\n\nAngel has also ventured into video games, narrating the cult hit \"Killer7\" as well as playing Wonkers the Watilla in \"\", The Mayor in \"Ratchet & Clank\", and \"Ammand the Corsair\" in the video game version of \"\".\n\nIn 2002–12, shortly after the death of Gene Moss, Jack Angel voiced Smokey the Bear in a few public service announcements and radio spots. In 2007, he voiced an alien called Technorg on \"Ben 10\". He also voiced Papa Smurf in the 2011 special, \"\".\n\nAngel has done some voice work in Animated shows for Nickelodeon in the 2000s.\nHis roles include: \n\nHe provided \"additional voices\" in \"Toy Story\" and \"Toy Story 2\", and the voice of Chunk in \"Toy Story 3\".\n\nHe is also provided additional voices for \"Scooby-Doo and Scrappy-Doo\", \"The Dukes\", \"Snorks\", \"Dino-Riders\", \"The Smurfs\", \"Asterix and the Big Fight\", \"The Little Mermaid\", \"\", \"Land of Enchantment\", \"\", \"Aladdin\", \"Hercules\", \"The Iron Giant\", \"Monsters, Inc.\", \"\", \"Lilo & Stitch\", \"Treasure Planet\", \"\", \"Gothic 3\", \"Horton Hears a Who\",\" \", \"The Darkness II\", \"The Lorax\", \"Monsters University\" and \"Despicable Me 2\".\n\nHis uncredited voice roles include Rock in the 2014 American biblical epic film \"Noah\" and an Egyptian in the 1998 animated film \"The Prince of Egypt\".\n\nAngel was married twice; he was first married to Barbara Angel, they remained married until they divorced in 1980. He then married his second wife, talent agent/agency owner Arlene Thornton in 1984; together they have three children. They live in Studio City and Malibu, California.\n\nJack Angel was featured on The Voice Actor panel at the San Diego Comic-Con in 2012. The following year, he attended TFcon as a guest where he reprised his roles as Ultra Magnus, Astrotrain and Cyclonus for a voice actor play.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199678", "title": "Payson Park", "text": "Payson Park\n\nEdward Payson Park is a public park in the Back Cove neighborhood of Portland, Maine. It Is bordered by Ocean Avenue to the north and Baxter Boulevard to the south. The offices of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Portland are located across from the park on Ocean Avenue. \n\nIt is named for Edward Payson, which was the name of two prominent residents of the same name. Rev. Edward Payson (1783-1827) was a prominent Congregationalist preacher. His son of the same name (1813-1890) who lived near the park in the Payson House. The Payson House was built in the 1850s before being demolished in 1956.\n\nThe Longfellow Arboretum is a arboretum on the southwestern corner the park beside a small tidal marsh which connects the park to Back Cove.\nAs of August 2016, there are 125 trees, including approximately 40 non-native trees, including \"Betula nigra\", \"Cercidiphyllum\", and \"Stewartia\".\n\nThe Longfellow Garden Club, a member of the National Garden Club and the Garden Club Federation of Maine, created the Longfellow Arboretum on land donated by the City of Portland using a bequest from Mrs. Clifford Leys, a former member. Today the Longfellow Garden Club and the City of Portland jointly maintain the Arboretum. It is named in honor of American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (1807–1882) who grew up in the nearby Wadsworth-Longfellow House.\n\nPayson Park has multiple sports facilities, including a playground, baseball and softball fields, and a basketball court. It is also a known as a top location for sliding and in 2008, Payson Hill Terrain Park, a ski, snowboard, and sledding terrain park located on the park's western edge, formalized this space to encourage children to take up the sports. It was the only municipal park in the United States to offer free skiing and riding lessons. It is also home to a community garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199685", "title": "James H. Davis", "text": "James H. Davis\n\nJames H. Davis may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2199688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199688", "title": "Nicotine marketing", "text": "Nicotine marketing\n\nNicotine marketing is the marketing of nicotine-containing products or use. Traditionally, the tobacco industry markets cigarette smoking, but it is increasingly marketing other products, such as electronic cigarettes and heat-not-burn products. Products are marketed through social media, stealth marketing, mass media, and sponsorship (particularly of sporting events). Expenditures on nicotine marketing are in the tens of billions a year; in the US alone, spending was over US$1 million per hour in 2016; in 2003, per-capita marketing spending was $290 per adult smoker, or $45 per inhabitant. Nicotine marketing is increasingly regulated; some forms of nicotine advertising are banned in many countries. The World Health Organization recommends a complete tobacco advertising ban.\n\nThe effectiveness of tobacco marketing in increasing consumption of tobacco products is widely documented. Advertisements cause new people to become addicted, mostly when they are minors. Ads also keep established smokers from quitting. Advertising peaks in January, when the most people are trying to quit, although the most people take up smoking in the summer.\n\nThe tobacco industry has frequently claimed that ads are only about \"brand preference\", encouraging existing smokers to switch to and stick to their brand. There is, however, substantial evidence that ads cause people to become, and stay, addicted.\n\nMarketing is also used to oppose regulation of nicotine marketing and other tobacco control measures, both directly and indirectly, for instance by improving the image of the nicotine industry and reducing criticism from youth and community groups. Industry charity and sports sponsorships are publicized (with publicity costing up to ten times the cost of the publicized act), portraying the industry as actively sharing the values of the target audience. Marketing is also used to normalize the industry (\"Just Another Fortune 500 Company\", \"More Than a Tobacco Company\"). Finally, marketing is used to give the impression that nicotine companies are responsible, \"Open and Honest\". This is done through an emphasis on informed choice and \"anti-teen-smoking\" campaigns, although such ads have been criticized as counterproductive (causing more smoking) by independent groups.\n\nMagazines, but not newspapers, that get revenue from nicotine advertising are less likely to run stories critical of nicotine products. Internal documents also show that the industry used its influence with the media to shape coverage of news, such as a decision not to mandate health warnings on cigarette packages or a debate over advertising restrictions.\n\nCounter-marketing is also used, mostly by public health groups and governments. The addictiveness and health effects of nicotine use are generally described, as these are the themes missing from pro-tobacco marketing.\n\nBecause it harms public health, nicotine marketing is increasingly regulated.\n\nAdvertising restrictions typically shift marketing spending to unrestricted media. Banned on television, ads move to print; banned in all conventional media, ads shift to sponsorships; banned as in-store advertising and packaging, advertising shifts to shill (undisclosed) marketing reps, sponsored online content, viral marketing, and other stealth marketing techniques. Unlike conventional advertising, stealth marketing is not openly attributed to the organization behind it. This neutralizes mistrust of tobacco companies, which is widespread among children and the teenagers who provide the industry with most new addicts.\n\nAnother method of evading restrictions is to sell less-regulated nicotine products instead of the ones for which advertising is more regulated. For instance, while TV ads of cigarettes are banned in the United States, similar TV ads of e-cigarettes are not.\n\nThe most effective media are usually banned first, meaning advertisers need to spend more money to addict the same number of people. Comprehensive bans can make it impossible to effectively substitute other forms of advertising, leading to actual falls in consumption. However, skillful use of allowed media can increase advertising exposure; the exposure of U.S. children to nicotine advertising is increasing as of 2018.\n\nNicotine advertising uses specific techniques, but often uses multiple methods simultaneously. For instance, the ad illustrated in this section uses many of the techniques discussed below. Its tagline reads \"NEVER let the goody two shoes get you down\", making use of reactance; it has also been described as urging smokers to disregard health warnings. The model's gesture echoes earlier ads which made more explicit claims of voice box benefits. The 1999-2000 \"Find your voice\" ad campaign, of which this ad was a part, was criticized as offensive to smokers who have lost their voices to throat cancer, and as targeting minority women and seeking to associate itself with empowerment, independence, self-expression, women's rights, and sexual allure.\nNicotine marketing makes extensive use of reactance, the feeling that one is being unreasonably controlled. Reactance often motivates rebellion, in behaviour or belief, which demonstrates that the control was ineffective, restoring the feeling of freedom.\n\nAds thus rarely explicitly tell the viewer to use nicotine; this has been shown to be counter-productive. Instead, they frequently suggest using nicotine as a way to rebel and be free. This marketing message is at odds with the feelings of smokers, who commonly feel trapped by their addiction and unable to quit. Mention of addiction is avoided in nicotine advertising. \n\nReactance can be eliminated by successfully concealing attempts to manipulate or control behaviour. Unlike conventional advertising, stealth marketing is not openly attributed to the organization behind it. This neutralizes mistrust of tobacco companies, which is widespread among children and the teenagers who provide the industry with most new addicts. The internet and social media are particularly suited to stealth and viral marketing, which is also cheap; nicotine companies now spend tens of millions per year on online marketing.\n\nCounter-advertising also shows awareness of reactance; it rarely tells the viewer what to do. More commonly, it cites statistics about addictiveness and other health effects. Some anti-smoking ads dramatise the statistics (e.g. by piling 1200 body bags in front of the New York headquarters of Philip Morris, now Altria, to illustrate the number of people dying daily from smoking); others document individual experiences. Providing information does not generally provoke reactance.\n\nDespite products being marketed as individualistic and non-conformist, people generally actually start using due to peer pressure. Being offered a cigarette is one of the largest risk factors for smoking. Boys with a high degree of social conformity are also more likely to start smoking.\n\nSocial pressure is deliberately used in marketing, often using stealth marketing techniques to avoid triggering reactance. \"Roachers\", selected for good looks, style, charm, and being slightly older than the targets, are hired to offer samples of the product. \"Hipsters\" are also recruited clandestinely from the bar and nightclub scene to sell cigarettes, and ads are placed in alternative media publications with \"hip credibility\". Other strategies include sponsoring bands and seeking to give an impression of usage by scattering empty cigarette packages.\n\nAds also use the threat of social isolation, implied or explicit (e.g. \"Nobody likes a quitter\"). Great care is taken to maintain the impression that a brand is popular and growing in popularity, and that people who smoke the brand are popular\nMarketing seeks to create a desirable identity as a user, or a user of a specific brand. It seeks to associate nicotine use with rising social identities (see, for instance, the illustrating ad, and history of nicotine marketing in the woman's and civil rights movements, and its use of western affluence in the developing world, below). It seeks to associate nicotine use with positive traits, such as intelligence, fun, sexiness, sociability, high social status, wealth, health, athleticism, and pleasant outdoor pursuits. Many of these associations are fairly implausible; smoking is not generally considered an intelligent choice, even by smokers; most smokers feel miserable about smoking, smoking causes impotence, many smokers feel socially stigmatized for smoking, and smoking is expensive and unhealthy.\n\nMarketing also uses associations with loyalty, which not only defend a brand, but put a positive spin on not quitting. A successful campaign playing on loyalty and identity was the \"rather fight than switch\" campaign, in which the makeup the models wore made it seem as if they had black eyes, by implication from a fight with smokers of other cigarettes (campaign by a subsidiary of American Tobacco Company, now owned by British American Tobacco).\n\nNicotine is also advertised as good for \"nerves\", irritability, and stress. Again, ads have moved from explicit claims (\"Never gets on your nerves\") to implicit claims (\"Slow down. Pleasure up\"). Although nicotine products temporarily relieve nicotine withdrawal symptoms, an addiction causes worse stress and mood, due to mild withdrawal symptoms between hits. Nicotine addicts need the nicotine to temporarily feel normal. Nicotine addiction seems to worsen mental health problems, but industry marketing has claimed that nicotine is both less harmful and therapeutic for people with mental illness, and is a form of \"self-medication\". Marketing has also claimed that quitting will worsen rather than improve mental health symptoms. These claims have been criticised by independent researchers as inaccurate.\n\nIt is thought that nicotine withdrawal is worse for those who are already stressed or depressed, making quitting more difficult. About 40% of the cigarettes sold in the U.S. are smoked by people with mental health issues. Smoking rates in the U.S. military were also high, and over a third started smoking after entering the military; deployment was also a risk factor. Disabled people are more likely to smoke; smoking causes disability, but the stress of disability might also cause smoking.\n\nAccording to the CDC Tobacco Product Use Among Adults 2015 report, people who are American Indian/Alaska Native, non-Hispanic, less-educated (0–12 years education; no diploma, or General Educational Development), lower-income (annual household income <$35,000), Lesbian, gay, or bisexual, the uninsured, and those under serious psychological distress have the highest reported percentage of any tobacco product use.\n\nPoorer people also smoke more. When marketing cigarettes to the developing world, tobacco companies associate their product with an affluent Western lifestyle. However, in the developed world, smoking has almost vanished among the affluent. Smoking rates among the American poor are much higher than among the rich, with rates of over 40% for those with a high school equivalency diploma. These differences have been attributed to both lack of healthcare and to selective marketing to socio-economic, racial, and sexual minorities. The tobacco industry targeted young rural men by creating advertisements with images of cowboys, hunters, and race car drivers. Teens in rural areas are less likely to be exposed to anti-tobacco messages in the media. Low-income and predominantly minority neighborhoods often have more tobacco retailers and more tobacco advertising than other neighborhoods.\n\nThe tobacco industry focusses marketing towards vulnerable groups, contributing to the large disparity in smoking and health problems. The tobacco industry has marketed heavily to African Americans, sexual minorities, and even the homeless and the mentally ill. In 1995, Project SCUM, which targeted sexual and racial minorities and homeless people in San Francisco, was planned by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (a British American Tobacco subsidiary).\n\nTobacco companies have often been progressive in their hiring policies, employing women and blacks when this was controversial. They also donate some of their profits to a variety of organisations that help people in need.\n\nReference to the addictiveness of nicotine is avoided in marketing. Indeed, the addictiveness of nicotine was explicitly denied into the nineties; in 1994, seven tobacco executives stated that nicotine was not addictive while on oath before the US Congress. Industry feared that, if continuing to smoke was not seen as a \"free choice\", they would be exposed to legal and social liabilities.\n\nThe nicotine industry frequently markets its products as healthy, safe, and harmless; it has even marketed them as beneficial to health. These marketing messages were initially explicit, but over the decades, they became more implicit and indirect. Explicitly claiming something that the consumer knows to be untrue tend to make them distrust and reject the message, so the effectiveness of explicit claims dropped as evidence of the harms of cigarettes became more widely known. Explicit claims also have the disadvantage that they remind smokers of the health harms of the product.\n\nImplicit claims include slogans with connotations of health and vitality, such as \"Alive with pleasure\", and imagery (of instance, images of athletic, healthy people, the presence of healthy children, healthy natural environments, and medical settings).\n\n\"Modified risk\" nicotine products, alternate nicotine products that are implied to be less harmful, are an old strategy. These products are used to discourage quitting, by offering unwilling smokers an alternative to quitting, and implying that using the alternate product will reduce the hazards of smoking. \"Modified risk\" products also attract new smokers.\n\nMany \"modified risk\" nicotine products are actually just as risky as the products they were marketed against. As the long-term harms of cigarette smoking emerge after ~20 years of use, claims of reduced long-term harms for a new product cannot immediately be refuted. Products may become popular on the basis of false health claims before the research is done that proves them false.\n\nExplicit claims of health benefits carry legal risks. They may also require regulatory pre-approval. Reduced levels of specific harmful chemicals are often advertised; people tend to wrongly interpret these as claims of reduced harm. To imply that some nicotine products are healthier than others without making explicit claims, marketing has used descriptions like \"light\", \"mild\", \"natural\", \"gentle\", \"calm\", \"soft\", and \"smooth\".\n\nBoth adults and youth have been shown to misinterpret marketing claims about changes in risk. They falsely interpret them as meaning that the product is safe. They are more likely to start using it, and less likely to quit, as a result.\n\nIn the 1920s to 1950s, ads often focused on throat irritation and coughs, claiming that specific brands were better. This also distracted from the more serious harms of smoking, which were being revealed by research at the time. Claims were made that toasting tobacco removed irritants (which were said to have been sold on to chemical companies).\n\nMenthol cigarettes have also been marketed as healthier from the 1930s onwards. They were even inaccurately advertised as medicinal, a treatment for smokers that would sooth a throat irritated by smoking, or as a treatment for a cold. Where this is illegal, they are marketed as healthier by implication, using words like \"mild\", \"natural\", \"gentle\", \"calm\", \"soft\", \"smooth\", and imagery of healthy natural environments. There is no evidence that menthol cigarettes are healthier, but there is evidence that they are somewhat easier to become addicted to and harder to quit.\n\nIn the fifties, filters were added to cigarettes, and heavily marketed, until they faced regulatory action as false advertising. Initially, efforts were made to develop filters that actually reduced harms; as it became obvious that this was not economically possible, filters were instead designed to turn brown with use.\n\nVentilated cigarettes (marketed as \"light\", \"low-tar\", \"low-nicotine\" etc.) do feel cooler, airier, and less harsh, and a smoking machine will give lower tar and nicotine readings for them. But they do not actually reduce human intake or health risks, as a human responds to the lower resistance to breathing through them by taking bigger puffs. They were also designed to be equally addictive, as manufacturers did not want to lose customers. They were introduced in the 1970s, responding to regulation requiring that nicotine and tar yields be included in cigarette ads. Light cigarettes became so popular that, as of 2004, half of American smokers preferred them over regular cigarettes, According to the US federal government's National Cancer Institute (NCI), light cigarettes provide no benefit to smokers' health. However, people using \"light\" cigarettes are less likely to quit.\n\nHeat-not-burn tobacco products are marketed as less harmful than regular cigarettes since 1988. There is no reliable evidence that these products are any less harmful than regular cigarettes. A reduced harm from using these products has not been proven. These products are marketed as a \"smoke-free\" alternative to regular cigarettes. These products do generate smoke. Companies are using similar strategies and channels as previously used for traditional cigarettes.\n\nA 2014 review said, \"the e-cigarette companies have been rapidly expanding using aggressive marketing messages similar to those used to promote cigarettes in the 1950s and 1960s.\" Unsupported claims on safety and quitting smoking are made. Common marketing messages on brand websites, claiming that e-cigarettes are safe and healthy, have been described as \"concerning\". It is commonly claimed that e-cigarettes emit merely \"harmless water vapor\", which is not the case. E-cigarette e-liquids marketed as \"nicotine-free\" have been found to contain nicotine.\n\nOn average, smokers start as adolescents and make over 30 quit attempts, at a rate of about 1 per year, before breaking a nicotine addiction in their 40s or 50s. Most say they feel addicted, and feel misery and disgust at their inability to quit (in surveys, 71-91% regret having started, over 80% intend to quit, around 15% plan to quit within the next month). The industry calls this group \"concerned smokers\" and seeks to retain them as customers. Techniques for lowering their quit rate include dissuading them from wanting to quit and offering them meaningless product choices which help them feel in control of their habit. For instance, downplaying the risks, and encouraging them to take pride in smoking as an identity, reduces desire to quit.\n\nSuggesting that addicts can reduce their risk by choosing to switch to another product (branded to suggest that it is less harmful or addictive) can reduce their cognitive dissonance and sense of lack of control, without offering a health improvement. Switching to a product branded to suggest that it is less harmful or addictive (\"mild\", \"light\", \"low-tar\", \"filtered\" etc.) is, in terms of health effects, meaningless.\n\nSmokers typically start young, often as teenagers. As a result, much cigarette advertising is intended to target youth, and depicts young people smoking and using tobacco as a form of leisure and enjoyment. The tobacco industry has targeted youth as young as eight years of age in India. \n\nBefore 2009, many tobacco companies made flavored tobacco packaged often in colorful candy like wrappers to attract new users, many of which were a younger audience. However these flavored cigarettes were banned in the United States on September 22, 2009 by the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. Despite this initiative, flavored cigarettes are still on the rise because tobacco companies change their products slightly so they are filtered or slim cigarettes, which are not banned by the act. Chemical additives and physical design have also been used to make \"starter products\" aimed at youth feel smoother and less irritating, part of efforts to make cigarettes addict more quickly, strongly, and reliably.\n\nThe intended audience of tobacco advertising has changed throughout the years, with some brands specifically targeted towards a particular demographic. According to Reynolds American Inc, the Joe Camel campaign in the United States was created to advertise Camel brand to young adult smokers. Class action plaintiffs and politicians described the Joe Camel images as a \"cartoon\" intended to advertise the product to people below the legal smoking age. Under pressure from various anti-smoking groups, the Federal Trade Commission, and the U.S. Congress, Camel ended the campaign on 10 July 1997.\n\nVending machines, individually sold single cigarettes, and product displays near schools, next to candy and sweet drinks, and at the eye-level of young children are all used around the world to sell nicotine-containing products. Even large brands are frequently advertised in ways that break local regulations. In many countries, such marketing methods are not illegal. Where they are illegal, enforcement is often a problem. For instance, Dr. Suresh Kumar Arora, New Delhi's chief tobacco control officer, said: \"We were wasting our time fining cigarette vendors and distributors. They had no idea of the law. Most are illiterate. Our teams would tear down posters and in no time, they would be up again because the real culprits were the big tobacco companies – ITC, Philip Morris (now Altria), Godfrey Phillip. I told them to stop giving posters to their dealers otherwise I would drag them through the courts. Since last May, Delhi has been free of tobacco posters, 100% free\". He has, however, been unable to keep mobile vendors from illegally selling cigarettes next to schools.\n\nEasily circumvented age verification at company websites enables minors to access and be exposed to marketing for e-cigarettes. Tobacco businesses intensely market e-cigarettes to youth using cartoon characters and candy flavors. E-cigarettes are also marketed on Facebook, where age restrictions are in many cases not implemented.\n\nSome tobacco companies have sponsored ads that claim to discourage teen smoking. Such ads are unregulated. However, these ads have been shown, in independent studies, to increase the self-reported likelihood that teens will start smoking. They also cause adults to see tobacco companies as more responsible and less in need of regulation. Unlike promotional ads, tobacco companies do not track the effects of these ads themselves. These ads differ from independently produced antismoking ads in that they do not mention the health effects of smoking, and present smoking as exclusively an \"adult choice\", undesirable \"if you're a teen\". There is more exposure to industry-sponsored \"antismoking\" ads than to antismoking ads run by public health agencies.\n\nTobacco companies have also funded \"anti-smoking\" groups. One such organization, funded by Lorillard, enters into exclusive sponsorship agreements with sports organisations. This means that no other anti-smoking campaigns are allowed to be involved with the sporting organisation. Such sponsorships have been criticised by health groups.\n\nCompanies have also sought to recapture people who have successfully broken a nicotine dependency. Ex-smokers tend to view these attempts very negatively, and their existence has frequently been denied. Methods discussed in industry documents include price drops, increasing acceptance of smoking by nonsmokers, making products more socially acceptable, and making \"healthier\" cigarettes (scare quotes in original).\n\nAs tobacco companies keep spending money on marketing until it stops being profitable, marginal changes in marketing typically have no measurable effect, but the total amount of marketing has a strong effect.\n\nEconometric studies have been done into the endogeneity and other aspects of bans.\n\nTobacco companies have had particularly large budgets for their advertising campaigns. The Federal Trade Commission claimed that cigarette manufacturers spent $8.24 billion on advertising and promotion in 1999, the highest amount ever at that time. The FTC later claimed that in 2005, cigarette companies spent $13.11 billion on advertising and promotion, down from $15.12 billion in 2003, but nearly double what was spent in 1998. The increase, despite restrictions on the advertising in most countries, was an attempt at appealing to a younger audience, including multi-purchase offers and giveaways such as hats and lighters, along with the more traditional store and magazine advertising.\n\nMarketing consultants ACNielsen announced that, during the period September 2001 to August 2002, tobacco companies advertising in the UK spent £25 million, excluding sponsorship and indirect advertising, broken down as follows:\n\n\nFigures from around that time also estimated that the companies spent £8m a year sponsoring sporting events and teams (excluding Formula One) and a further £70m on Formula One in the UK.\n\nThe £25 million spent in the UK amounted to approximately US$0.60 per person in 2002. The 15.12 billion spent in the United States in 2003 amounted to more than $45 for every person in the United States, more than $36 million per day, and more than $290 for each U.S. adult smoker.\n\nTelevision and radio e-cigarette advertising in some countries may be indirectly advertising traditional cigarette smoking. A 2014 review said, \"the e-cigarette companies have been rapidly expanding using aggressive marketing messages similar to those used to promote cigarettes in the 1950s and 1960s.\" In the US, six large e-cigarette businesses spent $59.3 million on promoting e-cigarettes in 2013. E-cigarettes are increasingly sold by the traditional tobacco multinationals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199691", "title": "Brakes (band)", "text": "Brakes (band)\n\nBrakes are an English rock band, formed in 2003 in Brighton. The band consists of vocalist/guitarist Eamon Hamilton, lead guitarist Thomas White, bassist Marc Beatty and drummer Alex White.\n\nThey are known as Brakesbrakesbrakes in the United States.\n\nBrakes formed in 2003, when Thomas White and Alex White of The Electric Soft Parade saw Eamon Hamilton perform a solo gig supporting The Lonesome Organist in Brighton. Marc Beatty of Mockin' Bird Studio and The Tenderfoot (who also worked with British Sea Power, engineering their debut single and recording tracks for their debut album) was also soon recruited, and the band set about recording their debut single, \"Pick Up the Phone\", which was released on Tugboat Records in 2004. Shortly after forming Brakes, Hamilton was asked by British Sea Power to play keyboards with them, a position he held for three years.\n\nBrakes toured extensively, and in early 2005, recorded their debut album, \"Give Blood\", for Rough Trade Records, at Metropolis Studio, with producer Iain Gore. The album was released in July of the same year. They recorded and mixed the 16-track album in seven days. The album was released by Rough Trade Records to great critical acclaim, achieving five stars from \"The Observer Music Monthly\", \"Time Out\" and from many websites, and was voted the best album of 2005 by the influential Rough Trade Shops.\n\nBrakes toured with Belle & Sebastian in January and February 2006, Editors in February/March 2006 and The Killers in November 2006, as well as playing several European and UK headline tours of their own. The touring commitments of Brakes made it impossible for Hamilton to continue playing with British Sea Power, and he amicably left the band in 2006.\n\nBrakes recorded their second album, \"The Beatific Visions\" at House of David Studio in Nashville, co-producing the record with Grammy Award winning producer Stuart Sikes. Whilst recording the album, the band convinced the studio's owner, David Briggs, who had played with Elvis Presley between 1965–1977, to play piano on their song \"If I Should Die Tonight\". It was the first time Briggs had played on an album for three years.\n\nThe album was released in the UK in November 2006. BBC Radio 1's Colin Murray hailed it as his album of the year, Rough Trade Shops voted it number four in their Best Albums of 2006, and it received four and five star reviews from many publications and websites. The album was released in the United States in February 2007 by Worlds Fair Records. The band were forced to change their name to \"BrakesBrakesBrakes\" in the US due to a Philadelphian funk rock band using the name The Brakes. While the album was released under the name BrakesBrakesBrakes in the US, the band will continue to use their original name throughout the rest of the world.\n\nBrakes returned to North America in May and June 2007 for a sold out headline tour of the US and Canada. Whilst they were on tour, their song \"All Night Disco Party\" was used in the hit television show \"Ugly Betty\" which gained them a wider audience.\n\nBrakes recorded their third studio album, \"Touchdown\", at Chem 19, Hamilton, with Paul Savage (formerly of Glaswegian band The Delgados). It was released by Fat Cat Records on 20 April 2009.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199693", "title": "Asaba, Delta", "text": "Asaba, Delta\n\nAsaba is a city located at the western bank of the Niger River.<ref name=\"www.asabaatl.org/about.html\"></ref><ref name=\"www.igbofocus.co.uk/about\"></ref> It is the capital of Delta State, Nigeria. A fast developing urban area, Asaba had a population of 149,603 as at the 2006 census, and a metropolitan population of over half a million people. Asaba is well known for social activities due to the presence of large people and social amenities such as hotels, clubs, cinemas, malls, event centre, etc. It holds a yearly program named Delta Yaddah which always host series of gospel singers among others. Due to its large population, crime rate is high. Crimes such as pick pocketing, sideways robbery, etc, is rampart in Asaba. Because of the existence of foreigners in the state, cost of living is high in Asaba. The Onitsha bridge is the boundary between Delta and Anambra state, as the bridge separates Asaba and Onitsha.\n\nAsaba is from the exclamation \"Ahabam\", meaning \"I have chosen well\", a quote from the Nnebisi the founding father of Asaba.\n\nThe city of Asaba was once the colonial capital of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate. It was founded in 1884. Between 1886 and 1900, it hosted the Royal Niger Company, which the British authorities set up to stimulate trade and the exportation of goods to England. That company has grown today into UAC Nigeria PLC. Scottish explorer William B. Balkie, when signing a trade treaty with Igbo chief Ezebogo in Asaba on August 30, 1885, remarked \"After our salutations, I spoke of friendship, of trade, and of education, and particularly enlarged upon the evils of war, and the benefits of peace, all of which was well received\".\n\nOwing to Asaba's influential history and geography, and current strategic political and economic influence in Nigeria, Asaba is generally known as the regional capital of the Anioma area. The clamour for creation of Anioma state has been going on for decades.\n\nAsaba is situated on a terrace of the lower Niger River, overlooking the point where the Anambra River flows into it. Beyond the river banks, on the high plains which are far more extensive than the river basins, secondary forest vegetation flourishes. The historic Niger River is a trans-African link beginning from West Africa and down into the Atlantic Ocean. Asaba forms a connector between western, eastern and northern Nigeria through the Niger River from the north and via the Asaba Niger Bridge, an east-west link and a Nigerian landmark.\n\nAsaba lies approximately 6 degrees north of the equator and about the same distance east of the meridian; about north of where the River Niger flows into the Atlantic Ocean. The greater Asaba occupies an area of about 300 square kilometers. It maintains an average tropical temperature of 32 °C during the dry season and an average fertile rainfall of during the rainy season.\n\nGreater Asaba includes some of the other neighbouring communities such as Igbuzo, Okpanam, Oko, Okwe and Ugbolu on the western section of the Niger River.\n\nAsaba is culturally led by the highly revered Asagba of Asaba, to whom the leaders (individually referred to as the “Diokpa”) of each of the five settlement quarters (locally identified as Ebos) report directly on matters affecting the community.<ref name=\"asaba.com/about\"></ref> The Asagba is assisted by the Iyasele of Asaba [Iyase] who is the customary Prime Minister as well as a council of chiefs and elders [Olinzele, Otu Ihaza, Oloto, etc].\n\nIgbo people constitute sixty-three percent of the total population of Asaba.\n\nSince becoming the administrative capital of Delta State, Asaba has grown in population to over half a million people. Today, it maintains a cosmopolitan population of predominantly non-indigenous people. Some of the other groups in the city include Urhobo, Isoko, Ijaw, Hausa, Itsekiri and Yoruba people.\n\nAsaba is an administrative area and seat of government established during the time of the Royal Niger Company (now UACN), and is the administrative capital of Delta state. Thus civil service leads the economy and economic activities of the city's inhabitants. The Nigerian government through the administration of Samuel Ogmemudia established the Asaba Textile Mills and a power substation at Asaba. The city of Asaba hosts some pharmaceutical companies that manufacture medicines and there is also a steel mill within the city. Tourism is also attracts revenue into the city, which has resulted to a booming hotel and hospitality business.\n\nThe Stephen Keshi Stadium at Asaba, which had a face-lift to satisfy local fans, has hosted several international competitions and soccer events since it was upgraded by the administration of Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa and commissioned by Nigeria's former president Olusegun Obasanjo. The stadium is the home of Delta Force FC.\n\nThe city of Asaba and neighbouring cities are accessible by air through the Asaba international airport.\n\nThe Asaba-Benin express road is an important road which connects parts of eastern Nigeria with western Nigeria. There is also a road that connects areas of Asaba with Ughelli, while the Asaba-Ebu road connects the city with northern Nigeria.\n\nAsaba is served by water transportation available through the Niger River, which surrounds most parts of the African city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199706", "title": "Ceolnoth", "text": "Ceolnoth\n\nCeolnoth (also \"Ceolnoþ\"; ; died 870) was a medieval English Archbishop of Canterbury. Although later chroniclers stated he had previously held ecclesiastical office in Canterbury, there is no contemporary evidence of this, and his first appearance in history is when he became archbishop in 833. Ceolnoth faced two problems as archbishop – raids and invasions by the Vikings and a new political situation resulting from a change in overlordship from one kingdom to another during the early part of his archiepiscopate. Ceolnoth attempted to solve both problems by coming to an agreement with his new overlords for protection in 838. Ceolnoth's later years in office were marked by more Viking raids and a decline in monastic life in his archbishopric.\n\nGervase of Canterbury wrote at the end of the twelfth century that Ceolnoth was Dean of the see of Canterbury previous to being elected to the archiepiscopal see of Canterbury, but this story has no confirmation in contemporary records. There is no sign of him being associated with either Canterbury or Kent, the region where Canterbury is located, prior to his elevation as archbishop. Given the length of his archiepiscopate, he was probably a young man when he was elected to Canterbury. Ceolnoth was consecrated archbishop on 27 July 833. Upon becoming archbishop, Ceolnoth had to deal with two problems – first the Viking attacks on his archbishopric and the surrounding lands in Kent and second the newly ascendant kings of Wessex who had just gained control of Kent. Previously, the Mercian kings had ruled Kent.\n\nIn 836, Ceolnoth presided, with Wiglaf of Mercia, over a council held at Croft attended by the clergy of the southern part of Britain. This was the last time that the archbishop worked in concert with a Mercian king as, after this, he was an attendee at the Wessex royal court instead of the Mercian. In 838 a council was held at Kingston upon Thames where Ceolnoth made an alliance with the West Saxon kings Egbert and Æthelwulf. This agreement gave control of all of the free minsters under Canterbury's authority to the king in return for protection from Viking raids. Ceolnoth also ceded the right to influence the election of abbots within Kent to the king. In return, Egbert received the support of Ceolnoth for the succession of Egbert's son Æthelwulf as king. When Egbert died shortly after this, Æthelwulf succeeded his father and became the first son to follow his father as king of Wessex in almost two centuries. Ceolnoth also recovered control of some lands that had been lost by Canterbury. The end result of this agreement was that the Wessex kings became the secular protectors of the churches and monasteries of the archdiocese of Canterbury.\n\nDuring Ceolnoth's archbishopric, monastic life declined under the pressure of the Viking attacks, and there was a noticeable decline in the quality of the books and other works produced by the scriptoriums. A number of monasteries died out under the pressure of the raids by the invaders, who wintered over in Kent in 851 and 855. He held councils in 839 and 845, the second at London. During his later years in office, he was assisted by four clerics, who appear to have been or acted as archdeacons, one of the earliest appearances of this office in England. Ceolnoth is also known to have corresponded with Pope Leo IV.\n\nArchbishop Ceolnoth died on 4 February 870. Although monastic and secular life suffered during the later part of Ceolnoth's archbishopric, his agreement with Egbert set the foundation for the co-operation between the archbishops of Canterbury and the kings of England in the future.\n"}
{"id": "2199709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199709", "title": "Siderian", "text": "Siderian\n\nThe Siderian Period (; , meaning \"iron\") is the first geologic period in the Paleoproterozoic Era and lasted from Ma to Ma (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically.\nThe deposition of banded iron formations peaked early in this period. These iron rich formations were formed as anaerobic cyanobacteria produced waste oxygen that combined with iron, forming magnetite (FeO, an iron oxide). This process removed iron from the Earth's oceans, presumably turning greenish seas clear. Eventually, with no remaining iron in the oceans to serve as an oxygen sink, the process allowed the buildup of an oxygen-rich atmosphere. This second, follow-on event is known as the oxygen catastrophe, which, some geologists believe triggered the Huronian glaciation.\n\nSince the time period from 2420 Ma to 2250 Ma is well-defined by the lower edge of iron-deposition layers, an alternative period named the Oxygenian, based on stratigraphy instead of chronometry, was suggested in 2012 in a geological timescale review.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199718", "title": "Let the Blood Run Free", "text": "Let the Blood Run Free\n\nLet the Blood Run Free was an anarchic Australian spoof soap opera set in St Christopher's Hospital and created by comedy collective, The Blood Group.\n\nThe show was originally conceived as a live weekly event for the upstairs venue Le Joke of the Melbourne comedy venue The Last Laugh. Tory McBride, then the associate producer of comedy at the Last Laugh, came up with the concept and the title and in association with comedy director, John Thomson, put together the team which was to become The Blood Group. The show was very loosely scripted and then improvised on stage, with two planned storylines depending on live audience voting.\n\nThe live Le Joke version, which had a continuous weekly run for about a year, was a success with audience members returning every Thursday evening to see the next episode. Before long, it had become too big for the 100-seat Le Joke theatre, and was moved downstairs for several seasons on the main stage of the Last Laugh.\n\nThere was also a radio version of the show.\n\n\"Let The Blood Run Free\" was subsequently picked up for television and 26 episodes were produced using a number of the storylines developed during the stage shows. They aired in Australia from 20 August 1990 to 22 January 1994 and in the UK on Channel 4 from 29 August 1992 to 7 January 1995. The show featured the original cast including \"Kath & Kim\" actor Peter Rowsthorn in the early role of hospital orderly Warren Cronkshonk.\n\nIt is thought to be one of the first interactive television series ever made - in keeping with the live version, at the end of each episode the viewers could vote by telephone to decide the direction the storylines would take. It was also unusual in its lack of respect for television conventions, breaking the fourth wall by turning to the camera and directly addressing the viewers.\n\nThe stories were as over-the-top as the acting; Pam and Ray discovering they are brother and sister - just after they get married and Pam announces her pregnancy; Effie being run over by St Christopher in a VW campervan and squashed flat, only to be brought back from the dead in Series 2 by Ray and her boyfriend Warren; Matron Dorothy Conniving-Bitch teaming up with her long-lost axe-murdering lover Bill Schwarzenhameneggenberger to destroy Pam and Ray's relationship; the vampire Carla Laboumdier falling for Ray, meanwhile stalking the staff, until her eventual staking by Ray.\n\nBoth Series 1 and Series 2 are available on DVD in Australia, each season occupying a two-disc set.\n\nIn keeping with the spoof nature of the series each character had a name that was either a pun or extreme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199725", "title": "Arthur Farwell", "text": "Arthur Farwell\n\nArthur Farwell (March 23, 1872 – January 20, 1952) was an American composer, conductor, educationalist, lithographer, esoteric savant, and music publisher. Interested in American Indian music, he became associated with the Indianist movement and founded the Wa-Wan Press to publish music in this genre. He combined teaching, composing and conducting in his career, working on both coasts and in Michigan.\n\nFarwell was born in St Paul, Minnesota. He trained as an engineer at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, graduating in 1893. But he turned toward a musical career following contact with Rudolf Gott, an eccentric Boston-based composer. After studying in Boston, Farwell traveled to Europe for additional work, becoming a student of Engelbert Humperdinck in Berlin and Alexandre Guilmant in Paris.\n\nReturning to the U.S., he lectured in music at Cornell University from 1899 to 1901. He founded the Wa-Wan Press, dedicated to publishing the works of the American Indianist composers, among whom Farwell was a leading figure. There was great interest in this period in drawing from Native American forms and songs. From 1910 to 1913 Farwell directed municipal concerts in New York City, including massed performances of choral works, some of them his own, by up to 1,000 voices. He directed the Music School Settlement (now Third Street Music School Settlement) in New York from 1915–18, where his private pupils included the young Roy Harris. During this period he composed the score for Percy MacKaye's \"Community Masque\" \"Caliban by the Yellow Sands\".\n\nIn 1918 Farwell moved to California, assuming the role of Acting Head of the music department at the University of California, Berkeley. In 1918-19, he founded the Santa Barbara Community Chorus, and was first holder of the composer's fellowship of the Music & Art Association of Pasadena (1921–25). He moved to Michigan, where he taught theory at Michigan State College (1927–39) (now Michigan State University in East Lansing). Nicolas Slonimsky noted in \"Baker's Biographical Dictionary\" that \"Disillusioned about commercial opportunities for American music, including his own, he established in East Lansing, in April 1936, his own lithographic handpress, with which he printed his own music, handling the entire process of reproduction, including the cover designs, by himself.\"\n\nFarwell eventually returned to New York City, where he settled.\n\nHis notable students include Roy Harris, Dika Newlin, and Bernard Rogers.\n\nFarwell wrote a copious amount of instrumental, chamber, choral and orchestral music as well as theatre scores, masques and music for community performance. Some of his works reflect his interest in a personal, esoteric form of spirituality. This is also expressed in his lectures and writings on the theme of Intuition. Among his principal compositions are a number of \"Symbolistic Studies\" for orchestra, a Symphony developed from a fragmentary opening left by his mentor Rudolph Gott, the large-scale \"symphonic song ceremony\" Mountain Song for orchestra and chorus, a string quartet, a piano quintet and many works both vocal and instrumental drawing from the music of Native American peoples. A gradual but ceaseless developer as a composer, in his last couple of decades Farwell produced his most individual works - including a series of polytonal studies for piano, several concise instrumental sonatas, numerous effective and penetrating settings of the poetry of Emily Dickinson, and a satirical opera, \"Cartoon\", which contains extended parodies of Stravinsky and Schoenberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199729", "title": "Orosirian", "text": "Orosirian\n\nThe Orosirian Period (; , meaning \"mountain range\") is the third geologic period in the Paleoproterozoic Era and lasted from Mya to Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically.\nThe later half of the period was an episode of intensive orogeny on virtually all continents.\n\nTwo of the largest known impact events on Earth occurred during the Orosirian. Early in the period, 2023 Mya, a large asteroid collision created the Vredefort impact structure. The event that created the Sudbury Basin structure occurred near the end of the period, 1850 Mya.\n\nFor the time period from about 2060 to 1780 Mya, an alternative period based on stratigraphy rather than chronometry, named the Columbian, was suggested in the geological timescale review 2012 edited by Gradstein et al., but , this has not yet been officially adopted by the IUGS.\n\nThe supercontinent Columbia formed at the end of this period.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199731", "title": "Knight of the shire", "text": "Knight of the shire\n\nKnight of the shire () was the formal title for a member of parliament (MP) representing a county constituency in the British House of Commons, from its origins in the medieval Parliament of England until the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 ended the practice of each county (or \"shire\") forming a single constituency. The corresponding titles for other MPs were \"burgess\" in a borough constituency (or \"citizen\" if the borough had city status) and \"baron\" for a Cinque Ports constituency. Knights of the shire had more prestige than burgesses, and sitting burgesses often stood for election for the shire in the hope of increasing their standing in Parliament.\n\nThe name \"knight of the shire\" originally implied that the representative had to be a knight, and the writ of election referred to a belted knight until the 19th century; but by the 14th century men who were not knights were commonly elected. An act of Henry VI stipulated that those eligible for election were knights and \"such notable esquires and gentlemen as have estates sufficient to be knights, and by no means of the degree of yeoman\".\n\nFrom Simon de Montfort's Parliament in 1265, each shire sent two knights, and the number was standard until 1826 when Yorkshire gained two additional knights after the disfranchisement of Grampound borough. Under the Great Reform Act of 1832 counties with larger populations sent more knights than smaller ones. The Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 split each multiple-seat shire into multiple single-seat divisions. This change, together with the concomitant standardisation of the franchise, means that county and borough constituencies now differ only slightly, as to election expenses and their type of returning officer.\n\nThe term \"knight of the shire\" has been used more recently in a tongue-in-cheek manner for senior Conservative Party backbenchers representing rural constituencies in England and Wales. \n\nThe precursor to the English parliamentary system was a Magnum Concilium or great council, an advice chamber to the king consisting of peers, ecclesiastics, and Knights of the Shire (with the king summoning two of these from each county). In 1264, this council evolved to include representatives from the boroughs (burgesses), requiring that all members be elected (Montfort's Parliament). The parliament gained legislative powers in 1295 (the Model Parliament). In the following century Edward III split parliament into its current bicameral structure, which includes the House of Commons and the House of Lords, in 1341. It opted in 1376 to appoint Sir Peter de la Mare to convey to the Lords complaints about heavy taxes, demands for an accounting of the royal expenditures, and criticism of the king's management of the military. Although de la Mare was imprisoned for his actions, many recognised the value of a single representative voice for the Commons. Accordingly, an office of Speaker of the House of Commons was created. Mare was soon released after the death of Edward III and became the Speaker of the House again in 1377.\n\nUntil legislation in 1430, the franchise (electorate) for elections of knights of the shire was not restricted to forty shilling freeholders.\n\nDiscussing the original county franchise, historian Charles Seymour suggested, \"It is probable that all free inhabitant householders voted and that the parliamentary qualification was, like that which compelled attendance in the county court, merely a 'resiance' or residence qualification.\" He goes on to explain why Parliament decided to legislate about the county franchise. \"The Act of 1430,\" he said, \"after declaring that elections had been crowded by many persons of low estate, and that confusion had thereby resulted, accordingly enacted that the suffrage should be limited to persons qualified by a freehold of 40s\".\n\nThe Parliament of England legislated the new uniform county franchise, in the statute 8 Henry VI, c. 7. However the \"Chronological Table of the Statutes\" does not mention such a 1430 Act, as it was included in the Consolidated Statutes as a recital in the Electors of Knights of the Shire Act 1432 (10 Henry VI, c. 2), which amended and re-enacted the 1430 law to make clear that the resident of a county had to have a forty shilling freehold in that county in order to be a voter there.\nOver the course of time, authorities began to consider a great number of different types of property as \"forty shilling freeholds\". Subsequently, the residence requirement disappeared.\n\nUntil the Great Reform Act of 1832, each county continued to send two Knights (apart from Yorkshire, which had its number of Knights increased to four in 1826). How these knights were chosen varied from one county to the next and evolved over time. The 1832 Act increased the number of Knights sent by some populous counties to as many as six.\n\nThe term became obsolete due to the final destruction of counties mentioned by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 and widened structure of electorate in the Reform Act of 1884 (the Third Great Reform Act), and in 1918, the term rapidly died out during the 20th century in reference to Members of Parliament who represent county constituencies; for they no longer represented a whole county.\n\nThe term occasionally features as journalese to describe elderly Members of Parliament, usually any Conservative backbenchers with long service who possess a knighthood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199733", "title": "Ocna de Fier", "text": "Ocna de Fier\n\nOcna de Fier (, ) is a commune in Caraș-Severin County, in the Banat region of southwestern Romania. It is composed of a single village, Ocna de Fier.\n\nAlong with the Dognecea area, Ocna de Fier is among the few settlements in the world that supported almost continuous mining for some 4000 years.\n\nArchaeological evidence shows that mining in the area dates back to the Bronze Age (1900 - 1700 BC). The main ore exploited in those times was native copper from the oxidation zone of the deposit. Later on, iron ores brought about a gradual switch from copper to iron mining.\n\nMining was an activity of the Dacians, the ancient inhabitants of present-day Romania. After the Roman conquest in 106, mining was expanded in the Roman province of Dacia. At Berzovis (present day Berzovia, ten kilometres northwest of Ocna de Fier) a Roman metallurgy school, Schola fabrorum, was established, showing the keen interest the Romans had in metal extraction. At Cracul cu Aur (Romanian for \"Golden Tributary\"), north of Ocna de Fier, old Roman gold mining galleries can still be seen. They look like the much better preserved ones at Rosia Montana (\"Verespatak\"), in the Apuseni Mountains.\n\nThe Constantin Gruescu Iron Aesthetic Mineralogy Museum is located in Ocna de Fier.\n"}
{"id": "2199735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199735", "title": "Andrew Clarke (actor)", "text": "Andrew Clarke (actor)\n\nAndrew Clarke (born 1954) is an Australian actor most known for his television work. Andrew Clarke was one of the most popular Australian actors in the 1980s and 1990s. He is also a two-time Logie winner.\n\nAndrew Clarke began his career in theatre. His theatre credits include \"Macbeth\", \"The Winter's Tale\", \"Arsenic and Old Lace\", \"The Cherry Orchard\", \"Long Day's Journey into Night\", \"The Glass Menagerie\", \"The Devil's Advocate\", \"Waiting for Godot\" and \"Under Milk Wood\".\n\nHe has had several high-profile roles in television movies, series and mini-series, including starring in the popular series \"Banjo Paterson's The Man From Snowy River\" (\"\"Snowy River: The McGregor Saga\"\") as Matt McGregor for four seasons from 1993-1996.\n\nOther television roles included a short stint in soap opera \"Prisoner\", where (in 1982) he played the role of Judy Bryant's son-in-law Geoff Maynard, and the ongoing role of Terry Hansen in soap opera \"Sons and Daughters\" (appearing in episodes between 1983 and 1984). In 1992, he acted as Sonny Hammond in The Adventures of Skippy, which was short lived and ran for one season with 39 episodes.\n\nOther major roles have been in the 1985 mini-series \"Anzacs\", in which he won the 1985 best actor Silver Logie, the 1986 mini-series \"Sword of Honour\" and the 1985 mini-series about Charles Kingsford Smith called \"A Thousand Skies\", in which he appeared as Charles Ulm.\n\nClarke had a starring role as sleuth Simon Templar in \"The Saint in Manhattan\" in 1987. There was a one-hour pilot episode that aired on CBS. It did not make the fall schedule; instead, CBS decided to show it and have viewers call in and vote to put it on the schedule. About 44,000 people called in, with more than 40,000 of them voting in favour of the show. These numbers did not sway CBS, especially since the show did not fare well against whatever was playing on the other two networks that night, and it declined to purchase any future episodes.\n\nAndrew Clarke also appeared in the movie \"Les Patterson Saves The World\" in 1987 and portrayed Laurence Olivier in \"Blonde\". He has also had roles in \"SeaChange\", \"Halifax f.p.\", and \"Always Greener\" In late 2005 he completed a four-month stint on soap opera \"Neighbours\", playing Alex Kinski.\n\nClarke portrayed Horatio Wills, father of cricketer and Australian rules football pioneer Tom Wills, in a documentary about the latter's life. It was first screened publicly in 2014 and had its television debut in 2016.\n\nAndrew Clarke played football at a high level, is a keen tennis player and runs. He was romantically involved with Victoria Tennant, an actress and former wife of actor Steve Martin in the mid nineties. He has been married to his wife Sara since 2002.\n\nAndrew Clarke has won two Logie Awards. The awards were for:\n"}
{"id": "2199744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199744", "title": "Statherian", "text": "Statherian\n\nThe Statherian Period (; , meaning \"stable, firm\") is the final geologic period in the Paleoproterozoic Era and lasted from Mya to Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically.\n\nThe period was characterized on most continents by either new platforms or final cratonization of fold belts. Oxygen levels were 10% to 20% of current values.\n\n\"Rafatazmia\", controversially claimed to be present in Statherian beds in India, may be the oldest known confirmably eukaryotic fossil organism.\n\nBy the beginning of the Statherian, the supercontinent Columbia had assembled.\n"}
{"id": "2199750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199750", "title": "Calymmian", "text": "Calymmian\n\nThe Calymmian Period (from Greek κάλυμμα \"(kálymma)\", meaning \"cover\") is the first geologic period in the Mesoproterozoic Era and lasted from Mya to Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically.\n\nThe period is characterised by expansion of existing platform covers, or by new platforms on recently cratonized basements.\n\nThe supercontinent Columbia started to break during the Calymmian some 1500 Mya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199751", "title": "Michael Farris (lawyer)", "text": "Michael Farris (lawyer)\n\nMichael \"Mike\" P. Farris (born August 27, 1951) is an American constitutional lawyer. He is a founder of the Home School Legal Defense Association (HSLDA) and Patrick Henry College, both in Purcellville in Loudoun County in northern Virginia. He is CEO and general counsel for Alliance Defending Freedom.\n\nFarris graduated magna cum laude with a degree in political science from Western Washington University (formerly Western Washington State College). He received a J.D. degree and graduated with honors from Gonzaga University School of Law. Farris received an LL.M. in public international law (with merit) from the University of London in 2011.\n\nHe married in 1971 and has ten children and twenty two grandchildren.\n\nIn 1983, Farris founded the Home School Legal Defense Association, serving as chairman and general counsel. His efforts resulted in a number of court rulings and policy changes favoring homeschooling. In 1993, Farris hired Timmy Teepell, then a homeschooled 18-year-old, to run the Madison Project, a political action committee that raised campaign funds for Christian conservatives. Teepell later became a Republican political consultant in both his native Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nFarris also founded Patrick Henry College, which opened its doors in 2000. According to HSLDA, the college was founded as \"...a Christian institution with the mission of training students through a classical liberal arts curriculum and apprenticeship methodology to impact the world 'for Christ and for Liberty.'\"\n\nHe held the positions of president and professor of Government from 2000 to 2006. Farris resigned his position as president of HSLDA to take on these new roles. In March 2006, Farris stepped down from the position of president to become chancellor of the college. In January 2017, Farris retired from the position of chancellor but retained the title of \"chancellor emeritus.\"\n\nAs a lawyer, Farris's cases include over 40 reported decisions as lead counsel. These decisions were given by the United States Supreme Court, five U.S. circuit courts of Appeal, seven state Supreme Courts, and five state Courts of Appeal. Farris has argued for the petitioners in the Supreme Court cases \"Witters v. Washington Department of Services For the Blind\" in 1985–1986 and \"National Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Becerra\" in 2018.\n\nIn 1993, Farris ran unsuccessfully for Lieutenant Governor of Virginia and was defeated by Democrat Don Beyer 54–46 percent. However, fellow Republicans George Allen and James Gilmore were elected on the same ballot as Governor and Attorney General, respectively. Farris' close connection to conservative leaders like Jerry Falwell of the former Moral Majority, Pat Robertson of the Christian Coalition and Phyllis Schlafly of the Eagle Forum stirred deep-seated feelings about religion and politics. These concerns, inflamed by negative ads by Beyer to portray him even more radically, likely caused alienation of enough moderate voters to cause his defeat.\n\nIn 2009-2010, Farris represented the plaintiffs in \"Clemons, John T., Et Al. v. Dept. of Commerce, Et Al.\", which was dismissed on appeal to the Supreme Court. Apportionment.Us brought the case in attempt to apply the \"One Man, One Vote\" principle of \"Baker v. Carr\" to the relative size of congressional districts across state lines. That would have had the effect of expanding the size of the US House of Representatives beyond its current 435 members.\n\nAlong with Mark Meckler, Farris was co-founder of the Convention of States Project, founded in 2013 to encourage a convention to propose amendments to the US Constitution. He served as Senior Fellow for Constitutional Studies for the project's parent organization, Citizens for Self-Governance, and as a member of CSG's Legal Board of Reference.\n\nAlliance Defending Freedom announced that Farris would become its CEO and General Counsel in January 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199755", "title": "YVHS", "text": "YVHS\n\nYVHS can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2199757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199757", "title": "Ectasian", "text": "Ectasian\n\nThe Ectasian Period (from Greek ἔκτασις \"(éktasis)\", meaning \"extension\") is the second geologic period in the Mesoproterozoic Era and lasted from Mya ago to Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically.\n\nGeologically the name refers to the continued expansion of platform covers during this period.\n\nThis period is interesting for the first evidence of sexual reproduction. The 1.2 billion years old Hunting Formation on Somerset Island, Canada, dates from the end of the Ectasian. It contains the microfossils of the multicellular filaments of \"Bangiomorpha pubescens\" (type of red algae), the first taxonomically resolved eukaryote. This was the first organism that exhibited sexual reproduction, which is an essential feature for complex multicellularity. Complex multicellularity is different from \"simple\" multicellularity, such as colonies of organisms living together. True multicellular organisms contain cells that are specialized for different functions. This is, in fact, an essential feature of sexual reproduction as well, since the male and female gametes are specialized cells. Organisms that reproduce sexually must solve the problem of generating an entire organism from just the germ cells.\n\nSexual reproduction and the ability of gametes to develop into an organism are the necessary antecedents to true multicellularity. In fact, we tend to think of sexual reproduction and true multicellularity as occurring at the same time, and true multicellularity is often taken as a marker for sexual reproduction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199759", "title": "Territory of Sagadahock", "text": "Territory of Sagadahock\n\nThe Territory of Sagadahock, also called the Sagadahoc Colony and New Castle, was an English colonial territory which included the eastern part of what was later colonial Maine and was more sparsely settled than the western region. The area included was east of the Kennebec River.\n\nOn some accounts, the English first settled Sagadahoc in 1608–09. \nA part of the grant of King Charles II in 1664 to his brother the Duke of York included the territory between the St Croix and Pemaquid and northward, variously called the \"Sagadahoc Territory\" and \"New Castle\". \nThe area was later absorbed into the Province of Maine. In 1691, a new charter of Massachusetts was granted by William III and Mary II and included the Province of Maine, the \"territory of Sagadahoc\", and also Nova Scotia.\n"}
{"id": "2199760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199760", "title": "Nedjeljom u dva", "text": "Nedjeljom u dva\n\nNedjeljom u dva () is a Croatian television talk show aired every Sunday afternoon at 14:00 CET on HRT 1 and hosted by Aleksandar Stanković.\n\nThe hour-length show usually features a single guest related to an important political, cultural or economic event that came to light during that week. Each edition usually starts with a brief segment introducing the person featured in the show, before turning into an almost hour-long interview between Stanković and his guest, usually broadcast live from an HRT studio in Zagreb.\n\nThe show, which first aired on 8 October 2000 with Ivo Sanader as guest, underwent some format changes throughout the years. Initially the show had several other journalists joining Stanković during the interview. These were gradually dropped and the show turned into an hour-long one-on-one interview. For a period, the show also had a small studio audience composed of journalism students who were allowed to ask additional questions in the show's final part. The show also used to have phone-in polls with questions related to the current guest. Some editions were also taped beforehand in other locations.\n\n\"Nedjeljom u dva\" quickly became one of the most popular HRT shows, mostly due to Stanković taking a polemical approach towards his guests. Notable guests include Zdravko Mamić, Zoran Milanović, Lepa Brena, Slavoj Žižek, Toni Kukoč, Rambo Amadeus, Ivo Josipović, Mira Furlan, Let 3, Boris Tadić, Ivan Gašparovič, Gari Kasparov, Emir Kusturica, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, Mirko Filipović, Dan Brown, and Ivan Pernar.\n"}
{"id": "2199761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199761", "title": "List of golfers with most LPGA major championship wins", "text": "List of golfers with most LPGA major championship wins\n\nThis article lists all the women (124) who have won past and present major championships on the LPGA Tour. They are listed in order of the number of victories. The list is complete through the 2019 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199766", "title": "Stenian", "text": "Stenian\n\nThe Stenian Period (from Greek στενός \"(stenós)\", meaning \"narrow\") is the final geologic period in the Mesoproterozoic Era and lasted from Mya to Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically. The name derives from narrow polymetamorphic belts formed over this period.\n\nPreceded by the Ectasian period and followed by the Neoproterozoic Era.\n\nThe supercontinent Rodinia assembled during the Stenian. It would last into the Tonian period.\n\nThis period includes the formation of the Keweenawan Rift at about 1100 Mya.\n\nFossils of the oldest known sexually reproducing organism, \"Bangiomorpha pubescens\", first appeared in the Stenian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199773", "title": "Wadsworth-Longfellow House", "text": "Wadsworth-Longfellow House\n\nThe Wadsworth-Longfellow House is a historic house and museum in Portland, Maine, United States. It is located at 489 Congress Street and is operated by the Maine Historical Society. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, and administratively added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1966. The house is open daily to public from May through October (half days on Sundays). An admission fee is charged.\n\nThe house has both historical and literary importance, as it is both the oldest standing structure on the Portland peninsula and the childhood home of famous American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (1807–1882).\n\nAmerican Revolutionary War General Peleg Wadsworth built the house in 1785–1786, the first wholly brick dwelling in Portland. Wadsworth raised ten children in the two-story structure with a pitched roof before retiring to the family farm in Hiram, Maine, in 1807. His daughter Zilpah and her husband Stephen Longfellow IV were married in the house.\n\nTheir son, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, was born nearby at the home of an aunt, Stephen's sister, on February 27, 1807. The home was a three-story Federal architecture-style home at the corner of Fore and Hancock Streets. Young Longfellow did not move with his parents to the Wadsworth-Longfellow House until he was eight months old, but spent the next 35 years there. The Longfellows added today's third story in 1815.\n\nAnne Longfellow Pierce (1810–1901) was the last family member to live in the house. She deliberately kept the house much as it was in Peleg Wadsworth's time, but is perhaps best remembered for growing oranges in the window (no small feat in a Maine winter). Her will stipulated that the house, lot, and many furnishings be given to the Maine Historical Society upon her death.\n\nPierce died in 1901 and the Maine Historical Society opened the home to the public within a year. At the time, only one other American author's home was owned by an organization committed to its preservation, specifically the John Greenleaf Whittier Homestead in Haverhill, Massachusetts.\n\nPearl Wing started the Longfellow Garden Club in 1924 to establish the Longfellow Garden located alongside the Wadsworth-Longfellow House. The Longfellow Garden Club engaged landscape architect Myron Lamb to design the Colonial Revival style Longfellow Garden located in what was once part of the Longfellow family farmyard. The garden was replanted in 2007 after renovations to Maine Historical Library. A lilac tree mentioned by Anne Longfellow is located in the back corner alongside the library.\n\nA Children's Gate designed by Alexander Wadsworth Longfellow, nephew of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, was installed in the 1930s. The gate was removed in the 1960s and restored in 2012.\n\nThe Longfellow Garden is open to the public at no charge Monday-Saturday from May–October from 10 AM to 5 PM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199783", "title": "Significavit", "text": "Significavit\n\nSignificavit is an obsolete writ in English ecclesiastical law, issued out of chancery, that a man be excommunicated for forty days, and imprisoned until he submits himself to the authority of the church. It is synonymous with the writ de excommunicate capiendo.\n"}
{"id": "2199793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199793", "title": "R. Sheldon Duecker", "text": "R. Sheldon Duecker\n\nRobert Sheldon Duecker (4 September 1926 – 28 October 2011) was an American Bishop of the United Methodist Church, elected in 1988.\n\nHe was born in Westfield Township, Medina County, Ohio, a son of Howard LaVerne and Sarah Faye Simpson Duecker. He grew up in the villages of LeRoy and Chippewa Lake, Ohio. He was confirmed in the Christian Faith in the LeRoy Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nHe earned an A.B. degree in Religion from the Indiana Wesleyan University, Marion, Indiana in 1948. He earned a Bachelor of Divinity and an M.S. from the Christian Theological Seminary (C.T.S.), Indianapolis, Indiana in 1952. He did further graduate work at Garrett Theological Seminary, Evanston, Illinois in 1952–53. He received an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree in 1969 from C.T.S.\n\nHe was ordained into the ministry of the Methodist Church, North Indiana Annual Conference, (Deacon in 1952, Elder in 1953) by Bishop Richard Campbell Raines. Prior to his election to the Episcopacy, Duecker had served the following pastorates in the North Indiana Conference: Kokomo: Grace (Associate Pastor); Dyer Muncie: Gethsemane; Hartford City: Grace; Warsaw: First; Fort Wayne: Simpson; and Muncie: High Street. He also served as the Director of the Conference Council on Ministries, and as the Superintendent of the Fort Wayne District.\n\nIn 1988 while serving as senior pastor of the High Street U.M. Church in Muncie, Indiana, Duecker was elected a Bishop by the North Central Jurisdictional Conference of the U.M. Church, and assigned to the Northern Illinois (Chicago) Episcopal Area.\n\nBishop Duecker served (1980–84) on the General Council on Ministries of the U.M. Church, the General Advance Committee, and as a liaison from the Advance Committee to the Committee on African Church Growth and Development. He was also a member of the Commission to Study the Mission of The United Methodist Church (1984–88). He served on the General Board of Publication (1988–92). During 1992–96 he was a member of the General Board of Higher Education and Ministry, as well as of the University Senate of the U.M. Church. He served in several responsibilities related to ministry with Korean people, including (1988–96) the Committee on Korean-American Ministries and the Committee on Joint Mission Strategy for the U.M. Church and the Korean Methodist Church. He was the Chairperson of the North Central Jurisdiction Korean Mission Ministry, 1992–96.\n\nDuecker retired in 1996 and lives in Indiana.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199800", "title": "Bob Scheffing", "text": "Bob Scheffing\n\nRobert Boden Scheffing (August 11, 1913 – October 26, 1985) was an American professional baseball player, coach, manager and front-office executive. Nicknamed \"Grumpy\", the native of Overland, Missouri, is most often identified with the Chicago Cubs, for whom he played as a catcher (1941–42, 1946–50), coached (1954–55), and managed (1957–59). Scheffing threw and batted right-handed; he was listed as tall and .\n\nAs a Major Leaguer, Scheffing batted .263 with 357 hits in 517 games with the Cubs, Cincinnati Reds (1950–51) and St. Louis Cardinals (1951). His career began in 1935 in the Cardinals' farm system, but he was unable to crack the Major Leagues until he was selected by the Cubs in the 1940 Rule 5 draft. \n\nEn route to the Majors, he spent the 1939 season as the 25-year-old playing manager of the Washington Red Birds of the Class D Pennsylvania State Association. He also served in the United States Navy between 1943 and 1945 in World War II's Pacific Theatre.\n\nAs a full-time manager, Scheffing led the Los Angeles Angels of the Pacific Coast League to the 1956 PCL championship, and was promoted to skipper of the parent Cubs the following season. In three full years at the Cubs' helm, Scheffing compiled a 208–254 (.450) record. His 1957 team finished 62–92 and tied for seventh place in the eight-team National League, but his 1958 and 1959 clubs won 72 and 74 games respectively and finished tied for fifth place each season.\n\nScheffing also spent years (1961 through June 16, 1963) as manager of the Detroit Tigers. Taking over a sixth-place team, he led the 1961 Tigers to 101 victories and second place in the American League. Although the Tigers eventually finished eight games out of first place, they led the league until July 25 and battled the world champion New York Yankees for the pennant until a devastating three-game sweep at Yankee Stadium in early September. The 1962 Tigers won 16 fewer games than 1961's team, and finished fourth. Then the 1963 club got off to a poor start (24–36) and was in ninth place in the ten-team league when Scheffing was replaced on June 19 by Chuck Dressen. Although Scheffing's mark with the Tigers was 210–173 (.548), his career managerial record fell nine games short of .500, at 418–427 (.495).\n\nAs a coach, Scheffing also served with the St. Louis Browns (1952–53) and Milwaukee Braves (1960, under Dressen), in addition to his tenure with the Cubs.\n\nAfter working as a Detroit scout and radio broadcaster, Scheffing joined the front office of the New York Mets and became general manager early in following the sudden death of Johnny Murphy. The Mets won the National League pennant during his tenure, then fell in a seven-game World Series to the Oakland Athletics.\n\nBut Scheffing is most remembered by many Met fans for his trade of young pitcher Nolan Ryan to the California Angels following the season. Ryan went on to set the all-time career strikeout record and earn a place in the Baseball Hall of Fame, while third baseman Jim Fregosi, the Angels' star whom the Mets received in the deal, struggled in New York. Scheffing was replaced by Joe McDonald as Mets' GM in , although he continued in the organization as a scout.\n\nHe died in Phoenix, Arizona, at the age of 72.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199805", "title": "Lesley Blanch", "text": "Lesley Blanch\n\nLesley Blanch, MBE, FRSL (6 June 1904, London – 7 May 2007, Garavan near Menton, France) was a British author, historian and traveller. She is best known for \"The Wilder Shores of Love\", about Isabel Burton (who married the Arabist and explorer Richard), Jane Digby el-Mezrab (Lady Ellenborough, the society beauty who ended up living in the Syrian desert with a Bedouin chieftain), Aimée du Buc de Rivéry (a French convent girl captured by pirates and sent to the Sultan's harem in Istanbul), and Isabelle Eberhardt (a Swiss linguist who felt most comfortable in boy's clothes and lived among the Arabs in the Sahara).\n\nBlanch attended St. Paul's Girls' School, Hammersmith from 1915 to 1921. \n\nIn April 1945, she married the French novelist-diplomat Romain Gary. Life in the French diplomatic service took them to the Balkans, Turkey, North Africa, Mexico and the USA. In the USA they associated with Aldous Huxley and with Hollywood stars such as Gary Cooper, Sophia Loren and Laurence Olivier.\n\nGary left her for American actress Jean Seberg. Lesley Blanch and Gary were divorced in 1963. Blanch continued to travel from her home in Paris, and saw old friends Nancy Mitford, Violet Trefusis, Rebecca West and the Windsors. She was a close friend of Gerald de Gaury, who gave her insights into middle eastern customs and culture.\n\nThe best known of her 12 books is \"The Wilder Shores of Love\", about four women who all \"followed the beckoning Eastern star.\" The book also inspired the american artist Cy Twombly, who named a painting after the novel.\n\nBlanch's love of Russia, instilled in her by a friend of her parents whom she simply called The Traveller, is recounted in \"Journey into the Mind's Eye, Fragments of an Autobiography\" (1968, reissued 2018) which is part travel book, part love story. As well as awakening her to sex, he whetted her appetite with exotic tales of Siberia and Central Asia.\n\nLesley Blanch considered her best book to be \"The Sabres of Paradise\" (the biography of Imam Shamyl and history of Imperialist Russian rule in early 19th century Georgia and the Caucasus).\n\nA Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, Lesley Blanch was appointed MBE in 2001, and in 2004 the French government awarded her the medal of Officier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.\n\nShe celebrated her 100th birthday in 2004. She died just one month shy of 103.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199809", "title": "De contumace capiendo", "text": "De contumace capiendo\n\nDe contumace capiendo (literally, \"Of (for) contempt seize him!\") is a writ issued out of the Court of Chancery for the arrest of a defendant who is in contempt of an ecclesiastical court. It was created when Parliament intervened in 1813 to strip the Church of the power to excommunicate for contempt by writ \"de excommunicato capiendo\". \n"}
{"id": "2199810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199810", "title": "Aurora Leigh", "text": "Aurora Leigh\n\nAurora Leigh (1856) is an epic novel/poem by Elizabeth Barrett Browning. The poem is written in blank verse and encompasses nine books (the woman's number, the number of the Sibylline Books). It is a first person narration, from the point of view of Aurora; its other heroine, Marian Erle, is an abused self-taught child of itinerant parents. The poem is set in Florence, Malvern, London and Paris. The author uses her knowledge of Hebrew and Greek, while also playing off modern novels, such as \"Corinne ou l'Italie\" by Anne Louise Germaine de Staël and the novels by George Sand. As far as Book 5, Aurora narrates her past, from her childhood to the age of about 27; in Books 6–9, the narrative has caught up with her, and she reports events in diary form. Elizabeth Barrett Browning styled the poem \"a novel in verse\", and referred to it as \"the most mature of my works, and the one into which my highest convictions upon Life and Art have entered.\" Scholar Deirdre David asserts that Barrett Browning's work in \"Aurora Leigh\" has made her into \"a major figure in any consideration of the nineteenth-century woman writer and of Victorian poetry in general.\" John Ruskin called it the greatest long poem of the nineteenth century.\n\nAurora describes her childhood in Florence, growing up as the daughter of a Tuscan mother and an English father. Her mother died when she was four, leaving her father to raise her. He was a scholar, and imparted to her knowledge of Greek and Latin and a love of learning. Her father died when she was thirteen, and she was sent to England to live with his sister, her aunt, in Leigh Hall, her family's ancestral home. Her aunt tried to educate her in what she considered a ladylike manner, but Aurora discovered her father's old library and read scholarly books on her own.\nShe read many of Shakespeare's famous works and fell in love with his writing style and aspired to be a great writer like him one day.\n\nThis book starts on Aurora's twentieth birthday. Her cousin, Romney Leigh, proposes marriage to her. He is skeptical about her poetic ability, telling her that women do not have the passion, intellectual capacity, or redemptive qualities to be true artists. Because of this, and because she feels that he is too wrapped up in his social work and ideals to be a good husband, she angrily rejects him. Aurora's aunt chastises her for refusing him, telling her that because he is the male heir, he will inherit all of the estate and Aurora will be left with nothing. Shortly afterwards, her aunt dies. Romney attempts to give Aurora money, but she refuses it, deciding to go to London to make her living as a poet.\n\nThis book opens in Aurora's London apartment. She has been writing small popular poems for magazines, which have earned her an enthusiastic following among romantic young men and women, but she is dissatisfied. The great works of art of which she felt she was capable have arrived stillborn – she has the inspiration, but somehow cannot get it onto the page. While she works, frustrated, a visitor arrives for her, a Lady Waldemar. She is beautiful but sharp and sarcastic, and Aurora does not like her. Lady Waldemar explains to Aurora that she is in love with Romney, so much so that she lowers herself to do charity work with him, but Romney has decided to marry instead one of his lower-class ‘projects,' Marian Erle (whose name is a humorous pun). She wants Aurora to speak to Marian and then to Romney and convince them of their foolishness. Aurora, partly out of curiosity and partly concern for Romney, goes to visit Marian and hears her life story: Marian's drunken mother tried to sell her into prostitution, and to escape it she ran away and became ill, eventually being taken into a poor hospital. There Romney found her and assisted her in getting work as a seamstress.\n\nMarian continues her story, relating how Romney continued to aid her and ultimately proposed marriage to her. Aurora asks her if she is sure he truly loves her, to which Marian replies that Romney loves everything. She assures Aurora that despite her lower-class status, she will be a loving and devoted wife to him. Before Aurora can answer, Romney enters Marian's room. He and Aurora awkwardly trade words, and she tells him she approves of Marian. He walks her home, and during their conversation she becomes confused about her own feelings for him. A month passes, and it is time for Romney and Marian's wedding – but Marian sends a letter in her place to the ceremony, telling Romney that she is not good enough for him. The crowd at the wedding assume that Romney has seduced and abandoned her, and attack him. Romney is devastated, and searches for Marian for days, but cannot find her. He and Aurora have a conversation about their respective disappointments with their missions; Romney can neither make a dent in the poverty he sees all around him nor gain the respect of the people he tries to help, while Aurora still has not succeeded in writing a real work of Art.\n\nAurora discusses her further attempts to write. She tells how she is determined not to be constricted by her woman's role but is doubtful that the modern age presents opportunities for epic poetry. As the book continues, she grows more and more desperate, crying out to her muses and gods for inspiration. She confides that she has not seen Romney Leigh for almost two years, but she has heard that he has turned Leigh Hall into a refuge for the poor. At a stifling, insipid evening party at one of her well-born friend's houses, she learns that Romney is engaged to marry Lady Waldemar, and bitterly reflects that \"He loved not Marian, more than once he loved/Aurora.\" She decides that to find inspiration, she must travel to Italy, her mother's land, and in order to get the money sells some of her father's old books, as well as her own unfinished manuscript.\n\nThis book begins with Aurora in France, presumably on a stop-over on the way to Italy. She wanders Paris with her head in the clouds, enjoying the atmosphere of history and the beauty that surrounds her. Suddenly, she catches a glimpse of a familiar face – it is Marian Erle. Frantically, Aurora follows her, losing her in the crowd eventually, but not before seeing that Marian is carrying a child. She is shocked, but resolves not to judge her harshly and tries for a week to find her, finally running into her by chance at a flower market. Marian takes her to her poor room, where she shows Aurora her baby boy. Aurora reproaches Marian for being promiscuous, but Marian angrily replies that far from it, she was attacked and raped and left pregnant. She explains to Aurora that Lady Waldemar convinced her that Romney did not truly love her, and sent her to France with her lady's maid. The lady's maid left her in a brothel, where she was raped and almost driven insane, but she managed to escape.\n\nMarian continues to tell Aurora her story: she was taken in by a kind lady as a maid, but was summarily fired when her pregnancy became apparent. Despite this, she could not bring herself to be unhappy: she was overjoyed that out of her dreadful experience, she could have the wonderful experience of motherhood. Aurora, after hearing Marian's story, apologizes profusely to her for misjudging her and offers her a ‘marriage' of sorts – she will protect Marian and her son and take them to Italy with her. Marian gratefully accepts. Aurora decides not to inform Romney that she has found Marian, but writes an angry letter to Lady Waldemar, telling her she knows of her disgraceful conduct towards Marian. Marian's presence, however, constantly brings Romney to Aurora's thoughts. She is surprised when a friend writes to her to congratulate her on her book – the manuscript she sold to get to Italy. She decides that perhaps it was better than she thought. She finds no particular inspiration in Italy, however, finding instead constant bittersweet memories of her childhood.\n\nSeveral years have passed. Aurora, Marian, and the boy are living in a villa in Florence. Suddenly, Romney Leigh arrives, having discovered their whereabouts through a friend of Aurora's. Aurora, believing him to be married to Lady Waldemar, is cold with him. He tells her that he has read her book and believes it to be good and true Art, and tells her that he has reconsidered the judgmental strictures he passed on her previously. He relates to her the sorry failure of his attempts at social reform: after he converted Leigh Hall into a refuge, stories went around the village that it was a prison and a mob burned the whole thing to the ground. Aurora expresses her sympathy, but tells him she still cannot think well of his wife. Romney is surprised, and tells her that he is not married to Lady Waldemar, although he has a message from her to Aurora. Aurora tears it open, and reads it.\n\nAurora reads Lady Waldemar's letter, which claims that she did not intend to hurt Marian, only to remove her. Her scheme did not work; even after Marian was gone, Romney did not love her. She tells Aurora, in a vitriolic tone, that she, by her letter forcing Lady Waldemar to tell Romney that Marian lived, has doomed him to a loveless life with her, when he is truly in love with Aurora. Aurora, somewhat shocked both by the letter's contents and the angry rhetoric, dazedly asks Romney what he will do now, and he answers that he will marry Marian and raise her child as his own. Marian refuses him, however, stating that she prefers to remain as her child's only guardian and devote her life to him, rather than a husband, and that she has realized that what she thought was love for Romney was rather hero-worship. She leaves, urging Romney to talk to Aurora. They converse, and forgive each other for any wrongs they have done to each other over the years. Romney admits to Aurora that he is blind. Aurora, in tears, confesses to Romney that she loves him, and has finally realized it; and also realizes that, in loving him, she will be able to complete herself and find her poetic muse once more. The poem ends with Aurora and Romney in a loving embrace, as she describes the landscape for his unseeing eyes in Biblical metaphors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199811", "title": "It girl", "text": "It girl\n\nAn \"it girl\" is an attractive young woman, generally a celebrity, who is perceived to have both sex appeal and a personality that is especially engaging.\n\nThe expression \"it girl\" originated in British upper-class society around the turn of the 20th century. It gained further attention in 1927, with the popularity of the Paramount Studios film \"\"It\"\", starring Clara Bow. In the earlier usage, a woman was especially perceived as an \"it girl\" if she had achieved a high level of popularity without flaunting her sexuality. Today the term is used more to apply simply to fame and beauty.\n\nAn early literary usage of \"it\" in this sense may be traced to a 1904 short story by Rudyard Kipling, which contained the line \"It isn't beauty, so to speak, nor good talk necessarily. It's just 'It'.\"\n\nElinor Glyn, the notorious British novelist who wrote the book titled \"It\" and its subsequent screenplay, lectured:\n\nGlyn first rose to fame as the author of the scandalous 1907 bestseller \"Three Weeks\". She is widely credited with the invention of the \"It Girl\" concept: although the slang predates her book and film, she was responsible for the term's impact on the culture of the 1920s.\n\nClara Bow later said she wasn't sure what \"It\" meant, although she identified Lana Turner and later Marilyn Monroe as \"It Girls\", and Robert Mitchum as an \"It Man\".\n\nThe fashion component of the \"It Girl\" originated with the celebrated couturier Lucy, Lady Duff-Gordon, known professionally as \"Lucile\", the name under which she managed exclusive salons in London, Paris and New York; she was Elinor Glyn's elder sister. As Lucile, Lucy Duff-Gordon was the first designer to present her collections on a stage complete with the theatrical accoutrements of lights and music, inspiring the modern runway or catwalk show, and she was famous for making sexuality an aspect of fashion through her provocative lingerie and lingerie-inspired clothes. Lucile also specialised in dressing trendsetting stage and film performers, ranging from the stars of the \"Ziegfeld Follies\" on Broadway to silent screen icons such as Mary Pickford and Irene Castle.\n\nAs early as 1917, Lucile herself used the term \"It\" in relation to style in her fashion column for \"Harper's Bazaar\": \"... I saw a very ladylike and well-bred friend of mine in her newest Parisian frock ... she felt she was 'it' and perfectly happy.\"\n\nThe Paramount Studios film was planned as a special showcase for its popular star Clara Bow, and her spectacular performance introduced the term \"It\" to the cultural lexicon. The film plays with the notion that \"It\" is a quality which eschews definitions and categories; consequently, the girl portrayed by Bow is an amalgam of an ingenue and a femme fatale, with a touch of Madonna's latter day \"Material Girl\" incarnation. By contrast, Bow's rival in the script is equally young and comely (and rich and well-bred to boot), yet she doesn't have \"It\".\n\nSince the 1980s, \"It Girl\" or \"It-Girl\" has been used slightly differently, referring to a wealthy, normally unemployed, young woman who is pictured in tabloids going to many parties often in the company of other celebrities, receiving media coverage in spite of no real personal achievements or TV hosting / presenting. The writer William Donaldson observed that, having initially been coined in the 1920s, the term was applied in the 1990s to describe \"a young woman of noticeable 'sex appeal' who occupied herself by shoe shopping and party-going\".\n\nThe prominence of an \"It Girl\" is often temporary; some of the rising It Girls will either become fully-fledged celebrities, commonly initially via engineering appearances on reality TV shows or series; lacking such an accelerant, their popularity will normally fade.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199814", "title": "Chepstow Railway Bridge", "text": "Chepstow Railway Bridge\n\nChepstow Railway Bridge was built to the instructions of Isambard Kingdom Brunel in 1852. The \"Great Tubular Bridge\" over the River Wye at Chepstow, which at that point forms the boundary between Wales and England, is considered one of Brunel's major achievements, despite its appearance. It was economical in its use of materials, and would prove to be the design prototype for Brunel's Royal Albert Bridge at Saltash. Although the superstructure has since been replaced, Brunel's tubular iron supports are still in place. It is a Grade II listed structure.\n\nBrunel had to take the two tracks of the South Wales Railway across the River Wye. The Admiralty had insisted on a clear span over the river, with the bridge a minimum of above high tide. The span would have to be self-supporting, since although the Gloucestershire side of the river consists of a limestone cliff, the Monmouthshire side is low-lying sedimentary deposit subject to regular flooding. Thus on that side, there was nowhere for an abutment capable of either resisting the outward push of an arch bridge, or the inward pull of a conventional suspension bridge. In any case, neither could be used: an arch bridge would not have met the height and width restrictions imposed by the Admiralty, and suspension bridges were notoriously unfit for carrying railway trains. The concentrated weight caused the chains to deflect, allowing the bridge-deck to ride dangerously up and down. A self-supporting truss bridge was the only option.\n\nRobert Stephenson had bridged the River Conwy (1848) and the Menai Straits (1850) with spans of 400 and respectively, using large box-girder sections of riveted wrought iron. Conwy-like box-girders would have been very expensive to use at Chepstow as well as being heavy (problematic, since the spans had to be lifted much higher than at Conwy). Brunel, characteristically, sought a radical solution. He had already built a bowstring or tied arch bridge at Windsor (1849) consisting of three triangular cross-section cellular arch ribs \"strung\" by wrought iron deck girders supported by vertical hangers from the arches. This was the same year as Stephenson's tied arch High Level Bridge at Newcastle upon Tyne, which was supposed to have influenced Brunel at Chepstow. However, Brunel's solution for the latter was to make a leap forward, based, nevertheless, on sound engineering principles and a variation of the tied-arch theme.\n\nThe experiments of William Fairbairn, and the mathematical analysis of Eaton Hodgkinson had shown by a series of experiments that an enclosed box girder, made of riveted wrought iron, combined relative lightness with great strength. The tubular wrought-iron girder – be the cross-section rectangular, triangular or circular – formed a most efficient truss component. If the cross-section was large enough it could be self-supporting. It was Fairbairn's experiments that led to the design of the Menai and Conwy bridges. Stephenson had originally proposed using a box-girder section suspended from chains. The box section would, he argued, be stiff enough to overcome the conventional problems of the bridge-decks of suspension bridges. In the event, Fairbairn showed that a properly constructed box girder would be strong enough so that the chains could be dispensed with. Nevertheless, the decision (not to use chains) was taken late in the project, so the Britannia bridge support towers were still built with holes for the chains. Stephenson's box-girders were a great innovation, and using steel or pre-stressed concrete instead of wrought iron, box-girder construction is the standard today for large bridges. But as Berridge has observed, \"Brunel was never one to follow fashion for fashion's sake... (at Chepstow)... Here was the real engineer at work, designing the bridge to suit the site and the best way of getting it into position\".\n\nThe bridge filled a gap in the main rail line between Gloucester and Swansea. The line between Chepstow railway station and Swansea was opened on 18 June 1850, and on 19 September 1851 the line was completed between Gloucester and a station east of the river, known as Chepstow East. Until the bridge was completed and opened, through passengers were carried from one station to the other by coach, using the 1816 road bridge across the River Wye. The railway bridge was opened to public use for the first time on 19 July 1852; Chepstow East station closed at the same time as redundant. Originally there was only one line of railway over the bridge; a second was brought into use on 18 April 1853. The new railway line, and bridge, had the effect of reducing the journey time between London and Swansea from 15 hours, by rail, road and ferry, to 5 hours by rail.\n\nBrunel recognised that a circular cross-section tubular girder – a shallow \"bow\", excellent in compression and tension – could be strung by suspension chains to form a stiff, self-supporting structure very much lighter (thus less expensive) than a Stephenson-type box girder. Instead of hanging the chains from towers and suspending the bridge deck from them, Brunel used the chains to stress and slightly bow the tubes, which were braced against the chains using struts. The bridge deck was rigid, because it was effectively clamped against the tubes by the chains. Brunel solved the problem in his own way, and for more than 100 years, the Chepstow and subsequently the Royal Albert Bridge were the only suspension bridges on the British railway system.\n\nIn spite of their apparent rivalry, Brunel and Stephenson were great personal friends, to the extent that they supported each other professionally. When Stephenson was under pressure during the enquiry following the collapse of his cast-iron girder bridge over the River Dee killing several people, Brunel did not desert him. In spite of his extreme distrust of the use of cast-iron girders for such purposes, Brunel refused to condemn them when cross-examined as an expert witness. He was also present to provide Stephenson moral support, when the great Britannia box-girders were floated across the river prior to being jacked up to their final positions. So when it came to the revolutionary design at Chepstow, \"The Times\" of 24 February 1852, reported that “Mr Stephenson, the eminent engineer, has examined the (great railway) bridge (at Chepstow) and concurred in the plan adopted by Mr Brunel...”.\n\nThe bridge was a triumph of the application of a radical design to a specific problem using available materials. The total cost (£77,000) was half what the Conwy bridge cost (£145,190 18s 0d) — admittedly with a main span of only compared with Conwy's , but there were no deep-water foundations needed at Conwy, and at Chepstow, the cost included a further of land spans.\n\nWith regard to the appearance of the bridge, the \"Illustrated London News\" stated that \"the peculiarity of the site did not permit any display of 'Art' – that is, of architectural embellishment; indeed, a pure taste rejects any attempt to decorate a large mechanical work with sham columns, pilasters, and small ornamental details.\"\n\nThe bridge was constructed on site for Brunel by Edward Finch of Liverpool as partner in the firm Finch & Willey. After it was completed, Finch remained in Chepstow, and developed a major engineering and, later, shipbuilding business on the site, beside the river. The adjoining site, now occupied by the engineering firm Mabey Bridge (formerly Fairfield Mabey), is still (as of 2012) engaged in prefabricated bridge construction, and in 1987 was responsible for building the A48 road bridge which now runs alongside the railway bridge.\n\nHowever, even Brunel was not infallible, and his foresight in allowing for slight movement of the suspension chains against supports on the bridge-deck to relieve stress, led to a weakening of the structure. In the 1950s, the speed of trains using the bridge was restricted to , because some of the girders had become distorted. In 1962, a new structure to support the bridge beneath the main span was put in place.\n\nOf the bridges mentioned here, the Windsor and Conwy bridges are still standing and in use, although the Conwy spans have been shortened using intermediate supports; the Britannia bridge had to be replaced in 1970 after a fire. Nevertheless, Brunel's Chepstow bridge was a watershed, leading to a final refinement of the design in his great masterpiece, the Royal Albert Bridge over the River Tamar at Saltash, which continues to carry the former Cornwall Railway main line into Cornwall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199824", "title": "List of Dáil by-elections", "text": "List of Dáil by-elections\n\nThis is a list of by-elections to Dáil Éireann, the house of representatives of the Oireachtas, the Irish legislature. By-elections in Ireland occur to fill vacant seats which can be caused by the death, resignation, disqualification or expulsion of a sitting Teachta Dála (member of parliament). Under the Electoral (Amendment) Act 2011, the writ for the by-election must be issued within six months of the vacancy.\n\nThere have been 131 by-elections since 1923, to fill 133 vacancies. 92 of these were caused by the death of a sitting Teachta Dála (TD). There were seven by-elections during the lifetime of the 31st Dáil. There were no by-elections during the 3rd, 7th, 9th, 11th, 22nd, 25th and 26th Dála. The longest period without a by-election was almost 10 years between 1984 and 1994. The largest number of by-elections on one day was on 11 March 1925, when seven constituencies filled nine vacancies caused by the National Party's split from Cumann na nGaedheal. Those seven by-elections included two which filled two vacancies, via the single transferable vote. All the other by-elections have used its single-winner analogue, the alternative vote.\n\nTwenty-three TDs who were elected at a by-election were not subsequently re-elected at a general election. The only person twice elected at by-elections was Thomas Hennessy.\n\nThe First Dáil was established by Sinn Féin members returned in the 1918 election to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. Convention in the Commons was that the writ for a by-election be moved by a party colleague of the vacating member, which was impossible for the abstentionist Sinn Féin. There were three by-elections held for Westminster constituencies vacated by Unionist members during the lifetime of the First Dáil, all of whom took their seats in Westminster. \nThe Second Dáil comprised those returned in the 1921 elections to the House of Commons of Southern Ireland and the House of Commons of Northern Ireland. There were no by-elections to either body during the lifetime of the Second Dáil.\n\nBy-elections in which seats changed hands are indicated with a grey background.\n\nWhen Pierce McCan died on 6 March 1919, his East Tipperary seat was left vacant at Westminster. In April 1919 a Dáil committee considering how to fill the vacancy considered allowing nomination by the Labour Party (which had stood aside in the 1918 election to avoid splitting the nationalist vote) before recommending that the Sinn Féin constituency organisation should nominate. However, in June 1919 the Dáil decided that \"it was due to the memory of the late Pierce McCann that his place should not be filled at present\". Later vacancies were also left unfilled; when Diarmuid Lynch resigned his seat in 1920, Arthur Griffith said \"as the letter of resignation was addressed to the people of South-East Cork, the next step in the matter lay with the South-East Cork Executive of Sinn Fein\".\n\nIn the first Dáil, four Sinn Féin TDs represented two separate constituencies: Éamon de Valera, Arthur Griffith, Eoin MacNeill and Liam Mellowes. Ordinarily, this would prompt them to choose one constituency to represent, and to move a writ for a by-election in the other constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199831", "title": "Anna, Grand Duchess of Lithuania", "text": "Anna, Grand Duchess of Lithuania\n\nAnna (; died on 31 July 1418 in Trakai) was Grand Duchess of Lithuania (1392–1418). She probably was the first wife of Vytautas the Great, Grand Duke of Lithuania. Anna was mother of Sophia of Lithuania, the only child of Vytautas and wife of Vasily I of Moscow. She is best remembered for helping Vytautas to escape from a prison in Kreva in 1382 and thus probably saving his life. Little is known about Anna's life and even her origins remain disputed by historians.\n\nLikely Anna and Vytautas were married between 1368 and 1377 or around 1370. Anna first comes to light in 1382 when her husband was imprisoned in the Kreva Castle by his cousin Jogaila during the Lithuanian Civil War (1381–1384). While all accounts agree that she freed her husband, details vary from source to source. It is unclear how much freedom Anna had in Kreva and if she was guarded. It is written in the Lithuanian Chronicles that she had two maids with her. She convinced one of them to exchange clothes with Vytautas who then escaped undetected. Chronicler Wigand of Marburg claimed that Vytautas dressed in Anna's clothes rather than in one of Anna's maids. It is believed that Anna remained in Kreva and no information is available on how she escaped or was released. Historian Teodor Narbutt (1784–1864) later added many colorful details to the story, including Vytautas illness and maid Alena, who sacrificed herself to save her master.\n\nIn 1389, when her husband's coup to capture Vilnius failed, she was in Hrodna. After the failed coup Anna followed her husband to the Teutonic Knights, where Vytautas asked for an alliance against his cousins Jogaila and Skirgaila in the Lithuanian Civil War (1389–1392). For a while she was held hostage to guarantee that Vytautas would not break the alliance. After the disagreements were settled in 1392, Anna confirmed the Ostrów Agreement, the peace treaty which made Vytautas the Grand Duke of Lithuania. She signed two letters, one given to Jogaila and another to his wife Jadwiga of Poland. Anna continued to be active in political life and attended negotiations for the Treaty of Salynas (1398).\n\nBefore 1396, she and her husband traveled to Késmárk to meet King Sigismund of Hungary to establish a friendly relationship. While they spoke for a long time, a fire broke out burning half of the city, leading the Hungarian nobles to suspect Vytautas's people. Sigismund intervened and cleared up the situation, resuming the negotiations. After the visit was finished, Vytautas and his wife Anna gave many presents to Sigismund including a coat, a hat and gloves made of sable fur and embroidered in gold. Details of all these presents \"given by Vytautas's wife\" were recorded in a 15th-century chronicle by , a close associate of Sigismund of Hungary.\n\nIn 1400, Anna visited the tomb of Dorothy of Montau in Marienwerder (modern Kwidzyn), and prayed in the churches of Saint Anne in Brandenburg and of Saint Barbara in Oldenburg. She was accompanied by her brother-in-law Sigismund Kęstutaitis and an escort of 400 men. Anna was greeted with expensive gifts and lavish receptions. Anna continued to maintain good relationship with the Teutonic Knights, who sent her expensive gifts, including a clavichord and portative organ in 1408 and rare wine in 1416. After her death, all churches in Prussia were ordered to hold requiem masses. Various chronicles and documents recorded much less positive interaction between Anna and Poland.\n\nIt is believed that St. Anne's Church, built in Vilnius Lower Castle before 1390, was so named in Anna's honor. It was later known as St. Barbara's Church but did not survive to the present. Flemish traveler Guillebert de Lannoy wrote favorably about the Grand Duchess.\n\nAfter her death in 1418, Vytautas wanted to marry her niece Uliana Olshanska, daughter of Ivan Olshanski. Polish historian Jan Długosz asserts that Ivan of Karachev, first husband of Uliana, was murdered by Vytautas in order to marry her. The Bishop of Vilnius refused the ceremony due to their close relationship (Vytautas was Uliana's uncle-in-law) and demanded they seek approval from the pope. Eventually the Bishop of Włocławek performed the ceremony.\n\nThere is considerable debate about who the parents of Anna were. According to the Bychowiec Chronicle, a late and unreliable source, Anna was a sister of Yuri Svyatoslavich, the last sovereign ruler of the Principality of Smolensk. For a long time this was the only theory about her origins. \n\nIn 1933, Lithuanian historian Ignas Jonynas published a study in which he attempted to debunk the Bychowiec Chronicle and demonstrate that Anna was not an Orthodox duchess from Slavic lands, but a daughter of a local Lithuanian noble. Jonynas pointed out that no other contemporary source mentions the relationship between Vytautas and Yuri even though Lithuania and Smolensk were at war several times. The First Lithuanian Chronicle, the basis for which was written while Vytautas was still alive, describes how wars against Smolensk were waged in 1386, 1395, 1401, and 1404, but mentions nothing about Vytautas and Yuri being in-laws. Jonynas argued that Anna was a sister of Sudimantas, a nobleman from Eišiškės and commander of Vytautas' army. Teutonic Chronicle mentions Sudimantas as \"swoger\" of Vytautas. At the time \"swoger\" meant \"brother-in-law\". Another document from 1416 refers to Sudimantas as \"magen\", which denoted a relative, usually related by blood. Since Jonynas' study, Sudimantas has been variously presented as Anna's brother, father, or sister's husband.\n\nIn his 1995 article, Polish historian Jan Tęgowski disagreed with Jonynas and argued that the Bychowiec Chronicle was correct. He argued that Sudimantas was married to a sister of Anna. Tęgowski's main argument that Anna was from Smolensk rested on two documents from 1413 that mention a \"Russian duke Basil\" as Vytautas's brother-in-law. Tęgowski identified this Basil as a son of . Lithuanian historian Inga Baranauskienė refuted this identification since the only known Basil from Smolensk was a son of Ivan, Sviatoslav's brother. She also analyzed the overall relationship between Smolensk and Lithuania noting it was mostly adversary. Further, she noted that Anna had two sisters who were married to local Lithuanian nobles which would be virtually impossible if they were daughters of the Prince of Smolensk.\n\nFlemish traveler Guillebert de Lannoy mentioned that he was received by two sisters of Anna when he visited Vilnius in 1413. A 1390 complaint written by Vytautas against cousins Jogaila and Skirgaila mentioned that his wife's sister was married to his close associate Ivan Olshanski. A memorial book from a monastery in Liubech recorded her name as Agrippina (these books recorded names of the deceased so that they could be remembered in prayers). Ivan and Agrippina had at least four sons and a daughter (Uliana Olshanska who married Vytautas after Anna's death). Another sister of Anna was mentioned by historian Jan Długosz (1415–1480). He recorded that Julijona, sister of Anna, was married to Narimantas who was murdered by Vytautas during an attack on Vilnius in 1390; Julijona later married Albertas Manvydas, the first Voivode of Vilnius. The Latin version of the 1390 complaint by Vytautas recorded a different version – before her marriage to Albertas Manvydas, she was married to Butrimas, a cousin of Vytautas, who was murdered in retribution for the hanging of Vaidila. \n"}
{"id": "2199836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199836", "title": "Hirofumi Arai", "text": "Hirofumi Arai\n\nArai made his screen debut in Isao Yukisada's \"Go\" in 2001 when he was 22 years old. His next film role was the emotionally disturbed senior high school student Aoki in Toshiaki Toyoda's \"Blue Spring\", which won him the Best New Actor award at the 17th Takasaki Film Festival.\n\nIn 2011, Arai co-starred as Detective Kazuhiko Soga in a one-off TV crime thriller \"Douki\" with co-stars Ryuhei Matsuda as Detective Ryota Udagawa and Chiaki Kuriyama as Michiru Soga.\n\nThe June 2012 issue of \"Switch\", a Japanese arts and media magazine, features a special segment on top ten manga that teaches love and passion, chosen by Japanese actors, artists and musicians including Arai, who chose \"Bakuman\" while explaining: '\"You should up your girl power by learning how to behave like a heroine.\"'\n\nArai was represented by Anore Inc, a talent agency founded in 1996 by actor Tadanobu Asano, Asano's father Yukihisa Sato and Asano's musician brother Kujun Sato. The talent agency terminated his contract shortly after his arrest on February 1, 2019.\n\nArai's birth name is Park Kyung-sik (박경식). He had stated in a number of Japanese interviews that he has a continual interest in being involved with films that explore Korean-Japanese issues. \n\n\"Tokyograph\" announced in 2007 that Arai entered a \"serious relationship\" with singer Miu Sakamoto, the eldest daughter of noted musician Ryuichi Sakamoto and singer-songwriter Akiko Yano, after meeting during a television talk show in 2006.\n\nOn February 1, 2019, Arai was arrested for sexual assault of an outcall masseuse on July 1, 2018 by police in Japan. He was later indicted on February 21, 2019. On December 2, 2019, Arai was sentenced to five years in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199842", "title": "Sérgio Azevedo", "text": "Sérgio Azevedo\n\nSérgio Azevedo (born August 23, 1968) is a Portuguese composer of contemporary classical music. He also writes articles and books about music, collaborates often with the National Radio Broadcasting, and is a teacher at the Escola Superior de Música de Lisboa (ESML) since 1993.\n\nBorn in Coimbra, Portugal in 1968, he studied composition at the Academia de Amadores de Música (Lisbon) with composer Fernando Lopes-Graça, and finished his studies of composition at the Escola Superior de Música de Lisboa, with Christopher Bochmann (a disciple of the mythic Nadia Boulanger) and Constança Capdeville with the highest classification (20/20). Azevedo followed several seminars at IRCAM and other institutions, and worked in short periods with composers like Emmanuel Nunes (at the Gulbenkian Foundation), Tristan Murail, Phillipe Manoury, Luca Francesconi, Mary Finsterer, Jorge Peixinho, Louis Andriessen and Simon Bainbridge.\n\nAzevedo won several prizes of composition, in Portugal and abroad (like the United Nations Prize), and his works have been played and commissioned regularly in several countries (Spain, France, United Kingdom, Austria, Germany, Bulgaria, Brasil, Colombia, Canada, USA, Italy, etc.) by prestigious ensembles, soloists and conductors (Luca Pfaff, Pascal Roffé, Jürgen Bruns, Nikolai Lalov, Brian Schembri, Fabian Panisello, Bruno Belthoise, Aline Czerny, Lorraine Vaillancourt, Artur Pizarro, António Rosado, Miguel Borges Coelho, Anne Kaasa, Marc Foster, Jose Ramon Encinar, Brian Schembri, Ronald Corp, Galliard Ensemble, Proyecto Gerhard, Le Concert Impromptu, Remix Ensemble, Ensemble Télémaque, Plural Ensemble, Nouvel Ensemble Moderne, Kammersymphonie Berlin, etc.), some of them being available in commercial CD's.\n\nAzevedo works frequently with schools and students, composing a great deal of didactic pieces, ranging from piano solo to small ensembles and school orchestras, and also with children's choirs, collaborating mainly with conductor Joana Raposo. He is also a prolific writer on music, and published two books: \"A Invenção dos Sons\" (Caminho, Lisbon 1999) and \"Olga Prats - An Extraordinary Piano\" (Bizâncio, Lisbon 2007), and has contributed articles to many publications, such as \"The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", and works for other prestigious magazines and CD labels, like Naxos. He was also author of broadcastings at RDP - Antena 2 and member of the CESEM, Center for Aesthetic and Music Studies from 1993 to 2007.\n\nIn 2007 Azevedo begun his doctorate degree at Minho University with Elisa Lessa and Christopher Bochmann. Azevedo has composed more than 100 works to date, mostly orchestral and chamber music pieces, in several forms, and his music is performed regularly in Portugal and abroad. He is, since 1993, a teacher at the Lisbon Superior School of Music. His music is published by AVA - Musical Editions (www.editions-ava.com).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199844", "title": "Rainy Davis", "text": "Rainy Davis\n\nDenise Lorraine Davis, better known by her stage name Rainy Davis, is an American songwriter, singer and record producer. Out of four \"Billboard\" charted singles, Davis is known best for her song \"Sweetheart\". The single was originally released on the New York-based independent label called Supertronics Records. However, after the song became a hit in the clubs, then on urban radio and eventually crossing over to pop radio, Columbia Records A&R Exec Joe McEwen offered Rainy Davis a production-artist deal for worldwide physical distribution, which included buying Davis's previous contract from Supertronics. Rainy Davis went on to record two albums for Columbia and received numerous awards for her contributions to hit songs over the years.\n\nIn 2005, when digital music distribution was new to the majority of independent artists and label professionals, Davis, founder and president of Rainysongs, set up her online entertainment company with worldwide digital distribution. This was one of the first digital music distribution labels owned by an African American woman. Davis was also one of the pioneers to structure the foundation for fair digital recording agreements in the U.S.\n\nIn 2010, Davis and her company Rainysongs introduced a digital technology platform to North America that empowers independent music professionals to control their digital music content worldwide online.\n\nDavis was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. Even before being famous, Davis was paying her dues. She was singing with a local band called Jamilia (with band members Keith Sweat, Charisse Davis until she joined the female singing group Musique, created and produced by Patrick Adams, which garnered the club pop hits \"In the Bush\" and \"Keep On Jumpin.\"\n\nAfter a few weeks of rehearsals with their new band, Musique was out on the road, and Rainy Davis was a live performance member of the female trio group Musique with Becky Bell and Marisa Dejean. Rainy was now on her first tour as a member of a group with two songs that hit #1 on the \"Billboard\" Disco Action Charts and then crossing over to a pop hit record. The tour was booked throughout North America by the Norby Walters Agency.\n\nAt the request of Amir Bayyan, (personal friend of the Jacksons), Rainy Davis wrote \"Sweetheart\" for Janet Jackson with her songwriting partner Pete Warner. When the demo was finished, all the songs for Janet's 1986 album \"Control\", had been chosen. Amir Bayyan, Christine Bayyan, and Chris Lord-Alge suggested to Davis that she release the song herself, and, as a result, it became a major hit in the dance and club scene and on urban and pop radio.\n\nColumbia Records signed Rainy Davis in 1987 and dubbed her 'America's Sweetheart', then sent Davis on a national tour to support her debut album. The tour included an appearance on Don Cornelius' TV show \"Soul Train\" and a performance at the world-famous Apollo Theatre in Harlem, New York. Davis was also a presenter at the Rhythm & Blues awards at Bally's in Las Vegas.\n\nRainy Davis remains a creative force in the entertainment industry and is a Grammy-nominated songwriter, accomplished music publisher, producer, and recording artist. Her publishing company Rainysongs, is a member of ASCAP and holds controlling interests in the Sweetheart copyrights. Collectively with various album releases by Mariah Carey and Jermaine Dupri with the inclusion of \"Sweetheart\", album sales exceed 22 million physical records worldwide. Davis' additional production and songwriting and releases include the Cover Girls' \"Spring Love\" from the album \"Show Me\"; Inner Life and Jocelyn Brown's \"I Want to Give You Me\" from \"I'm Caught Up\", Apollo 440's \"Sweetheart\" sample from the album \"The Descending Dudes\" and 275 more licenses issued by Harry Fox.\n\nAlbum credits\n\nSingles credits\n\n"}
{"id": "2199849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199849", "title": "Volkmann", "text": "Volkmann\n\nVolkmann is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199856", "title": "Southeastern Pennsylvania Synod", "text": "Southeastern Pennsylvania Synod\n\nThe Southeastern Pennsylvania Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America is the regional ELCA judicatory of the Philadelphia metropolitan area. It is one of the 65 ELCA synods. The synod covers Bucks, Chester, Delaware, and Montgomery counties as well as the City of Philadelphia.\n\nThe synod includes more than 70,000 baptized members, 154 congregations and missions, and more than 340 rostered ministers (pastors, deacons, and members of the ELCA Deaconess Community). The synodical organization, the office of the bishop, and related staff provide support, resources and programs for the congregations and rostered and lay leaders of the synod. \n\nOn May 5, 2018, the synod elected the Rev. Patricia Ann Curtis Davenport as its fifth bishop. She assumed office on August 1, 2018. Bishop Davenport is the first woman of African-American descent to be elected a bishop in the ELCA. The following day, the South Central Synod of Wisconsin elected another African-American pastor, the Rev. Viviane Thomas-Breitfeld, as its bishop. They were among six women elected bishops in the ELCA in 2018, bringing the total number of women in the Conference of Bishops to 16. Bishop Davenport will be installed on September 22, 2018, by ELCA Presiding Bishop Elizabeth A. Eaton. \n\nPrior to her election, Bishop Davenport served as the Synod’s Director for Evangelical Mission and Assistant to the Bishop. She previously served as founding Pastor/Developer for Spirit and Truth Worship Center, a new church start in Yeadon, Pa. She received the Master of Divinity degree from the Lutheran Theological Seminary at Philadelphia, now United Lutheran Seminary. \n\nThe highest legislative authority of the synod is the Synod Assembly, which meets annually in May. The Synod Council is the board of directors of the synod and is its interim legislative authority between meetings of the Synod Assembly. The Synod Council normally meets five times every year. The Bishop is elected by the Synod Assembly and may serve an unlimited number of six-year terms. The other synod officers are the Vice President (who must be a layperson), Secretary, and Treasurer (either a layperson or a rostered pastor), all of whom may serve an unlimited number of four-year terms. \n\nThe synod's current office is located on the grounds of United Lutheran Seminary, having been moved from its previous office in Norristown, Pennsylvania in 2008. \n\nThe synod's territory is located in an area rich in German and Swedish history, with the latter bringing Lutheranism (as missions of the Church of Sweden) in the 1640s before the subsequent takeover of Tinicum (present-day Chester) by the British and the formation of the Province of Pennsylvania under the Quaker William Penn, who invited scores of people, mostly British Quakers and German Lutherans and Anabaptists (Amish and Mennonite), to settle the land. Its predecessor body, the Ministerium of Pennsylvania and Adjacent States, the oldest Lutheran synod in America, was organized in 1748 at Philadelphia by the Lutheran patriarch, Pastor Henry Melchior Muhlenberg of Trappe, Pennsylvania. The synod is also the home of United Lutheran Seminary (ULS) formerly Lutheran Theological Seminary at Philadelphia (LTSP).\n\nSince the \"Called to Common Mission\" with the Episcopal Church, it has been in ecumenical partnership with the Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania, allowing the synod and the diocese to share both pastors and staff. Symbolically, the synod gave the diocese a baptismal font with the consecration of the new Philadelphia Episcopal Cathedral located in Philadelphia's \"University City\" section (near the University of Pennsylvania and Drexel University). \n\nGeographically, the synod shares the same five-county area as the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia and the Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania. The Eastern Pennsylvania Conference of the United Methodist Church, part of the larger Philadelphia Episcopal Area (which includes the Peninsula Delaware Conference), is also located within the geographic boundaries of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Synod, but also includes territory located within the ELCA's Northeastern Pennsylvania Synod, mostly the Lehigh Valley and Pocono Mountains regions.\n\nThe following individuals have served as Bishops of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Synod since its inception in 1988 with the formation of the ELCA:\n"}
{"id": "2199875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199875", "title": "Kreva", "text": "Kreva\n\nKreva (, ; ; ; ) is a township in the Smarhon District of Grodno Region, Belarus. The first mention dates to the 13th century. The toponym derived from the name of the Krivichs tribe.\n\nThe Kreva Castle, constructed of brick, was built by the Grand Duke of Lithuania Gediminas at the borderland of Lithuanian ethnic lands. After his death in 1341, Kreva became the patrimony of his son and successor, Algirdas. In 1382, the Grand Duke Kęstutis was imprisoned in Kreva during the Lithuanian Civil War (1381–84) and subsequently murdered on the order by his nephew Jogaila.\n\nThe ruins of the castle were severely damaged during World War I, as they were near the front lines. They remain extant to the present day.\n\nIn 1385, the Union of Krewo (Act of Kreva) was signed in Kreva.\n\nIn 1387, following the Christianization of Lithuania, the Grand Duke Jogaila established the first Catholic parish in the Lithuanian pagan lands and built a church which is now known as the Church of St. Mary.\n\nBefore World War II, 500 Jews lived in the village. After the German occupation of the town they are kept imprisoned in a ghetto and used as used as slave labourers in harsh conditions. They are deported in other ghettos in Vilnius and Ashmyany in 1942.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199877", "title": "Economy of Italy under fascism", "text": "Economy of Italy under fascism\n\nThe economy of Italy under fascism refers to the economy in the Kingdom of Italy between 1922 and 1943, when it was controlled by fascism. Italy had emerged from World War I in a poor and weakened condition and, after the war, suffered inflation, massive debts and an extended depression. By 1920, the economy was in a massive convulsion, with mass unemployment, food shortages, strikes and so on. That conflagration of viewpoints can be exemplified by the so-called \"Biennio Rosso\" (Two Red Years).\n\nThere were some economic problems in Europe like inflation in the aftermath of the war. The consumer price index in Italy continued to increase after 1920 but Italy did not experience hyperinflation on the level of Austria, Poland, Hungary, Russia and Germany. The costs of the war and postwar reconstruction contributed to inflationary pressure. The changing political attitudes of the post-war period and rise of a working class was also a factor and Italy was one of several countries where there was a disagreement about the tax burden.\n\nBenito Mussolini came to power in 1922 under a parliamentary coalition until the National Fascist Party seized control and ushered in a one-party dictatorship by early 1925. The growth in Mussolini’s popularity to the extent of becoming a national leader was gradual as would be expected for a leader of any fascist movement. The doctrine only succeeded in Italy because the public was just as enthusiastic for change as much as Mussolini was committed to doing away with the liberal doctrines and Marxism in the country. Therefore, he would later write and distribute \"The Doctrine of Fascism\" to the Italian society, which ended up being the basis of the Fascist agenda throughout Mussolini’s dictatorship. Mussolini did not simply thrust himself into the dictatorship position, but rather rose gradually based on his understanding of the existing support for his ideas in the country.\n\nBefore the dictatorship era, Mussolini tried to transform the country's economy along fascist ideology, at least on paper. In fact, he was not an economic radical, nor did he seek a free-hand in the economy. The Fascist Party held a minority faction of only three positions in the cabinet, excluding Mussolini; and providing other political parties more independence. During the coalition period, Mussolini appointed a classical liberal economist, Alberto De Stefani, originally a stalwart leader in the Center Party as Italy’s Minister of Finance, who advanced economic liberalism, along with minor privatization. Before his dismissal in 1925, Stefani \"simplified the tax code, cut taxes, curbed spending, liberalized trade restrictions and abolished rent controls\", where the Italian economy grew more than 20 percent, and unemployment fell 77 percent, under his influence.\n\nTo proponents of the first view, Mussolini did have a clear economic agenda, both long and short-term, from the beginning of his rule. The government had two main objectives—to modernize the economy and to remedy the country's lack of strategic resources. Before the removal of Stefani, Mussolini's administration pushed the modern capitalistic sector in the service of the state, intervening directly as needed to create a collaboration between the industrialists, the workers and the state. The government moved toward resolving class conflicts in favour of corporatism. In the short term, the government worked to reform the widely abused tax system, dispose of inefficient state-owned industry, cut government costs and introduce tariffs to protect the new industries. However, these policies ended after Mussolini took dictatorial controls and terminated the coalition.\n\nThe lack of industrial resources, especially the key ingredients of the Industrial Revolution, was countered by the intensive development of the available domestic sources and by aggressive commercial policies—searching for particular raw material trade deals, or attempting strategic colonization. In order to promote trade, Mussolini pushed the Italian parliament to ratify an \"Italo-Soviet political and economic agreement\" by early 1923. This agreement assisted Mussolini’s effort to have the Soviet Union officially recognized by Italy in 1924, the first Western nation to do so. With the signing of the 1933 Treaty of Friendship, Nonaggression, and Neutrality with the Soviet Union, Fascist Italy became a major trading partner with Joseph Stalin's Russia, exchanging natural resources from Soviet Russia for technical assistance from Italy, which included the fields of aviation, automobile and naval technology.\n\nAlthough a disciple of the French Marxist Georges Sorel and the main leader of the Italian Socialist Party in his early years, Mussolini abandoned the theory of class struggle for class collaboration. Some fascist syndicalists turned to economic collaboration of the classes to create a \"productivist\" posture where \"a proletariat of producers\" would be critical to the \"conception of revolutionary politics\" and social revolution. However, most fascist syndicalists instead followed the lead of Edmondo Rossoni, who favored combining nationalism with class struggle, often displaying a hostile attitude towards capitalists. This anti-capitalist hostility was so contentious that in 1926 Rossoni denounced industrialists as \"vampires\" and \"profiteers\".\n\nSince Italy’s economy was generally undeveloped with little industrialization, fascists and revolutionary syndicalists, such as Angelo Oliviero Olivetti, argued that the Italian working class could not have the requisite numbers or consciousness \"to make revolution\". They instead followed Karl Marx's admonition that a nation required \"full maturation of capitalism as the precondition for socialist realization\". Under this interpretation, especially as expounded by Sergio Panunzio, a major theoretician of Italian fascism, \"[s]yndicalists were productivists, rather than distributionists\". Fascist intellectuals were determined to foster economic development to enable a syndicalist economy to \"attain its productive maximum\", which they identified as crucial to \"socialist revolution\".\n\nReferring to the economics of John Maynard Keynes as \"useful introduction to fascist economics\", Mussolini spent Italy into a structural deficit that grew exponentially. In Mussolini’s first year as Prime Minister in 1922, Italy's national debt stood at 93 billion lire. By 1934, Italian historian Gaetano Salvemini, estimated Italy's national debt had risen to 149 billion lire. In 1943, \"The New York Times\" put Italy’s national debt as 406 billion lire.\n\nA former school teacher, Mussolini’s spending on the public sector, schools and infrastructure was considered extravagant. Mussolini \"instituted a programme of public works hitherto unrivaled in modern Europe. Bridges, canals and roads were built, hospitals and schools, railway stations and orphanages; swamps were drained and land reclaimed, forests were planted and universities were endowed\". As for the scope and spending on social welfare programs, Italian fascism \"compared favorably with the more advanced European nations and in some respect was more progressive\". When New York city politician Grover Aloysius Whalen asked Mussolini about the meaning behind Italian fascism in 1939, the reply was: \"It is like your New Deal!\".\n\nBy 1925, the Fascist government had \"embarked upon an elaborate program\" that included food supplementary assistance, infant care, maternity assistance, general healthcare, wage supplements, paid vacations, unemployment benefits, illness insurance, occupational disease insurance, general family assistance, public housing and old age and disability insurance. As for public works, the Mussolini's administration \"devoted 400 million lire of public monies\" for school construction between 1922 and 1942, compared to only 60 million lire between 1862 and 1922.\n\nThe Fascist government began its reign in an insecure position. Coming to power in 1922 after the March on Rome, it was a minority government until the 1923 Acerbo Law and the 1924 elections and it took until 1925, after the assassination of Giacomo Matteoti, to establish itself securely as a dictatorship.\n\nEconomic policy in the first few years was largely classical liberal, with the Ministry of Finance controlled by the old liberal Alberto De Stefani. The multiparty coalition government undertook a low-key \"laissez-faire\" program—the tax system was restructured (February 1925 law, 23 June 1927 decree-law and so on), there were attempts to attract foreign investment and establish trade agreements and efforts were made to balance the budget and cut subsidies. The 10% tax on capital invested in banking and industrial sectors was repealed while the tax on directors and administrators of anonymous companies (SA) was cut down by half. All foreign capital was exonerated of taxes while the luxury tax was also repealed. Mussolini also opposed municipalization of enterprises.\n\nThe 19 April 1923 law transferred life insurance to private enterprise, repealing a 1912 law that created a State Institute for insurances, which had envisioned construction of state monopoly ten years later. Furthermore, a 19 November 1922 decree suppressed the Commission on war profits while the 20 August 1923 law suppressed the inheritance tax inside the family circle.\n\nThere was a general emphasis on what has been called productivism—national economic growth as a means of social regeneration and wider assertion of national importance.\n\nUp until 1925, the country enjoyed modest growth, but structural weaknesses increased inflation and the currency slowly fell (1922 L90 to £1, 1925 G135 to £1). In 1925, there was a great increase in speculation and short runs against the lira. The levels of capital movement became so great the government attempted to intervene. De Stefani was sacked, his program side-tracked and the Fascist government became more involved in the economy in step with the increased security of their power.\n\nIn 1925, the Italian state abandoned its monopoly on telephone infrastructure while the state production of matches was handed over to a private \"Consortium of matches' productors\".\n\nFurthermore, various banking and industrial companies were financially supported by the state. One of Mussolini's first acts was to fund the metallurgical trust Ansaldo to the height of 400 million lire. Following a deflation crisis that started in 1926, banks such as the \"Banco di Roma\", the \"Banco di Napoli\" and \"Banco di Sicilia\" were also assisted by the state. In 1924, the \"Unione Radiofonica Italiana\" (URI) was formed by private entrepreneurs and part of the Marconi group and granted the same year a monopoly of radio broadcasts. URI became the RAI after the war.\n\nThe lira continued to decline into 1926. It can be argued that this was not a bad thing for Italy since it resulted in cheaper and more competitive exports and more expensive imports. However, the declining lira was disliked politically. Mussolini apparently saw it as \"a virility issue\" and the decline was an attack on his prestige. In the Pesaro Speech of 18 August 1926, he began the \"Battle for the Lira\". Mussolini made a number of strong pronouncements and set his position of returning the lira to its 1922 level, \"Quota 90\". This policy was implemented through an extended deflation of the economy as the country rejoined the gold standard, the money supply was reduced and interest rates were raised. This action produced a sharp recession, which Mussolini took up as a sign of his assertion of power over \"troublesome elements\"—a slap to both capitalist speculators and trade unions.\n\nOn a wider scale, the Fascist economic policy pushed the country towards the corporative state, an effort that lasted well into the war. The idea was to create a national community where the interests of all parts of the economy were integrated into a class-transcending unity. Some see the move to corporatism in two phases. First, the workers were brought to heel over 1925–1927. Initially, the non-fascist trade unions and later (less forcefully) the fascist trade unions were nationalized by Mussolini's administration and placed under state ownership, conforming to Vladimir Lenin's earlier policies to eliminate independent labor unions in the Soviet Union. Under this labor policy, Fascist Italy enacted laws to make union membership compulsory for all workers. This was a difficult stage as the trade unions were a significant component of Italian fascism from its radical syndicalist roots and they were also a major force in Italian industry. The changes were embodied in two key developments. The Pact of the Vidoni Palace in 1925 brought the fascist trade unions and major industries together, creating an agreement for the industrialists to only recognise certain unions and so marginalise the non-fascist and socialist trade unions. The Syndical Laws of 1926 (sometimes called the Rocco Laws after Alfredo Rocco) took this agreement a step further as in each industrial sector there could be only one trade union and employers organisation. Labour had previously been united under Edmondo Rossoni and his General Confederation of Fascist Syndical Corporations, giving him a substantial amount of power even after the syndical laws, causing both the industrialists and Mussolini himself to resent him. Thereby, he was dismissed in 1928 and Mussolini took over his position as well.\n\nOnly these syndicates could negotiate agreements, with the government acting as an \"umpire\". The laws made both strikes and lock-outs illegal and took the final step of outlawing non-fascist trade unions. Despite strict regimentation, the labour syndicates had the power to negotiate collective contracts (uniform wages and benefits for all firms within an entire economic sector). Firms that broke contracts usually got away with it due to the enormous bureaucracy and difficulty in solving labour disputes, primarily due to the significant influence the industrialists had over labour affairs.\n\nEmployer syndicates had a considerable amount of power as well. Membership within these associations was compulsory and the leaders had the power to control and regulate production practices, distribution, expansion and other factors with their members. The controls generally favoured larger enterprises over small producers, who were dismayed that they had lost a significant amount of individual autonomy.\n\nSince the syndical laws kept capital and labour separate, Mussolini and other party members continued to reassure the public that this was merely a stop-gap and that all associations would be integrated into the corporate state at a later stage.\n\nFrom 1927, these legal and structural changes led into the second phase, the corporative phase. The Labour Charter of 1927 confirmed the importance of private initiative in organising the economy while still reserving the right for state intervention, most notably in the supposedly complete fascist control of worker hiring. In 1930, the National Council of Corporations was established and it was for representatives of all levels of the twenty-two key elements of the economy to meet and resolve problems. In practice, it was an enormous bureaucracy of committees that while consolidating the potential powers of the state resulted in a cumbersome and inefficient system of patronage and obstructionism. One consequence of the Council was the fact that trade unions held little to no representation whereas organized business, specifically organized industry (CGII), was able to gain a foothold over its competitors.\n\nA key effect that the Council had on the economy was the rapid increase in cartels, especially the law passed in 1932, allowing the government to mandate cartelization. The dispute was sparked when several industrial firms refused CGII orders to cartelize, prompting the government to step in. Since the corporations cut across all sectors of production, mutual agreements and cartelization was a natural reaction. Hence in 1937, over two-thirds of cartels authorized by the state, many of which crossed sectors of the economy, had started after the founding of the Council, resulting in the noticeable increase in commercial-industrial cartelization. Cartels generally undermined the corporative agencies that were meant to ensure they operated according to Fascist principles and in the national interest, but the heads were able to show that cartel representatives had total control over the individual firms in the distribution of resources, prices, salaries and construction. Businessmen usually argued in favour of \"collective self-regulation\" being within Fascist ideological lines when forming cartels, subtly undermining corporative principles.\n\nGovernment intervention in industry was very uneven as large programs started, but with little overarching direction. Intervention began with the \"Battle of the Grain\" in 1925 when the government intervened following the poor harvest to subsidise domestic growers and limit foreign imports by increasing taxes. This reduced competition and created, or sustained, widespread inefficiencies. According to historian Denis Mack Smith (1981), \"[s]uccess in this battle was [...] another illusory propaganda victory won at the expense of the Italian economy in general and consumers in particular\", continuing that \"[t]hose who gained were the owners of the \"Latifondia\" and the propertied classes in general [...] his policy conferred a heavy subsidy on the \"Latifondisti\"\".\n\nLarger programs began in the 1930s with the \"Bonifica Integrale\" land reclamation program (or so-called \"Battle for Land\"), which was employing over 78,000 people by 1933; the Mezzogiorno policies to modernise southern Italy and attack the Mafia as per capita income in the south was still 40% below that of the north; the electrification of the railways and similar transport programs; hydroelectrical projects; and the chemical industry, automobiles and steel. There was also limited takeover of strategic areas, notably oil with the creation of Agip (\"Azienda Generale Italiana Petroli\"—General Italian Oil Company).\n\nThe worldwide depression of the early 1930s hit Italy very hard starting in 1931. As industries came close to failure they were bought out by the banks in a largely illusionary bail-out—the assets used to fund the purchases were largely worthless. This led to a financial crisis peaking in 1932 and major government intervention. After the bankruptcy of the Austrian Kredit Anstalt in May 1931, Italian banks followed, with the bankruptcy of the \"Banco di Milano\", the \"Credito Italiano\" and the \"Banca Commerciale\". To support them, the state created three institutions funded by the Italian Treasure, with the first being the Sofindit in October 1931 (with a capital of 500 million liras), which bought back all the industrial shares owned by the \"Banca Commerciale\" and other establishments in trouble. In November 1931 the IMI (capital of 500 million liras) was also created and it issued five and one-half billion liras in state obligations as reimbursables in a period of ten years. This new capital was lent to private industry for a maximum period of ten years.\n\nFinally, the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction (IRI) formed in January 1933 and took control of the bank-owned companies, suddenly giving Italy the largest industrial sector in Europe that used government-linked companies (GLC). At the end of 1933, it saved the Hydroelectric Society of Piemont, whose shares had fallen from 250 liras to 20 liras—while in September 1934, the Ansaldo trust was again reconstituted under the authority of the IRI, with a capital of 750 million liras. Despite this taking of control of private companies through (GLC), the Fascist state did not nationalize any company.\n\nNot long after the creation of the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction, Mussolini boasted in a 1934 speech to his Chamber of Deputies: \"Three-fourths of the Italian economy, industrial and agricultural, is in the hands of the state\". As Italy continued to nationalize its economy, the IRI \"became the owner not only of the three most important Italian banks, which were clearly too big to fail, but also of the lion’s share of the Italian industries\".\n\nDuring this period, Mussolini identified his economic policies with \"state capitalism\" and \"state socialism\", which later was described as \"economic dirigisme\", an economic system where the state has the power to direct economic production and allocation of resources. The economic conditions in Italy, including institutions and corporations gave Mussolini sufficient power to engage with them as he could. Although there were economic issues in the country, the approaches used in addressing them in the fascist era included political intervention measures, which ultimately could not effectively solve the strife. An already bad situation ended up being worse since the solutions presented were largely intended to increase political power as opposed to helping the affected citizens. These measures played a critical role in aggravating the conditions of the great depression in Italy.\n\nBy 1939, Fascist Italy attained the highest rate of state ownership of an economy in the world other than the Soviet Union, where the Italian state \"controlled over four-fifths of Italy's shipping and shipbuilding, three-quarters of its pig iron production and almost half that of steel\". IRI also did rather well with its new responsibilities—restructuring, modernising and rationalising as much as it could. It was a significant factor in post-1945 development. However, it took the Italian economy until 1955 to recover the manufacturing levels of 1930—a position that was only 60% better than that of 1913.\n\nAs Mussolini's ambitions grew, domestic policy was subsumed by foreign policy, especially the push for autarky after the 1935 invasion of Abyssinia and the subsequent trade embargoes. The push for independence from foreign strategic materials was expensive, ineffective and wasteful. It was achieved by a massive increase in public debt, tight exchange controls and the exchange of economic dynamism for stability.\n\nRecovery from the postwar slump had begun before Mussolini came to power, and later growth rates were comparatively weaker. From 1929 to 1939, the Italian economy grew by 16%, roughly half as fast as the earlier liberal period. Annual growth rates were 0.5% lower than prewar rates, and the annual rate of growth of value was 1% lower. Despite the efforts directed at industry, agriculture was still the largest sector of the economy in 1938, and only a third of total national income was derived from industry. Agriculture still employed 48% of the working population in 1936 (56% in 1921), industrial employment had grown only 4% over the period of fascist rule (24% in 1921 and 28% in 1936), and there was more growth in traditional than in modern industries. The rate of gross investment actually fell under Mussolini, and the move from consumer to investment goods was low compared to the other militaristic economies. Attempts to modernise agriculture were also ineffective. Land reclamation and the concentration on grains came at the expense of other crops, producing very expensive subsidised wheat while cutting more viable and economically rewarding efforts. Most evidence suggests that rural poverty and insecurity increased under fascism, and their efforts failed markedly to create a modern, rational agricultural system.\n\nIn the late 1930s, the economy was still too underdeveloped to sustain the demands of a modern militaristic regime. Production of raw materials too small, and finished military equipment was limited in quantity and too often in quality. Althogh at least 10% of GDP, almost a third of government expenditure, began to be directed towards the armed services in the 1930s, the country was \"spectacularly weak\". Notably, the investment in the early 1930s left the services, especially the army, obsolete by 1940. Expenditures on conflicts from 1935 (such as commitments to the Spanish Civil War in 1936 to 1939 as well as the Italy-Albania War in 1939) caused little stockpiling to occur for the much greater (World War II in 1940–1945).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199882", "title": "Neferteri Shepherd", "text": "Neferteri Shepherd\n\nNeferteri Sheba Shepherd (born September 8, 1980, now \"Neferteri Plessy\") is an African-American model and actress. She is \"Playboy\"'s Playmate of the Month for July 2000 and has appeared in \"Playboy\" videos.\n\nShepherd is also a mother of two, a blogger and a TV host; her spare time is spent managing Single Mom Planet. \"Single Mom Planet is meant to empower single moms such as myself to live a dynamic life that they love,\" she has explained. \"We host events so moms can meet and share advice. We also have a website where moms can get recipes, exercise tips and advice on dating, relationships and raising their kids.\"\n\nBorn in New Orleans, Louisiana, Neferteri Shepherd relocated to Los Angeles in pursuit of her dreams of becoming an actress and model. Her great ambition led to her being booked as a leading model on the American Music Awards, on the runways of Baby Phat and Stuff Magazine, and featured in a National Ad Campaign with the athletic apparel company Privacy Wear. She has also been featured in the pages of Maxim magazine.\n\nNeferteri's screen appearances include co-hosting VH1's Sex & Rock Roll, she is the leading lady in platinum selling recording artist music videos (50 Cents to Usher) and her commercial appearances include an Arby's spot that is presently airing nationally, sitcoms include UPN's The Parkers and FOX's Method and Red, and the movie \"Hair Show,\" starring Monique. She's also the featured actress for the new 2005 Starz network imaging campaign.\n\nAlso participated in the game Street Racing Syndicate (2004), where shot for the winning video with dancing girls.\n\nShe has now turned her sights squarely on producing television shows. A talent that is being mentored by Hollywood producer Rushion McDonald of Nu-Opp Inc. Neferteri has two shows in development and a pilot being shot at the WB. The name of the pilot show is \"Mobile Home Disaster,\" a reality makeover show for trailer park homes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199885", "title": "Rode Heath", "text": "Rode Heath\n\nRode Heath is a small village in the civil parish of Odd Rode, near Alsager and within the unitary authority of Cheshire East and the ceremonial county of Cheshire, England. According to the 2001 census, Rode Heath had a population of 2,150. In the 2011 census the figure had dropped to 2,019 and a 2016 estimate put the population at 1,943. The village was previously two villages, Rode Heath and Thurlwood. Since extensive housing developments in Thurlwood the two are known simply as Rode Heath.\n\nThe Trent and Mersey Canal runs through Rode Heath. The village has two pubs, a primary school, post office, shop and takeaway. There are two churches: the Church of the Good Shepherd, one of the three churches that make up the Parish of Odd Rode, and the Rhema Mission Church (Rode Heath Chapel). Close by is Rode Hall, the gardens of which are a tourist attraction. The current owner of Rode Hall is Lady Wilbraham.\n\nThe village has a number of gentle walks along the canal and through the countryside, popular with dog walkers.\n\nThere was a salt works at Rode Heath run by James Sutton (1799–1868), who was also a canal boat carrier and High Sheriff of Derbyshire. In the past, Rode Heath and Thurlwood were separate settlements. From 1864 to 1962 there was a Primitive Methodist Chapel in Thurlwood. Many of the original inhabitants of Thurlwood were canal-boat families and some of the older houses, such as those in Faram's Road, had stables for the horses that towed the boats. Rode Heath and Thurlwood are now effectively joined, although the major 'link' and where you can see the end of one village lies on the southernmost lock.\n"}
{"id": "2199889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199889", "title": "Pole of Communist Revival in France", "text": "Pole of Communist Revival in France\n\nThe Pole of Communist Revival in France (, PRCF) is a French political party founded in January 2004. It was an internal tendency of the French Communist Party (PCF) that left the party, rejecting the PCF's \"mutation\" beginning in the early 1990s. \n\nThe president-delegate of the PRCF is Leon Landini, the president of the National Political Committee (CPN) is Jean-Pierre Hemmen, the national, directing political spokesman of \"Communist Initiative\" is George Gastaud, and George Hage, a member of parliament for the Nord departement and senior of the National Assembly, is the honorary president. \n\nThe PRCF is organized in associations in the French départements, sections and cells (democratic centralism). It is based on the theory of scientific socialism of Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Vladimir Lenin and other revolutionary thinkers. The PRCF publishes the \"Initiative communiste\" (\"Communist Initiative\") monthly magazine and the theoretical review \"Etincelle\". \n\nThe organisation broadcasts a programme called \"Convergence\" each Monday from 8 to 9 pm on \"Radio Galère\". Its youth wing, Young People for the Communist Revival in France (JRCF), took part in the mass movement against the Contrat première embauche in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199892", "title": "Preetz", "text": "Preetz\n\nPreetz () is a town southeast of Kiel in the district of Plön, in Schleswig-Holstein, Northern Germany. Preetz is also known as \"Schusterstadt\" (English: 'shoemaker town') named after shoemakers who used to live and work in this town. Preetz has a population of about 16,000 and is the largest city in the district of Plön.\n\nPreetz is located in a hilly area referred to as the \"Holsteinische Schweiz\" (Holstein Switzerland) with a number of lakes and forests surrounding the town.\n\nLakes include the Postsee, Lanker See and the smaller Kirchsee in the centre of town, which forms part of the river Schwentine. There are multiple nature reserves around Preetz that attract tourists and locals alike for biking and hiking, especially in the summer months.\n\nThe first mention of Preetz dates from the year 1185, when Ecbrecht Procensis writes about the location Poretz in the \"Versus de Vicelino\". The origins of the name Preetz are said to be found in the Slavic term \"po rece\" (i.e., on the river). In 1221, the term \"Poretzie\" appeared, and in 1442 \"Pretze\".\n\nA first town church was built in 1210. In 1211, Count Albrecht von Orlamünde established a Benedictine monastery: Preetz Priory. The foundation of the abbey was renewed by Adolf IV von Schauenburg in 1226, and it was given to nuns. In 1268, the nunnery church was built. The nunnery formed the highest administrative authority until 1867 and exercised jurisdiction as well.\n\nPreetz obtained street lighting in 1852. The station was built in 1864, the Council Hall in 1871. An oak tree in front of the Council Hall, which was planted in 1871, still exists.\n\nLimited city rights were awarded to Preetz on 17 May 1870, full city rights in 1901.\n\n\nThe fish in the top part is meant to show the past's principal source of food. Displayed is a Percidae. This kind of fish is known for its defensive traits and is meant to show the defensive traits the population of Preetz has.\n\nPreetz is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199898", "title": "Jack Buetel", "text": "Jack Buetel\n\nJack Buetel (September 5, 1915 – June 27, 1989) was an American film and television actor.\n\nBorn John Alexander Beutel in Dallas, Texas, he moved to Los Angeles, California in the late 1930s with the intention of establishing a film career, changing his name to read Buetel. Unable to find such work, he was employed as an insurance clerk when he was noticed by an agent who was impressed by his looks.\n\nIntroduced to Howard Hughes, who was about to begin filming \"The Outlaw\", Buetel was signed to play the lead role as Billy the Kid, with the previously signed David Bacon being dropped from the film. Hughes also signed another newcomer, Jane Russell, for the female lead, and realizing the inexperience of his two stars, also signed veteran actors Thomas Mitchell and Walter Huston.\n\nBuetel was signed to a standard seven-year contract at $150 per week and was assured by Hughes that he would become a major star. Filmed in late 1940 and early 1941, \"The Outlaw\" officially premiered in 1943 but was not widely seen until 1946. It was notable for suggesting the act of sexual intercourse, uncommon in mainstream movies of the era, and for allowing characters to \"sin on film\", without a suitable punishment also being depicted, in violation of the Production Code. Much of the publicity surrounding the release of the film focused on Jane Russell, and she established a solid film career, despite critics giving her performance in \"The Outlaw\" poor reviews.\n\nBuetel's performance was also highly criticised, and he languished with Hughes refusing to allow him to work. The director Howard Hawks tried to secure his services for the film \"Red River\" (1948), but after Hughes refused to allow Buetel to take part, Montgomery Clift was chosen and Clift went on to an active film career.\n\nIn 1951, Buetel appeared in \"Best of the Badmen\", his first film appearance in 8 years. \n\nOver the next few years he appeared in five more films and made infrequent appearances on television. \n\nIn 1956, he landed the role of Jeff Taggert in Edgar Buchanan's syndicated western series, \"Judge Roy Bean\". Others who appeared regularly in the 39-episode color series, set in Langtry, Texas, were Jackie Loughery, X Brands, Tristram Coffin, Glenn Strange, and Lash LaRue.\n\nBuetel's last acting role was in a 1961 episode of \"Wagon Train\". \n\nHe also appeared as himself in the 1982 \"Night of 100 Stars\" television special.\n\nBuetel was married to Cereatha Browning, and later Joann Jensen Crawford. He relocated to Portland, Oregon sometime in the 1970s.\n\nBuetel died in Portland, Oregon, and was buried at Portland Memorial Mausoleum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199900", "title": "Karli, India", "text": "Karli, India\n\nKarli (also Karla) is a town on the highway between Pune and Mumbai in southern Maharashtra in India. It is on a major trade route that runs from the Arabian Sea eastward, into the Deccan. Karli's location in Maharashtra places it in a region that is the division between North India and South India. \n\nThe small town is most famous for the Karla Caves—a 1st-century BC Buddhist temple complex or \"chaityas\" cut out of stone. At long and in height, it is the largest such chaitya in India. The aisle of the temple is flanked by 37 pillars that are topped with kneeling elephants. \n\nThe outside facade is in bad repair due to stone breakage as well as the erosion of intricate details carved to imitate finished wood. The central motif is a large horseshoe arch. There is a lion column in front, with a closed stone facade and almost ruined \"torana\" in between. On one side there is a temple of Shree Ekvira devi (Ekveera Aai).\n\nThree years later hostilities were resumed. The Bombay government now sent an army to the Konkan, with orders to march across the Western Ghauts on Poonah. An advanced party of under Captain Stewart first took possession of the Bhore Ghaut, where they were joined by the main army under Colonel Charles Egerton. Hartley had been offered the post of quartermaster general to the army, but he preferred to take his place at the head of his battalion. \n\nOn 4 January 1779, during the First Anglo-Maratha War, forces of the Maratha Empire confronted at Karli a force of six companies of grenadier sepoys in the British service, which set out from Bombay with the intention of reaching Puna. In the skirmish was killed the British commander, Captain Stewart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199916", "title": "Steve Mac", "text": "Steve Mac\n\nSteve McCutcheon (born 15 January 1972), known professionally as Steve Mac, is a British record producer, songwriter and musician. A multi-award-winning producer, he is one of the most prolific songwriters and record producers in modern British music, with contributions to 30 number one singles in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nMac got his break in the music industry in the early 90s when he wrote and produced the Nomad hit \"(I Wanna Give You) Devotion\" that reached no.2 in the UK singles charts.\n\nHe then met songwriter Wayne Hector, with the pair striking up a partnership that has seen them co-write and produce a range of chart songs.\n\nMac has gone on to work with some of the most recognised names in the music industry. He has written, co-written and produced hits for musicians including Ed Sheeran, Pink, Westlife and Little Mix, and many other UK and international singers.\n\nFrom his Rokstone Studios in London, the artists he has written and produced for have racked up over 200 million sales worldwide during his career. As well as a string of no.1 UK and international hits, Mac has also penned top 10 singles for artists such as Calvin Harris, Demi Lovato, One Direction, The Saturdays, Leona Lewis and Rita Ora, among others.\n\nThe producer has had a long-standing collaboration with Irish boyband, Westlife, dating back to the late 1990s. This artistic partnership resulted in him co-writing and producing four no.1 UK singles for the band. He has co-produced another five no.1 hits and produced three top five singles. Mac also co-wrote and produced the band's 2000 hit Christmas single, “What Makes a Man” reaching no.2 in the UK singles chart.\n\nMac won the first of his two Brit Awards in 2010 for co-writing and producing the no.1 single “Beat Again” for British pop/R&B band, JLS.\n\nIn 2012, the producer worked with a host of artists including Little Mix, The Wanted, The Saturdays, Susan Boyle, Il Divo, Boyzone and Gareth Gates.\n\nMac was recognised in 2012, and then again in 2013 by picking up the ASCAP Song of the Year Award. The awards were in recognition of co-writing and producing the hits “Glad You Came” for The Wanted, and “You Make Me Feel…” by Cobra Starship, respectively.\n\nBetween 2013 and 2015, Mac worked with several musicians include James Blunt, John Newman, Union J, Calvin Harris, The Vamps and Demi Lovato. He made several contributions to both James Blunt's Moon Landing album that reached no.2 in the UK album chart and The Vamps’ Wake Up album that was a top 10 hit.\n\nMac scored another number one hit in 2016 with “Rockabye” by Clean Bandit featuring Sean Paul and Anne-Marie. The song reached the top of the UK singles chart, staying there for nine consecutive weeks. The single also won in the EDM Winning Songs category alongside his other co-produced track for Clean Bandit and Zara Larsson, “Symphony”.\n\nIn 2017, Mac picked up the Songwriter of the Year and Producer of the Year at the Music Business Worldwide A&R Awards and the ASCAP Founders Award for “his pioneering contribution to music, global success and a 27 year body of work”.\n\nThe same year, Mac co-wrote the no.1 single “Shape of You” for Ed Sheeran. The song broke chart history, spending 14 weeks at the top of the UK charts, and remaining in the Top 10 of the Billboard Hot 100 in the US for 33 weeks. It also claimed the unique achievement of being the most-streamed song of all time on Spotify.\n\nHe also received another Grammy nomination for Pink's US No. 1 single \"What About Us\", which he wrote and produced.\n\n2018 saw the producer work with some of music's most prolific names such as Scottish group Chvrches, Years & Years, Celine Dion, Little Mix, Craig David and Westlife.\n\nMac won the 2018 Brit Award for British Producer of the Year. As well as the Brit Award, he also won both Songwriter of the Year and Song of the Year at the Annual ASCAP Pop Music Awards 2018 in LA.\n\nIn another award recognising Mac's work, the multi-platinum hit “Shape of You” he co-wrote and produced for Ed Sheeran picked up both a Grammy Award and the Ivor Novello Award for PRS for Music Most Performed Work in 2017.\n\nBrit Awards 2018:\n\nBritish Producer of the Year\n\n35th Annual ASCAP Pop Music Awards 2018\n\nSongwriter of the Year:\n\nSong of the Year – Shape of You, Ed Sheeran | Strip That Down, Liam Payne ft. Quavo | Rockabye, Clean Bandit ft. Sean Paul | What About Us, P!nk\n\nMusic Business Worldwide A&R Awards 2017\n\nProducer of the Year\n\nSongwriter of the Year\n\nASCAP Song of the Year Awards 2013\n\nGlad You Came, The Wanted: (Co-writer & Co-producer)\n\nASCAP Song of the Year Awards 2012\n\nYou Make Me Feel... Cobra Starship: (Co-writer & Co-producer)\n\nBrit Awards 2010\n\nSong of the Year: Beat Again, JLS (Co-written with Wayne Hector)\n\nBMI Awards 2001\n\nPop Award: Swear It Again, Westlife (Co-written with Wayne Hector)\n"}
{"id": "2199923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199923", "title": "Karla Caves", "text": "Karla Caves\n\nThe Karla Caves, Karli Caves, Karle Caves or Karla Cells, are a complex of ancient Buddhist Indian rock-cut caves at Karli near Lonavala, Maharashtra. It is just 10.9 Kilometers away from Lonavala. Other caves in the area are Bhaja Caves, Patan Buddhist Cave, Bedse Caves and Nasik Caves.\nThe shrines were developed over the period – from the 2nd century BCE to the 5th century CE. The oldest of the cave shrines is believed to date back to 160 BCE, having arisen near a major ancient trade route, running eastward from the Arabian Sea into the Deccan. \n\nThe group at Karla is one of the older and smaller of the many rock-cut Buddhist sites in Maharashtra, but is one of the best-known because of the famous \"Grand Chaitya\" (Cave 8), which is \"the largest and most completely preserved\" chaitya hall of the period, as well as containing unusual quantities of fine sculpture, much of it on a large scale. \n\nMany traders and Satavahana rulers made grants for construction of these caves. Karli's location in Maharashtra places it in a region that marks the division between North India and South India. Buddhists, having become identified with commerce and manufacturing through their early association with traders, tended to locate their monastic establishments in natural geographic formations close to major trade routes so as to provide lodging houses for travelling traders. Today, the cave complex is a protected monument under the Archaeological Survey of India.\n\nThe caves were historically associated with the Mahāsāṃghika sect of Buddhism which had great popularity in this region of India, as well as wealthy patronage. The caves house a Buddhist monastery dating back to the 2nd century BC. The monastery was once home to two 15-meter grand pillars outside the chaitya. Now only one of these remains, and the remaining space is occupied by a temple dedicated to the goddess Ekveera, who is worshipped most notably by the Aagri and Koli community of Mumbai.\n\nThe Karla cave complex is built into a rocky hillside around from Pune, with large windows cut into the rock to light the cave interiors. The caves are among a large numbers of similar caves excavated in the Sahyadri Hills in the early 1st millennium CE. There are altogether 16 caves in the group, with 3 of them being Mahayana caves. Most of the caves are \"lenas\", with the major exception being the Great Chaitya, Cave No. 8.\n\nThe main cave, called the Great Chaitya cave, or Cave No.8, features a large, intricately carved chaitya, or prayer hall, dating back to 120 CE. This is the largest rock-cut chaitya in India, measuring long and up to high. The hall features sculptures of both males and females, as well as animals such as lions and elephants.\n\nThis Great Chaitya cave, the largest in South Asia, was constructed and dedicated in 120 CE by the Western Satraps ruler Nahapana.\n\n\nThe Great Chaitya cave of Karla follows, but improves upon, several other Chaitya caves which had been built in Western India under royal sponsorship. It is thought that the chronology of these early Chaitya Caves is as follows: first Cave 9 at Kondivite Caves, then Cave 12 at the Bhaja Caves and Cave 10 of Ajanta Caves, around the 1st century BCE. Then, in chronological order: Cave 3 at Pitalkhora, Cave 1 at Kondana Caves, Cave 9 at Ajanta, which, with its more ornate designs, may have been built about a century later, Cave 18 at Nasik Caves, and Cave 7 at Bedse Caves, to finally culminate with the \"final perfection\" of the Great Chaitya at Karla Caves.\n\nThe chaitya follows the usual pattern for the period, but is unusually large. It is exceptional for preserving original elements in wood: the prominent lateral ribs and other roof timbers, and the umbrella over the stupa. The chaitya hall only survives in rock-cut examples, but these replicate in stone the form of examples in wood and thatch. In most rock-cut chaityas, the roof timbers are replicated in stone, to considerable visual effect, but in others actual timber was used, for purely aesthetic rather than structural reasons. In most of these cases the timber has long decayed away, as for example in the chaitya at Cave 3, Kanheri Caves. Here, although some were replaced under Lord Curzon in the 19th century, most are original. \nR. C. Majumdar quoting James Fergusson explains:\n\nAn important inscription relates to Nahapana in the Great Chaitya (Valukura is thought to be an ancient name for Karla Caves):\n\nThere are also inscriptions by private donors, who contributed parts of the Great Chaitya, including self-described Yavana (Asiatic Greek or Indo-Greek) donors, who donated six of the pillars, although their names are Buddhist names. They account for nearly half of the known dedicatory inscriptions on the pillars of the Chaitya.\n\n\nThe city of Dhenukakata is thought to be Danahu near the city of Karli. It is said by another donor in another inscription that it has a \"vaniya-gama\" (A community of merchants).\n\nThe Yavanas are also known for their donation of a complete cave at the Nasik Caves (cave No.17), and for their donations with inscriptions at the Junnar caves.\n\nInside the Great Chaitya, facing the inscription of Nahapana and posterior to it by a generation, there is also an inscription by Satavahana ruler Sri Pulumayi, that is, Vasishthiputra Pulumavi (130-159 CE):\nWithin the complex are a great many other carved chaityas, as well as viharas, or dwelling places for the caves' monks. A notable feature of these caves is their arched entrances and vaulted interiors. Names of donors are inscribed on pillars in Brahmi script in these caves. The outside facade has intricate details carved into it in an imitation of finished wood. The central motif is a large horseshoe arch. There is an Ashokan pillar at the front, with a closed stone facade and torana in between.\n\nOne of the Vihara cells bears an inscription of the Satavahana ruler Vasishthiputra Pulumavi (130-159 CE).\n\nSeveral Chaitya Caves were built in imitation of the Great Chaitya at Karla. This is especially the case of the Great Chaitya at Kanheri, in the northern suburb in Mumbai, probably built during the reign of Yajna Sri Satakarni (circa 150 CE). According to Fergusson, it is certain that the plan of the Chaitya Cave at Kanheri is a literal copy of that at Karle, but the architectural details show exactly the same difference in style as is found between Cave 17 (period of Nahapana circa 115 CE) and Cave 3 (period of Sri Pulumavi, circa 170 CE) at the Nasik Caves.\n\nSome caves at Ajanta, such as Cave 19, built in the 5th century CE, were also modeled after the Karla Great Chaitya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199942", "title": "Robert Murray (merchant)", "text": "Robert Murray (merchant)\n\nRobert Murray (1721–1786), a prominent merchant, was born in County Armagh, Ireland, arriving with his father in Pennsylvania in 1732. Originally a Presbyterian, he became a Quaker after marrying Mary Lindley, daughter of a Quaker politician, in Pennsylvania in 1744. The couple arrived in New York City in 1754 after a short residence in North Carolina. The Murray Hill neighborhood of Manhattan derives its name from the Murray family, whose business interests were mainly concerned with shipping and overseas trade.\nRobert quickly established himself and about 1762 rented land from the city for a great house and farm, which Robert called Inclenberg, Dutch for beautiful hill. The total area was just over 29 acres (117,000 m2). In today's terms, the farm began a few feet (metres) south of 33rd Street and extended north to the middle of the block between 38th and 39th Street. At the southern end, the plot was rather narrow but at the northern end it went from approximately Lexington Avenue to a spot between Madison and Fifth Avenues. The great house was built on a since-leveled hill at what is today Park Avenue and 36th Street.\n\nHis eldest child, Lindley Murray (1745–1826) was perhaps the most illustrious member of the family. An author of school textbooks, he was the largest-selling author in the world in the first half of the 19th century. Raised in New York City, Lindley was forced to move out of the country as a loyalist after the American Revolution, settling in York, England. He sold some 20 million books, including about 16 million in the United States and four million in Britain. His best-known title was his \"English Reader,\" which Abraham Lincoln called the finest book ever put in the hands of an American youth.\n\nMrs. Robert Murray (Mary Lindley Murray) is credited with delaying William Howe and his army during General Washington's retreat from New York in 1776. As the story goes, Mrs. Robert Murray invited the group to tea at her mansion, Inclenberg, and, through feminine wiles, and her husband's prominence among the Tory party, succeeded in delaying the British troops for a period sufficient to allow a successful American retreat. \n\n\n\"The Murrays of Murray Hill\" by Charles Monaghan, Brooklyn: Urban History Press, 1998\n"}
{"id": "2199945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199945", "title": "British Golf Museum", "text": "British Golf Museum\n\nThe British Golf Museum is located opposite the clubhouse of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club in St Andrews, Scotland. \n\nThe museum, which opened in 1990, documents the history of golf from Medieval times to the present, including the men's and women's games, British and international, both professional and amateur. Exhibits include historic equipment, memorabilia and art work, documentation, the history of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club, and the rules and terminology of the game.\n\nThe museum was established in 1989 in an existing, single-storey building behind the Clubhouse. Later, the building was renovated and expanded, for a total area of , including a rooftop cafe. Construction started in summer 2014 and was completed in June 2015.\n\nThe museum is open to the public seven days a week throughout the year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199956", "title": "Don McNeill (tennis)", "text": "Don McNeill (tennis)\n\nWilliam Donald McNeill (April 30, 1918 – November 28, 1996) was an American tennis player. He was born in Chickasha, Oklahoma and died in Vero Beach, Florida, United States.\n\nDon McNeill graduated from Kenyon College in 1940, where he became a brother of the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity (Lambda chapter).\n\nMcNeill won his first major title in 1938 when he defeated Frank Bowden at the U.S. National Indoor Tennis Championships, played at the Seventh Regiment Armory in Manhattan, New York.\n\nIn 1939, McNeill became the second American to win the French Championships singles title (after Don Budge) when he defeated compatriot Bobby Riggs in the final in straight sets. Afterwards he played at Wimbledon, the only time he participated, and lost to Franjo Kukuljevic in the second round of the singles, reached the third round in the doubles and the quarterfinal in the mixed doubles. He went on to win the All England Plate, a tennis competition held at the Wimbledon Championships which consisted of players who were defeated in the first or second rounds of the singles competition.\n\nIn June 1940 McNeill beat Bobby Riggs to win the singles title at the U.S. Men's Clay Court Championships in Chicago. In August that year he also won the Southampton Invitational tournament after a victory in the final over Frank Kovacs. His run continued two weeks later when he won the invitational tournament at the Newport Casino. In September he won his second Grand Slam title when he defeated Riggs in the final of the U.S. National Championships after being down two sets to love. There were several bad line calls that went against Riggs in this match. McNeill was the third player who managed to overcome a two-set deficit in the final of the U.S. Championships after Maurice McLoughlin (1912) and Bill Tilden (1922).\n\nHis title wins in 1940 earned McNeill the No. 1 ranking in the USA at the end of the year. There were no \"official\" amateur rankings during World War II - McNeill reached as high as World No. 7 in Gordon Lowe's amateur rankings list in 1939. During the war McNeill served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and was attached to the embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina. While stationed there he won the Argentinian Championships in 1942 and defended the title successfully in November 1943, defeating Pancho Segura in the final.\n\nAfter the war McNeill decided to focus on his business career and played tournaments less frequently. In 1950 McNeill won his second U.S. Indoor title, twelve years after winning his first. This time in the final he was too strong for Fred Kovaleski, defeating him in four sets. Additionally he had been a runner-up in 1940 and 1946. Both Allison Danzig, in a New York Times article in 1936, and Pancho Segura, in a telephone interview in 2014, described McNeill's game as consisting of very heavily topspun drives off both wings, and Segura was of the opinion that McNeill didn't turn pro because there was really very little money in professional tennis then. \n\nHe was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1965.\n\nAfter his tennis career he became an advertising executive in New York. McNeill died on November 28, 1996 in Vero Beach due to complications from pneumonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199959", "title": "2007 AFC Asian Cup", "text": "2007 AFC Asian Cup\n\nThe 2007 AFC Asian Cup was the 14th edition of the men's AFC Asian Cup, a quadrennial international football tournament organised by the Asian Football Confederation (AFC). The finals were held from 7 to 29 July 2007. For the first time in its history, the competition was co-hosted by four nations: Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam; which was also the first time ever in the history more than two countries joined host of a major continental competition until the UEFA Euro 2020.\n\nFor the first time in the nation's history, Iraq won the continental title after it defeated Saudi Arabia 1–0 in the final. As the winner, Iraq represented the AFC in the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup.\n\nBefore 2007 and every four years, Asia often held its continental tournament from 1956 until China in 2004. With the Summer Olympic Games and the European Football Championship also held in the same year as the Asian Cup, the AFC changed their tradition. Beginning in 2007, Asia will hold its continental tournament a year earlier, and every four years henceforth from that date.\n\nAn estimated worldwide television audience of 650 million people tuned in to watch the 2007 AFC Asian Cup.\n\nAustralia participated for the first time since moving to the AFC from the OFC. Australia happened to also be the tournament's first nation aside from the co-hosts to qualify for the 2007 Asian Cup.\n\nThe then-AFC President Mohammed Bin Hammam proposed and presented a move to have four host nations for the 2007 Asian Cup. However, he later regretted this decision and called it his \"mistake\", citing the financial and logistic difficulties in organising an event across four countries. He said that \"It is proving very difficult for [the executive committee as they] have to have four organising committees, four media centres and there are also financial considerations.\" He also revealed that \"[he would] definitely [not do] it [again]\", if he had the choice.\n\nIn June 2005, the AFC warned Thailand that it needed to improve its facilities before 2007, otherwise it would be dropped, possibly being replaced with Singapore. On 12 August of the same year, the AFC confirmed that Thailand would be a co-host of the 2007 Asian Cup. However, in October 2006, Thailand was again warned to improve its facilities in 90 days.\n\nThe qualification round ran from 22 February 2006 to 15 November 2006. For the first time, the defending champions (in this tournament, Japan) did not get an automatic qualification and had to play in the qualification. Twenty-four nations were split into six four-team groups for 12 remaining spots in the finals. The four co-hosts – Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam – were granted automatic qualification.\n\nFor the first time, the seeds are based on the October 2006 FIFA World Rankings instead of the basis of the performance from the previous AFC Asian Cup competition. This was to ensure that the same number of strong teams do not meet in the early stage.\n\nThe four seeded teams were announced on 19 December 2006. The seeds comprised Pot 4 in the draw. Pot 1 consists of the teams from all co-hosts.\n\nOn 19 December 2006, the draw was held in the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre.\n\nThe Official Match Ball for the 2007 AFC Asian Cup was launched by Nike on 15 May 2007, making it the first time ever that a ball had been launched specifically for any football competition in Asia. The Nike Mercurial Veloci AC features four blue stripes with gold trim with each host city's name inscribed, as well as the AFC Asian Cup logo.\n\n16 referees and 24 assistant referees were officially cleared following a fitness test on 2 July in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. One referee and two assistant referees were also named from the CAF.\n\n\n\nThe AFC selected \"I Believe\", a 2004 single by Thai singer Tata Young as the tournament's official song.\n\nThe Asian Cup saw many upsets in the early stages of the tournament. In Group A, Oman held favourites Australia to a surprising draw. Oman took the lead and would have won save for an injury time goal from Tim Cahill. Next, hosts Vietnam shocked Gulf Champions UAE with a 2–0 victory. In the same group, Qatar held Japan to a shock 1–1 draw. The result caused Japan coach Ivica Osim to fly into a rage in which he branded his players as 'amateurs' and reduced his interpreter to tears. In Group D, Indonesia continued the undefeated streak of the hosts by defeating Bahrain 2–1. Malaysia ended up as the only host country to drop their match, losing to China 5–1. Thailand recorded just its 2nd win in the Asian Cup finals (their other was in 1972 against Cambodia), and its first ever win in regulation, when they beat Oman 2–0 on 12 July. Meanwhile, Australia was upset by a 3–1 defeat against Iraq the following day, leaving them floundering in the tournament despite high expectations. However, Australia's 4–0 demolition of Thailand at the last match day saw them into the quarterfinals.\n\nVietnam continued to stun all predictions when drew 2006 ASIAD champion Qatar 1–1 while Japan finally thrashed the UAE 3–1. Though, Vietnam was crushed 1–4 by Asian champion Japan last match, but the UAE's 2–1 comeback win over Qatar witnessed Vietnam's first time ever to qualify into the next round, and became the only host to progress through despite being in the group of three champions. On the other hand, while Malaysia continued its poor form with 0–5 and 0–2 loss to Uzbekistan and Iran, thus went out of tournament with no point, China's shocking elimination occurred when they got a hammered 0–3 defeat on the hand of the Uzbeks, despite having drawn 2–2 with Iran and was expected to qualify from group stage with an easy win.\n\nBahrain shocked the whole tournament by defeating South Korea 2–1 in Group D, leaving the Koreans in the verge of elimination when Indonesia was beaten 1–2 by Saudi Arabia. However, South Korea finally progressed with a 1–0 win over host Indonesia and with Saudi Arabia destroyed Bahrain 4–0, it was enough to seal them in.\n\nIn the quarterfinals, Iraq defeated Vietnam 2–0, while South Korea needed a penalty shootout to eliminate Iran 4–2. Japan also needed a penalty shootout to defeat Australia 4–3 (this was the first time Australian 'keeper Mark Schwarzer had ever come out on the losing end of a penalty shoot-out), and Saudi Arabia won over Uzbekistan 2–1. Iraq upset South Korea in the semi-finals by winning 4–3 on penalties, resulting in thousands of Iraqis celebrating in the streets of Baghdad. Over 50 Iraqis were killed by terrorist bombs targeting these crowds. In the other semi-finals, Saudi Arabia topped defending champions Japan 3–2 to make an all-Arab affair for the final match.\n\nIraq went on to defeat Saudi Arabia 1–0 taking the Asian Cup title. Iraqi forward and captain Younis Mahmoud was given the title of Most Valuable Player. South Korea took third place narrowly beating Japan in penalties 6–5. It was the third consecutive match in the tournament that South Korea played 0–0 before a penalty shootout. Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and South Korea, as the top three national teams in the tournament, all received automatic berths to the 2011 Asian Cup along with the next hosts Qatar.\n\nWith four goals, Younis Mahmoud, Naohiro Takahara and Yasser Al-Qahtani are the top scorers in the tournament. In total, 84 goals were scored by 57 different players, with two of them credited as own goals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost Valuable Player\n\nTop scorer\n\nBest Goalkeeper\n\nBest Defender\n\nFair Play Award\n\nMost Entertaining Team\n\nTeam of the tournament\n\nThe \"Toshiba All-Star XI\" was voted for by fans on the official Asian Cup website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199973", "title": "Joseph Fitzmyer", "text": "Joseph Fitzmyer\n\nJoseph Augustine Fitzmyer (November 4, 1920 – December 24, 2016) was an American Catholic priest of the Society of Jesus and professor emeritus at The Catholic University of America, in Washington, DC.\n\nHe specialized in biblical studies, particularly the New Testament, but he also made contributions to the study of the Dead Sea Scrolls and early Jewish literature.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1920, Fitzmyer was admitted, on July 30, 1938, to the novitiate of the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus, commonly known as the Jesuits, in Wernersville, Pennsylvania. After completing that stage of his formation in the summer of 1940, he was sent to study at Loyola University in Chicago, Illinois, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree and then, in 1945, a Master of Arts degree in Greek. He then studied theology in the Facultés Saint-Albert (Egenhoven–Louvain), Belgium, and was ordained a Catholic priest on August 15, 1951. He was granted a Licentiate of Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) by the Catholic University of Leuven in 1952, a doctorate in Semitics from the Johns Hopkins University in 1956, and a Licentiate in Sacred Scripture (S.S.L.) from the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome in 1957.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1969, Fitzmyer taught New Testament and biblical languages at Woodstock College. From 1969 to 1971, he taught Aramaic and Hebrew at the University of Chicago and then New Testament and biblical languages at Fordham University (1971–1974), at Weston School of Theology in Cambridge, Massachusetts (1974–1976), and finally in the Department of Biblical Studies at The Catholic University of America (1976–1986) as Professor of New Testament until his retirement. His publications covered Scripture, theology, Christology, catechesis, and the Dead Sea Scrolls.\n\nA co-editor of the \"New Jerome Biblical Commentary\", he also served as president of the Catholic Biblical Association of America (1969–1970), of the Society of Biblical Literature (1979), and of the Studiorum Novi Testamenti Societas (1992–1993).\n\nFitzmyer, the Speaker's Lecturer at the University of Oxford in 1974–1975, was the 1984 recipient of the Burkitt Medal of the British Academy, and he served on the Pontifical Biblical Commission from 1984 to 1995.\n\nFitzmyer was a member of the Jesuit community at Georgetown University, Washington, DC. He died in Merion, Pennsylvania, on December 24, 2016.\n\nFitzmyer contributed to several biblical commentaries, including the \"Jerome Biblical Commentary\", the \"New Jerome Biblical Commentary\", and the \"Anchor Bible Commentary\". His contribution to the \"Anchor Bible Commentary\" included work on The Gospel of Luke (in two volumes), Acts of the Apostles, 1 Corinthians, Romans, and Philemon. In the \"New Jerome Biblical Commentary\", he has articles introducing the New Testament Epistles, Galatians, Romans, Philemon and on the history of Israel as well as Paul and Pauline theology. In the last one, after a historical review of 40 themes, he concludes:\n\nAs Christ was \"the image of the God\" (2 Cor 4:4) so human beings are destined to be \"the image of the heavenly man\" (1 Cor 15:49; cf. Rom 8:29). [Through] growth in Christ ... the Christian lives his or her life \"for God\" (Gal 2:19). Thus, for all his emphasis on Christ, Paul once again refers Christian existence ultimately to the Father – through Christ.\n\nFitzmyer published three commentaries on Romans: \"The Jerome Biblical Commentary\" (1968), \"The New Jerome Biblical Commentary\" (1989), and the \"Anchor Bible Commentary\" (1993). The last work runs over 800 pages, and from it came a very practical and spiritually accessible work, \"Spiritual Exercises Based on Paul's Epistle to the Romans\". The creative endeavor links biblical commentary and exegeses with modern spirituality. In it, Fitzmyer lays out his interpretation of Romans in a more condensed form. Using historical and rhetorical criticism, Paul's Jewish background and Graeco-Roman setting fail to prevent Fitzmyer from seeing coherency in Paul's message.\n\nWhile some scholars argue that Paul's theology is largely dependent on its context, such as the crisis in the Corinthian community, Fitzmyer argues for a vital application of Romans to our modern context.\n\nIn his \"The Impact of the Dead Sea Scrolls,\" Fitzmyer summarizes in the book his 50 years of research as a pioneer in the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199987", "title": "Ted Schroeder", "text": "Ted Schroeder\n\nFrederick Rudolph \"Ted\" Schroeder (July 20, 1921 – May 26, 2006) was an American tennis player who won the two most prestigious amateur tennis titles, Wimbledon and the U.S. National. He was the No. 1-ranked American player in 1942; the No. 2 for 4 consecutive years, 1946 through 1949, and the latter year saw Schroeder ranked World No. 1 by Pierre Gillou (president of the Fédération Française de Tennis). He was born in Newark, New Jersey, but developed as a tennis player in Southern California under the guidance of Perry T. Jones.\n\nSchroeder was born in Newark, NJ but moved to Glendale in his childhood where he learned to play tennis. He was discovered by Perry T. Jones who was based at the Los Angeles Tennis Club and mentored several world-class players including Ellsworth Vines, Bobby Riggs and Jack Kramer. Schroeder was an almost exact contemporary of Kramer, having been born only 10 days earlier in 1921, and they began to play against each other as top boy players in the mid-1930s. Schroeder's career is similar to Kramer's in that they both became top players whose careers were then interrupted by World War II. They were also lifelong friends and at least once Schroeder mortgaged his house on short notice in order to be able to lend an unsolicited $25,000 to Kramer. Schroeder, however, attended college for four years, the first two at the University of Southern California (USC), and the last two at Stanford University. After the war Kramer proved himself to be slightly better than Schroeder in the amateur ranks and subsequently turned professional.\n\nWhen Riggs semi-retired he became the promoter of the professional tour. He and Kramer decided that the only player who could oppose Kramer for a financially successful tour would be Schroeder. The youthful Pancho Gonzales was the reigning American amateur champion, due to his upset win at the U.S. Open Championships in 1948, but during his brief career had been beaten by Schroeder eight matches out of nine. Schroeder, playing during vacation time from his job, won Wimbledon in June 1949, winning some tough matches along the way. Schroeder was two sets down against Gardnar Mulloy in round one and then had five set wins against Frank Sedgman, Eric Sturgess and Jaroslav Drobny in the quarters, semis and final. According to his obituary in the New York Times, he . . .\n\nFollowing his Wimbledon victory, Riggs and Kramer offered Schroeder $25,000 to turn pro after he won the up-coming 1949 U.S. Championships and Schroeder accepted. But Gonzales upset their plans by beating the heavily favored Schroeder in a five-set final — it has been called the 11th greatest match of all time. Gonzales lost the 1-hour and 15-minute first set 16–18 but finally managed to prevail in the fifth set. Kramer writes that in spite of his friendship with Schroeder, he has always felt that Schroeder subconsciously \"tanked\" the match, in order to avoid the rigors of the professional tour. In any event, Gonzales was now the two-time American champion and Kramer and Riggs were obliged to sign him, instead of Schroeder, to a professional contract.\n\nSchroeder was never much more than a part-time player after the War, being preoccupied with his family and his career as vice president of a commercial refrigeration equipment company, and had never really intended to turn professional. Schroeder said he took his tennis far too emotionally to allow him to treat it as a profession. He remained a successful amateur player for a few more years and then faded from view. He died in La Jolla, California at the age of 84. His son, John, is a professional golfer who has won on the PGA Tour.\n\nIn his 1979 autobiography, the long-time tennis promoter and great player Jack Kramer included Schroeder in his list of the 21 greatest players of all time. Schroeder, says Kramer, \"won with heart and stamina, but lacked in the simple mechanics.\"\n\nKramer writes,\n\nSchroeder was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, Rhode Island, in 1966, two years before his old friend Jack Kramer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199995", "title": "Dedicated hosting service", "text": "Dedicated hosting service\n\nA dedicated hosting service, dedicated server, or managed hosting service is a type of Internet hosting in which the client leases an entire server not shared with anyone else. This is more flexible than shared hosting, as organizations have full control over the server(s), including choice of operating system, hardware, etc. \n\nThere is also another level of dedicated or managed hosting commonly referred to as complex managed hosting. Complex Managed Hosting applies to both physical dedicated servers, Hybrid server and virtual servers, with many companies choosing a hybrid (combination of physical and virtual) hosting solution. \n\nThere are many similarities between standard and complex managed hosting but the key difference is the level of administrative and engineering support that the customer pays for – owing to both the increased size and complexity of the infrastructure deployment. The provider steps in to take over most of the management, including security, memory, storage and IT support. The service is primarily proactive in nature. Server administration can usually be provided by the hosting company as an add-on service. In some cases a dedicated server can offer less overhead and a larger return on investment. Dedicated servers are hosted in data centers, often providing redundant power sources and HVAC systems. In contrast to colocation, the server hardware is owned by the provider and in some cases they will provide support for operating systems or applications.\n\nUsing a dedicated hosting service offers the benefits of high performance, security, email stability, and control. Due to the relatively high price of dedicated hosting, it is mostly used by websites that receive a large volume of traffic.\n\nAvailability, price and employee familiarity often determines which operating systems are offered on dedicated servers. Variations of Linux and Unix (open source operating systems) are often included at no charge to the customer. Commercial operating systems include Microsoft Windows Server, provided through a special program called Microsoft SPLA. Red Hat Enterprise is a commercial version of Linux offered to hosting providers on a monthly fee basis. The monthly fee provides OS updates through the Red Hat Network using an application called Yum. Other operating systems are available from the open source community at no charge. These include CentOS, Fedora Core, Debian, and many other Linux distributions or BSD systems FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD.\n\nSupport for any of these operating systems typically depends on the level of management offered with a particular dedicated server plan. Operating system support may include updates to the core system in order to acquire the latest security fixes, patches, and system-wide vulnerability resolutions. Updates to core operating systems include kernel upgrades, service packs, application updates, and security patches that keep the server secure and safe. Operating system updates and support relieves the burden of server management from the dedicated server owner.\n\nBandwidth refers to the data transfer rate or the amount of data that can be carried from one point to another in a given time period (usually a second) and is often represented in bits (of data) per second (bit/s).\n\nLine speed, billed on the 95th percentile, refers to the speed in which data flows from the server or device, measured every 5 minutes for the month, and dropping the top 5% of measurements that are highest, and basing the usage for the month on the next-highest measurement. This is similar to a median measurement, which can be thought of as a 50th percentile measurement (with 50% of measurements above, and 50% of measurements below), whereas this sets the cutoff at 95th percentile, with 5% of measurements above the value, and 95% of measurements below the value. This is also known as Burstable billing. Line speed is measured in bits per second (or kilobits per second, megabits per second or gigabits per second).\n\nThe second bandwidth measurement is unmetered service where providers cap or control the “top line” speed for a server. Top line speed in unmetered bandwidth is the total Mbit/s allocated to the server and configured on the switch level. Unmetered bandwidth services usually incur an additional charge.\n\nSome providers will calculate the Total Transfer, which is the measurement of actual data leaving and arriving, measured in bytes. Although it is typically the sum of all traffic into and out of the server, some providers measure only outbound traffic (traffic from the server to the internet).\n\nOne of the reasons for choosing to outsource dedicated servers is the availability of high powered networks from multiple providers. As dedicated server providers utilize massive amounts of bandwidth, they are able to secure lower volume based pricing to include a multi-provider blend of bandwidth. To achieve the same type of network without a multi-provider blend of bandwidth, a large investment in core routers, long term contracts, and expensive monthly bills would need to be in place. The expenses needed to develop a network without a multi-provider blend of bandwidth does not make sense economically for hosting providers.\n\nMany dedicated server providers include a service level agreement based on network up-time. Some dedicated server hosting providers offer a 100% up-time guarantee on their network. By securing multiple vendors for connectivity and using redundant hardware, providers are able to guarantee higher up-times; usually between 99-100% up-time if they are a higher quality provider. One aspect of higher quality providers is they are most likely to be multi-homed across multiple quality up-link providers, which in turn, provides significant redundancy in the event one goes down in addition to potentially improved routes to destinations.\n\nBandwidth consumption over the last several years has shifted from a per megabit usage model to a per gigabyte usage model. Bandwidth was traditionally measured in line speed access that included the ability to purchase needed megabits at a given monthly cost. As the shared hosting model developed, the trend towards gigabyte or total bytes transferred, replaced the megabit line speed model so dedicated server providers started offering per gigabyte.\n\nDedicated hosting services primarily differ from managed hosting services in that managed hosting services usually offer more support and other services. As such, managed hosting is targeted towards clients with less technical knowledge, whereas dedicated hosting services, or unmanaged hosting services, are suitable for web development and system administrator professionals.\n\nTo date, no industry standards have been set to clearly define the management role of dedicated server providers. What this means is that each provider will use industry standard terms, but each provider will define them differently. For some dedicated server providers, fully managed is defined as having a web based control panel while other providers define it as having dedicated system engineers readily available to handle all server and network related functions of the dedicated server provider.\n\nServer management can include some or all of the following:\n\n\n\nDedicated hosting server providers define their level of management based on the services they provide. In comparison, fully managed could equal self managed from provider to provider.\n\nAdministrative maintenance of the operating system, often including upgrades, security patches, and sometimes even daemon updates are included. Differing levels of management may include adding users, domains, daemon configuration, or even custom programming.\n\nDedicated server hosting providers may provide the following types of server managed support:\n\nDedicated hosting server providers utilize extreme security measures to ensure the safety of data stored on their network of servers. Providers will often deploy various software programs for scanning systems and networks for obtrusive invaders, spammers, hackers, and other harmful problems such as Trojans, worms, and crashers (Sending multiple connections). Linux and Windows use different software for security protection.\n\nProviders often bill for dedicated servers on a fixed monthly price to include specific software packages. Over the years, software vendors realized the significant market opportunity to bundle their software with dedicated servers. They have since started introducing pricing models that allow dedicated hosting providers the ability to purchase and resell software based on reduced monthly fees.\n\nMicrosoft offers software licenses through a program called the Service Provider License Agreement. The SPLA model provides use of Microsoft products through a monthly user or processor based fee. SPLA software includes the Windows Operating System, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Exchange Server, Microsoft SharePoint and shoutcast hosting, and many other server based products.\n\nOther software applications available are specialized web hosting specific programs called control panels. Control panel software is an all-inclusive set of software applications, server applications, and automation tools that can be installed on a dedicated server. Control panels include integration into web servers, database applications, programming languages, application deployment, server administration tasks, and include the ability to automate tasks via a web based front end.\n\nMany providers do not allow IRC (bots, clients or daemons). This is due to rogue IRC users triggering DDoS attacks against the provider, which may overwhelm their networks, lowering service quality for all customers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199999", "title": "Tom Gugliotta", "text": "Tom Gugliotta\n\nThomas James Gugliotta (born December 19, 1969) is a former American professional basketball player who played thirteen seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA).\n\nThe youngest of seven children, Gugliotta attended Walt Whitman High School. His two older brothers, Frank Jr. and Charlie, both enjoyed limited collegiate success on the hardwood and played professionally in Europe. His father called an old friend, Jim Valvano at North Carolina State University during his senior season and told Valvano that his youngest son was going to be a special basketball player. Valvano took a chance on Gugliotta and brought him to Raleigh. \n\nDuring his freshman season, \"Googs\" was limited by a knee injury. However, he emerged in the second half of the ACC season as a member of the rotation for the Wolfpack and appeared in 28 games, averaging two points and 1.3 rebounds per game. During the offseason, Valvano began telling crowds at Wolfpack Club meetings that Gugliotta was beginning to blossom. Emerging as a taller, heavier sophomore, Gugliotta averaged 11.1 points and seven rebounds a game. As a junior, Gugliotta began to show his star potential, averaging more than 15 points and nine rebounds per game. As a senior, Gugliotta averaged more than 22 points and almost 10 rebounds per game.\n\nGugliotta was drafted in 1992 out of North Carolina State University with the 6th overall pick by the National Basketball Association's Washington Bullets. In 13 NBA seasons he averaged 13.0 ppg, 7.3 rpg and 2.8 apg over 763 regular season games, but appeared in only 12 playoff games. His best years were with the Minnesota Timberwolves, scoring 20.6 and 20.1 ppg in the 1996–1997 and 1997–1998 seasons. Gugliotta also played for the Golden State Warriors, Phoenix Suns, Boston Celtics, Utah Jazz and the Atlanta Hawks.\n\nOn December 17, 1999, Gugliotta had a near-death experience. Having trouble sleeping after games, Gugliotta took a supplement marketed as a \"sleep aid\" which included furanon di-hydro, also known as gamma butyrolactone, or GBL. Gugliotta was talking to his wife, Nikki, on his cellular telephone when he collapsed and stopped breathing. His wife heard the commotion and called the wife of teammate Rex Chapman who was able to call her husband on the bus and instruct him to check his bag for the supplement bottle. The information saved his life as doctors were able to give him an antidote in the emergency room moments later.\n\nTom met his wife, Nikki, at North Carolina State and later had a daughter, Greer. They were later divorced.\n\nHe was inducted into the Suffolk Sports Hall of Fame on Long Island in the Basketball Category with the Class of 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "2200001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200001", "title": "Miquita Oliver", "text": "Miquita Oliver\n\nMiquita Billie Alexandra Oliver (born 25 April 1984) is a British television presenter and radio personality. She co-hosted Channel 4's \"Popworld\" from 2001 to 2006 and went on to present on T4 from 2006 to 2010 as well as having her own show, \"The Month With Miquita\", on 4Music. She has also worked in radio, hosting shows on BBC Radio 1 and BBC Radio 1Xtra. In April/May 2015 she took part in a four-part series \"24 Hours in the Past\" as herself.\n\nMiquita was born in Paddington, London. Her mother is former Rip Rig + Panic singer and television presenter Andi Oliver, and her father is an art history teacher. Miquita Oliver attended Holland Park School. In 2001, aged 16, she became presenter of the Channel 4 music show \"Popworld\", co-presenting with Simon Amstell. The pair were known for employing a great deal of humour in interviews. They left the show in 2006, but Oliver continued to present the \"T4\" strand. After an incident in mid-2010 in which Oliver was overheard insulting singer Kesha behind her back by Kesha's management, Oliver was suspended from \"T4\" for six weeks and subsequently her contract was not renewed. She recorded her last \"T4\" in December 2010.\n\nShe has hosted shows on both BBC Radio 1 and BBC Radio 1Xtra, notably covering for Sara Cox and Spoony. She left her early morning show \"Oneclick\" to focus on TV projects. On 13 December 2007, during her appearance on the TV show \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\" (which was hosted at the time by Simon Amstell), Oliver implied that she was sacked from BBC Radio 1 following a comment she made in an interview with \"NME\" magazine about Fearne Cotton, calling her a \"Devil Woman\".\n\nOliver made a brief appearance in May 2007 on the BBC programme \"Neneh & Andi Dish It Up\" – which is presented by her mother Andrea and \"Auntie\" Neneh Cherry – and has also made appearances on political talk show \"This Week\", on 25 June 2009 and 17 December 2009. In March 2010 Oliver made a programme for Channel 4's \"T4\" called \"Miquita's Oliver\". She was set the challenge of starting a one-off urban production of the classic musical \"Oliver!\" from scratch. She had to cast it, script it and then direct it. The finished product was performed at the Hackney Empire to surprising critical acclaim.\n\nShe then went on to have her own television show, called \"The Month With Miquita\", which she hosted on the 4Music channel. She continued to present programmes for \"T4\", such as \"T4 Movie Special\" in August 2011.\n\nIn November 2011, Oliver filed for bankruptcy after non-payment of a tax bill. In December 2013 she presented the programme \" Young, British and Broke: The Truth about Payday Loans\" on BBC Three. She said that her own experiences of bankruptcy made her passionate about making the show.\n\nOliver's godmother is \"Holby City\" actress Amanda Mealing.\n\nOliver was a part of the four-part BBC TV series \"24 Hours in the Past\", along with Colin Jackson, Alistair McGowan, Ann Widdecombe, Tyger Drew-Honey and Zoe Lucker which went out between 28 April and 19 May 2015 on BBC One.\n\nIn 2009, Oliver hosted a \"Miquita Does\" series:\n\nIn 2008 Miquita Oliver along with vinspired.com helped launch Fashion Favours, a collection of reworked fashion items, customised by volunteers from around the UK. On 25 September 2008, to promote fashion favours, Miquita modelled Prime Minister Gordon Brown's shirt.\n\nOn 25 June 2009, Oliver appeared on political talk show \"This Week\" to discuss issues relating to fashion including Speaker John Bercow's decision not to wear the traditional robes, and French President Nicolas Sarkozy's decision to ban the burqa in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2200009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200009", "title": "Dollywaggon Pike", "text": "Dollywaggon Pike\n\nDollywaggon Pike is a fell in the English Lake District. It stands on the main spine of the Helvellyn range in the Eastern Fells, between Thirlmere and the Ullswater catchment.\n\nThe spelling ‘Dollywaggon’ is used on Ordnance Survey 1:25,000 maps but ‘Dollywagon’ on 1:50,000 maps. The Ordnance Survey gazetteer, nominally based on the 1:50,000 maps, lists only ‘Dollywaggon Pike’. As of 2005, the ‘Dollywagon’ spelling is slightly more common in online references. Alfred Wainwright used ‘Dollywaggon Pike’ in his \"Pictorial Guide\", a position supported by other writers. One etymology for the word \"Dollywaggon\" gives an Old Norse source formed by the combination of \"dolgr\" (‘fiend’ or ‘giant’) and \"veginn\" (‘lifted’).\n\nThe Helvellyn range runs broadly north–south for about 7 miles, remaining above 2,000 ft (600 m) throughout its length. Dollywaggon Pike is the southernmost fell of the ridge proper, with Nethermost Pike immediately to the north. There is a subsidiary top between Nethermost and Dollywaggon Pikes named High Crag (2,990 ft / 884 m). Due to the very limited depression between the two, most guidebooks follow Wainwright in counting High Crag as a part of Nethermost Pike. To the south of Dollywaggon Pike is the complex depression containing Grisedale Tarn, with Seat Sandal and Fairfield rising beyond.\n\nIn common with much of the Helvellyn range there is a marked contrast between the western and eastern slopes of Dollywaggon Pike. In Wainwright’s words \"‘To the west, uninteresting grass slopes descend to Dunmail Raise almost unrelieved by rock and scarred only by the wide stony track gouged across the breast of the fell by the boots of generations of pilgrims to Helvellyn. But the eastern side is a desolation of crag and boulder and scree.’\"\nThe western flank is named Willie Wife Moor for reasons lost to antiquity. It is bounded by Birkside Gill to the north and Raise Beck to the south, Reggle Knott being the only area of rough ground. At the base of the slope Raise Beck flows north to Thirlmere, having been diverted as a part of the 1884 reservoir project. It previously turned south down the other side of Dunmail Raise pass to feed Grasmere. Before this diversion, Dollywaggon Pike was distinctive in that its drainage reached the sea at more widely spread points than any other Lakeland Fell, with Raise Beck going through Grasmere and Windermere to reach Morecambe Bay, Birkside Gill going through Thirlmere and Derwent Water to reach the Irish Sea at Workington and Grisedale Beck draining into Ullswater and then to the sea at the Solway Firth. This is still the case today when there is enough water in Raise Beck for it to flow both north and south, but normally Seat Sandal now has this distinction.\n\nBirkside Gill contains the remains of a number of levels driven for copper between 1840 and 1866.\n\nOn the east, the first impression is all of rock. The long strath of Grisedale runs north-eastward to Ullswater, cutting off a series of hanging valleys which fall from the Helvellyn range. To the north-east of Dollywaggon Pike, below the summit of High Crag, is Ruthwaite Cove, a corrie surrounded on three sides by crag. Ruthwaite Cove is now the site of Ruthwaite Lodge, a climbing hut. It was formerly the setting for more industrious activity, with the remains of several levels and some shallow open mineworking being visible near the Lodge. These excavations were made for lead-bearing galena, and are believed to have been worked in the sixteenth century. Further leases were taken out in 1784 and 1862, the last-known operation being in 1880. To the east of Dollywaggon Pike is a second corrie, Cock Cove, with Falcon Crag and the deeply gullied Tarn Crag providing the impressive headwall.\n\nBetween the two coves, Dollywaggon Pike sends out a fine rocky ridge, The Tongue. This arête ascends by a series of rocky steps making straight for the summit. At the bottom of The Tongue is Spout Crag, standing above Grisedale Beck and forcing walkers to take a detour from the ridgeline.\n\nNorth of Dollywaggon Pike the ridge narrows and then steps up over High Crag to the plateau top of Nethermost Pike. In the other direction the high ground curves south-east around Cock Cove before a long slope falls to Grisedale Tarn at around 1,770 ft (539 m). This sizeable tarn has a depth of around 110 ft (34 m) and holds brown trout, perch and eels. The outflow is to Ullswater to the north east, picking up all of the rainfall from the eastern face of Dollywaggon Pike. To the west of the tarn is the unnamed col between Dollywaggon Pike and Seat Sandal and immediately to the south is Grisedale Hause, the depression between Seat Sandal and Fairfield. Thus Seat Sandal stands topographically on the ridge between the two higher fells, but so out on a limb that many walkers proceed directly from Dollywaggon Pike to Fairfield.\n\nGeologically the summit of the fell forms part of the Deepdale Formation, (principally volcaniclastic sandstone) underlain by the dacitic lapilli-tuff of the Helvellyn Formation.\n\nThe summit is a small grassy rise directly at the head of The Tongue. It carries a small cairn with a larger one a few yards to the west. The view is extensive with the eastern foreground particularly fine\n\nThe Tongue provides a fine route of ascent, though a long one, from Patterdale and the fell can also be reached from the Grasmere area via Grisedale Tarn. Ascents up the western slopes are unimpeded but uninteresting.\n"}
{"id": "2200014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200014", "title": "George Downame", "text": "George Downame\n\nGeorge Downame (—1634), otherwise known as George Downham, was an author of influential philosophical and religious works who served as Bishop of Derry during the early years of the Plantation of Ulster. He is said to have been a chaplain to both Elizabeth I and James I.\n\nGeorge Downame was a son of William Downame, Bishop of Chester, and an elder brother of John Downame. He matriculated at Christ’s College, Cambridge, in November 1581, graduated B.A. in 1584/5, obtained the further degree of B.D. in 1595, and was made D.D. in 1601. In the early 1580s he was, although a bishop’s son, briefly a \"zealous espouser of puritan principles\" and it was only after \"mature study\" that he \"heartily embraced episcopy\".\n\nDowname was elected a Fellow of Christ’s College, Cambridge in 1587 and shortly afterwards was chosen to be Professor of Logic in the University. Thomas Fuller considered \"no man was then and there better skilled in Aristotle or a greater follower of Ramus\". The supremacy of Aristotle in the study of Logic (or Dialectics) was in decline and the writings of Petrus Ramus became increasingly dominant, in large part due to Downame’s role as \"the Cambridge apostle\" for Ramus’s approach. In 1601 he published an 800-page commentary on Ramus’s 95-page \"Dialecticae\", the eloquence of Downame so opening the \"clenched fist\" of the subject matter as to \"smooth and stroke one with the palm thereof\".\n\nBy 1593 he was Divinity Lecturer at St Paul’s Cathedral, where he held the prebend of Caddington Major, and on appointment to the vicarage of Sandbach in the following year he also became a prebendary of Chester. In September 1596 he was preferred by Elizabeth I to the rectory of St Margaret’s, Lothbury, continuing there until 1601 when his brother John succeeded him in the living. \n\nAmong his parishioners at Lothbury was the diplomat Sir Henry Killigrew, to whom Downame dedicated the printed text of his Easter Sermon of 1602, declaring that \"to your Worship, your loving brother and the virtuous Lady your wife I am for great benefits exceedingly bound\". Both Sir Henry and his brother Sir William Killigrew were on intimate terms with the Earl of Essex, which may have contributed to Downame’s appointment as chaplain to the ill-fated Earl by 1599. He is said also to have served as a chaplain to Elizabeth I and James I.\n\nDowname held the rectory of Munden Magna, Hertfordshire, from 1601. While there he published the substance of his teaching at St Paul’s in successive volumes.\n\nIn 1616 he was appointed Bishop of Derry. His diocese, comprising 45 parishes, was potentially valuable but in a state of decay. Little remained of the fabric of its old cathedral and 34 of its churches were ruinous or roofless. \n\nDowname’s seventeen years as bishop saw the commencement and completion of Derry’s new Cathedral Church of St Columb (the first non-Roman Catholic cathedral to be built in Western Europe) and, following his failure to agree terms with the Irish Society for a suitable site within the city, he built a new Bishop’s Palace overlooking Lough Swilly at Fahan.\n\nDowname’s appointment to the See of Derry was a fitting sequel to the Church of Ireland’s adoption of its own confession of faith (the \"Irish Articles\") in the previous year. Although he had embraced the episcopalian tradition, his theology chimed with the Calvinist tone of the Irish Articles and he brought to Ireland a deep-seated antipathy and hostility to the Church of Rome, which he declared had been controlled by Antichrist since the accession of Boniface III as Pope in 607. \n\nHis beliefs made him particularly acceptable to the Scots Presbyterian settlers in Ulster and he was vehement in opposing toleration of Roman Catholic practice. He spoke the Irish Bishops’ declaration of opposition when preaching before Lord Deputy Falkland in April 1627, saying toleration made one \"an accessory to superstition and idolatry and to the perdition of a seduced people\". \n\nCatholic priests had a strong hold over the native population in Downame’s diocese and, in despair at the civil and military authorities’ acquiescence in this, he obtained from Dublin a special commission allowing him to arrest and detain all within his jurisdiction who refused obedience to him on spiritual matters. He favoured the appointment of clergy who could catechise and preach in Irish in those parishes where it was the most spoken language, and it was perhaps on such account that Fuller declared \"This learned bishop was the greatest beauty [of his diocese], endeavouring by gentleness to cicurate and civilise the wild Irish, and proved very successful therein\".\n\nIn 1631 Downame published, at Dublin, \"The Covenant of Grace\" in which, observed Archbishop James Ussher, he \"handleth at full the Controversy on Perseverence and the Certainty of Salvation\". Passages within this exposition (written in 1604) were in conflict with the Arminian tendencies of Archbishop William Laud who, in the King’s name, ordered all copies of the book to be seized. By the time Laud’s instruction reached Dublin, most copies had already been distributed.\n\nDowname had arrived in Derry three years after agreement had been reached between the King and the City of London for the latter’s conduct of the Londonderry Plantation. The City’s progress with the enterprise was slow and in 1623 Sir Thomas Phillips was appointed to oversee reform of the Plantation. To encourage the Londoners’ implementation of remedial work, their rents were sequestrated in 1625; the sequestration order was quashed in 1627 and a Royal Commission was established to investigate the Plantation’s progress and problems. Downame became actively involved in these events, being appointed one of the 1625 sequestrators and a member of the 1627 Commission.\n\nHe died on 17 April 1634, aged 67, and was buried in his cathedral four days later.\n\nDowname was one of the leading controversialists of his day, writing numerous treatises that were printed or reprinted after this death. His most enduring work was his Commentary on Ramus’s \"Dialecticae\" which, in original or digest form, was standard reading for students at both English and American universities in the late seventeenth century. In 1858 Augustus de Morgan, perhaps the leading British logician of the mid-19th century, could still acknowledge the book as \"an excellent work\". It provided the basis, and most of the text, for John Milton’s \"Art of Logic\" (1672) and, to the extent that exercises in logic are said to have played a part in shaping Milton’s other works, Downame’s thinking may have indirectly reached a wider audience.\n\nDowname’s library, including books that had been his father’s and more than one hundred volumes previously owned by his father-in-law William Harrison, forms an important part of the present Derry and Raphoe Diocese Library Collection.\n\nDowname was three times married. His first wife, Ann Harrison, was a daughter of the antiquarian William Harrison and bore him at least eleven children. She died on 18 March 1616, and on 20 April 1617 he married, at St Margaret’s, Lothbury, Jaell (née de Peigne), the widow of Sir Henry Killigrew, being the \"Virtuous Lady\" whose benevolence Downame had acknowledged fifteen years earlier; the marriage, which was solemnised by his brother John, had been expected since the previous December. Jaell Downame was ill and made her will on 16 October 1617 but it was not proved until 1623. Following her death the Bishop married Margery Roe, a natural daughter of Sir Nicholas Bagenal and widow of Sir Francis Roe of Co. Tyrone.\n\nOf Downame’s children, James (1611-81) became Dean of Armagh, Mary married George Downing (a Member of the Dublin Parliament of 1634), Jane married a son of Bishop Andrew Knox, Elizabeth married Major Dudley Phillips (son of Sir Thomas), and Dorothy became the wife of Rev. Charles Vaughan, D.D., Prebendary of Comber, Londonderry.\n\nAll Downame’s marriages and the names of his children and their spouses were recorded in his Funeral Certificate of 1634.\n\nHis \"A Treatise of Justification\", published in 1633, was his outstanding work of theology. Downame's other publications in this vein included:\n\n"}
{"id": "2200018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200018", "title": "Polná", "text": "Polná\n\nPolná () is a town in the Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. It has a population of around 5,000 inhabitants.\n\nFounded in the second half of the 12th century, it is first mentioned in a written document in 1242. At that time, there had already been a church in Polná. Originally, Polná was a forest collier settlement, and not far from it there was built a castle called Polná, originally Polmna. The town lies on the line between two historic Czech lands - Bohemia and Moravia, therefore the town became an important mercantil and tactical point.\n\nPolná became the center of Polná (later Polná-Přibyslav) domain. During its existence, Polná was, most of the time, part of significant aristocrat families' property. After the lords of Polná, the lords of Lipá owned the town, from the half of the 14th century Polná was owned by the lords of Pirkenštejn. During the Hussite Wars, Hynek Ptáček of Pirkenštejn, a hussite nobleman, ruled over Polná and bought also the nearby town of Přibyslav. Viktorin of Kunštát, son of the Czech king George of Poděbrady who bestowed Polná significant town rights and the coat of arms, got Polná by marriage with Žofie Ptáčková (daughter of Hynek Ptáček).\n\nIn the 15th century, Trčeks of Lípa owned the town followed by the Wallensteins, lords of Hradec and Žejdlices of Šenfeld. In 1623 Rudolf Žejdlic's property was confiscated because of his revolt against the Emperor. All the domain was bought by cardinal František of Ditrichštejn who changed the town’s privileges and the coat of arms. Polná belonged to the Ditrichštejns' property almost 300 years.\n\nIn the 17th century a Jewish community settled in Polná.\n\nIn 1794 the castle (rebuilt to a chateau) burned down and was never completely restored again.\n\nIn the 19th century Polná was the center of Czech culture for large locality and formed a counterbalance to the German-speaking city of Jihlava. In the half of the 19th century 6,500 people lived in Polná, which made it the third largest town in the Vysočina Region (after Jihlava and Třebíč).\n\nFrom 1840 to 1842, Božena Němcová, a significant Czech female writer, stayed in Polná.\nIn August 1863, a tragedy took place in Polná. A giant fire destroyed 189 houses and 456 families lost their homes. Many baroque and renaissance houses were ruined. Many people moved from the city.\n\nThe fact that the Northwest Railroad were built 6 kilometers far from Polná caused another economical decline of the town. Railroad Dobronín-Polná was built in 1903 but since 1982 the passenger traffic does not carry on.\n\nThe most significant incident of the 19th century was the murder of 19-year-old Anežka Hrůzová in the Březina forest. A Polná Jew, Leopold Hilsner, was wrongfully accused of the crime. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, later the first president of Czechoslovakia, engaged himself in this affair.\n\nIn 1906, the telephone network were installed in Polná. A power plant was built in 1911. During the Second World War most of the Jewish community died in concentration camps. Only three Polná Jews survived the war.\nIn 1949 Polná became part of the Havlíčkův Brod okres. In 1960, after another territorial reorganization it became part of the Jihlava okres.\n\nPolná is a smaller town with many medium-sized industries. Most important types of industries are wood-working industry and food industry (especially dairy products). Also textile industry is present in the town.\n\nEvery second weekend in September, the so-called \"carrot fun fair\" or \"carrot-bun fun fair\" (\"mrkvancová pouť\" in Czech) is organized in Polná.\n\nKlešter \nA glen where there led an ancient merchant path from Moravia to Bohemia. Klešter is a unique technical landmark of the Middle Ages. It was about 500 m long, partially cut in a rock.\n\nPolná Castle\nPolná Castle was built approximately in 1320 on a point above the junction of the Šlapanka river and the Ochozský brook. It was rebuilt to a large gothic castle. In the 15th century its rampart was extended (incl. three ponds; one of them, Peklo, meaning \"Hell\", exists to date). After a fire in 1584 the castle was reconstructed to a renaissance chateau. In 1645 and 1647 it was burned down by Swedes. After a vast fire in 1794 it started to wasteaway. In recent days the chateau was repaired and today it serves as a branch of the Vysočina Museum.\n\nChurch of Assumption of the Virgin Mary\nThe church was built between 1700 and 1705, the tower in 1714. Author of the project was Italian builder Domenico D’Angeli. The building is 63 m long, 26 m wide and 22 m high. Inside the church there is a rich stucco decoration, tapestry, 10 altars, a font of tin (1617) and an organ by Jan David Sieberg (it is the biggest organ preserved organ in the Czech lands). The tower was destroyed by the 1863 fire and rebuilt in 1895. It is 64 m high.\n\nChurch of Saint Catherine (Kostel svaté Kateřiny)\nBuilt 1378–1389 by Jan Ptáček of Pirkenštejn. 1906–1910 fragments of wall frescoes from the 15th and 16th centuries were discovered.\n\nJewish Town and Jewish Cemetery\nThe Jewish Town (today's Charles Square) is situated south-east from the town’s main square (Hus Square). There is a preserved and reconstructed synagoge there. The Jewish cemetery can be found north-west of the town. The oldest gravestones are from the 17th century, the youngest one from 1940.\n\n\"On Hus Square:\"\n\"Else:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2200020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200020", "title": "Safety Camera Partnership", "text": "Safety Camera Partnership\n\nA safety camera partnership (also casualty reduction partnership, safer roads partnership) is a local multi-agency partnership between local government, police authorities, Her Majesty's Courts Service, Highways England/Welsh Government, and the National Health Service within the United Kingdom. Their aim is to enforce speed limits and red traffic lights by the use of cameras.\n\nThey were initially established in 1999 as part of the \"National Safety Camera Scheme\" to enforce speed limits in the United Kingdom. Until April 2007, the partnerships were funded from penalties generated from the use of traffic enforcement cameras in each area, but subsequently time they have received road safety grants.\n\nThe stated objective was to reduce deaths and serious injury on the roads by reducing the level and severity of speeding and red light running through deterring, detecting and enforcement of speed and red light offences using but not limited to camera technology and driver education programmes.\n\nThe programme was started as part of the UK government's \"Road Safety Strategy\" that set targets of:\n\nThe reported casualty statistics 2009 showed that the 2009 figures for deaths and serious injuries were 44% lower than the 1994-8 average and deaths and serious injuries of children down by 61% on the 1994-8 average. A similar level of 10-year casualty reduction had been consistently achieved over each of the previous sixteen years, with a previous high of 43% in 1993 and the lowest recent figure being 38% in 2006.\n\nThe safety camera programme was announced with a press release in December 1999. Eight trial areas were announced which would begin a roll-out of a number of Safety Cameras. These areas were Cleveland, Essex, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Nottingham, South Wales, Strathclyde and Thames Valley.\n\nThe announcement was in part the result of a report commissioned by the UK Department for Transport (DfT) to look at the differing effects of various strategies related to the deployment of speed cameras. The main finding of the report was that camera deployment can reduce drivers' speeds markedly and that cameras on the survey roads were perceived to be reasonably effective.\n\nThe eight initial implementations began on 1 April 2000. The cameras were mainly to be placed in locations where there had been a significant number of casualties as a result of road accidents. One novelty in the partnerships was that the revenue raised by the cameras would be ring-fenced for investment back into the running and maintenance of the original cameras and investment in more cameras. In part this was a response to allegations that such cameras were being placed for revenue generation and not for safety reasons. From the start the partnerships were controversial with strong opinions both for and against the cameras. In December 2001 new regulations enforced a code of visibility for the cameras in order that they were always clearly seen by motorists. As of April 2006 there were thirty eight safety camera partnerships in England and Wales covering forty-one police force areas out of a total of forty-three (Durham and North Yorkshire are the exceptions). Similar arrangements exist in Scotland and Northern Ireland.\n\nAs the cameras became more widespread the issue became more contentious politically. In particular motoring bodies began to question the effectiveness of speed cameras as a means for accident prevention. This created a demand for research showing whether or not the cameras were, in practice, effective at reducing deaths and injuries from road accidents. Four independent evaluation reports were commissioned by the DfT to address this.\n\nSince April 2007 however, an annual specific (although not ring fenced) 'road safety grant' which was no longer related to the number of penalties issued locally was given directly to the local authorities with a responsibility for road safety who were free to choose whether or not to re-invest this in their partnership.\n\nDuring 2007 a total of 1.26 million fixed penalties were issued, which was down 23% from the previous year.\n"}
{"id": "2200026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200026", "title": "Robert Wrenn", "text": "Robert Wrenn\n\nRobert Duffield Wrenn (September 20, 1873 – November 21, 1925) was an American left-handed tennis player, four-time U.S. singles championship winner, and one of the first inductees in the International Tennis Hall of Fame. \n\nWrenn was born in Highland Park, Illinois. Wrenn attended Harvard University, where he was a prominent quarterback on the football team. Wrenn was considered \"one of Harvard's greatest all-around athletes,\" a star player at football, ice hockey, and baseball.\n\nWrenn played a small role in the formation of collegiate ice hockey in the United States. In the fall of 1892, Wrenn and fellow tennis champion (and doubles partner) Malcolm Greene Chace played in an international tennis tournament in Niagara Falls, New York. There they met some Canadian athletes who invited them to return the next winter to learn about their sport of ice hockey, which differed from the game of ice polo which was then played in American colleges. Wrenn and Chace gathered some friends from other northeast colleges including Cornell University and returned to Canada over Christmas break 1894-95 for a series of hockey matches. Each of the students returned to their respective campuses to promote the sport of ice hockey. Wrenn later played for the St. Nicholas Hockey Club.\n\nWrenn won his tennis titles in 1893, 1894, 1896 and 1897 (losing out to Fred Hovey in 1895). \n\nIn 1898, served in Cuba with Theodore Roosevelt's Rough Riders in the Spanish–American War. He contracted yellow fever while in Cuba.\n\nWrenn played for the U.S. Davis Cup team in 1903 together with his brother George. In the final against the British Isles at the Longwood Cricket Club, Boston, MA they were defeated 1–4 and Wrenn lost both his singles matches against Reginald and Laurence Doherty as well as the doubles against the Doherty brothers.\n\nWrenn was vice-president of the United States Tennis Association from 1902 until 1911 and president from 1912 until 1915. He was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1955.\n\nHe was arrested in 1914 when the car he was driving ran over and killed Herbert George Loveday, the choir director of St Mary's Church, in Tuxedo Park, New York. Wrenn was exonerated when, according to The New York Times (May 21, 1914), \"The Grand Jury, finding from testimony that the mechanism of the car had become disarranged, and the steering gear powerless, declined to find an indictment, and the complaint was dismissed.\"\n\nWrenn was an aviator in World War I.\n\nHe died of Bright's disease at age 53, at his apartment in the Hotel Madison in New York City. \n\n"}
{"id": "2200034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200034", "title": "Lucien Ballard", "text": "Lucien Ballard\n\nLucien Ballard, A.S.C. (6 May 1908 – 1 October 1988) was an American cinematographer. He worked on more than 130 films during his 50-year career, collaborating multiple times with directors including Josef Von Sternberg, John Brahm, Henry Hathaway, Budd Boetticher, Raoul Walsh, Sam Peckinpah and Tom Gries. He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Cinematography for \"The Caretakers\" (1963). He was married to Merle Oberon.\n\nBallard was born in Miami, Oklahoma in 1908. His mother was Cherokee. He attended the University of Oklahoma and the University of Pennsylvania and after graduating, he became a surveyor.\n\nBallard began working on films at Paramount Studios in 1929 after dating a script woman there. He later joked in an interview that it was a three-day party at the home of actress Clara Bow that convinced him \"this is the business for me\". He began his career loading trucks at Paramount and trained to be a camera assistant. He was taken on as an assistant to Lee Garmes on Josef von Sternberg's \"Morocco\" (1930). Von Sternberg allowed him credit as a second cameraman on \"The Devil is a Woman\" (1935), and the two shared a Venice Film Festival award for Best Cinematography in 1935. Von Sternberg promoted him to director of photography on \"Crime and Punishment\" (1935) and \"The King Steps Out\" (1936), based on the life of Empress Elisabeth of Austria, both at Columbia Pictures. After filming Dorothy Arzner's \"Craig's Wife\" also at Columbia, he settled into making B movies such as \"The Devil's Playground\" (1937), \"Penitentiary\" and \"The Lone Wolf in Paris\", both 1938.\n\nBallard filmed \"Let Us Live!\" (1939) for John Brahm and made more films with him including \"Wild Geese Calling\" (1941) and \"The Lodger\" (1944). On the set of \"The Lodger\", Ballard met and then married actress Merle Oberon; they remained married from 1945 until 1949. He photographed 4 more of her films - \"This Love of Ours\" (1945), \"Temptation\" (1946), \"Night Song\" (1948), \"Berlin Express\" (1948). After she was involved in a near fatal car crash in London, he invented a light which was mounted by the side of the camera, to provide direct light onto a subject's face, with the aim of reducing the appearance of blemishes and wrinkles. Named the \"Obie\", the device benefited Oberon, who had sustained facial scarring in the car accident. The Obie became widely used in the film industry.\n\nIn 1941's Howard Hughes film \"The Outlaw\", Hughes cast Jane Russell in the lead and had numerous shots of her cleavage, which got the attention of the Hollywood censors. The film was shot in 1940 and 1941 but took five years to be released to selected theaters. Ballard was the camera man for the screen tests, did some of the second unit work for director Howard Hawks, and assisted cinematographer Gregg Toland on the first unit crew. He also filmed \"Laura\" (1944) for Rouben Mamoulian until Otto Preminger took over as director. \n\nOn \"Morocco\", Ballard had also worked with assistant director Henry Hathaway. This relationship with Hathaway came back to benefit Ballard when Hathaway himself became a director. They worked together on five films, including \"Diplomatic Courier\" (1952), \"Prince Valiant\" (1954), \"The Sons of Katie Elder\" (1965), \"Nevada Smith\" (1966), and \"True Grit\" (1969). The last, because of the natural beauty of southwestern Colorado, garnered Ballard acclaim among his peers. He also worked on a segment of \"O. Henry's Full House\" (1952) with him.\n\nAfter working with Budd Boetticher on \"The Magnificent Matador\" (1955), they worked together on six feature films, including \"The Killer Is Loose\" (1956), \"Buchanan Rides Alone\" (1958),\"The Rise and Fall of Legs Diamond\" (1960), \"A Time for Dying\" (1969) and \"Arruza\" (1971) as well as the television show \"Maverick\" (1957) and the documentary \"My Kingdom For...\" (1985).\n\nHe made \"The House on Telegraph Hill\" (1951) and \"The Desert Rats\" (1953) for Robert Wise; \"Return of the Texan\" (1952) and \"Susan Slade\" (1961) with Delmer Daves; three films with Raoul Walsh including \"The King and Four Queens\" (1956) and \"Band of Angels\" (1957); and three films with Roy Ward Baker, including \"Inferno\" (1953), often considered the best shot color 3D film of the era. He also worked with Stanley Kubrick on \"The Killing\" (1956).\n\nBallard was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Cinematography for \"The Caretakers\" (1963).\n\nAnother relationship of importance was with Sam Peckinpah. They worked together on \"The Westerner\" (1960 television series), \"Ride the High Country\" (1962), \"The Wild Bunch\" (1969), \"The Ballad of Cable Hogue\" (1970), \"The Getaway\" (1972), and \"Junior Bonner\" (1972). He won the National Society of Film Critics award for Best Cinematography for \"The Wild Bunch\". \n\nHe also formed a partnerhsip with Tom Gries making five films, including \"Will Penny\" (1968) and \"Breakheart Pass\" (1976). His last feature film was Joan Rivers' \"Rabbit Test\" (1978) starring Billy Crystal in his film debut.\n\nBallard died at the age of 80 in 1988, two days after being involved in a car accident near his home in Indian Wells, California.\n\nBallard had been married before Oberon and was married for a third time in the 1950s to Inez, who was killed in an automobile accident in 1982. He had two sons, Christopher and Anthony.\n\n"}
{"id": "2200043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200043", "title": "Pretty Wonderful", "text": "Pretty Wonderful\n\nPretty Wonderful was a professional wrestling tag team composed of \"Mr. Wonderful\" Paul Orndorff and \"Pretty\" Paul Roma who competed in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1993 and 1994\n\nIn the leading up to Orndorff and Roma teaming together, Roma was a part of The Four Horsemen while Orndorff came off a stint as the WCW World Television Champion. Roma and Arn Anderson would hold the WCW World Tag Team Championship for a little over a month before losing the championship to The Nasty Boys (Brian Knobbs and Jerry Sags).\n\nAfter the 1993 pay-per-view Battlebowl, the Horsemen Roma and Anderson faced the semi-regular team of Paul Orndorff and \"Stunning\" Steve Austin on \"Saturday Night\". During the match, Roma acted very indifferent to his tag team partner. Next, Roma teamed with Erik Watts to take on the team of Orndorff and Lord Steven Regal, but this time Roma took it a step further and attacked Erik Watts before announcing that he was now teaming with Orndorff.\n\nUnder the tutelage of manager Masked Assassin, the team quickly began to work well together in a feud with Marcus Alexander Bagwell and 2 Cold Scorpio. After a few months as a team, they targeted the then WCW World Tag Team Champions, Cactus Jack and Kevin Sullivan. The champions had one last defense against former champions The Nasty Boys that also saw Kevin's injured brother Dave. The match degraded into a brawl that saw Pretty Wonderful interfere, using Dave's crutch to attack the champions. Before leaving the ring, they also took a couple of shots at The Nasty Boys for good measure.\n\nGoing into Bash at the Beach, Pretty Wonderful had the advantage as both champions were suffering from injuries inflicted by the challengers on previous occasions, which would lead Roma and Orndorff to win the championship. After successfully defending the championship against The Nasty Boys, Pretty Wonderful was challenged by the duo of Stars and Stripes (Marcus Alexander Bagwell and The Patriot) at Fall Brawl, where Pretty Wonderful retained the WCW World Tag Team Championship, only to lose it a week later to Stars and Stripes in a rematch. Pretty Wonderful was granted a rematch against the new champions with a match booked for Halloween Havoc, where Pretty Wonderful regained the championship when Roma used one of the title belts to knock Bagwell out cold. At \"Clash of the Champions XXIX\", Stars and Stripes were granted one final shot at the WCW World Tag Team Championship, but the challengers also had to put up the Patriot's mask on the line, as if they lost he would unmask. After a controversial double pin, Stars and Stripes were declared the winners, and thus put an end to Pretty Wonderful's second and final run with the championship.\n\nAfter their last title loss, Roma and Orndorff went their separate ways with Roma being used as \"enhancement talent\" to help build young stars. Roma would be fired less than three months later, due to kicking out from a pin attempt early in a match, where he lost to Alex Wright at SuperBrawl V. Orndorff remained with the company until an injury cut his in ring career short at the end of 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2200050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200050", "title": "Ensign O'Toole and Me", "text": "Ensign O'Toole and Me\n\nEnsign O'Toole and Me is the title of a 1957 semi-autobiographical novel by William Lederer. The book was loosely adapted to television in the 1962—1963 NBC Four Star Television series \"Ensign O'Toole\", starring Dean Jones in the title role and featuring Jack Mullaney, Jay C. Flippen, Harvey Lembeck, Beau Bridges, and Jack Albertson.\n\nEarly chapters are light-hearted and amusing. One early chapter describes how O'Toole, the hero, gives a clever explanation to his peers at Annapolis, why he chose, as his first assignment, the post of executive officer aboard an American River Gunboat in China.\n\nSeveral light-hearted chapters follow, all set in South-East Asia, prior to World War II, where O'Toole learns oriental languages from beautiful, exotic oriental women, which enable him to bail his captain out of jail after a drunken rampage.\n\nOur hero and our narrator lose touch during World War II. When they reconnect our narrator has retired from the USN and become a journalist. O'Toole is in Military Intelligence. Our hero keeps running into O'Toole in improbable locations, returning from dangerous missions, behind enemy lines, where he pleads with our hero to make the US public pay more attention to the dangers of Communism.\n\nThe author, William Lederer, did serve briefly as the XO of the Yangtze River Gunboat, USS \"Tutuila\".\n"}
{"id": "2200052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200052", "title": "Gerald Patterson", "text": "Gerald Patterson\n\nGerald Leighton Patterson (17 December 1895 – 13 June 1967) was an Australian tennis player.\n\nPatterson was active in the decade following World War I. During his career he won three Grand Slam tournaments in the singles event as well as six titles in the doubles competition and one title in mixed doubles. He was born in Melbourne, educated at Scotch College and Trinity Grammar School and died in Melbourne on 13 June 1967. He was the co-World No. 1 player for 1919 along with Bill Johnston.\n\nTall and well-built, Gerald Patterson played a strong serve-and-volley game. At Wimbledon 1919, Patterson beat 41-year-old Norman Brookes, who was defending champion (Brookes' 1914 title was the last held before World War 1) in the Challenge Round. At Wimbledon 1922, the Challenge Round was abolished and Patterson won the title (the first to be held at the current site at Church Road) beating Randolph Lycett in the final. In 1927, Patterson was five championship points down in the Australian singles final against Jack Hawkes, but won in five sets.\n\nPatterson was known as the \"Human Catapult\" for his powerful serve that many of the top players had trouble returning. He also enjoyed great success representing Australia in Davis Cup and amassed a 32–14 win–loss record (singles 21–10, doubles 11–4) and was part of the winning team in 1919. Patterson played Davis Cup in 1920, 1922, 1924, 1925, 1928 and finally as captain in 1946. He was a player ahead of his time, playing with a steel racquet strung with wire in 1925.\n\nHe was inducted into the Sport Australia Home of Fame in December 1986. This was followed by induction into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1989 and the Australian Tennis Hall of Fame in August 1997.\n\nPatterson was the nephew of Australian opera singer Dame Nellie Melba and father of racing driver Bill Patterson. Patterson was awarded the Military Cross for bravery as an officer in Royal Field Artillery in 1917 at Messines.\n\nPatterson was the first tennis player to play in three Grand Slam singles tournaments within one calender year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2200054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200054", "title": "Phil Garner", "text": "Phil Garner\n\nPhilip Mason Garner (born April 30, 1949) is an American former professional baseball player and manager. He played in Major League Baseball as an infielder with the Oakland Athletics, Pittsburgh Pirates, Houston Astros, Los Angeles Dodgers and San Francisco Giants from to . He was manager of the Astros from July 14, to August 27, , leading Houston to a World Series appearance in .\n\nGarner was originally drafted by the Montreal Expos in the eighth round of the 1970 Major League Baseball draft, but did not sign. Seven months later, he was the third overall pick by the Oakland Athletics in the secondary January 1971 draft. Originally a third baseman when he signed with the Athletics, he was converted to a second baseman as the Athletics had perennial All-Star Sal Bando at third. Garner won two World Series during his time in Oakland in 1973 and 1974. Spending most of his time as a bench player and in the minor leagues. He had a break out year for Oakland in 1976 in which he hit 8 home runs and 74 RBI's that year. He was named an All Star that year the first of his career. He stole a career high 35 bases that year.\n\nBefore the 1977 season, the Athletics traded Garner, Chris Batton, and Tommy Helms to the Pittsburgh Pirates for Tony Armas, Rick Langford, Doug Bair, Dave Giusti, Doc Medich, and Mitchell Page.\n\nNicknamed \"Scrap-Iron\" due to his gritty style of play, Garner's best year as a player was in when he hit 17 HR's, had 77 RBI's, stole 32 bases, hit 35 doubles, and scored 99 runs. Two years later in , he was a member of the World Series champion Pittsburgh Pirates, batting .417 in the 1979 National League Championship Series and .500 (12 for 24) in the World Series. His icon at the time was the scrappy, similarly-mustachioed cartoon hero, Yosemite Sam. He was named an All Star again in 1980 batting .259 while hitting 5 home runs and 58 RBI's while stealing 32 bases. He was named an All Star again for a third and final time in his career the next season in 1981 though his stats declined from previous years. He hit just 1 home run while having 26 RBI's on the year and had just 10 stolen bases.\n\nOn August 31, 1981, Garner was traded from the Pirates to the Astros for second baseman Johnny Ray and pitcher Randy Niemann. He would play with Houston until 1987. He helped the Astros reach the 1986 NLCS where they lost in six games to New York Mets this would be his final postseason action he would see of his career. He was traded in 1987 to the Los Angeles Dodgers and then spent a year with San Francisco Giants in 1988. He went through 1989 without signing with anybody and announced his retirement a year later in 1990.\n\nGarner later became a manager for the Milwaukee Brewers, Detroit Tigers and Houston Astros, leading the Astros to the franchise's first ever World Series in 2005.\n\nIn 1992, Garner replaced Tom Trebelhorn as manager of the Brewers. He quickly installed a running-focused style of play as every starter that year stole at least 10 bases. Standing out were 1992 AL Rookie of the Year Pat Listach who stole 54 bases, veteran Paul Molitor stealing 31, and outfielder Darryl Hamilton stealing 41. This gave the 1992 Brewers a 2nd-place finish in the competitive AL East but Garner's teams in later seasons in Milwaukee would not finish at .500.\n\nDuring a July 22, 1995 game against the Chicago White Sox, Garner was involved in a bench-clearing brawl, exchanging blows with White Sox manager Terry Bevington in a rare skipper-on-skipper fistfight. Garner, along with Bevington, was suspended four games for the fracas.\n\nIn 2000, Garner was hired to manage the Tigers, in their inaugural season at Comerica Park. The Tigers were in contention for the American League Wild Card berth for much of the season, but faded and finished 79-83. Garner didn't manage a winning season in his years in Detroit, and when his 2002 team began the season 0-6, he and general manager Randy Smith were fired.\n\nThe 2004 season was different for Garner. After the Houston Astros had a slow start under then-manager Jimy Williams, Garner was brought in mid-season to replace Williams and led the Astros to a National League Wild Card berth, eventually losing in seven games to St. Louis in the National League Championship Series. The team experienced another slow start in 2005 but made a run once again late in the season and came back to win another National League Wild Card. This time, Houston would beat the St. Louis Cardinals in the National League Championship Series in six games and win the pennant only to be swept by the Chicago White Sox in the World Series.\n\nUnder his leadership in the last 12 games of the 2006 season, the Astros won 10 and lost 2 putting them a game and half behind the Division winners. Garner's contract was extended through the end of the 2008 season by the Astros. As manager of a pennant winning team the year before, Garner managed the 2006 National League All-Star Team in Pittsburgh on July 11 . Garner cites Chuck Tanner, his manager during his time with the Pirates, as one of his biggest coaching influences .\n\nGarner is a strong advocate of having six relief pitchers on the roster as opposed to an extra hitter on the bench.\n\nOn August 27, , Phil Garner was released from the position of Manager from the Astros, along with General Manager Tim Purpura. Cecil Cooper was named interim manager for the remainder of the season.\n\nIn 1860 games over 16 seasons, Garner posted a .260 batting average (1594-for-6136) with 780 runs, 299 doubles, 82 triples, 109 home runs, 738 RBI, 225 stolen bases, 564 bases on balls, .323 on-base percentage and .389 slugging percentage. He finished his career with an overall .965 fielding percentage playing at second and third base and shortstop. In 21 postseason games, he batted .309 (21-for-68) with 10 runs, 5 doubles, 1 triple, 1 home run, 8 RBI and 8 walks.\n\nIn 2008, Phil Garner served as interim head coach for the UHV Jaguars baseball team of the University of Houston–Victoria. Garner temporarily replaced former Astros teammate Terry Puhl while he fulfilled his obligation as manager of the Canada National baseball team.\n\nOn August 11, 2011, Garner agreed to re-join the Athletics as a Special Adviser. He returned for the 2012 season in the same position.\n\n\nGarner has been involved in some of the longest post-season games in the history of baseball.\n\n\n, or Retrosheet \n"}
{"id": "2200067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200067", "title": "Moon Hee-joon", "text": "Moon Hee-joon\n\nMoon Hee-joon (; or spelled Moon Hee-jun; born March 14, 1978) is a South Korean pop rock singer-songwriter signed under SidusHQ. He initially rose to fame as the leader of former boy band H.O.T. under SM Entertainment.\n\nBeing the second member to join H.O.T. after auditioning, Moon made his debut as a singer as the leader of the boy group. The group debuted with their first album, \"We Hate All Kinds of Violence\" in September 1996, which was accused of being plagiarized and lawsuits were placed against them. Despite their controversial debut, the group eventually rose to fame with their first hit, \"Candy\" and \"We Are the Future\", which the latter won them a MTV award for Best International Video. During his time as part of the group, Moon composed and wrote music for the group and with fellow member, Jang Woo-hyuk, he often choreographed the group's dance routine. Despite H.O.T.'s success, after releasing their last album, \"Outside Castle\" in September 2000, the group disbanded in May 2001.\n\nAfter the disbandment of the group, Moon stayed on in S.M. Entertainment with Kangta, who was also part of H.O.T., and debuted as a solo artist. Moon attempted to establish a rock music career with his first album, \"Alone\", but received criticism from the public. His second album, \"Messiah\", was tinted with controversy as one of the songs, \"Media\", was banned from all 3 major broadcasting stations in South Korea, for attacking mass media. After the release of his third album, Legend, in 2003, Moon released \"The Best: Soaring for a Dream\", his last album under S.M. Entertainment and created his own company, PS Entertainment. After Moon released his fourth album, \"Triple X\", he enlisted in the army in 2005.\n\nBefore entering the army, Moon had signed a contract with SidusHQ and during his time in the army, he hosted the KFN Korean Army Broadcast \"Music Talk Show\", which received recognition from various Korean artistes. In 2008, Moon released his fifth album, \"Special Album\", which included songs from H.O.T. previous albums. Moon released his first mini album, \"Last Cry\", in 2009. In the same year, Moon appeared in sitcom \"Taehee, Hyegyo, Jihyun\" and took a break from the music scene.\n\nDespite being absent from the music scene, Moon took up hosting in several variety programs such as, , Mnet's 'Wide Celebrity News' and other programs. In 2013, Moon released his second mini album, \"Begins\", after being away from the music scene from 3 years. It was released on January 18, 2013.\n\nMoon, his H.O.T. bandmate Tony An and three members of disbanded or inactive fellow first-generation idol groups Eun Ji-won of Sechs Kies, Danny Ahn of g.o.d and Chun Myung-hoon of NRG starred in their own variety-reality television show \"Handsome Boys of the 20th Century\". He had conceived the idea following the success of \"Reply 1997\" and invited the four other entertainers, all of whom were born in the same year (1978), to star in a reality version of the show. They called their \"group\" HOTSechgodRG, which is made up of each of their idol group names. They have since appeared on shows such as KBS's \"Happy Together\" SBS's \"Running Man\". Due to the reuniting of Eun's group Sechs Kies and Danny Ahn's group g.o.d, they have not appeared as a five-some since the 2014 show \"Where is My Superhero?\", which aired on OnStyle, due to busy schedules but remain close friends. The group, except Eun, most recently met at Moon's bachelor party which was shown on \"Mom's Diary - My Ugly Duckling\", the reality show that Tony An was participating in.\n\nIn 2015, Moon signed an exclusive contract with KOEN Stars.\n\nOn November 25, 2016, Moon announced that he would be marrying fellow entertainer, Soyul of Crayon Pop. The wedding was held on February 12, 2017 in Seoul. The pair then welcomed their first child, a daughter, on May 12.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2200081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200081", "title": "Teylingen", "text": "Teylingen\n\nTeylingen () is a municipality in the western Netherlands, in the province of South Holland. It was created on 1 January 2006, through the amalgamation of Sassenheim, Voorhout, and Warmond. It is named after Teylingen Castle, located in Voorhout.\n\nThe municipality is bordered by Noordwijkerhout and Lisse to the north, Haarlemmermeer and Alkemade to the east, Leiderdorp and Leiden to the south, and Oegstgeest and Katwijk to the west. It is located in an area called the \"Dune and Bulb Region\" (Duin- en Bollenstreek). The Kagerplassen are to the east of Sassenheim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2200083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200083", "title": "Stars and Stripes (professional wrestling)", "text": "Stars and Stripes (professional wrestling)\n\nStars and Stripes was a professional wrestling tag team in World Championship Wrestling composed of The Patriot and Marcus Alexander Bagwell.\n\nStars and Stripes was formed in WCW in the summer of 1994 when The Patriot and Marcus Bagwell formed a face (fan favorite) tag team. Bagwell, who had previously held the WCW World Tag Team Championship while teaming with 2 Cold Scorpio, got wrestling gear to match The Patriot's patriotic look. Stars and Stripes teamed for the first time on May 28 episode of \"Saturday Night\", defeating Dick Slater and Chris Sullivan in a tag team match.\n\nShortly after the pair began teaming, Pretty Wonderful (Paul Roma and Paul Orndorff) won the WCW World Tag Team Championship. Bagwell and The Patriot faced the new champions in a series of non-title matches on house shows. They defeated Roma and Orndorff in the majority of the matches, but they were unable to win the title belts during a match between the teams at Fall Brawl on September 18. They faced each other one week later on the September 25 episode of \"Saturday Night\", and Stars and Stripes won the match and the championship.\n\nBagwell and The Patriot defended the title in a series of rematches over the next month, but they dropped the belts back to Pretty Wonderful at Halloween Havoc 1994 on October 23. The feud continued between the teams, and Stars and Stripes regained the championship on November 16 at Clash of the Champions XXIX. Had Roma and Orndorff won the match, The Patriot would have been forced to remove his mask.\n\nThe team defended the belts against a series of challenger but lost them in a match with Harlem Heat on December 8 during a taping of \"WCW Saturday Night\". They were unable to regain them in subsequent rematches; the match was not aired for several weeks, however, so Stars and Stripes continued to be billed as champions at events until the match was shown on television. Bagwell and The Patriot resumed their rivalry with Pretty Wonderful and were given a title match against Harlem Heat at Clash of the Champions XXX, but the champions retained the belts.\n\nIn February 1995, Stars and Stripes began a series of matches with The Blue Bloods (Lord Steven Regal and Earl Robert Eaton). They also wrestled Romeo Valentino and Dino Casanova at SuperBrawl V in a dark match and defeated them in one minute and ten seconds. After the match, Bagwell and The Patriot were attacked by Big Van Vader. The team continued to face Harlem Heat and The Blue Bloods (with Steve Austin substituting for Bobby Eaton). They wrestled in another dark match at Uncensored 1995, defeating the team of Bunkhouse Buck and Dick Slater.\n\nIn May 1995, The Patriot was entered in a tournament for the vacant WCW United States Championship but was eliminated in the first round by Ric Flair. Shortly thereafter, the team disbanded when The Patriot left WCW. Bagwell remained in WCW, holding the tag team belts once more while teaming with Scotty Riggs to form The American Males.\n\n"}
{"id": "2200086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200086", "title": "Udayagiri", "text": "Udayagiri\n\nUdayagiri ('Udaya' meaning morning and 'giri' meaning peak, Udayagiri translates as the peak on which morning sunlight falls first) is the name of many places in India, among them:\n"}
{"id": "2200088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200088", "title": "The 480", "text": "The 480\n\nThe 480 is a political fiction novel by Eugene Burdick (1964).\n\nThe plot evolves around the political turmoil after John F. Kennedy assassination in 1963. In the novel, a fictitious charismatic character, John Thatch, an engineer, is seeking nomination for the Republican\nParty candidate at 1964 presidential elections. He is described as being contaminated with the \"political virus\". A handful of political professionals are promoting his nomination, in confrontation with the Party establishment. There exist apparent parallels between Thatch and Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., a write-in hero at New Hampshire primary.\n\nThe novel criticizes the socio-political effects on society at large from the use of computers to run massive simulations, which predict the public reaction to certain (proposed) political moves before implementing them. Such simulations make it easy to manipulate the public consciousness.\n\nThe \"480\" in the title denotes the number of groups (by party affiliation, socioeconomic status, location, origin, etc.) that the computer simulation uses to classify the American electorate. The full list of these is reproduced in the Appendix, claimed by the author to be the true list used by the Simulmatics Corporation (real name) in Senator John F. Kennedy's Presidential campaign in 1960. The cover features an IBM 5081 punched card.\n\nThe Simulmatics Corporation was created by MIT Professor Ithiel de Sola Pool, who provided a non-fiction backup to \"The 480\" in \"Candidates, Issues, and Strategies: A Computer Simulation of the 1960 Presidential Election,\" MIT Press, 1964 (with co-authors Robert P. Abelson and Samuel L. Popkin). They built their model from 130,000 archived interviews in Gallup and Roper polls over a ten-year period. Based on its output, they advised Kennedy that he would benefit from a strong civil rights stand and that he had nothing to lose, and much to gain, by attacking religious bigotry and dealing frankly with his Catholicism.\n\nThe 480 has been cited as prefiguring the effect of modern social media and data gathering on politics.\n"}
{"id": "2200099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200099", "title": "Try Honesty", "text": "Try Honesty\n\n\"Try Honesty\" is a song by Canadian group Billy Talent. It was released in July 2003 as the lead single from their debut self-titled album.\n\nThe music video for \"Try Honesty,\" which was directed by Sean Michael Turrell, features the band playing in the Whitby Psychiatric Hospital in Whitby, Ontario. The video hints that the hospital is haunted in several ways, such as shadows without bodies, inanimate objects moving (\"i.e.:\" a toy doll opens its eyes without being touched, moving furniture, moving swing), reflections while no-one is there and people in a family picture moving.\n"}
{"id": "2200114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200114", "title": "American Males", "text": "American Males\n\nThe American Males were a professional wrestling tag team in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) composed of Marcus Bagwell and Scotty Riggs. Their gimmick was of two \"pretty boys\" who were fond of their own bodies and popular with women. Riggs was Bagwell's third partner with whom he won the WCW World Tag Team Championship, the previous two being 2 Cold Scorpio and The Patriot. The American Males won the tag team title soon after they began teaming together but soon dropped the belts back to Harlem Heat, the previous champions. Bagwell and Riggs did not return to main-event status, and they eventually split up and feuded with each other.\n\nMarcus Bagwell had competed in the tag team division in WCW since 1993, during which time he held the WCW World Tag Team Championship with two different partners. Teaming with 2 Cold Scorpio, he held the title belts for three weeks. He later won the title twice more while teaming with The Patriot, a team that was dubbed Stars and Stripes due to the patriotic theme both wrestlers were using at the time. After being left behind by both partners, he expressed a desire to form a new tag team to challenge for the title again. According to WCW's storylines, his former partners believed that he was too demanding, and he was unable to find anyone interested in teaming with him due to his reputation as being \"difficult to work with\".\n\nThe team was formed in August 1995 when Scott Antol signed a WCW contract and was placed with \"tag team specialist\" Marcus Alexander Bagwell. In the process, both men changed their ring names, Antol changing his last name to \"Riggs\" and Bagwell shortening his name to simply Marcus Bagwell. Once together, they both wore short shorts and leather vests (later wrestling tights and suspenders) to the ring and began clapping their hands over their head in time with their entrance music, which sang their praises between choruses of the team name being repeated over and over. They wrestled on the first episode of \"Nitro\", defeating World Tag Team Champions Dick Slater and Bunkhouse Buck in a non-title match. Their first major appearance together came at the Fall Brawl pay-per-view, where they defeated The Nasty Boys in a match that aired on \"Main Event\". \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" magazine stated that the team \"work[ed] well as a unit and could soon challenge for the belts\". Bagwell commented on the team in a scripted interview, saying that he believed that his previous tag teams had failed because they were in a rush to win the title belts and that he planned to work slowly toward a title victory with Riggs.\n\nOn the episode of \"Nitro\" after Fall Brawl, Riggs and Bagwell won the World Tag Team Championship after defeating then-champions Harlem Heat (Booker T and Stevie Ray) in an upset win in an impromptu match. The American Males had been scheduled to face The Blue Bloods, but Harlem Heat attacked both members of the Blue Bloods prior to the match and volunteered to take their place. As champions, the pair defeated Harlem Heat and the team of Dick Slater and Bunkhouse Buck. However, Bagwell and Riggs lost the titles back to Harlem Heat one week later on \"Saturday Night\". The American Males remained top challengers for the title belts for the rest of 1995 but were unable to regain the championship from Harlem Heat.\n\nBy the end of 1995, The American Males were no longer being pushed by WCW; they competed at Starrcade 1995 in a dark match and defeated The Blue Bloods. Through most of 1996, they competed in the tag team division with no major storylines and never reached the same heights as when they were champions. They were able to defeat other mid-card teams like the Faces of Fear, and they competed in a dark match prior to Slamboree 1996, defeating The Shark and Maxx. They were consistently defeated by the company's top tag teams, and \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" noted that they were getting lost in a \"very deep\" tag team division that included The Road Warriors, Public Enemy, Harlem Heat, The Nasty Boys, the Blue Bloods, Lex Luger and Sting, Four Horsemen, The Steiner Brothers, and The Outsiders, among others.\n\nIn October 1996, the team began showing signs of splitting, which intensified over the weeks. At World War 3 on November 24, 1996, the frustration came to a head as Bagwell attacked Riggs following both men's elimination from the three-ring battle royal that served as the main event.\n\nThe next night on \"Nitro\" Eric Bischoff, representing the New World Order (nWo) stable, informed all WCW wrestlers that they would become targets of the nWo if they did not join the group within 30 days. Bagwell and Riggs walked to the ring shortly after Bischoff's statement, with Bagwell looking to join and Riggs trying to talk him out of it. Bagwell decided to join the nWo, turning on Riggs and dissolving the team in the process. In a scripted interview, Bagwell stated, \"Who needs Riggs anymore when I have the nWo?!\" He also later stated that the team's lack of success after their first title reign was the fault of Riggs' ineptitude, stating \"I couldn't make up for all his weaknesses.\"\n\nFollowing the breakup, the former partners feuded for a while with Bagwell getting the better of Riggs. Riggs would go on to briefly feud with Raven, later joining The Flock, while Bagwell formed Vicious and Delicious with Scott Norton before suffering a severe neck injury that kept him out of action for a while. Bagwell later returned to WCW, teaming with Shane Douglas to win another tag team championship. After losing the championship, he formed another tag team, pairing with Lex Luger to form Totally Buffed.\n\nWhen Riggs joined Extreme Championship Wrestling in 2000, he did a parody of the American Males gimmick by calling himself \"The U.S. Male\" and using their overhead clap taunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2200117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200117", "title": "Tivadar Csontváry Kosztka", "text": "Tivadar Csontváry Kosztka\n\nTivadar Csontváry Kosztka (; July 5, 1853 – June 20, 1919) was a Hungarian painter who was part of the avant-garde movement of the early twentieth century. Working mostly in Budapest, he was one of the first Hungarian painters to become known in Europe. On 15 December 2006 the Kieselbach Gallery in Budapest sold an auction the most expensive Csontváry painting so far. The \"Rendezvous\" (1902) (\"Meeting of the lovers\") was bought by an anonymous client for more than one million EUR.\n\nHis works are held by the Hungarian National Gallery in Budapest and the Csontváry Museum in Pécs, among other institutions and private collectors.\n\nCsontváry was born on 5 July 1853 in Kisszeben, Sáros County, Kingdom of Hungary (today Sabinov, Slovakia), and died 20 June 1919 in Budapest. His Kosztka ancestors on his father's side were Poles who settled in Hungary. Although Csontváry was obsessed with his Magyar roots, he grew up speaking Slovak mixed with German. He was a pharmacist until his twenties.\nOn the hot sunny afternoon of 13 October 1880, when he was 27 years old, he had a mystic vision. He heard a voice saying, \"You are going to be the greatest painter of the world, greater than Raphael.\" He took journeys around Europe, visited the galleries of the Vatican, and returned to Hungary to earn money for his journeys by working as an apothecary. From 1890, he traveled around the world. He visited Paris, the Mediterraneum (Dalmatia, Italy, Greece), North Africa and the Middle East (Lebanon, Palestine, Egypt, Syria) and painted pictures. Often his pictures are very large, several metres (yards) wide and height is not unusual. \n\nHe painted his major works between 1903 and 1909. He had some exhibitions in Paris (1907) and Western Europe. Most of the critics in Western Europe recognized his abilities, art and congeniality, but in the Kingdom of Hungary during his life, he was considered to be an eccentric crank for several reasons, e. g. for his vegetarianism, anti-alcoholism, anti-smoking, pacifism, and his cloudy, prophetic writings and pamphlets about his life (\"Curriculum\"), genius (\"The Authority\", \"The Genius\") and religious philosophy (\"The Positivum\"). Some of his biographists considered this as a latent, but increasingly disruptive schizophrenia. Although he was later acclaimed, during his lifetime Csontváry found little understanding for his visionary, expressionistic style. A loner by nature, his \"failure\" impaired his creative power. \n\nHe painted more than one hundred pictures, the most famous and emblematic of which is probably \"The Lonely Cedar\" () . His art connects with post-impressionism and expressionism, but he was an autodidact and cannot be classified into one style. He identified as a \"sunway\"-painter, a term which he created.\n\n"}
