{"id": "2292448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292448", "title": "Splitterring", "text": "Splitterring\n\nThe Splitterring (German compound combining \"Splitter\" (splinter or fragment) and \"Ring\" (ring)) was a fragmentation sleeve for the M24 and M43 stick grenades, developed by the \"Heer\" in 1942. German stick grenades had only a thin steel casing surrounding the explosive charge, which relied principally on blast for effect; the addition of a \"Splitterring\" gave it greatly increased anti-personnel fragmentation ability.\n\nConcussion grenades are best used in enclosed spaces such as buildings or bunkers, which contain the blast for maximum effect; anti-personnel fragmentation grenades are designed to be effective against personnel in the open. The \"Splitterring\" was a simple cylindrical steel sleeve, with either a smooth or serrated surface, clipped in place over the head of a stick grenade with three keepers around the base, and secured with a tension ring. This easy modification allowed a single type of grenade to be manufactured and carried by soldiers, whereas other nations often produced separate types of concussion and anti-personnel grenades.\n\nA similar sleeve was fitted as a standard item to the Soviet RGD-33 Grenade.\n"}
{"id": "2292451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292451", "title": "Devil's Pond", "text": "Devil's Pond\n\nDevil's Pond (alternatively known as Heaven's Pond) is a 2003 American direct-to-video thriller film directed by Joel Viertel, who co-wrote it with Alek Friedman and Mora Stephens. It stars Kip Pardue and Tara Reid. It tells the tale about two newlyweds that head to a remote lake house for their honeymoon, during which the husband turns it into a prison for his new wife.\n\nNewlyweds, Mitch (Kip Pardue) and Julianne (Tara Reid), escape their normal lives and travel to a deserted island for a romantic and adventurous honeymoon, staying for two weeks at an old cottage in the middle of a secluded lake. They discover the area has no electricity or phone coverage, as Julianne tries to settle in despite her fear of water and inability to swim. Mitch enjoys the country life, and when Julianne wants to go into town to call her parents, to confirm her safety, he gets overprotective of her.\n\nWhile the two weeks go by, Julianne is eager to return home to start their new lives, but Mitch refuses to go back to that life, wanting them to stay put in his ideal setting, even when Julianne cannot find her birth control pills to prevent her pregnancy. When Julianne finds out Mitch had stalked her before they met and got married, she attempts to leave, and she sees a grave in the woods across the lake before Mitch brings her back. To ensure that she does not attempt to escape again, Mitch disposes of their boat.\n\nOne night as Mitch is asleep, Julianne takes the key worn around his neck to open his safe box, having grown suspicious of it. She finds a property deed and learns he inherited the land from his deceased father and that he had often visited the property with his dad. Using a raft to head across the lake, she tries to escape again in Mitch's pick-up truck, only for Mitch to find her there, and knock her unconscious. Chained to an anchor and a tree, Julianne realizes how psychotic Mitch is, and that he knew everything about her, including her fear of water, using it to hold her at their location.\n\nDetermined to leave, Julianne burns their matches, forcing Mitch to go into town to buy new ones. While he is gone, she gets an axe and breaks free from the chain. He comes back unexpectedly early, and she is almost discovered in her act of escape. When he finds out about it, Mitch begins physically abusing her. After he steps into a bear trap that she had buried, Julianne counterattacks and uses the shotgun he brought back to shoot him in the arm. Mitch remains alive, but he can barely move, as Julianne frees herself and leaves him for dead, with the shotgun. Overcoming her fear of water, she swims across the lake to the other side and later hears a gunshot, indicating that Mitch has killed himself. The final scene shows Julianne leaving her wedding ring in Mitch's disabled truck and walking away down a country road to an uncertain future, but free.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292452", "title": "Chapel inclined plane", "text": "Chapel inclined plane\n\nThe Chapel Inclined Plane is an inclined plane immediately to the south of Chapel-en-le-Frith, High Peak, Derbyshire. The ground here rises sharply and the inclined plane was built to connect the lower and upper levels of the Peak Forest Tramway, which was built and initially operated by the Peak Forest Canal Company. It opened for trade on 31 August 1796.\n\nAt this point the ground rises by and the operating principle of the plane was that it was self-acting and loaded waggons descending under the action of gravity hauled empty waggons up it. A maximum of eight loaded waggons were permitted to descend the plane at any one time. The net (or tare) weight of a mineral waggon was between and it could carry about 2½ tons. Thus the gross weight of a gang of eight waggons descending the plane was about 22 to 28 tons. Chains coupled the waggons to each other and the waggon at the rear was coupled to the incline chain/rope. In Derbyshire, the workman who made the coupling to the incline chain/rope was generally known as a \"\"hanger-on\"\" and he connected two special chains to the rear waggon, which he then plaited around the incline chain/rope and fastened them off with leather thongs. It was found that plaiting these chains in place had the effect of tightening their grip once the waggons were in motion on the plane. It is known that these chains were sometimes made with progressively smaller links, which also had the effect of tightening the grip but it is not known whether chains of this type were used on this plane.\n\nAs the waggons moved on the plane, the weight of the chain/rope increased on the descending side and decreased on the ascending side. Thus, it was essential to keep waggons under control once they were in motion and this was accomplished in three ways.\n\n\nIn the event of an accident, three catches were provided towards the top of the plane to stop runaway waggons but their method of operation is unknown and it is not known how effective they were. The two running tracks on the plane were laid parallel to each other and this makes it evident that a gravel dragpit was not provided for runaway waggons to enter. On several occasions reports of chain/cable breakage were recorded and descending loaded waggons crashed into Buxton Road Bridge at the foot of the plane.\n\nAn iron post, incorporating a red and white disc and bell signal, was positioned between the running tracks at the bottom of the plane and when everything was ready a signal was given to the brakeman, the bell being used when it was misty or dark. When the brakeman was also satisfied that everything was ready at the top, he released the brake and the descending waggons were pushed onto the plane. As the descending waggons approached the bottom the reduced gradient slowed them down and simultaneously this action was assisted by the increased gradient encountered by ascending waggons as they approached the top. When the brakeman was assured that the waggons had completed the full traverse of the plane, he stopped them by fully applying the brake.\n\nAt the top of the plane the incline chain/rope passed underground and into a pit where it was wound one and a half turns around a horizontal drum in diameter. The groove in the drum for the chain/rope was lined with wooden blocks with the grain facing outwards to increase the friction. Above this groove there was an integral brake wheel about wide. A wrought iron (or steel) band brake encircled this, which almost made a 360° arc of contact with the brake wheel, and this was lined with wooden blocks with the grain facing inwards to increase the friction. The band brake was anchored to the back wall of the pit and at the front, one end was cranked upwards and the other end was cranked downwards. The upward crank was attached above the fulcrum of the brake lever and the downward crank was attached below the fulcrum. The brake lever was about long and it extended into the hut at the top of the tower. In spite of the large mechanical advantage provided by the brake lever, the brakeman was unable to apply the brake unaided. To further increase the mechanical advantage, a pulley block was fitted to the lever and the brakeman used this to apply the brake.\n\nWhen the tramway opened in 1796, a hemp rope was used on the incline but it was found that this was too weak and a wrought-iron chain soon replaced it. This also proved not to be strong enough and in 1809 it was replaced. The new chain had links 5 inches (127 mm) long and it was manufactured in Birmingham at a cost of £500. Records suggest that the chain was also replaced in 1817 and again in 1831. It was about 1,075 yards (983 m) long and weighed about 7 tons. With the development of the Bessemer steel making process during the 1860s, a steel rope eventually replaced the chain and this was 2 inches (51 mm) in diameter and weighed 6 tons (tonnes).\n\nAt first, the chain/rope was supported and guided on the plane by wooden blocks placed between the rails every 10 yards (9.1 m) but it is known that steel rollers were fitted in the late 1860s or the 1870s as it became easier to manufacture steel. While the substantial drag between the chain/rope and the wooden blocks was put to beneficial use in the operation of the plane it must have been found that this was too great and rollers were substituted for blocks with the purpose of reducing drag.\n"}
{"id": "2292461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292461", "title": "Kip Pardue", "text": "Kip Pardue\n\nKevin Ian \"Kip\" Pardue (born September 23, 1975) is an American actor and model, who became known for his roles in the films \"Remember the Titans\", \"Driven\", \"The Rules of Attraction\" and \"Thirteen\".\n\nBorn in Atlanta, Georgia, Pardue attended Dunwoody High School in Atlanta. The name \"Kip\" comes from the initials of his full name.\n\nAfter graduating from Yale University, where he played football, Pardue was discovered by Molly Ringwald's publicist. He has been a model for Armani, Polo and Abercrombie and Fitch. He was named by Armani Exchange as one of the \"Top 10 Upcoming Actors\" in 2001.\n\nOn October 31, 2018, The Hermosa Beach Police Dept. announced it was investigating a report of sexual misconduct filed by \"True Blood\" actress Sarah Scott, who alleged she was \"sexually violated while at work\" in May by Pardue, her former costar. On July 7th, 2019, SAG-AFTRA found Pardue guilty of sexual harassment and fined him $6,000 for sexually harassing Scott. \n"}
{"id": "2292465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292465", "title": "Stacked Actors", "text": "Stacked Actors\n\n\"Stacked Actors\" is a Foo Fighters song which was released as a single from their third album \"There Is Nothing Left to Lose\" in 2000. It was only released as a limited edition commercial single in Australia exclusively, however radio promotional singles were released in other countries for radio airplay.\n\nThe song is a playable track in the game \"\" and as downloadable content for \"Rock Band 3\".\n\nJustin Gerber of \"Consequence of Sound\" described \"Stacked Actors\" as \"one of the heaviest songs the band has recorded\" and \"a grungy call to Grohls' past\".\n\nDave Grohl on the song: \n\nGrohl dismissed rumors that the song was about Courtney Love.\n\nOn September 3, 1999, the Foo Fighters played a secret gig at the Troubador in Los Angeles playing using the pseudo band name Stacked Actors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292477", "title": "Dick Ackerman", "text": "Dick Ackerman\n\nRichard Charles Ackerman (born December 5, 1942) is a Republican U.S. politician, who was a California State Senator for the 33rd District, representing inland Orange County, from 2000 to 2008.\n\nBorn in Long Beach, California, Ackerman earned a B.A. in Mathematics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1964 and a J.D. from Hastings College of the Law in 1967. Ackerman and his wife, Linda, who married in 1968, have three children, Lauren, Marc, and Brett, and two granddaughters, Caitlin and Elizabeth.\n\nElected to the Fullerton City Council in 1980, Ackerman served three terms on the council, also serving as Mayor in 1982 and 1986.\n\nAckerman was elected to the California State Assembly from the 72nd District in a 1995 special election to replace Assemblyman Ross Johnson, who vacated the seat after winning a special election to the State Senate. He was unopposed for re-election in 1996 and won 68% of the vote in 1998. During his tenure in the Assembly, Ackerman served as Assistant Republican Leader, Republican Caucus Whip, Vice Chair of the Assembly Natural Resources Committee, Vice Chair of the Assembly Judiciary Committee, a member of Appropriations Committee, and a member of the Legislative Ethics Committee.\n\nAfter those three terms in the Assembly, Ackerman was elected to the State Senate in 2000. In first year in the Senate, he became Vice Chair of the Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee. Ackerman and his family moved from their long-time Fullerton residence in the northern part of his Senate District to Irvine in the central part of his Senate District. In 2002, Ackerman agreed to run as a sacrificial lamb against incumbent Democratic Attorney General Bill Lockyer in the latter's bid for a second term, as no Republican sought the nomination for Attorney General and Ackerman could retain his Senate seat since it was not up for election until 2004. As expected, Lockyer won re-election and Ackerman stayed in the Senate. On May 10, 2004, Ackerman was unanimously elected to serve as Senate Minority Leader. Six months later, he won re-election to the Senate with 69% of the vote. On April 15, 2008, Ackerman officially handed over California Senate GOP leadership to fellow Long Beach-born State Senator Dave Cogdill.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292483", "title": "Degenerate energy levels", "text": "Degenerate energy levels\n\nIn quantum mechanics, an energy level is degenerate if it corresponds to two or more different measurable states of a quantum system. Conversely, two or more different states of a quantum mechanical system are said to be degenerate if they give the same value of energy upon measurement. The number of different states corresponding to a particular energy level is known as the degree of degeneracy of the level. It is represented mathematically by the Hamiltonian for the system having more than one linearly independent eigenstate with the same energy eigenvalue. When this is the case, energy alone is not enough to characterize what state the system is in, and other quantum numbers are needed to characterize the exact state when distinction is desired. In classical mechanics, this can be understood in terms of different possible trajectories corresponding to the same energy.\n\nDegeneracy plays a fundamental role in quantum statistical mechanics. For an -particle system in three dimensions, a single energy level may correspond to several different wave functions or energy states. These degenerate states at the same level are all equally probable of being filled. The number of such states gives the degeneracy of a particular energy level.\n\nThe possible states of a quantum mechanical system may be treated mathematically as abstract vectors in a separable, complex Hilbert space, while the observables may be represented by linear Hermitian operators acting upon them. By selecting a suitable basis, the components of these vectors and the matrix elements of the operators in that basis may be determined. \nIf is a matrix, a non-zero vector, and is a scalar, such that formula_1, then the scalar is said to be an eigenvalue of and the vector is said to be the eigenvector corresponding to . Together with the zero vector, the set of all eigenvectors corresponding to a given eigenvalue form a subspace of , which is called the eigenspace of . An eigenvalue which corresponds to two or more different linearly independent eigenvectors is said to be degenerate, i.e., formula_2 and formula_3, where formula_4 and formula_5 are linearly independent eigenvectors. The dimension of the eigenspace corresponding to that eigenvalue is known as its degree of degeneracy, which can be finite or infinite. An eigenvalue is said to be non-degenerate if its eigenspace is one-dimensional. \n\nThe eigenvalues of the matrices representing physical observables in quantum mechanics give the measurable values of these observables while the eigenstates corresponding to these eigenvalues give the possible states in which the system may be found, upon measurement. The measurable values of the energy of a quantum system are given by the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian operator, while its eigenstates give the possible energy states of the system. A value of energy is said to be degenerate if there exist at least two linearly independent energy states associated with it. Moreover, any linear combination of two or more degenerate eigenstates is also an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian operator corresponding to the same energy eigenvalue. This clearly follows from the fact that the eigenspace of the energy value eigenvalue is a subspace (being the kernel of the Hamiltonian minus times the identity), hence is closed under linear combinations.\n\nIn the absence of degeneracy, if a measured value of energy of a quantum system is determined, the corresponding state of the system is assumed to be known, since only one eigenstate corresponds to each energy eigenvalue. However, if the Hamiltonian formula_6 has a degenerate eigenvalue formula_7 of degree g, the eigenstates associated with it form a vector subspace of dimension g. In such a case, several final states can be possibly associated with the same result formula_7, all of which are linear combinations of the g orthonormal eigenvectors formula_9.\n\nIn this case, the probability that the energy value measured for a system in the state formula_10 will yield the value\nformula_7 is given by the sum of the probabilities of finding the system in each of the states in this basis, i.e.\n\nThis section intends to illustrate the existence of degenerate energy levels in quantum systems studied in different dimensions. The study of one and two-dimensional systems aids the conceptual understanding of more complex systems.\n\nIn several cases, analytic results can be obtained more easily in the study of one-dimensional systems. For a quantum particle with a wave function formula_10 moving in a one-dimensional potential formula_14, the time-independent Schrödinger equation can be written as\nSince this is an ordinary differential equation, there are two independent eigenfunctions for a given energy formula_16 at most, so that the degree of degeneracy never exceeds two. It can be proven that in one dimension, there are no degenerate bound states for normalizable wave functions. A sufficient condition on a piecewise continuous potential formula_17 and the energy formula_16 is the existence of two real numbers formula_19 with formula_20 such that formula_21 we have formula_22. In particular, formula_17 is bounded below in this criterion.\n\nTwo-dimensional quantum systems exist in all three states of matter and much of the variety seen in three dimensional matter can be created in two dimensions. Real two-dimensional materials are made of monoatomic layers on the surface of solids. Some examples of two-dimensional electron systems achieved experimentally include MOSFET, two-dimensional superlattices of Helium, Neon, Argon, Xenon etc. and surface of liquid Helium. \nThe presence of degenerate energy levels is studied in the cases of particle in a box and two-dimensional harmonic oscillator, which act as useful mathematical models for several real world systems.\n\nConsider a free particle in a plane of dimensions formula_24 and formula_25 in a plane of impenetrable walls. The time-independent Schrödinger equation for this system with wave function formula_10 can be written as\n"}
{"id": "2292485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292485", "title": "Personal web page", "text": "Personal web page\n\nPersonal web pages are world wide web pages created by an individual to contain content of a personal nature rather than content pertaining to a company, organization or institution. Personal web pages are primarily used for informative or entertainment purposes but can also be used for personal career marketing (by containing a list of the individual's skills, experience and a CV), social networking with other people with shared interests, or as a space for personal expression.\n\nThese terms do not usually refer to just a single \"page\" or HTML file, but to a collection of webpages and related files under a common URL or Web address. In strictly technical terms, a site's actual home page (index page) often only contains sparse content with some catchy introductory material and serves mostly as a pointer or table of contents to the more content-rich pages inside, such as résumés, family, hobbies, family genealogy, a web log/diary (\"blog\"), opinions, online journals and diaries or other writing, examples of written work, digital audio sound clips, digital video clips, digital photos, or information about a user's other interests. Many personal pages only include information of interest to friends and family of the author. However, some webpages set up by hobbyists or enthusiasts of certain subject areas can be valuable topical web directories.\n\nSince the early 1990s, most Internet Service Providers (ISPs) provided a free small personal, user-created webpage along with free Usenet News service. These were all considered part of full Internet service. Also several free web hosting services such as Geocities provided free web space for personal web pages. These free web hosting services would typically include web-based site management and a few pre-configured scripts to easily integrate an input form or guestbook script into the user's site. Since the early 2000s, the rise of blogging and the development of user friendly web page designing software made it easier for amateur users who did not have computer programming or website designer training to create personal web pages. Some website design websites provided free ready-made blogging scripts, where all the user had to do was input their content into a template. At the same time, a personal web presence became easier with the increased popularity of social networking services, some with blogging platforms such as LiveJournal and Blogger. These websites provided an attractive and easy-to-use content management system for regular users. Most of the early personal websites were Web 1.0 style, in which a static display of text and images or photos was displayed to individuals who came to the page. About the only interaction that was possible on these early websites was signing the virtual \"guestbook\".\n\nWith the collapse of the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s, the ISP industry consolidated, and the focus of web hosting services shifted away from the surviving ISP companies to independent Internet hosting services and to ones with other affiliations. For example, many university departments provided personal pages for professors and television broadcasters provided them for their on-air personalities. These free webpages served as a perquisite (\"perk\") for staff, while at the same time boosting the Web visibility of the parent organization. Web hosting companies either charge a monthly fee, or provide service that is \"free\" (advertising based) for personal web pages. These are priced or limited according to the total size of all files in bytes on the host's hard drive, or by bandwidth, (traffic), or by some combination of both. For those customers who continue to use their ISP for these services, national ISPs commonly continue to provide both disk space and help including ready-made drop-in scripts.\n\nWith the rise of Web 2.0-style websites, both professional websites and user-created, amateur websites tended to contain interactive features, such as \"clickable\" links to online newspaper articles or favourite websites, the option to comment on content displayed on the website, the option to \"tag\" images, videos or links on the site, the option of \"clicking\" on an image to enlarge it or find out more information, the option of user participation for website guests to evaluate or review the pages, or even the option to create new user-generated content for others to see. A key difference between Web 1.0 personal webpages and Web 2.0 personal pages was while the former tended to be created by hackers, computer programmers and computer hobbyists, the latter were created by a much wider variety of users, including individuals whose main interests lay in hobbies or topics outside of computers (e.g., indie music fans, political activists, and social entrepreneurs).\n\nMany people maintain personal web pages to express their opinions on issues ranging from news and politics to movies or to serve as a showcase for their creative endeavors in writing, songwriting, poetry or music. They also provide a link from the world to the individual (and from the individual to the world) along the lines of a telephone book listing. Some people use their personal web page as a communication method. For example, an aspiring artist might give out business cards with their personal web page, and invite people to visit their page and see their artwork, \"like\" their page or sign their guestbook. For users not well-versed in HTML and other Web technologies, personal accounts with social networking services may be faster to set up for creating a simple personal Web presence (due in part to the communal nature of social networks), provided that the page's author does not object to the network's online advertising and in some cases exclusion of readers and browsers who do not wish to open an account. Institutions such as universities often provide home page facilities to their members which are both advertisement-free and world-readable without registration, although the content might be subject to institutional rules (e.g., against inappropriate photos or hate speech).\n\nA personal web page can be used for self promotion for a person's small business or entrepreneurial venture, to promote an amateur rock band they play in, to promote community activities or charitable causes they support, to provide quick access to information about the user, or just as something \"cool\" to do. A personal web page gives the owner generally more control on presence in search results and how he/she wishes to be viewed online. It also allows more freedom in types and quantity of content than a social network profile offers, and can link various social media profiles with each other. It can be used to correct the record on something, or clear up potential confusion between you and someone with the same name. Early personal web pages were often called \"home pages\" and were intended to be set as a default page in a web browser's preferences, usually by their owner. These pages would often contain links, to-do lists, and other information their author found useful. In the days when search engines were in their infancy, these pages (and the links they contained) could be an important resource in navigating the web.\n\nIn the 2010s, some amateur writers, bands and filmmakers release digital versions of their stories, songs and short films online, with the aim of gaining an audience and becoming more well-known. While the huge number of aspiring artists posting their work online makes it unlikely for individuals and groups to become popular via the Internet, there are a small number of YouTube stars who were unknown until their online performances garnered them a huge audience.\n\nBoth individual, personal web sites and personal social networking accounts give the user a personally customized Web presence. In the 2010s most casual Internet users join free social networking services such as Twitter or Facebook to serve many of the same purposes as a personal webpage without having to learn web design and writing HTML markup. That prerequisite is not required, as Web hosting services provide more help to enable regular users to create Web pages.\n\nSocial networks often used prefabricated \"black box\" structures. On one hand, these templates are much easier for neophyte users to work with, since users simply have to add in information in spaces which indicate the required information. Once the user \"saves\" or finishes entering the information, the social network website's software system automatically creates a fairly professional-looking layout. \"Black box\" templates are much simpler to begin using and navigating, but more advanced users may be frustrated that they cannot \"tweak\" the formatting, amount of content, type of content, etc. For example, most social networks have rules regarding casual users who are uploading (loading files onto the website) audio files to their account. Furthermore, these companies intentionally retain the specific service's look and feel and identity of each user personal account within that corporate social network. For example, all profiles may have the same background color, font and website trademark. The emphasis there is on being part of a branded \"network,\" not on the \"personal,\" or the individual. Thus, these \"accounts\" are not normally thought of as (personal) web sites or home pages.\n\nThere are other differences. Unlike actual personal web pages, social networking services and ad-based \"free\" web hosting service personnel, advertisers and nanny-bots can see everything inside the user accounts, and rules are enforced by the firm, \"not by the courts\" as would be the case with a personally owned, full-featured personal web page. However some social services allow the display of almost any content or media produced by the site's creator. This avenue of distribution satisfies most amateurs and aspiring content creators. Web site creation tools permitted by some companies have the potential to allow users more flexibility. As a rule of thumb, the amount of creative freedom one is allowed in creating a personal Web page can be predicted by the site's URL. A pure URL similar to www.yourname.com predicts total ownership and the resulting rights. But a shared-name URL similar to www.yourname.home.othercompany.com suggests account rental and regulations which benefit or protect a corporation (in this case, Othercompany Inc).\n\n\"Free\" sites based on advertising revenue face the dilemma that while relaxation of the rules encourages users to post their feelings and opinions and upload user-generated content with less fear of being censored or shut down, it also increases the risk of an offended sponsor pulling its sponsorship, if offensive materials or comments are made online. With more uploading and content-posting freedom comes an increased risk of copyright and defamation lawsuits, hate speech charges and other legal problems. Free hosting services do not allow users many options to customize the look of pages, because this would reduce page uniformity, thus reducing the common \"look and feel\" on the website, which becomes a key part of its identity and \"branding\". In short, if a social networking company allowed total personal freedom of content posting and profile modification for users, it also risks a degradation of its own look-and-feel, branding, function, and profit and legal risks. In the 2010s, this balance of interests is leading toward more user choices and a narrowing of the differences between personal web sites and other personal web presence providers.\n\nMany celebrities from the movies, TV shows, professional sports and popular music have websites. Were their owners not famous, some might think due to their tone and personal ambiance that these sites were personal web pages. However, the celebrity is the \"product\" or brand being sold, and however casual a celebrity website may appear, with short blog posts and comments appearing on a regular basis, these are typically professionally authored and maintained. Some celebrities' public relations firms and managers hire ghostwriters to author blog posts and Tweets in the style of the celebrity. The celebrity status of the subject and the existence of separate fan-created sites (over which the celebrity in question has no direct control) leads the existence of multiple websites for each celebrity: a personal site authorized by the celebrity and maintained by an individual or company directly associated with the celebrity to be labeled an \"official website\", and one or more fan-run websites. This designation is often a seal of approval and an assurance to the public that the information provided on the site (including press releases, tour dates, and promotional materials) has been authored or approved by the celebrity in question. Some celebrities involved in criminal and civil trials, such as late pop star Michael Jackson and media mogul Martha Stewart, as well as celebrity chef Paula Deen establish official websites to issue statements to the press and to respond to statements and press releases issued by the prosecuting officials. Most celebrity sites are created and maintained by marketing and web professionals employed by the celebrity or the celebrity's publicist; however, some celebrities, such as film director Roger Avary, actor Wil Wheaton, and video game developer John Romero, maintain their own official sites without professional help, although many of them still use third-party templates and blogging software.\n\nAcademic professionals (especially at the college and university level), including professors and researchers, are often given online space for creating and storing personal web documents, including personal web pages, CVs and a list of their books, academic papers and conference presentations, on the websites of their employers. This goes back to the early decade of the World Wide Web and its original purpose of providing a quick and easy way for academics to share research papers and data. Many professors post a digital photo on their profile page. In the 2010s, some professors and researchers have excerpts from their published articles and books, or even the full text of some articles. Some academics in the 2010s use content-rich, interactive Web 2.0 features on their websites, such as clips of television interviews, podcasts, and space for online comments or discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292487", "title": "Serostim", "text": "Serostim\n\nSerostim (recombinant DNA somatropin) is Serono's brand name prescription drug form of synthetic growth hormone, marketed for HIV-associated wasting.\n\nIn December 2007, the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts - in a class-action lawsuit that involved Merck Serono and Serostim - fined Serono a total of $704 million in criminal and civil liabilities for enacting \"illegal schemes to promote, market and sell its drug.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2292488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292488", "title": "Breakout (Foo Fighters song)", "text": "Breakout (Foo Fighters song)\n\n\"Breakout\" is a song by Foo Fighters. It is the second track and fourth single from their third album \"There Is Nothing Left to Lose\". \n\nThe single was released as a two disc set in the UK and Europe, and also had separate releases in the Netherlands, Australia and Japan. Promotional singles were also released in the US for radio play.\n\nThe song appeared as a playable track in \"Lego Rock Band\".\n\nThe video was directed by The Malloys that served as a tie-in to the song's appearance in the film \"Me, Myself & Irene\". It mainly features Dave Grohl playing a character who has a \"multiple personality\" disorder (just like Charlie Baileygates/Hank, Jim Carrey's character in the film) while taking his girlfriend to see the movie at a drive-in. In addition to Grohl's mom, Ginny, as the woman who flips him off while he is driving, the video also features some of the actors from the \"Me, Myself & Irene\" including Traylor Howard, who played Charlie's unfaithful ex-wife Layla, and Tony Cox, who played the limo driver with whom Charlie's ex-wife had her affair, and Anthony Anderson, who played one of Charlie's adopted sons. The MTV series \"Making the Video\" documented the making of the music video.\n\nA live version recorded on November 23, 1999 at the Barrowlands for the BBC Radio 1's \"Rock Show\" programme was released as a B-side to the CD versions of the \"Generator\" single.\n\nTwo live versions were released on the Everywhere but Home DVD, recorded in Toronto and Reykjavík. \n\nA live version filmed at Hyde Park June 17th 2006 was released on the \"Live at Hyde Park\" DVD.\n\nA live version filmed at Wembley Stadium June 7th 2008 was released on the \"Live at Wembley Stadium\" DVD.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292489", "title": "Warwick railway station, Perth", "text": "Warwick railway station, Perth\n\nWarwick railway station is a railway station on the Transperth network. It is located on the Joondalup line, 13 kilometres from Perth station serving the suburb of Warwick.\n\nPrior to the commissioning of the site as a railway station, the location was originally a bus interchange known as the Warwick Bus Station. Opened in 1987, it was similar in design and appearance to facilities constructed at Mirrabooka and Rockingham for the same purpose. It provided services connecting the Perth central business district to bus routes servicing the then rapidly expanding northern suburbs. The site also contains a privately operated day care centre which remains in operation as of September 2019.\n\nThe original bus station was connected to the adjoining Mitchell Freeway by a two-lane on/off ramp in both the north and south directions, constructed in the middle of the Mitchell Freeway reserve. It was constructed to service freeway express buses from Perth, services which were subsequently phased out with the opening of the railway station. The on/off ramp was connected to the bus station via a bridge spanning the southbound lanes of the Freeway. The bus station was positioned on land north of the connecting bridge between the Freeway East Embankment (controlled by the Main Roads Department), Hawker Avenue, land occupied by the Warwick chapel of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and adjoining residential housing.\n\nAt the time of the station's design, it was recognised by The Urban Rail Electrification Committee that the placement of bus services in close proximity or direct connection to rail infrastructure was of significant importance. This was evidenced by the Kelmscott and Armadale stations, and the then recently completed Cannington station.\n\nUnder the Northern Suburbs Transit System Project, construction on the station was scheduled to commence on 16 November 1991, with completion expected by the end of December 1992. Whitfords station being of a very similar design was scheduled for construction in synchronisation with Warwick station.\n\nThe station was to include a number of facilities, including a bus concourse to connect with feeder bus services, information booths and offices for railway staff, amenities and services, as well as access services for mobility-impaired passengers in line with design requirements of the time. Further to this, pieces of the Passenger Information Network installed at the station included previously unseen electronic displays on the upper bus decks designed to provide drivers with information so they could connect with appointed trains or communicate with bus depot control in the event of delays. Passenger information systems across the network are currently being upgraded as part of the improvements being delivered under the New MetroRail Project.\n\nCar parking spaces were also included as part of the construction project, which included a significant number of on-grade parking bays on the eastern side of the station for commuter use.\n\nThe design of the station also allowed for the possible extension of the upper bus deck in a southward direction towards Beach Road. This extension would provide for five additional regular bus bays, as well as additional pedestrian access if required.\n\nAs part of the construction of the new railway station the on/off ramps used for buses were demolished; however the original bridge over the southbound lanes was retained to provide upper-level bus station access. A pedestrian pathway was added to the bridge to enable pedestrian movements across to the easy side of the station from a new footbridge linking to Methuen Way, Duncraig.\n\nThe most interesting part of the station was the upper bus deck. The deck was constructed of precast concrete that was formed off site, which was then transported to the site before being placed atop columns constructed as part of the stations foundations. Precast concrete flooring was then put in place, held in specially formed ridges running the length of the beams. This upper deck was the most expensive structural element of the station, and was the cause of significant attention and consideration as part of the design and construction process.\n\nWarwick station opened on 28 February 1993.\n\nOnce the new railway station including the bus concourse had opened, the old transfer station was demolished. The costs of demolition for the existing station were not included as part of the construction budget for the new railway station. The land resulting from the demolition of the transfer station was then converted into additional commuter car parking space, bringing the available number of bays up to 830.\n\nWarwick station is served by Transperth Joondalup line services.\n\nPlatforms currently in use are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "2292491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292491", "title": "Llorne Howell", "text": "Llorne Howell\n\nLlorne Gregory Howell (born 8 July 1972) is a former New Zealand international cricketer. His career started well, with Howell captaining the New Zealand national under-19 cricket team Under-19 side in Youth Tests and One Day Internationals in 1990/91 and 1991/92. \n\nHowell went on to make his senior One Day International debut in Sharjah in 1998, but he never played Tests as his style of batting was considered unsuitable for the longer-form game. A persistent shoulder injury meant he played only 12 ODIs.\n"}
{"id": "2292495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292495", "title": "Kambsdalur", "text": "Kambsdalur\n\nKambsdalur is a suburb of Fuglafjørður village on the Faroe Islands.\n\nIt was settled on 5 October 1985 in the valley \"Ytri Dalur\" which is both a part of Eystur municipality and Fuglafjørður municipality. Nevertheless, the village of Kambsdalur only covers the Fuglafjørður-part of \"Ytri Dalur\", which was bought by the Fuglafjarðar kommuna in 1981. There is a high school in Kambsdalur.\n"}
{"id": "2292497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292497", "title": "Video game addiction", "text": "Video game addiction\n\nVideo game addiction, also known as gaming disorder or internet gaming disorder, is generally defined as the problematic, compulsive use of video games that results in significant impairment do\n\nThe World Health Organization included gaming disorder in the 11th revision of its International Statistical Classification of Diseases. The American Psychiatric Association (APA), while stating there is insufficient evidence for the inclusion of Internet gaming disorder in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" in 2013, considered it worthy of further study.\n\nControversy around the diagnosis includes whether the disorder is a separate clinical entity or a manifestation of underlying psychiatric disorders. Research has approached the question from a variety of viewpoints, with no universally standardized or agreed definitions, leading to difficulties in developing evidence-based recommendations.\nIn its report, the Council on Science and Public Health to the American Medical Association (AMA) used this two-hour-per-day limit to define \"gaming overuse\", citing the American Academy of Pediatrics guideline of no more than one to two hours per day of \"screen time\". However, the ESA document cited in the Council report does not contain the two-hour-per-day data.\n\nthumb\nWhile the American Psychiatric Association (APA) does not recognise video game addiction as a disorder, in light of existing evidence, the organisation included video game addiction as a \"condition requiring further study\" in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" as Internet gaming disorder. Video game addiction is a broader concept than internet gaming addiction, but most video game addiction is associated with internet gaming. APA suggests, like Khan, the effects (or symptoms) of video game addiction may be similar to those of other proposed psychological addictions. Video game addiction may be an impulse control disorder, similar to compulsive gambling The APA explains why Internet Gaming Disorder has been proposed as a disorder:This decision was based upon the large number of studies of this condition and the severity of its consequences. ... Because of the distinguishing features and increased risks of clinically significant problems associated with gaming in particular, the Workgroup recommended the inclusion of only internet gaming disorder in Section 3 of the DSM-5.\nExcessive use of video games may have some or all of the symptoms of drug addiction or other proposed psychological addictions. Some players become more concerned with their interactions in the game than in their broader lives. Players may play many hours per day, neglect personal hygiene, gain or lose significant weight, disrupt sleep patterns resulting in sleep deprivation, play at work, avoid phone calls from friends, or lie about how much time they spend playing video games.\n\nThe APA has developed nine criteria for characterising the proposed Internet Gaming Disorder:\n\n\nOne of the most commonly used instruments for the measurement of addiction, the PVP Questionnaire (Problem Video Game Playing Questionnaire), was presented as a quantitative measure, not as a diagnostic tool.\nAccording to Griffiths, \"all addictions (whether chemical or behavioral) are essentially about constant rewards and reinforcement\". He proposes that addiction has six components: salience, mood modification, tolerance, withdrawal, conflict, and relapse. But the APA's nine criteria for diagnosing Internet Gaming Disorder were made by taking point of departure in eight different diagnostic/measuring tools proposed in other studies. Thus, the APA's criteria attempt to condense the scientific work on diagnosing Internet Gaming Disorder.\n\nIn May 2013, the DSM-5 included for the first time \"Internet gaming disorder\" (IGD) as a condition warranting further study before being fully recognized as a genuine mental health problem. Therefore, according to the APA, IGD remains an unofficial and non-recognized potential mental health problem.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) had proposed and later included \"gaming disorder\" in the 11th revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-11), released in June 2018, which was approved by the World Health Assembly in May 2019. the use and enforcement of ICD-11 is expected to start on 1 January 2022.\n\nThe first psychometric test to assess IGD was the Internet Gaming Disorder Test (IGD-20 Test). This test includes 20 questions designed to assess the extent of problems caused by disordered gaming and the degree of symptoms experienced by gamers. The test was first published in a journal article published in the PLoS ONE journal on 14 October 2014.\n\nThe Internet Gaming Disorder Scale–Short-Form (IGDS9-SF) is the most widely used short psychometric test to assess video game addiction according to the American Psychiatric Association framework for IGD. This screening tool has been translated to several languages including Chinese , English , German , Slovenian , Italian , Persian , Polish , European Portuguese , South American Portuguese , and Turkish . Recent review studies suggest that the IGDS9-SF presents with robust empirical and clinical evidence and is an effective tool to assess IGD .\n\nOn 3 June 2019, the world's first screening tool for Gaming Disorder as defined by the World Health Organization was published in a journal article published at the International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction. The Gaming Disorder Test (GDT) includes the following instructions and four questions:\n\nInstructions: The questions below are about your gaming activity during the past year (i.e., last 12 months). Here, gaming activity means any gaming-related activity that has been played either from a computer/laptop or from a gaming console or any other kind of device (e.g., mobile phone, tablet, etc.) both online and/or offline.\n\nPlease indicate how often the following issues occurred on average over the past twelve months until today.\n\nAnswer the four questions using the following options:\n\nAccording to the authors of the study, the GDT provides a total score that indicates a player's overall degree of disordered gaming symptoms. Total scores can be obtained by summing up all responses given to all four items of the GDT and can range from a minimum of 4 to a maximum of 20 points, with higher scores being indicative of a higher degree of gaming disorder. In order to differentiate disordered gamers from non-disordered gamers, researchers should check if participants have endorsed all four diagnostic criteria as assessed by each GDT items by taking into account answers as ‘4: Often’ or ‘5: Very often’, which translates as endorsement of the criterion.\n\nAddictive playing of MMORPGs is associated with negative effects, whereas normal play is not.\n\nYounger people and men are more likely to experience a gaming disorder than older people and women respectively. Adolescents are at a higher risk of sustaining video game disorder over time than adults. An international meta-analysis over 34 jurisdictions quantified the effect size of gender as small, with most effect in Asia, lesser in Europe and Africa, and null in North America, and further finding that economic factors, internet availability, social norms and addiction-related health factors mediate the effect of gender, with nations with a greater GDP per capita having less differences in video game addiction between genders.\n\nComorbid psychiatric disorders act as both risk factors and consequences. Indeed, there is a strong association between video game addiction and anxiety, depression, ADHD, social phobia, and poor psycho-social support. ADHD and its symptoms, such as impulsivity and conduct problems, also increase risks of developing video game disorder. Although internet gaming disorder has a strong relationship with obsessive-compulsive disorder, it is not specific and internet gaming disorder is both phenomenologically and neurobiologically distinct, which indicates that internet gaming disorder is more characterized by impulsivity than compulsivity. Familial factors appear to play an important role, although not well understood.\n\nSome personality traits, such as high neuroticism, high impulsivity, and high aggressiveness are consistently significant predictors of internet gaming disorder, and combination of personality traits seem to play a pivotal role in the acquisition, maintenance and development of the disorder.\n\nAlthough there is much research since the 1980s on problematic online gaming use, the mechanisms are not well understood, due to inconsistent definitions used in studies.\n\nSome theories focus on the presumed built-in reward systems of video games, such as compulsion loops, to explain their potentially addictive nature. The anticipation of such rewards can create a neurological reaction that releases dopamine into the body, so that once the reward is obtained, the person will remember it as a pleasurable feeling. This has been found to be similar to the neurological reaction of other behavioral addictions such as substance abuse and gambling disorder, although not to the same magnitude and with some differences.\n\nMark Griffiths has proposed another reason online video games are potentially addictive is because they \"can be played all day every day.\" The fact there is no end to the game can feel rewarding for some, and hence players are further engaged in the game.\n\nLong-term internet video/mobile game playing affects brain regions responsible for reward, impulse control and sensory-motor coordination. Structural analyses shown modifications in the volume of the ventral striatum, possibly as result of changes in rewards, and video game addicts had faulty inhibitory control and reward mechanisms. Video game playing is associated with dopamine release similar in magnitude to that of drug abuse, and the presentation of gaming pictures activates brain regions similarly to drug pictures for drug addicts. Treatment studies which used fMRI to monitor the brain connectivity changes found a decrease in the activity of the regions associated with cravings. Although there are evidences that video game addiction may be supported by similar neural mechanisms underlying drug abuse, as video game and internet addictions reduce the sensitivity of the dopaminergic reward system, it is still premature to conclude that this addiction is equivalent to substance addictions, as the research is in its early stages. There is evidence of a dual processing model of digital technology addictions characterized by an imbalance between the reactive and the reflective reward systems. Other studies shown increased difficulties in decision making in specific contexts, such as risky situations but not in ambiguous situations, and an increased preference for short-term rewards. Although the number of neuroimaging studies on internet gaming disorder is rising, there are several methodological shortcomings, particularly in the inconsistency of psychometric assessments. Furthermore, the conclusions on reduced inhibition should be moderated, as only one study included a functional control, which then showed no difference in inhibition.\n\nA meta-analytic review of the research concluded the evidence suggests video game addiction arises out of other mental health problems, rather than causing them. Thus it is unclear whether video game addiction should be considered a unique diagnosis.\n\nAs concern over video game addiction grows, the use of psychopharmacology, psychotherapy, twelve-step programs, and use of continuing developing treatment enhancements have been proposed to treat this disorder. Empirical studies indeed indicate that internet gaming disorder is associated with detrimental health-related outcomes. However, the clinical trials of potential treatments remain of low quality, except for cognitive-behavioral therapies, which shows efficacy to reduce gaming disorder and depressive symptoms but not total time spent. Although there is a scientific consensus that cognitive-behavioral therapy is preferable to pharmacological treatment, it remains difficult to make definitive statements about its benefits and efficiency due to methodological inconsistencies and lack of follow-up. Since efficacious treatments have not been well established, prevention of video gaming disorder is crucial. Some evidence suggest that up to 50% of people affected by the internet gaming disorder may recover naturally.\n\nSome countries, such as South Korea, China, the Netherlands, Canada, and the United States, have responded to the perceived threat of video game addiction by opening treatment centres.\n\nChina was the first country to treat \"internet addiction\" clinically in 2008. The Chinese government operates several clinics to treat those who overuse online games, chatting and web surfing. Treatment for the patients, most of whom have been forced to attend by parents or government officials, includes various forms of pain including shock therapy. In August 2009, Deng Sanshan was reportedly beaten to death in a correctional facility for video game and Web addiction. Most of the addiction \"boot camps\" in China are actually extralegal militaristically managed centers, but have remained popular despite growing controversy over their practices.\n\nIn 2019, China set up a curfew, banning minors from playing between certain hours.\n\nIn June 2006, the Smith and Jones clinic in Amsterdam—which has now gone bankrupt—became the first treatment facility in Europe to offer a residential treatment program for compulsive gamers. Keith Bakker, founder and former head of the clinic, has stated that 90% of the young people who seek treatment for compulsive computer gaming are not addicted.\n\nAt a Computer Addiction Services center in Richmond, British Columbia, excessive gaming accounts for 80% of one youth counselor's caseload.\n\nIn 2018, the National Health Service announced its plans to open a treatment center, run by the Central and North West London NHS foundation trust, that will initially focus on gaming disorder, but is planned to expand to cover other internet-based addictions. The specialist treatment center opened in 2019 for treating adolescents and young people aged 13–25 who are addicted to video games.\n\nInternet gaming disorder is associated with increased anxiety, social phobia and depression, with adults and young adults being more affected than adolescents.\n\nThe most frequent physical health-related outcome are alterations in physical functioning such as somatisation and sleep disturbances. Preliminary evidence suggest that internet gaming disorder and the induced sedentarity may contribute to a lack of physical exercise, even though the relationship is not causal.\n\nThe prevalence of internet gaming disorder range from 0.7% to 27.5% worldwide, or 1.0% to 26.8% worldwide, and 3.5% to 17% in China, and is higher among males than females and among younger than older people, with geographical region making little difference. A longer time spent on video games predicts a tendency towards pathological gaming in the future. The studies however used various methodologies and definitions, which renders consensus difficult to achieve and may explain the wide range of prevalence.\n\nA meta-analytic review of pathological gaming studies concluded that about 3% of gamers may experience some symptoms of pathological gaming. The report noted problems in the field with defining and measuring pathological gaming and concluded that pathological gaming behaviors were more likely the product of underlying mental health problems rather than the inverse.\n\nBarnett and Coulson expressed concern that much of the debate on the issue of addiction may be a knee jerk response stimulated by poor understanding of games and game players. Such issues may lead both society and scholars to exaggerate the prevalence and nature of problematic gaming, and over-focus on games specifically, while ignoring underlying mental health issues.\n\nOther scholars have cautioned that comparing the symptoms of problematic gaming with problematic gambling is flawed, and that such comparisons may introduce research artifacts and artificially inflate prevalence estimates. For instance, Richard Wood has observed that behaviors which are problematic in regards to gambling may not be as problematic when put into the context of other behaviors that are rewarding such as gaming. Similarly, Barnett and Coulson have cautioned that discussions of problematic gaming have moved forward prematurely without proper understanding of the symptoms, proper assessment and consequences.\n\nRather than video gaming disorder being a subtype of gambling disorder, a majority of researchers support the idea of video game addiction being a part of a more comprehensive framework of impulse control disorders with \"pathological technology use\" with similar characteristics, including the pathological use of video games, internet, computers and other interactive medias. Although internet and video game addictions are generally considered different from gambling disorder and substance abuse, there is a growing body of evidence indicating they share common features, including behavioral and neural features. Indeed, it is suggested that while behavioral addiction may differ with drug addictions in magnitude, they share several characteristics, with Hellman et al proposing that the concept of addiction should be de-medicalized.\n\nOn the contrary, a literature review found that as the video game addiction develops, online gaming addicts spend increasing amounts of time not only playing but also preparing for and organizing their playing sessions, suggesting this addiction may be behavioral rather than a disorder of impulse control. There is recent evidence suggesting that internet gaming disorder can cause two distinct types of dysfunctions: cognitive and metacognitive.\n\nSome scholars suggest that psycho-social dependence may revolve around the intermittent reinforcements in the game and the need to belong. Other scholars explain that the social dependence that may arise due to video games occurring online where players interact with others and the relationships \"often become more important for gamers than real-life relationships\".\n\nCommon challenges involve the reliability of the methodology and validity of the results in some studies. Many rely on self-surveys from university students and also lack time frames making it difficult to study the impact, if any, of addiction on a long term scale. Other concerns also address the definition of addiction and how to measure it, questioning whether or not time is a proper unit to determine how addicted someone is to gaming. Daria Joanna Kuss and Mark D. Griffiths have argued the current scientific knowledge on internet gaming addiction is copious in scope and complexity. They state that instead, a simple framework should be provided to allow all current and future studies to be categorised, as internet gaming addiction lies on a continuum beginning with etiology and risk factors all the way through the development of \"full-blown\" addiction and ending with ramifications and potential treatment. In addition, they caution the deployment of the label \"addiction\" since it heavily denotes the use of substances or engagement in certain behaviors. Finally, the researcher promotes other researchers to assess the validity and reliability of existing measures instead of developing additional measurement instruments.\n\nOther challenges include the lack of context of the participant's life and the negative portrayal of gaming addicts. Some state that gamers sometimes use video games to either escape from an uncomfortable environment or alleviate their already existing mental issues—both possibly important aspects in determining the psychological impact of gaming. Negative portrayal also deals with the lack of consistency in measuring addictive gaming. This leads to discussions that sometimes exaggerate the issue and create a misconception in some that they, themselves, may be addicted when they are not.\n\nThough the critiques are present, studies on this topic are still relatively young and growing and there is much to still be explored in this realm.\n\nThe evidence of video game addiction to create withdrawal symptoms is very limited and thus debated, due to different definitions and low quality trials.\n\nThe concept of video game disorder is itself being debated, with the overlap of its symptoms with other mental disorders, the unclear consensus on a definition and thresholds, and the lack of evidence raising doubts on whether or not this qualifies as a mental disorder of its own. Despite the lack of a unified definition, there is an emerging consensus among studies that Internet gaming disorder is mainly defined by three features: 1) withdrawal, 2) loss of control, and 3) conflict. Although the DSM-5 definition of video game disorder has a good fit to current methodological definitions used in trials and studies, there are still debates on the clinical pertinence.\n\nMichael Brody, M.D., head of the TV and Media Committee of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, stated in a 2007 press release that \"... there is not enough research on whether or not video games are addictive.\" However, Brody also cautioned that for some children and adolescents, \"... it displaces physical activity and time spent on studies, with friends, and even with family.\"\n\nA major issue concerns the lack of consistent measures and definitions and of acquisition of follow-up data. Furthermore, the study design quality has not greatly improved between the 2000s and 2017. For instance, most studies measured internet gaming behaviors in terms of frequency of use (total time spent), without considering the type of game (e.g., MMORPG), the social context (e.g., physically or virtually with friends), nor the motivations (e.g., competitive, achievement-oriented \"grinding\"). Although the amount of time spent was postulated by Johanssonn and Götestam in 2004 to lead to pathological behaviors, it is unclear whether the time spent is a cause or a consequence of pathological use. These criticisms, however, mostly pertain to Western research since there is more data of higher quality available in Asian regions, where the Internet gaming disorder is more prevalent.\n\nA survey conducted in 2019 of 214 scholars shown that 60.8% agreed that pathological video game use could be a mental health problems, whereas 30.4% were skeptical. However, only 49.7% agreed with the DSM-5 definition of Internet gaming disorder, and 56.5% to the definition of the World Health Organization. Most scholars were worried that WHO's and DSM-5's inclusion of Internet gaming disorder was \"overpathologizing normal youth\" and \"precipitated moral panic over video games\". This indicates a lack of consensus on the issue .\n\nVideo game addiction has been studied since the 1980s, and has seen a significant increase in the number of empirical studies since then.\n\nThe press has reported concerns over online gaming since at least 1994, when \"Wired\" mentioned a college student who was playing a MUD game for 12 hours a day instead of attending class.\n\nPress reports have noted that some Finnish Defence Forces' conscripts were not mature enough to meet the demands of military life and were required to interrupt or postpone military service for a year. One reported source of the lack of needed social skills is overuse of computer games or the internet. \"Forbes\" termed this overuse \"Web fixations\" and stated they were responsible for 13 such interruptions or deferrals over the five years from 2000 to 2005.\n\nIn a July 2007 article, Perth, Western Australia, parents stated that their 15-year-old son had abandoned all other activities to play \"RuneScape\", a popular MMORPG. The boy's father compared the condition to heroin addiction.\n\nIn an April 2008 article, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that surveys of 391 players of \"Asheron's Call\" showed that three percent of respondents suffered from agitation when they were unable to play, or missed sleep or meals to play. The article reports that University of Bolton lead researcher John Charlton said, \"Our research supports the idea that people who are heavily involved in game playing may be nearer to autistic spectrum disorders than people who have no interest in gaming.\"\n\nOn 6 March 2009, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's (CBC) national news magazine program \"the fifth estate\" aired an hour-long report on video game addiction and the Brandon Crisp story, titled \"Top Gun\", subtitled \"When a video gaming obsession turns to addiction and tragedy.\" \n\nIn August 2010, \"Wired\" reported that a man in Hawaii, Craig Smallwood, sued the gaming company NCSoft for negligence and for not specifying that their game, \"Lineage II\", was so addictive. He alleged he would not have begun playing if he was aware he would become addicted. Smallwood says he has played \"Lineage\" for 20,000 hours between 2004 and 2009.\n\nIn January 2012, a video entitled \"IRL – In Real Life\" was released on YouTube. The film attracted widespread coverage on television, radio and in newspapers around the world. The film was made by graduate student film maker, Anthony Rosner. In it he documents his experience with gaming addiction and how he was able to overcome it.\n\nIn 2013, a man from China observed his son's addiction to video games, and having studied these conditions for 25 years, decided to take action. He hired online assassins to kill his son's virtual avatar every time he logged in. He hoped that being relentlessly killed would help his son lose interest in this destructive habit.\n\nIn the draft versions leading to the final ICD-11 document, gaming disorder was included alongside gambling disorder under \"Disorders Due to Addictive Behaviors\". The addition defines as \"a pattern of persistent or recurrent gaming behaviour ('digital gaming' or 'video-gaming')\", defined by three criteria: the lack of control over playing video games, priority given to video games over other interests, and the inability to stop playing video games even after being affected by negative consequences. For gaming disorder to be diagnosed, the behavior pattern must be of sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning and would normally have been evident for at least 12 months. Research shows gaming disorders can be associated with anxiety, depression, loneliness, obesity, sleeping disorders, attention problems, and stress.\n\nVladimir Poznyak, the coordinator for the WHO Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse, defended the addition of gaming disorder, believing the backlash against the addition to be a moral panic as they chose a very narrow definition that encompasses only the most extreme cases of gaming disorder. He said evaluating a disorder for inclusion is nominally done without any external feedback \"to avoid interference from commercial and other entities which may have vested interest in the outcome of the process\". Dr. Poznyak asserted that several medical professionals consulting on the ICD-11 did believe gaming disorder to be real, and by including it in the ICD-11, there can now be earnest efforts to define its causes and symptoms betters and methods to deal with it, and now include the video game industry within the conversation to help reduce the effects of video games on public health.\n\nThe addition of \"gaming disorder\" to the ICD-11 was criticized by gamers and the video game industry, while some researchers remained skeptical. Some of these researchers said the evidence remains weak and \"there is a genuine risk of abuse of diagnoses.\" A group of 26 scholars wrote an open letter to the WHO, suggesting that the proposed diagnostic categories lacked scientific merit and were likely to do more harm than good. In counter-argument, a group of fifty academic researchers in behavioral science agreed that the evidence to support gaming disorder was weak, but it would be best that WHO identify gaming disorder in ICD-11 so that it could be considered a clinical and public health need.\n\nA report, prepared by mental health experts at Oxford University, Johns Hopkins University, Stockholm University and the University of Sydney, sponsored by The Association for UK Interactive Entertainment argues that while there may be potential addiction associated with video gaming, it is premature to consider it a disorder without further study, given the stigmatisation that surrounds video, and ask the WHO to use caution when finalising the ICD draft. This report was promoted by 22 video game industry trade organizations including the Entertainment Software Association of the United States and Interactive Software Federation of Europe\n\nAs the final approval of the ICD-11 neared, several video game trade associations issued a statement requesting WHO to reconsider the addition of \"gaming disorder\", stating that, \"The evidence for its inclusion remains highly contested and inconclusive\". The Entertainment Software Association had meetings with the WHO during December 2018 to try to convince them to hold off including gaming disorder within ICD-11, with more planned meetings to follow.\n\nAccording to ABC News, parents have many concerns about their children playing video games, such as:\nOther concerns are addiction, safety concerns and violence, aggression and misbehavior.\n\nThe first video game to attract political controversy was the 1978 arcade game \"Space Invaders\". In 1981, a political bill called the Control of Space Invaders (and other Electronic Games) Bill was drafted by British Labour Party MP George Foulkes in an attempt to ban the game for its \"addictive properties\" and for causing \"deviancy\". The bill was debated and only narrowly defeated in parliament by 114 votes to 94 votes.\n\nIn August 2005, the government of the People's Republic of China, where more than 20 million people play online games, introduced an online gaming restriction limiting playing time to three hours, after which the player would be expelled from whichever game they were playing. In 2006, it relaxed the rule so only citizens under the age of 18 would face the limitation. Reports indicate underage gamers found ways to circumvent the measure. In July 2007, the rule was relaxed yet again. internet games operating in China must require users identify themselves by resident identity numbers. After three hours, players under 18 are prompted to stop and \"do suitable physical exercise\". If they continue, their in-game points are \"slashed in half\". After five hours, all their points are automatically erased.\n\nIn 2008, one of the five Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Commissioners, Deborah Taylor Tate, stated that online gaming addiction was \"one of the top reasons for college drop-outs\". However, she did not mention a source for the statement nor identify its position in relation to other top reasons.\n\nIn 2011, the South Korean government implemented a law, known as the Shutdown law or the Cinderella Law, which prohibits children under the age of 16 from playing online video games between the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. However, as of 2014, the law was amended and now children under the age of 16 can play after midnight if they have permission from their parents.\n\nA systematic review identified in 2017 three types of currently attempted governmental policies: 1) limiting the availability of video games (shutdown, fatigue system, parental controls), 2) reduce the risks and harm (warning messages), 3) provide addiction help services to gamers. Most of these policies were either not as efficient as intended or not yet evaluated for efficiency, which lead some researchers to prompt for a global public health approach to prevent the onset and progression of this disorder. Some researchers suggest that the video game industry should itself place preventive measures against video game addiction.\n\nThere have been at least a few deaths caused directly by exhaustion from playing games for excessive periods of time.\n\nIn 2005, thirteen-year-old Zhang Xiaoyi committed suicide by jumping from the top of a 24-story tower block in his home province of Tianjin. After previously having spent two straight days playing online role-playing games in an Internet cafe, Zhang had told his parents that he had \"been poisoned by games and could no longer control himself\". The head of a software association said to gaming website Play.tm that same year: \"In the hypothetical world created by such games, [players] become confident and gain satisfaction, which they cannot get in the real world.\"\n\nIn 2007, a 26-year-old man identified only as \"Zhang\" died of a heart attack due to lack of physical activity following a seven-day gaming binge, while a 30-year-old man died in a Guangzhou Internet cafe after playing online games for three straight days.\n\nIn 2005, 28-year old industrial repairman Seungseob Lee (Hangul: 이승섭) visited an Internet cafe in the city of Daegu and played \"StarCraft\" almost continuously for fifty hours. He went into cardiac arrest and died at a local hospital. A friend reported: \"... he was a game addict. We all knew about it. He couldn't stop himself.\" About six weeks before his death, his girlfriend, also an avid gamer, broke up with him. In addition, he was fired from his job.\n\nIn 2009, Kim Sa-rang, a 3-month-old Korean child, died from malnutrition after both her parents spent hours each day in an Internet cafe, rearing a virtual child in an online game, \"Prius Online\". The death is covered in the 2014 documentary \"Love Child\".\n\nIn November 2001, Shawn Woolley committed suicide; it has been inferred that his death was related to the popular computer game \"EverQuest\". Shawn's mother said the suicide was due to a rejection or betrayal in the game from a character Shawn called \"iluvyou\".\n\nOhio teenager Daniel Petric shot his parents, killing his mother, after they took away his copy of \"Halo 3\" in October 2007. In a sentencing hearing after the teen was found guilty of aggravated murder, the judge said, \"I firmly believe that Daniel Petric had no idea at the time he hatched this plot that if he killed his parents they would be dead forever.\" On 16 June 2009, Petric was sentenced to 23 years to life in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292499", "title": "Emily Kame Kngwarreye", "text": "Emily Kame Kngwarreye\n\nEmily Kame Kngwarreye (or Emily Kam Ngwarray) (1910 – 3 September 1996) was an Aboriginal Australian artist from the Utopia community in the Northern Territory. She is one of the most prominent and successful artists in the history of contemporary Indigenous Australian art.\n\nKnwarreye was born 1910 on Alhalkere, a member of the Anmatyerre language group. Knwarreye lived at the Utopia community, which was established in 1978, about northeast of Alice Springs in the Northern Territory of Australia. Emily had one brother and one sister, and no children of her own. Her brother's children are Gloria Pitjana Mills and Dolly Pitjana Mills. Her sister-in-law was Minnie Pwerle, mother of artist Barbara Weir, whom Kngwarreye partly raised. \n\nKngwarreye did not take up painting seriously until she was nearly 80, after over a decade of working in the batik medium.\n\nKngwarreye died in Alice Springs in September 1996.\n\nKngwarreye's initial artistic training was as a traditional Aboriginal woman, preparing and using designs for women's ceremonies. Her training in western techniques began, along with that of the rest of the Utopia community, with batik. Her first batik cloth works were created in 1980. \n\nLater she moved from batik to painting on canvas:\nI did batik at first, and then after doing that I learned more and more and then I changed over to painting for good...Then it was canvas. I gave up on...fabric to avoid all the boiling to get the wax out. I got a bit lazy – I gave it up because it was too much hard work. I finally got sick of it ... I didn't want to continue with the hard work batik required – boiling the fabric over and over, lighting fires, and using up all the soap powder, over and over. That's why I gave up batik and changed over to canvas – it was easier. My eyesight deteriorated as I got older, and because of that I gave up batik on silk – it was better for me to just paint.\n\nAcrylic paintings were introduced to Utopia in 1988/89 by Rodney Gooch and others of the Central Australian Aboriginal Media Association (CAAMA). An exhibition of some of the paintings of these artists' work organised by CAAMA was held called \"A Summer Project\", where Kngwarreye's work got immediate attention from critics. The attention she received coincided with the worldwide art boom that occurred at this time.\n\nWhereas the predominant Aboriginal style was based on the one developed with some assistance from art teacher Geoffrey Bardon at the Papunya community in 1971 of many similarly sized dots carefully lying next to each other in distinct patterns, Kngwarreye created her own original artistic style. This first style, in her paintings between 1989 and 1991, had many dots, sometimes lying on top of each other, of varying sizes and colours, as seen in \"Wild Potato Dreaming\" (1996).\n\nInitially Kngwarreye painted for CAAMA and the Holt family at Delmore Downs Station; by 1991 she was producing many works for the Aboriginal Gallery of Dreamings in Melbourne as well as Fred Torres of Dacou located in Adelaide.\n\nThese original paintings of different styles quickly went for high prices at auction, with a revenue for the Utopia group of painters of more than million in 1989/90. The first international solo exhibition of Kngwarreye was held at the Oude Kerk, Amsterdam in 1999 by the Aboriginal Gallery of Dreamings.\n\nKngwarreye went through many different individual styles in her short career as a professional painter. In 1992, she began to join the dots into lines with parallel horizontal and vertical stripes, representing rivers and terrain, in many different colours. She began using larger brushes than previously. Her later paintings were based on much larger dots than the finer, more intricate work which she did when she started.\n\nIn 1993 she began painting patches of colour along with many dots, which were like rings that were clear in the middle as seen in \"Alaqura Profusion\" (1993). This was made with a shaving brush that was called her 'dump dump' style, which used very bright colours. The same style of rings of colour are also seen in \"My Mothers Country\" and \"Emu Country\" (1994).\n\nIn 1995 she ended what critics called her 'colourist' phase and began painting with plain stripes that crossed the canvas. The originally thick stripes often represented the lines of yam tracks, as in \"Yam Dreaming\" (1994) and \"Bush Yam\" (1995). She expressed the strange growth patterns of the yam, a plant which was critical for human survival in the desert, but was very difficult to find.\n\nLater in 1995 her paintings started to resemble in some ways the American abstract expressionist paintings of Jackson Pollock, with many thinner lines that criss-crossed the canvas. Her main theme continued to be yams, as in \"Yam Dreaming Awelye\" (1995) and also in black-and-white \"Yam Dreaming\" paintings. Several weeks before her death, Kngwarreye painted many canvases over a 3-day period in 1996, using a very thick brush, as in \"Body Paint\" (1996).\n\nKngwarreye particularly featured yam tracks in her works. The yam plant was an important source of food for the Aboriginal people of the desert. She painted many works on this theme; often her first actions at the start of a painting were to put down the yam tracking lines. This plant was especially significant for her: her middle name, Kame, means the yellow flower of the yam that grows above the ground. She described her paintings as having meaning based on all the aspects of the community's life, including the yam plants.\n\nEight paintings by Kngwarreye in the Sotheby's winter auction of 2000 put together were sold for , with \"Awelye\" (1989) selling for . Also in 2000, Kngwarreye's work was amongst that of eight individual and collaborative groups of Indigenous Australian artists shown in the prestigious Nicholas Hall at the Hermitage Museum in Russia. The exhibition received a positive reception from Russian critics, one of whom wrote:\nThis is an exhibition of contemporary art, not in the sense that it was done recently, but in that it is cased in the mentality, technology and philosophy of radical art of the most recent times. No one, other than the Aborigines of Australia, has succeeded in exhibiting such art at the Hermitage.\n\nOn 23 May 2007, her 1994 painting \"Earth's Creation\" was purchased by Tim Jennings of Mbantua Gallery & Cultural Museum for at a Deutscher-Menzies' Sydney auction, setting a new record for an Aboriginal artwork.\n\nWith success came unwanted attention. Many other inexperienced art dealers would go to her community to try to get a piece of the action, Kngwarreye once describing to a friend how she had \"escaped from five or six carloads of 'wannabe' art dealers at Utopia\".\n\nAccording to Sotheby's Tim Klingender, Kngwarreye was \"an example of an Aboriginal artist who was relentlessly pursued by carpetbaggers towards the end of her career and produced a large but inconsistent body of work.\"\n\nKngwarreye's first solo exhibition was at Utopia Art Sydney in April 1990. \n\nThere have been retrospectives at the National Museum of Australia, the Niagara Galleries, and the Adelaide Festival Centre.\n\nIn 2013 the Emily Museum, the first museum featuring a single Aboriginal artist, opened in Cheltenham, Victoria.\n\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292503", "title": "Gafsele", "text": "Gafsele\n\nGafsele is a small Swedish village in Åsele Municipality, Västerbotten County, in the province of Lapland in northern Sweden, old spelling Gavsele. Gafsele was founded by the Nils Andersson from Finland and his wife Brita in 1674.\n\nNils arrived from Finland (that was a part of Sweden at the time) as he wanted to avoid being drafted into the war with Russia. Instead, he worked his way up the Angerman river until he reached Lapland, where the government promised any man that settled to be tax-free for 10 years. \nAt that time, Lapplander (Sami) people already lived in the area, but as they were raising reindeers and Nils was farming, they could live together mainly without conflict.\n\nNils and his wife Brita are said to bring one cow, that they kept during the summer on a small island in the river called Koholmen (small cow island). Before the winter they built a small cottage on what is now called Skoludden, and settled. \nBrita, Nils wife was famous for her hot temper and for bringing some non-Christian behaviors to the village, such as blessings of the crops, and was brought to justice for this, but Nils talked the court out of it. It could otherwise have been fatal, as the penalty for such behavior in principle was death. \n\nThe most famous story about Nils is the day he saw a small splinter coming down the river and he understood that there was some other settler upstream. He immediately went there and scared the person off, as he believed that everything upstream belonged to him. Later, of course, more settlements were done upstreams, but Gafsele remained one of the bigger. \n\nToday Gafsele has seen its heyday, and have a population of around 120 people, most engaged with forestry, farming, working for the municipality or retirees. There is one potato farmer and one cow farmer. The village is spread out on both sides of the Ångerman river, with a bridge built 1967 in between. Near the bridge, on the east side, is the community house of the village, and on the west side you can visit the old sawmill that is still functional. Both places are open for many activities during the year. \n\nMost popular sports in the village is fishing, hunting, and snow mobile riding. Other buildings of interest are the school with its park. The school is no longer in use, and is now transformed into a hostel. There is also a small village bakery with an old fashioned stone oven that is still used by the village people to bake the traditional flat bread.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292504", "title": "Akinfiy Nikitich Demidov", "text": "Akinfiy Nikitich Demidov\n\nAkinfiy Nikitich Demidov () (1678 – 5 August 1745) was a Russian industrialist of the Demidov family.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Nikita Demidov and increased the family fortune, raising it to one of Russia's most important industrial dynasties. He set up at least 9 steel foundries and munitions factories from 1717 to 1735, and had 25 by his death. He also created iron and copper mines in the Urals and Western Siberia to supply them and mines for precious and semi-precious stones, silver and gold. He commissioned the Leaning Tower of Nevyansk, with its underground rooms and secret routes towards one of his factories. Tsar Peter the Great rewarded his services by making him a hereditary nobleman, as he also did with Akinfiy's brothers. By the end of his life Akinfiy was the richest man bar the Tsar. In 1734 he founded the Nicholas-Zaretsky Church at Tula. He married firstly Jelisaveta Tarassovna Korobkova, who died in 1728, and married secondly in 1723 Jewfemia Ivanovna Paltzova, who died in 1771. His four children were: \n\n"}
{"id": "2292510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292510", "title": "Călinești, Maramureș", "text": "Călinești, Maramureș\n\nCălinești () is a commune in Maramureș County, northern Romania. It is composed of three villages: Călinești, Cornești (\"Somosfalva\") and Văleni (\"Mikolapatak\").\n\nAt the 2002 census, 99.8% of inhabitants were Romanians. 53.9% were Romanian Orthodox, 34.7% Greek-Catholic, 5.9% belonged to \"another religion\" and 4.5% were Pentecostal.\n"}
{"id": "2292511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292511", "title": "Jean-Pierre Bouyxou", "text": "Jean-Pierre Bouyxou\n\nJean-Pierre Bouyxou (born 16 January 1946) is a French film critic, author, filmmaker and actor.\n\nHe started his career as a writer in 1964 when his article was published in fanzines (\"Mercury\", \"Lunatique\"). Some other magazines he wrote for were \"Vampirella\", \"Sex Stars System\", \"Zoom (1969-1976), \"Métal hurlant\", \"L'Écho des savanes\", \"Penthouse\", \"Lui\", \"Hara-Kiri\", \"Paris Match\".\n\nHe was editor-in-chief of \"Fascination\" for thirty issues, from 1978 to 1986.\n\nHe participated in the happenings of Jean-Jacques Lebel\n\nHe worked with Roland Lethem, Étienne O’Leary, Jesus Franco, Jean Rollin and Alain Payet.\n"}
{"id": "2292530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292530", "title": "Chitralada Royal Villa", "text": "Chitralada Royal Villa\n\nChitralada Royal Villa (; ) is a royal villa located within Dusit Palace. This villa was the unofficial permanent-residence of King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX), the longest serving monarch of Thailand and Queen Sirikit. He moved there after the death of his older brother, King Rama VIII in the Grand Palace. The palace grounds, which are surrounded by a moat and guarded by the royal guards, also contain the Chitralada School, initially established for the children of the royal family and palace staffs. Prince Dipangkorn Rasmijoti was a pupil in the Chitralada School. The school is considered the most exclusive in Thailand.\n\nThe main building of the palace is a two-storey building, built in the reign of Rama VI. The palace was the residence of Rama VI. Chitralada School, was founded in 1958.\n\nA dairy farm and factories were built as the King Bhumibol Adulyadej is interested in agriculture and agricultural industries. Research centres on agricultural products were also founded to provide training for farmers. \"Chitralada\" is used as the brandname for many products from the palace.\n\nVisitors need to obtain a pass to enter.\n"}
{"id": "2292533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292533", "title": "Richard Jones (New Zealand cricketer)", "text": "Richard Jones (New Zealand cricketer)\n\nRichard Andrew Jones (born 22 October 1973, in Auckland) is a cricketer. He started well, captaining the New Zealand Under-19s cricket team in 1993/4. He went on to represent the full senior side in one Test match and five One Day Internationals.\n\nRepresenting Auckland in a match against Wellington, he scored a century – the day before his wedding to Kelly Herbert. He was also the captain of the Auckland Aces, and played for North Harbour in the Hawke Cup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292537", "title": "Generator (Foo Fighters song)", "text": "Generator (Foo Fighters song)\n\n\"Generator\" is a Foo Fighters song, released as a single in 2000 from their third album \"There Is Nothing Left to Lose\". The single was only released in Australia and also released as a limited edition single in Europe. \n\nThe song is particularly unique among the band's work because of Dave Grohl's implementation of the talk box in parts of the song. The usage of the device was partly inspired by Grohl's admiration of Peter Frampton and Joe Walsh, both of whom helped popularize it in the 1970s.\n\n\n\n\nNo video was filmed for the single. Instead a live performance of the song recorded on February 1, 2000 at the Chapel Off Chapel in Melbourne, Australia was overdubbed with the studio version to promote the single and album. The performance was filmed and broadcast by Seven Network; Scott C. Wilson reedited the footage, using different camera angles, to make it. The music video for \"Breakout\" features the song \"Generator\" at the beginning on the video.\n"}
{"id": "2292538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292538", "title": "Nested", "text": "Nested\n\nNested is the seventh studio album by Bronx-born singer, songwriter and pianist Laura Nyro, released in 1978 on Columbia Records.\n\nFollowing on from her extensive tour to promote 1976's \"Smile\", which resulted in the 1977 live album \"Season of Lights\", Nyro retreated to her new home in Danbury, Connecticut, where she lived after spending her time in the spotlight in New York City.\n\nNyro had a studio built at her home, and recorded the songs that comprised \"Nested\" there. The songs deal with themes such as motherhood and womanhood, and it is a notably more relaxed Nyro that sings on the album. The instrumentation is laidback and smooth, similar to that of \"Smile\", but perhaps less jazz-inspired and more melodic. Nyro was assisted in production by Roscoe Harring, while Dale and Pop Ashby were chief engineers.\n\nCritics praised the album as a melodic return to form, and Nyro supported the album with a solo tour when she was heavily pregnant with her son Gil, who was born two months after the album was released. Despite acclaim and a melodic, arguably more commercial sound, \"Nested\" was not a commercial success and became Nyro's first album since her 1967 debut \"More Than a New Discovery\" to miss the \"Billboard\" 200, then known as the Pop Albums chart.\n\nSuch was its commercial failure that for years it remained out of print, and is unquestionably Nyro's least-known and most rare studio album. After the birth of her son in August 1978, she retreated once again from the limelight after a three-year return to raise her son. She would not record for another five years, and her recording pattern became increasingly intermittent. \"Nested\" is recognised as one of her most underrated works.\n\n\"Nested\" was briefly released on CD in Japan only and was out of print for many years. On April 8, 2008, it was reissued on CD in the US in remastered form by Iconoclassic Records.\n\nGuitars were played by Vinnie Cusano, who later became the Guitarist for KISS from 1982 to 1984 under the name Vinnie Vincent.\n\n\"Nested\" is the first of two \"maternal\" Laura Nyro albums, and she appears to revel in her new domesticity. Her marriage had broken down, but she had found love again and the sound is notably more relaxed than before.\n\nFelix Cavaliere returns to play piano and organ on some songs, while Nyro produces with Roscoe Harring. The origins of Nyro's political and social explorations in her lyrics of the 1980s and '90s can be traced back to \"Nested\".\n\nAll tracks composed by Laura Nyro.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292543", "title": "Kingisepp", "text": "Kingisepp\n\nKingisepp ( or ; ), formerly Yamburg (), Yam (), and Yama (), is an ancient town and the administrative center of Kingiseppsky District of Leningrad Oblast, Russia, located along the Luga River southwest of St. Petersburg, east of Narva, and south of the Gulf of Finland. Population: \n\nThe town was first documented in 1384, when the Novgorodians under Patrikas built there a fortress against the Swedes. It was called Yama or Yamsky Gorodok, after the Ingrian (ethnic Finnic group) name Jaama. The environs of the town are still cited as the main location of speakers of the nearly extinct Ingrian language. The citadel withstood sieges by the Swedes in 1395 and by the Teutonic Knights during the 1444–1448 war.\n\nThe town became the most important economic center of the \"Vodskaya pyatina\" of the Novgorod Republic. There were 201 homesteads in the 15th century in the town; its total population can only be evaluated roughly based on the estimates of three to five persons per homestead. At the end of the Livonian War, it was ceded to Sweden, only to be returned twelve years later, in 1595.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Stolbovo, it again passed to the Swedes, who kept the name which in Swedish orthography became \"Jama\" or \"Jamo\". The town was completely destroyed by Russian armies during the war of 1656–1658, after which only the citadel remained intact. It is questionable whether the town, with its exclusively Russian population, ever recovered.\n\nFirst held by the Russians for a month in late 1700, the citadel was finally taken by the Russians in the course of the Great Northern War in 1703. On May 14, 1703, Yam was renamed Yamburg (a German version of the name). Five years later, Peter the Great granted the town to Alexander Menshikov in his capacity of the Duke of Izhora. In the course of the administrative reform, Yamburg was included into Ingermanland Governorate (known since 1710 as Saint Petersburg Governorate). In 1780, Catherine the Great re-approved with some changes a previously existing coat of arms. Uyezd town status was granted to it in 1784.\n\nVladimir Lenin reportedly stayed in Yamburg in January 1919, when he ordered the Bolshevik troops to retake the town of Narva from Estonian forces. In October 1919, the anti-Bolshevist commander, General Nikolai Yudenich captured Yamburg, which marked the beginning of the push by the Northwestern White Army towards Petrograd. However, the Bolsheviks subsequently re-captured Yamburg on November 14, 1919. On November 16, 1919, the forces of General Yudenich were \"crowded together in a small space near Yamburg\" \"in a serious state of disorganization\", reported \"The New York Times\".\n\nThe German form of the town name was retained until 1922, when the Bolsheviks renamed it in honor of the Estonian Communist leader Viktor Kingissepp.\n\nDuring World War II, Kingisepp was occupied by German troops from August 16, 1941 until February 1, 1944, when the 109th Rifle Corps captured the town, forcing the German 18th Army into new positions on the eastern bank of Narva.\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century, Yamburg was the seat of Yamburgsky Uyezd of St. Petersburg Governorate (later known as Petrograd and Leningrad Governorate). On May 17, 1922, Yamburgsky Uyezd was renamed Kingiseppsky, simultaneously with the town.\n\nOn August 1, 1927, the uyezds were abolished and Kingiseppsky District, with the administrative center in Kingisepp, was established. The governorates were also abolished, and the district became a part of Leningrad Okrug of Leningrad Oblast. On July 23, 1930, the okrugs were abolished as well and the districts were directly subordinated to the oblast. Between March 22, 1935 and September 19, 1940, Kingisepp was the administrative center of Kingisepp Okrug of Leningrad Oblast, one of the okrugs abutting the state boundaries of the Soviet Union. After Kingisepp Okrug was abolished on September 19, 1940, Kingisepp became a town of oblast significance on December 17, 1940. In 2010, the administrative structure of Leningrad Oblast was harmonized with the municipal structure and Kingisepp became a town of district significance.\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, Kingisepp serves as the administrative center of Kingiseppsky District. As an administrative division, it is, together with the village of Porkhovo, incorporated within Kingiseppsky District as Kingiseppskoye Settlement Municipal Formation. As a municipal division, Kingiseppskoye Settlement Municipal Formation is incorporated within Kingiseppsky Municipal District as Kingiseppskoye Urban Settlement.\n\nThe economy of Kingisepp is based on chemical, glass, and food industries.\n\nThe railway connecting St. Petersburg with Tallinn passes through Kingisepp and has a railway station in it. There is infrequent suburban service to the Baltiysky railway station in St. Petersburg and to Ivangorod.\n\nThe A180 Highway, connecting St. Petersburg and Ivangorod, passes Kingisepp as well. It coincides with the European route E20 connecting St. Petersburg via Tallinn. Kingisepp is also connected by road with Volosovo and Slantsy.\n\nKingisepp contains thirteen cultural heritage monuments of federal significance and additionally seventeen objects classified as cultural and historical heritage of local significance. The federal monuments include the Yam Fortress, the St. Catherine Cathedral (by Antonio Rinaldi), and the complex of military barracks of the 19th century.\n\nKingisepp has a local history museum. It was open in 1960 and is located in the buildings of the St. Catherine Cathedral. In 1990, the cathedral was transferred to Russian Orthodox Church and the museum was closed until 1999, when it re-opened in the former building of the commercial school, an architecture monument.\nKingisepp is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292547", "title": "C. P. Ramaswami Iyer", "text": "C. P. Ramaswami Iyer\n\n\"Sachivottama\" Sir Chetput Pattabhiraman Ramaswami Iyer, (12 November 1879 – 26 September 1966), popularly known as Sir C. P., was an Indian lawyer, administrator and politician who served as the Advocate-General of Madras Presidency from 1920 to 1923, Law member of the Executive council of the Governor of Madras from 1923 to 1928, Law member of the Executive Council of the Viceroy of India from 1931 to 1936 and the Diwan of Travancore from 1936 to 1947. Ramaswami Iyer was born in 1879 in Madras city and studied at Wesley College High School and Presidency College, Madras before qualifying as a lawyer from the Madras Law College. He practised as a lawyer in Madras and succeeded S. Srinivasa Iyengar as the Advocate-General of the Madras Presidency. He subsequently served as the Law member of the Governor of Madras and of the Viceroy of India before being appointed Diwan of Travancore in 1936.\n\nRamaswami Iyer served as Diwan from 1936 to 1947; during his tenure, many social and administrative reforms were made. However, at the same time, he is also remembered for the ruthless suppression of the communist-organised Punnapra-Vayalar revolt, and his controversial stand in favour of an independent Travancore. He resigned in 1947 following a failed assassination attempt. He served as a leader of the Indian National Congress in his early days. He was made a Knight Commander of the Indian Empire in 1926 and a Knight Commander of the Star of India in 1941. He returned these titles when India attained independence in 1947. He was also a member of the 1926 and 1927 delegations to the League of Nations. In his later life he served in numerous international organisations and on the board of several Indian universities. Ramaswami Iyer died in 1966 at the age of 86 while on a visit to the United Kingdom.\n\nThe ancestors of C. P. Ramaswami Iyer were Vadadesa Vadama Brahmins whose seat was the town of Chetput in the North Arcot of Tamil Nadu. The family traces their lineage to Dikshit brahmins whom they believed, were Deshastha Brahmins who migrated from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh to the town of Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh from where they migrated to the northern part of Tamil Nadu in the 16th century AD. As a reward for their piety and scholarship, the migrants were granted the villages of Chetput, Adayapalayam and Morakkaniyur by a local chieftain. Ramaswami Iyer's family originated from the group which inherited the village of Chetput. C. P. was also related to Achan Dikshitar, brother of the famous Advaitist savant Appayya Dikshitar. C. P.'s grandfather, Chetput Ramaswami Iyer served the British East India Company as Tehsildar of Kumbakonam. His family was deeply attached to the Sringeri mutt.\n\nChetpet Pattabhiraman Ramaswami Iyer was born on Deepavali day, 13 November 1879 to C. R. Pattabhirama Iyer, a prominent judge, (1857–1903) and his wife Seethalakshmi Ammal, also called Rangammal in the town of Wandiwash, North Arcot. C. P. had his schooling at the Wesley College High School in Madras. He had an extremely strict upbringing as a result of a prediction that the child would not pass a single exam in his life. On completion of his schooling, C. P. enrolled at the Presidency College, Madras. In college, C. P. won prizes in English, Sanskrit and Mathematics and the Elphinstone Prize for his paper on the Nebular theory. C. P. passed his degree with a gold medal and graduated with distinction from the Madras Law College.\n\nC. P. had always desired to become an English professor. However, his father, Pattabhirama Iyer wished that his son become a lawyer and accordingly, C. P. chose a career in law. C. P. spent his college vacations in the Mysore kingdom with the Diwan, Sir K. Seshadri Iyer whom he always claimed as his inspiration.\n\nIn 1903, C. P. joined V. Krishnaswamy Iyer as an apprentice. Just before the death of Pattabhirama Iyer the same year, he arranged for C. P.'s admission as a junior to Sir V. Bhashyam Aiyangar but the latter was not able to accommodate him. As a result, C. P. practised on his own and made a reputation as a lawyer. He fought and won over 300 cases and was offered a judgeship of the Madras High Court which he, however, turned down. In 1920, he was appointed Advocate-General of Madras by the then Governor, Lord Willingdon. During his tenure as a lawyer, C.P. handled a number of prominent cases as the Ashe murder trial and the Besant Narayaniah case.\n\nIn his early days, C. P. was an admirer of Gopal Krishna Gokhale and desired to join the Servants of India society in Poona. In 1912, he fought on behalf of Jiddu Narayaniah against Annie Besant for the custody of his sons J. Krishnamurti and Nityananda in the famous Besant Narayaniah trial and won. Besant, however, later got the verdict annulled by appealing to the Privy Council in England. However, as a result of this case, C. P. developed an admiration for Annie Besant and collaborated with her in organising the Home Rule League and served as its vice-president. In 1917, he became the Secretary of the Indian National Congress. C. P. also edited Annie Besant's newspaper \"New India\" during her incarceration. at the same time, campaigning vigorously for her release. C. P., later, distanced himself from the Indian Independence after disagreeing with Mahatma Gandhi over the Swadeshi and Non-Cooperation movements.\n\nIn 1920, C. P. was nominated as the Advocate-General of Madras Presidency. He was responsible for the introduction of the City Municipalities Act and the Madras Local Boards Act. In 1923, he was nominated to the executive council of the Governor of Madras and was charged with the portfolios of law and order, police, Public Works Department, irrigation, ports and electricity.\n\nAs a member of the executive council, C. P. laid the foundation of the Pykara Dam which was constructed between 1929 and 1932 at a cost of Rs. 67.5 million. He also started the construction of Mettur Dam over the Cauvery river. While the Pykara Hydro-electric project triggered the rapid industrialization of Coimbatore, the Mettur project was used to irrigate vast areas of Tanjore and Trichy districts. As the member in charge of ports, C. P. was also responsible for the improvement of Cochin, Visakhapatnam and Tuticorin ports.\n\nAs law member, C. P. was also instrumental in passing the \"Devadasi Abolition Bill\" proposed by Muthulakshmi Reddy. However, owing to strong protests from \"devadasis\" across Madras Presidency, C. P. suggested that the bill be introduced only as a private bill and not a government measure.\n\nBetween 1926 and 1927 he was the Indian Delegate at the League of Nations in Geneva. By 1931 he was a Law Member of the Government of India and in 1932 attended the Third Round Table Conference at London. In 1933 he was the sole Indian delegate to the World Economic Conference and the next year he drafted a constitution for the state of Kashmir.\n\nIn 1931, when Chithira Thirunal was barred from succeeding his deceased uncle as the Maharaja of Travancore, C. P. spoke on his behalf to the Viceroy of India. The Viceroy agreed to crown Chithira Thirunal but only on the condition that C. P. should function as adviser to the young monarch. C. P. agreed and served as Legal and Constitutional adviser to the prince from 1931 to 1936. In 1936, Maharajah Chithira Thirunal personally requested C. P. to be the Diwan of Travancore. C. P. accepted the offer and served as Diwan for a period of ten years.\n\nOn 12 November 1936, Maharajah Chithira Thirunal issued the revolutionary Temple Entry Proclamation which gave Hindus of all castes and classes, including Dalits or untouchables, the right to enter Hindu temples in the state. This was bitterly opposed by conservative, yet influential upper-caste Hindus who posed a grave-threat to the life of the Diwan. This proclamation earned for the Maharajah and his Diwan the praise of Mahatma Gandhi and other social reformers.\n\nDuring C. P.'s tenure as Diwan, Travancore made rapid strides in industrial development. The Indian Aluminium Company was invited to set up a factory in the town of Aluva. The first fertiliser plant in India, the Fertilizers and Chemicals of Travancore Ltd. (FACT) was established by C. P. to manufacture ammonium sulphate. This was established with American collaboration in open defiance to the hostility of the Viceroy of India. C.P. also established a plant to manufacture cement and another to manufacture titanium dioxide. The Travancore plywood factory at Punalur The Travancore Rayons Limited was established in 1946 with a plant at Perumbavoor. The first plant to manufacture aluminium cables was opened at Kundara. By the time, C. P. stepped down as Diwan in 1947, the revenues of the state had increased fourfold from the time he had assumed charge.\n\nC. P. wished to establish a hydro-electric power project on the Periyar river. However, his efforts were opposed by the Government of Madras. C. P. argued as a lawyer on behalf of Travancore and won. As a result, the Pallivasal hydro-electric power project was established on the Periyar river. He initiated the Pechipara Hydro-electric Scheme (present Kodayar Hydroelectric Power Project in Kanyakumari District), the Periyar Game Sanctuary and other irrigation projects.\n\nC. P. carried out a great deal of pioneering work for the Vivekananda Rock at Cape Comorin and built guest-houses at Kanyakumari. He renovated the Padmanabhapuram Palace of Marthanda Varma's days (in present-day Kanyakumari District) and expanded the Trivandrum Art Gallery. In 1937, C. P. started the University of Travancore with the Maharajah as Chancellor and himself as Vice Chancellor. In 1939 he was awarded an honorary L.L.D. Degree by the University of Travancore In 1940 under his Dewanship Travancore became the first state to nationalise road transport in India. The first cement highway in India was constructed between the capital Trivandrum and Kanniyakumari covering a distance of 88 kilometres. The same year capital punishment was abolished and adult franchise introduced. He was also the first to appoint a lady as District Judge (Mrs. Anna Chandy later became the first Indian woman High Court Judge). Iyer introduced for the first time the midday meal scheme to prompt poor children to attend school.\n\nIn 1941 the British conferred on him the title of Knight Commander of the Star of India (KCSI). When Indian Independence came into view Travancore and other Princely States were given two options of either staying independent or merging with the dominions of India or Pakistan.\n\nA mass uprising broke out in the Alleppey region in October 1946. On 24 October Travancore police killed near about 200 people in Punnapra and the government ordered martial law in Alleppey and Cherthala. CP's police and army moved to Alleppy and on 27 October, Vayalar witnessed another mass uprising and 150 people were killed on the spot. On the same day 130 people were killed in different locations of Alleppey in police shoot-outs. According to Prof. A Shreedhara Menon's \"Kerala History\", about 1,000 people died in the Punnapra Vayalar Agitation. Even though the agitation was a short-lived failure, it resulted in better administration of Travancore.\n\nWhen, on 3 June 1947, United Kingdom accepted demands for a partition and announced its intention to quit India within a short period, the Maharaja of Travancore desired to declare himself independent. Supported by the Diwan, C. P., Chithira Thirunal issued a declaration of independence on 18 June 1947. As Travancore's declaration of independence was unacceptable to India, negotiations were started with the Diwan by the Government of India. Family sources indicate that C. P. himself was not in favour of independence but only greater autonomy, and that a favourable agreement had been reached between C. P. and the Indian representatives by 23 July 1947 but accession to the Indian Union could not be carried out only because it was pending approval by the Raja. On the other hand, noted historian Ramachandra Guha has written about how C. P., egged on by Mohammed Ali Jinnah, had established secret ties with senior Ministers of the British Government, who encouraged him in the hope that he would give them privileged access to monazite, a material Travancore was rich in and which could give the British a lead in the nuclear arms race. Nevertheless, an assassination attempt was made on C. P. on 25 July 1947 during a concert commemorating the anniversary of Swati Thirunal. C. P. survived with multiple stab wounds and hastened the accession of Travancore state to the Indian Union soon after his recovery.\n\nAfter he resigned his Dewanship of Travancore, C. P. left for London. In the same year, he visited Brazil on the invitation of the Government of Brazil and Argentina, Peru and Mexico as a tourist. He also visited the United States of America where he gave talks at the University of California, Berkeley, and had discussions with important bank executives, journalists and US President Harry S. Truman. In 1949–50, he visited the United States again as a Visiting Professor of the American Academy of Asian Studies at California. In 1952, he toured Australia and New Zealand as a guest of the respective governments and visited the United States again in 1953 on a lecture tour. From 1 July 1954 to 2 July 1956, he served as the Vice Chancellor of Banaras Hindu University. From 26 January 1955, C. P. also served as a Vice Chancellor of Annamalai University, thereby becoming the first Indian to function as Vice Chancellor of two universities at the same time. In 1953, C.P. was appointed member of the Press Commission of India. Two years later, C. P. toured China as the leader of an Indian universities delegation. C. P. served as a member of the University Grants Commission (1955), the Punjab Commission (1961), the National Integration Committee on Regionalism, the Chairman of the Hindu Religious Endowments Commission from 1960 to 1962 and President of the Inter-University board of India and Ceylon (1965).\n\nIn September 1966, C. P. left for England to conduct research on a planned book titled \"A History of My Times\" at the India Office library. At about 11:30 am, on 26 September 1966, he was in the National Liberal Club (where he had been a member for over 50 years), when he suddenly slumped on his armchair while speaking to a reporter and died instantly. The following day, \"The Times\" carried the news of his death:\n\nCondolences were also offered by C. Rajagopalachari, Zakir Hussain, the then President of India, \"The Hindu\", \"The Times of India\", Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi and K. Kamaraj.\n\nC. P. was acknowledged for his talent as a lawyer, administrator and visionary. Edwin Samuel Montagu, who served as the Secretary of State for India from 1917 to 1922, described him as \"one of the cleverest men in India\". He is credited with having transformed Kanyakumari district into the rice-bowl of Travancore and is acclaimed for being the first person to envisage the industrialization of Madras Presidency. He is also regarded as an egalitarian and the first caste Hindu lawyer to admit a Dalit, N. Sivaraj as his junior. Under his leadership, Travancore became the first princely state to abolish capital punishment, first to introduce free and compulsory education and the first princely state to be connected to the rest of India by air. M. G. Ramachandran, former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu recollected at C. P.'s birth centenary celebrations in 1979 that C. P. was the first to introduce the midday meal scheme in the form of the Vanchi Poor Fund in Travancore. C. N. Annadurai remarked at a speech in 1967 that C. P. was the first person in India to suggest a plan for interlinking the nation's rivers. However, his greatest achievement is believed to be the Temple Entry Proclamation which for the first time, permitted Dalits to enter Hindu temples which he introduced despite a severe threat to his life.\n\nC. P. was also well known for his philanthropic activities and the institutions he helped establish. After his death, The C. P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation was established in his memory in order to promote traditional arts and crafts. While serving as a law member of the executive council of the Governor of Madras, Ramaswami Iyer's agenda for social reform and opening the doors of Hindu temples for Dalits and low-caste Hindus were praised by C. Natesa Mudaliar, one of the founders of the South Indian Liberation Federation. C. P. was a patron of arts and music and was member of experts committee consisting of some of the leading musicians and scholars to advise the Madras Music Academy.\n\nC. P. was a friend of the English writer Somerset Maugham who had a prolonged discussion with while on a visit to Trivandrum. Later, Maugham supplied a eulogy for the book \"C. P. by his contemporaries\".\n\nIndian civil servant C. S. Venkatachar wrote that the Kashmir issue might have been resolved in favour of India had Jawaharlal Nehru chosen C. P. instead of Gopalaswami Ayyangar to present India's case at the United Nations. The same view was also shared by Arcot Ramasamy Mudaliar. While chairing the Indian Committee on National Integration, C. P. introduced the clause making it mandatory that newly elected member of Parliament and state assemblies should take an allegiance to the Indian Union. It is believed that the introduction of this clause compelled the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam to give up its goal of secession from the Indian Union.\n\nC. P. was an active freemason and served as a member of the Carnatic Lodge.\n\nWhile being hailed as a modernising reformer by many, C. P. is also criticised as a capitalist, authoritarian, imperialist, anti-Christian and anti-Communist by some. C. P. has been sharply criticized for failing to rescue the deteriorating Travancore National and Quilon Bank and for cracking down on the bank and its managing director, C. P. Mathen. It is believed that C.P., allegedly an anti-Christian framed the downfall of Quilon Bank, using his influence. In 1946, Communist dissent over C. P.'s policies erupted in the form of the Punnapra-Vayalar revolt which was crushed with a brutal hand by Travancore army and navy. Communist hatred over C. P.'s policies finally culminated in an assassination attempt upon the Diwan. However, despite deep antagonism between C. P. and Communists, he opposed the dismissal of the Communist government of Kerala headed by E. M. S. Namboodiripad in 1959 by the Jawaharlal Nehru government as \"unconstitutional\". C. P. was also labelled as a \"secessionist\" due to his initial reluctance in merging Travancore with the Indian Union. Jawaharlal Nehru said of his attitude towards imperialism:\n\nHis attempt to negotiate a trade agreement with Pakistan on behalf of Travancore was viewed as a betrayal by most Indians.\n\nIn 1895, at the age of 16, C. P. was married to nine-year-old Seethamma (1886–1930), granddaughter of Indian polyglot and judge C. V. Runganada Sastri. She died in March 1930 leaving behind three sons, C. R. Pattabhiraman, C. R. Venkata Subban and C. R. Sundaram. Pattabhiraman participated in the Indian Independence Movement and was active in the Indian National Congress even after C. P.'s resignation from the party. He was elected to the Lok Sabha from Kumbakonam in 1957 and 1962 and served as Deputy Minister and later, Minister of Industries from 1966 to 1967. Pattabhiraman was also one of the founders of the Madras Cricket Club along with P. Subbarayan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292555", "title": "Saliya", "text": "Saliya\n\nSaliya (also spelt as Saliyar or Saliya or Chaliyan or Sali or Sale) is an Indian caste. Their traditional occupation was that of weaving and they are found mostly in the regions of northern Kerala, southern coastal Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe oldest names for weavers in Kannada and Telugu regions were Saliga (or its variants, Sale, Sali, Saliya etc.) or Jeda (or its variants Jada, Jandra etc.). According to Ramaswamy, as part of the Virasaiva movement weavers initially championed caste negation or anti-casteism initially. However, as time passed even that movement became caste-ridden and various communities started claiming ritual superiority vis-a-vis other communities part of the same religion and also against non-Virasaiva communities like Brahmins.\n\nIn South Malabar, some adopted the surname \"Nair\".\n\nIn Kannur, Ashtamachal Bhagavathy temple part of Payyannur Teru has a unique tradition of a festival called \"Meenamrithu\" which is related to sea trading culture of the past. It was believed to have belonged to a merchant community called \"Valanjiyar\" belonging to left-hand caste group in the past. However, now Saliyas conduct this ritual. But relationship between Valanjiyar and Saliya communities at present is still a speculation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292556", "title": "List of tunnels of the Faroe Islands", "text": "List of tunnels of the Faroe Islands\n\nTunnels and bridges are an important part of the Faroese transportation network.\n\nThis list shows the Faroese tunnels, listed by age:\n\nVágatunnilin and Norðoyatunnilin are tolled. The toll is paid at gas stations. All other tunnels are without toll.\n\nThis list shows the Faroese inter-insular bridges and causeways, also listed by age:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292559", "title": "Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri", "text": "Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri\n\nClifford Possum Tjapaltjarri AO (1932 – 21 June 2002) was an Australian painter, considered to be one of the most collected and renowned Australian Aboriginal artists. His paintings are held in galleries and collections in Australia and elsewhere, including the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the National Gallery of Australia, the Kelton Foundation and the Royal Collection.\n\nPossum's father was Tjatjiti Tjungurrayai and his mother was Long Rose Nangala. After his father's death in the 1940s his mother married Gwoya Jungarai, better known as \"One Pound Jimmy\", whose image was used on a well known Australian postage stamp. His brother was Tim Leura Tjapaltjarri, whose artwork appeared on another stamp. His older brother Cassidy Possum Tjapaltjarri was a traditionalist who barely gone outside of the Yuelamu community and was one of most respected elder till his passing in 2006, Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri was the most famous of the contemporary artists who lived around Papunya, in the Northern Territory's Western Desert area, when the acrylic painting style (known popularly as \"dot art\") was initiated. Geoffrey Bardon came to Papunya in the early 1970s and encouraged the Aboriginal people to put their dreaming stories on canvas, stories which had previously been depicted ephemerally on the ground. Clifford Possum emerged as one of the leaders in this school of painting, which has come to be called the Western Desert Art Movement. Possum was of the Anmatyerre culture-linguistic group from around Alherramp (Laramba) community. He was of the Peltharr skin. \n\nWhen it held an exhibition of his work in 2004, the Art Gallery of New South Wales described his artistic background:\n\nHe was an expert wood-carver and took up painting long before the emergence of the Papunya Tula School in the early 1970s. When Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri joined this group of 'dot and circle' painters early in 1972 he immediately distinguished himself as one of its most talented members and went on to create some of the largest and most complex paintings ever produced.\nClifford Possum Tjapaltjarri led a groundbreaking career and was amongst the vanguard of Indigenous Australian artists to be recognised by the international art world. Like Albert Namatjira before him, Clifford Possum blazed a trail for future generations of Indigenous artists; bridging the gap between Aboriginal art and contemporary Australian art.\nClifford Possum Tjapaltjarri died in Alice Springs on the day he was scheduled to be invested with the Order of Australia for his contributions to art and to the Indigenous community. His obituaries, which appeared in newspapers around the world, generally referred to him as Clifford Possum and gave his age as about 70. While his year of birth is considered to be approximately correct, the day and month remain undocumented. His two daughters, Gabriella Possum Nungurayyi and Michelle Possum Nungurayyi, are renowned artists in their own right. There was legal controversy surrounding his burial, as his surviving family and community maintained he wished to be buried in a location different from that specified in his will. He was buried at Yuelamu, which had been the preference of his community and daughters, several weeks after his death.\n\nPosthumously, Tjapaltjarri's works are drawing increasing attention. The artist's majestic painting \"Warlugulong\" (previously bought by the Commonwealth Bank for just $1,200) was auctioned by Sotheby's on 24 July 2007. Pre-auction, the work was expected to make art history as the most expensive Aboriginal canvas at auction. The work had been tipped to fetch up to A$2.5 million, more than double the then-record for Aboriginal art at auction. The work, in fact, sold for $2.4 million; the following day, it was revealed that the National Gallery of Australia had been the buyer. The Gallery's purchase eased tensions of a rumoured Government legal intervention had the work been purchased by an overseas buyer, out of concern that significant indigenous art would be \"lost\" overseas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292560", "title": "A48(M) motorway", "text": "A48(M) motorway\n\nThe A48(M) motorway in Wales links Cardiff with Newport. It is a long, M4 spur. At St Mellons, it runs continuously into the dual-carriageway A48, which also features (albeit narrow) hard shoulders. The A48(M) has no junctions and opened in 1977.\n\nThe Port Talbot bypass which opened in 1966, was numbered A48(M) before its incorporation into the westward extension of the M4 in the 1970s. Some maps show the Morriston bypass section of the M4 as also having been originally numbered A48(M), although whether this number was ever used on the ground has been questioned.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292582", "title": "Next Year", "text": "Next Year\n\n\"Next Year\" is a song released as the last single from the third Foo Fighters' album \"There Is Nothing Left to Lose\".\n\nA shorter version (running at just 3:21 compared to the original's 4:28) was released as a single in 2000 and was used in the music video. Backup vocals were added, and it does not include the outro present in the original album version.\n\"SPIN Magazine\" proclaimed the song \"a power ballad in the “Wonderwall” sense\", remarking that the band are \"at their loveliest when aping peak-popularity Britpop\".\n\nThe opening of \"Next Year\" was used as the theme song for the NBC television series \"Ed\" (2000–2004). The show's creators, Rob Burnett and Jon Beckerman (formerly of the \"Late Show with David Letterman)\" used the song despite knowledge of production company Viacom's insistence that they own the rights to the show's theme song. \"Next Year\" was thus ultimately replaced by Clem Snide's \"Moment in the Sun\" during the second season. As a result of outcries from Burnett and Beckerman, however, Viacom relented and \"Next Year\" returned as the theme song in the third and fourth seasons.\n\nThe video, directed by Phil Harder, shows the band in a remake of the Apollo 11 moon mission and incorporates heavy use of NASA stock footage. They experience zero-gravity in the space capsule (where they conduct experiments and perform the song with instruments), land on the moon, plant a Foo Fighters flag, and return to Earth where they are welcomed back as heroes during a ticker-tape parade. Many moments and images of the Apollo era are re-enacted, such as the band meeting President Richard Nixon, bassist Nate Mendel golfing on the moon (a nod to Alan Shepard during Apollo 14), and depictions of Vietnam war protests. The video ends with a portrait of the band in the style of a traditional astronaut crew photo. This bears a strong resemblance to the cover of Led Zeppelin's \"Best of Led Zeppelin\" compilation.\n\nCD1 dark cover:<br>(Also comes with the first 6 months of a 2001 poster calendar)\n\nCD2 light cover:<br>(Also comes with the second 6 months of a 2001 poster calendar)\nEnhanced CD-ROM, includes \"Next Year\" video\n\nAustralia CD:\n\n7 inch:\n\nJapan EP\n\nNetherlands Live in Holland, part two\n"}
{"id": "2292587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292587", "title": "Cabasse", "text": "Cabasse\n\nCabasse may mean:\n"}
{"id": "2292593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292593", "title": "Mark Plati", "text": "Mark Plati\n\nMark Plati is a New York–based musician, record producer, and songwriter, widely acclaimed for his work in the 1990s with David Bowie. Plati also has worked with Spookey Ruben, The Cure, Duncan Sheik, Hooverphonic, Robbie Williams, Joe McIntyre, Dave Navarro, Lou Reed, Fleetwood Mac, Deee-Lite, and Natalie Imbruglia, Sam Moore, Bobbejaan Schoepen. \nHe also worked in France with artists like Kyo, Louise Attaque, les Rita Mitsouko, Alain Bashung, Émilie Simon, Saule, Raphael, Axelle Red.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292598", "title": "Mother's Spiritual", "text": "Mother's Spiritual\n\nMother's Spiritual is the eighth studio album by New York City-born singer, songwriter, and pianist Laura Nyro and her ninth original album in total, including the 1977 live album \"Season of Lights\".\n\nThe album was released at the beginning of 1984 after a year of difficult and expensive recording sessions, and came more than five years after its predecessor, 1978's well-received but poor-selling \"Nested\". Thanks to a small buzz surrounding Nyro's return to the spotlight after her second period of semi-retirement (the first came from 1972-1975), \"Mother's Spiritual\" became Nyro's last US chart entry, reaching #182 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart.\n\nMusically, \"Mother's Spiritual\" is the most serene and easygoing of all Laura Nyro albums, and was criticised in some quarters for being too sedate and maternal in comparison to her wild, adventurous, and experimental albums such as \"Eli and the Thirteenth Confession\" and \"New York Tendaberry\".\n\nThematically, Nyro's concerns turned from passion and love towards subjects of a more political and sociological nature, including environmentalism, motherhood, and feminism. It met with mixed reviews, and Nyro was lambasted in some quarters for \"turning into a tree-hugger.\"\n\nAfter being out of print in the U.S. for many years, \"Mother's Spiritual\" was finally released on CD in 2009. It was her last studio album for nine years, and she returned only in 1988 to stage a tour. The album represents Nyro's sole original output of the 1980s, during which time she concentrated mostly on raising her son Gil, born in 1978.\n\nThe recording of \"Mother's Spiritual\" was punctuated by several difficult incidences. Nyro intended to record the album, as with predecessor \"Nested\", at her Danbury home and laid down solo demos of the songs as early as the spring of 1982. Then, Nyro spent 3 to 4 days a week over eight weeks recording at The Boogie Hotel on Long Island, NY, with recording engineer and studio owner Jeffrey Kawalek at the board, and producer Joe Wissert commuting from California for the sessions - but Nyro was not satisfied with the outcome of the music.\n\nSo she then spent between $150,000 and $200,000 building a proper studio at her home (as opposed to the mobile studio where \"Nested\" was recorded) and continued recording with Roscoe Harring as co-producer.\n\nThe album's arrangements are soft and wistful, but Nyro also desired a more fiery edge to the songs as well. Longtime fan Todd Rundgren, however, was not particularly encouraging about Nyro's new sound and soon aborted his role as producer having cited her indecisive and languid approach as factors. \n\nAlthough there is some quite upbeat material (\"Sophia\", \"Talk to a Green Tree\", \"The Brighter Song\"), \"Mother's Spiritual\" is dominated by slow piano-driven songs. These were seen by some critics as close to New Age music. Nyro would perform them live in concert for the rest of her career.\n\nIn a contemporary review for \"The Village Voice\", music critic Robert Christgau facetiously remarked that the \"romantic generalizations of matrifocal ecofeminism \" are suitable to Nyro's moody, gushy style, while citing her \"still arresting\" dynamics.\n\nAll songs by Laura Nyro.\n\n\nAllmusic\n\nLaura Nyro\n\nMichele Kort's biography \"Soul Picnic: The Music and Passion of Laura Nyro\" ()\n"}
{"id": "2292601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292601", "title": "Stephen Lynch (New Zealand cricketer)", "text": "Stephen Lynch (New Zealand cricketer)\n\nStephen Michael Lynch (born 18 February 1976 in Auckland, New Zealand) is a former cricketer. Lynch played a total of 24 first-class games for Auckland between 1995/6 and 1999/2000. In 1993/4 Lynch captained the New Zealand Under-19 team, drawing three Under-19 Tests against Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292603", "title": "Gabriel Johnston", "text": "Gabriel Johnston\n\nGabriel Johnston (1699 – 17 July 1752) was a British colonial official who served as the sixth governor of the Province of North Carolina from 1734 until his death in 1752. He was the longest serving governor, holding the office for 18 years.\n\nGabriel Johnston was born in Scotland in 1699. He was a physician, political writer, and professor of Oriental languages at the University of St. Andrews.\n\nJohnston was greatly disturbed by the conditions he found in the province and deplored what he considered the moral laxity, the disregard for law, the inadequate educational facilities, and the oppression of the poor. Nevertheless, his administration witnessed an increase in wealth, population, and development of resources. The United Brethren purchased 100,000 acres of land and settled Wachovia. Another group emigrating in large numbers, and with especial appeal for the governor, was the Scots who settled in the Cape Fear region. The union with England and a breakup in the clan system, as well as a pardon to all Scottish rebels who would emigrate, greatly stimulated their settlement in America. The General Assembly of North Carolina exempted all new settlers from taxation for ten years. The general assembly was probably motivated by a desire to increase immigration to the province, but doubtless the Scottish governor added weight to the measure.\n\nSome years later the General Assembly of North Carolina provided for the erection of a fort on the south bank of Cape Fear and named it in honor of Johnston. Johnston County was also named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292609", "title": "Dick Ayers", "text": "Dick Ayers\n\nRichard Bache \"Dick\" Ayers (; April 28, 1924 – May 4, 2014) was an American comic book artist and cartoonist best known for his work as one of Jack Kirby's inkers during the late-1950s and 1960s period known as the Silver Age of Comics, including on some of the earliest issues of Marvel Comics' \"The Fantastic Four\". He is the signature penciler of Marvel's World War II comic \"Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos\", drawing it for a 10-year run, and he co-created Magazine Enterprises' 1950s Western-horror character the Ghost Rider, a version of which he would draw for Marvel in the 1960s.\n\nAyers was inducted into the Will Eisner Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2007.\n\nRichard Bache Ayers was born April 28, 1924, in Ossining, New York, the son of John Bache Ayers and Gladys Minnerly Ayers. He had a sister who was 10 years older. The siblings were in the 13th generation, he said, of the Ayers family that had settled in Newbury, Massachusetts in 1635. At 18, during World War II, he enlisted in the United States Army Air Corps, and was stationed in Florida, where after failing radar training he was sent for a month's art training at McTomb University and began working as an artist in the Air Corps' Operations division. He published his first comic strip, \"Radio Ray\", in the military newspaper \"Radio Post\" in 1942.\n\nAyers broke into comics with unpublished work done for Western Publishing's Dell Comics imprint. \"I approached them,\" Ayers said in a 1996 interview. \"I had a story written and drawn. They wanted to wrap a book around it... I got into it, but Dell decided to scrap the project. ... It was an adventure thing, boy and girl; the boy wanted to be a trumpet player. The girl kept feeding the jukebox and he'd played along to Harry James or whatever sort of thing. ... It didn't make it, but it got me started where I wanted to be in the business.\"\n\nFollowing this, in 1947, Ayers studied under Burne Hogarth in the first class of Hogarth's new institution, New York City's Cartoonists and Illustrators School (renamed the School of Visual Arts in 1956). Joe Shuster, co-creator of Superman, would visit the class, and Ayers eventually ventured to his nearby studio. \"Next thing I knew,\" Ayers said in the same interview, \"I was penciling a bit here and there.\" In a 2005 interview, Ayers elaborated that, \"Joe had me pencil some of his \"Funnyman\" stories after seeing my drawings at Hogarth's evening class\" and \"sent me to [editor] Vin Sullivan of Magazine Enterprises.\" There, Sullivan \"let me try the \"Jimmy Durante\" [humor] strip. I submitted my work and got the job.\"\n\nAyers went on to pencil and ink Western stories in the late 1940s for Magazine Enterprises' \"A-1 Comics\" and \"Trail Colt\", and for Prize Comics' \"Prize Comics Western\". With writer Ray Krank, Ayers created the horror-themed Western character Ghost Rider in \"Tim Holt\" #11 (1949). The character appeared in stories through the run of \"Tim Holt\", \"Red Mask\", \"A-1 Comics\", \"Bobby Benson's B-Bar-B Riders\", and the 14-issue solo series \"The Ghost Rider\" (1950–1954), up through the introduction of the Comics Code. The character's genesis came, Ayers recalled in 2003, when Sullivan \"describe[d] what he wanted in the Ghost Rider\" and told Ayers to see the 1949 Disney animated feature \"The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad\", one segment of which adapted Washington Irving's story \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\", featuring the Headless Horseman. \"[A]nd then he told me to play the Vaughn Monroe record \"(Ghost) Riders in the Sky\". And then he started talking about what he wanted the guy wearing.\"\n\nAfter the trademark to the character's name and motif lapsed, Marvel Comics debuted its own near-identical, non-horror version of the character in \"Ghost Rider\" #1 (Feb. 1967), by writers Roy Thomas and Gary Friedrich and original Ghost Rider artist Ayers.\n\nAyers' hands appear onscreen as those of a cartoonist played by actor Don Briggs in \"The Comic Strip Murders\", a 1949 episode of the CBS television series \"Suspense\".\n\nIn 1952, while continuing to freelance for Magazine Enterprises, Ayers began a long freelance run at Atlas Comics, the 1950s forerunner of Marvel Comics. He drew horror stories in such titles as \"Adventures into Terror\", \"Astonishing\", \"Journey into Mystery\", \"Journey into Unknown Worlds\", \"Menace\", \"Mystery Tales\", \"Mystic\", \"Strange Tales\", and \"Uncanny Tales\". As well, he drew the brief revival of the 1940s Golden Age of Comics superhero the Human Torch, from Marvel's 1940s predecessor Timely Comics, in \"Young Men\" # 21-24 (June 1953 - Feb. 1954). An additional, unpublished Human Torch story drawn by Ayers belatedly appeared in \"Marvel Super-Heroes\" #16 (Sept. 1968).\n\nDuring the 1950s, Ayers also drew freelance for Charlton Comics, including for the horror comic \"The Thing\" and the satirical series \"Eh!\".\n\nAyers first teamed with the highly influential and historically important penciler Jack Kirby at Atlas shortly before Atlas transitioned to become Marvel Comics. As Kirby's second regular Marvel inker, following Christopher Rule, Ayers would ink countless covers and stories, including on such landmark comics as most early issues of \"The Fantastic Four\", in addition to a slew of Western and \"pre-superhero Marvel\" monster stories in \"Amazing Adventures\", \"Journey into Mystery\", \"Strange Tales\", \"Tales of Suspense\", and \"Tales to Astonish\". Because creator credits were not routinely given at the time, two standard databases disagree over the duo's first published collaboration. Ayers revealed in 1996, however:\n\nAyers went on to ink scores of Kirby Western and monster stories, including such much-reprinted tales as \"I Created the Colossus!\" (\"Tales of Suspense\" #14, Feb. 1961), \"Goom! The Thing from Planet X!\" (\"Tales of Suspense\" #15, March 1961), and \"Fin Fang Foom!\" (\"Strange Tales\" #89, Oct. 1961). As Marvel introduced its superheroes in the early 1960s, Ayers inked Kirby on the first appearances of Ant-Man (\"Tales to Astonish\" #27 & 35, Jan. & Sept. 1962), Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos (issues #1-3, May-Sept. 1963), and the revamped Rawhide Kid (beginning with \"The Rawhide Kid\" #17, Aug. 1960); on the second and several subsequent early appearances of Thor (\"Journey into Mystery\" #84-89, Sept. 1962 - Feb. 1963); on \"Fantastic Four\" #6-20 (Sept. 1962 - Nov. 1963), and the spin-off Human Torch solo series in \"Strange Tales\" (starting with its debut in issue #101); and \"The Incredible Hulk\" #3-5 (Sept. 1962 - Jan. 1963), among other series.\n\nAdditionally, Ayers took over from Kirby as \"Sgt. Fury\" penciler with issue #8 (July 1964), beginning a 10-year run that — except for #13 (which he inked over Kirby's pencils), and five issues by other pencilers — continued virtually unbroken through #120 (with the series running Ayers reprints every-other-issue through most but not all from #79 on).\n\nIn the 1980s, Ayers, inked by Chic Stone, drew four editions of the promotional, annual comic-book series initially cover-titled \"TRS-80 Computer Whiz Kids\" and, thereafter, \"Tandy Computer Whiz Kids\", published by Archie Comics for Radio Shack: \"The Computer Trap\" (March 1984), \"The Computers That Said No to Drugs\" (March 1985), \"The Answer to a Riddle\" (March 1987), and \"Fit to Win\" (March 1988). He also drew approximately 30 sports-star biographies for Revolutionary Comics between 1990 and 1994.\n\nAyers' work continued into the 2000s. He contributed a pinup page to the 2001 comic \"The Song of Mykal\", published privately by the comics shop Atlantis Fantasyworld, did inking on \"Doris Danger\" stories in the magazine \"Tabloia\" #572-576, and drew a pinup page in the comic \"Doris Danger's Greatest All-Out Army Battles!\" \n\nHe wrote and drew the eight-page \"Chips Wilde\" Western story in the benefit comic \"Actor Comics Presents\" #1 (Fall 2006), provided a sketch for the benefit comic \"The 3-Minute Sketchbook\" (2007), and contributed to the tribute comic \"The Uncanny Dave Cockrum\" (2007). In 2009, he drew a half-page biographical illustration of a 1940s character in the reference guide \"Marvel Mystery Handbook 70th Anniversary Special\".\n\nAyers married Charlotte Lindy Walter on April 7, 1951. The couple had four children: sons Richard, Fred, and Steve, and daughter, Elaine. Ayers died at his home in White Plains, New York on May 4, 2014, less than a week after his 90th birthday.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292610", "title": "Death Comes as the End", "text": "Death Comes as the End\n\nDeath Comes as the End is a historical mystery novel by Agatha Christie, first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in October 1944 and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in March of the following year. The US Edition retailed at $2.00 and the UK edition at seven shillings and sixpence (7/6).\n\nIt is the only one of Christie's novels not to be set in the 20th century, and - unusually for her - also features no European characters. Instead, the novel is set in Thebes in 2000 BC, a setting for which Christie gained an appreciation whilst working with her archaeologist husband, Sir Max Mallowan, in the Middle East. The novel is notable for its very high number of deaths and is comparable to \"And Then There Were None\" from this standpoint. It is also the first full-length novel combining historical fiction and the whodunit/detective story, a genre which would later come to be called the historical whodunit.\n\nThe suggestion to base the story in ancient Egypt came from noted Egyptologist and family friend Stephen Glanville. He also assisted Christie with details of daily household life in Egypt 4000 years ago. In addition he made forceful suggestions to Christie to change the ending of the book. This she did but regretted the fact afterwards, feeling that her (unpublished) ending was better. The novel is based on real letters translated by egyptologist Battiscombe Gunn, from the Egyptian Middle Kingdom period, written by a man called Heqanakhte to his family, complaining about their behaviour and treatment of his concubine.\n\nIt is one of only five Christie novels to have not received an adaptation of any kind, the others being \"Destination Unknown\", \"They Came to Baghdad\", \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" and \"Postern of Fate\".\n\nA BBC television adaptation for broadcast in 2021 has been announced.\n\nChristie uses a theme for her chapter titles, as she did for many of her novels, in this case the Egyptian agricultural calendar.\n\nThe quiet lives of an Egyptian family are disturbed when the father, Imhotep, returns from the north with his new concubine, Nofret, who begins to sow discontent amongst them. Once the deaths begin, fears are aroused of a curse upon the house, but is the killer closer to home?\n\nThe novel is primarily written from the perspective of Renisenb, a young widow reacquainting herself with her family when her father Imhotep, a successful but pompous and short-sighted mortuary priest, brings a new \"wife\", Nofret, into their lives. Nofret soon disrupts and antagonises Imhotep's sons - Yahmose, Sobek and Ipy - as well as their wives. Renisenb realises the housekeeper Henet, while feigning devotion, is full of hatred. She eventually confronts Henet, who in a fit of pique admits she hates Renisenb and hated Renisenb's long-deceased mother.\n\nAfter Imhotep is called away, Satipy and Kait, the elder sons' wives, try to bully Nofret with tricks, but the plan backfires when Nofret appeals to Imhotep and he threatens to disown his sons and their families upon his return. Suddenly everyone has a motive to kill Nofret and when she is found dead at the foot of a cliff, an accident seems unlikely, although no one will acknowledge anything else.\n\nNext, Satipy falls to her death in terror from the same cliff while walking with Yahmose. Was it Nofret's vengeful spirit that she was looking at over Yahmose's shoulder moments before her death? The rumours only gather pace when Yahmose and Sobek drink poisoned wine. Sobek dies, but Yahmose lingers on, having drunk less of the wine. A slave boy who says he saw Nofret's ghost poisoning the wine dies of poison shortly afterwards.\n\nThe handsome scribe Kameni has fallen in love with Renisenb, and eventually asks her to marry him. Unsure whether she loves him or her father's advisor Hori, whom she has known since she was a child, she leaves the choice effectively in her father's hands and becomes engaged to Kameni. She realises, however, that his relationship with Nofret was closer than she had supposed, and that jealousy may have influenced Nofret's bitter hatred towards the family. Hori and Esa, the elderly mother of Imhotep (a clever woman who although almost completely blind sees things clearer than most others - especially her son) begin to investigate the possibility of a human murderer. Ipy, himself a likely suspect, starts to boast about his new, better position with his father; he plots to get rid of housekeeper Henet and tells her so. The next morning, Ipy is found dead in the lake, drowned.\n\nThe field of suspects has been further narrowed. Esa attempts to flush out the murderer by dropping a hint about the death of Satipy, but is herself murdered by means of poisoned unguent, despite the presence of a food taster. Henet - who knows the murderer's identity and is momentarily powerful amid the chaos - is smothered by the linens used to wrap the ever-increasing number of victims.\n\nOn the same cliff path where Nofret and Satipy died, Renisenb, apparently summoned by Hori, hears footsteps behind her and turns to see Yahmose. She then sees the look of murderous hatred in her brother's eyes that the other women saw before they were killed. On the brink of her own death, she realises that Satipy was not looking in fear at anything \"beyond\" Yahmose — she was looking straight at him. He had consumed a non-lethal dose of poison and pretended to recuperate while committing murders, both to make himself chief heir and to indulge his newfound love of violence. As Renisenb realises some of this, Hori slays Yahmose with an arrow and saves her. Hori explains all. Renisenb's final choice is whom to marry: Kameni, a lively husband not unlike her first, or Hori, an older and more enigmatic figure. She makes her choice and falls into Hori's arms.\n\n\nMaurice Willson Disher said in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" of 28 April 1945 that, \"When a specialist acquires unerring skill there is a temptation to find tasks that are exceptionally difficult. The scenes of \"Death Comes as the End\" are laid out in Ancient Egypt. They are painted delicately. The household of the priest, who is depicted not as a sacred personage, but as a humdrum landowner, makes an instant appeal because its members are human. But while the author's skill can cause a stir over the death of an old woman some thousands of years ago, that length of time lessens curiosity concerning why or how she (and others) died.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson, a self-proclaimed admirer of Christie, wrote in the 8 April 1945 issue of \"The Observer\", \"One of the best weeks of the war for crime fiction. First, of course, the new Agatha Christie; \"Death Comes as the End\". And it really is startlingly new, with its ancient Egyptian setting in the country household of a mortuary priest who overstrains his already tense family by bringing home an ultra-tough live in concubine from Memphis. Result: a series of murders. With her special archaeological equipment, Mrs Christie makes you feel just as much at home on the Nile in 1945 B.C. as if she were bombarding you with false clues in a chintz-covered drawing room in Leamington Spa. But she has not merely changed scenes; her reconstruction is vivid and she works really hard at her characters. My already insensate admiration for her leaps even higher.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"\"Hercule Poirot's Christmas\", transported to Egypt, ca 2000 B.C. Done with tact, yet the result is somehow skeletal - one realises how much the average Christie depends on trappings: clothes, furniture, the paraphernalia of bourgeois living. The culprit in this one is revealed less by detection than by a process of elimination.\"\n\n\nScreenwriter Gwyneth Hughes began adapting the book for the BBC in 2018. The adaptation is expected to air at Christmas, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292621", "title": "String Quartet No. 11 (Dvořák)", "text": "String Quartet No. 11 (Dvořák)\n\nAntonín Dvořák composed his String Quartet No. 11 in C major, Op. 61, B. 121, between late October and early November 1881 to fulfill a commission from the Hellmesberger Quartet.\n\nIn October, 1881 Dvořák finished the sketches for his new opera \"Dimitrij\", when he learned in the Vienna newspapers, that the Hellmesberger Quartet is proposing the performance of his new string quartet in December 1881. He was thus forced to interrupt the work on the opera, and began to compose a quartet. \n\nDvořák began to compose in F major (on 7 October 1881), but he probably wasn't satisfied with that version, since later (on 25 October 1881) after completing the first movement, he decided to create an entirely new work, in C major.\n\nThe composition was supposed to premiere on 15 December 1881 in Ringtheater, but because of the catastrophic conflagration in the building of Ringtheater the performance was postponed. It is not known today when the first performance occurred. The Czech première took place on 5 January 1884; the quartet was played by Ferdinand Lachner, Julius Raušer, Josef Krehan and Alois Neruda.\n\nThe composition consists of four movements, and lasts around 30 minutes in performance. Two themes based on a polonaise for cello and piano, B. 94, written two years earlier, reappear in the spirited scherzo of the third movement:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292623", "title": "Docking (molecular)", "text": "Docking (molecular)\n\nIn the field of molecular modeling, docking is a method which predicts the preferred orientation of one molecule to a second when bound to each other to form a stable complex. Knowledge of the preferred orientation in turn may be used to predict the strength of association or binding affinity between two molecules using, for example, scoring functions.\n\nThe associations between biologically relevant molecules such as proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and lipids play a central role in signal transduction. Furthermore, the relative orientation of the two interacting partners may affect the type of signal produced (e.g., agonism vs antagonism). Therefore, docking is useful for predicting both the strength and type of signal produced.\n\nMolecular docking is one of the most frequently used methods in structure-based drug design, due to its ability to predict the binding-conformation of small molecule ligands to the appropriate target binding site. Characterisation of the binding behaviour plays an important role in rational design of drugs as well as to elucidate fundamental biochemical processes.\n\nOne can think of molecular docking as a problem of \"“lock-and-key”\", in which one wants to find the correct relative orientation of the \"“key”\" which will open up the \"“lock”\" (where on the surface of the lock is the key hole, which direction to turn the key after it is inserted, etc.). Here, the protein can be thought of as the “lock” and the ligand can be thought of as a “key”. Molecular docking may be defined as an optimization problem, which would describe the “best-fit” orientation of a ligand that binds to a particular protein of interest. However, since both the ligand and the protein are flexible, a \"“hand-in-glove”\" analogy is more appropriate than \"“lock-and-key”\". During the course of the docking process, the ligand and the protein adjust their conformation to achieve an overall \"best-fit\" and this kind of conformational adjustment resulting in the overall binding is referred to as \"induced-fit\".\n\nMolecular docking research focuses on computationally simulating the molecular recognition process. It aims to achieve an optimized conformation for both the protein and ligand and relative orientation between protein and ligand such that the free energy of the overall system is minimized.\n\nTwo approaches are particularly popular within the molecular docking community. One approach uses a matching technique that describes the protein and the ligand as complementary surfaces. The second approach simulates the actual docking process in which the ligand-protein pairwise interaction energies are calculated. Both approaches have significant advantages as well as some limitations. These are outlined below.\n\nGeometric matching/ shape complementarity methods describe the protein and ligand as a set of features that make them dockable. These features may include molecular surface / complementary surface descriptors. In this case, the receptor's molecular surface is described in terms of its solvent-accessible surface area and the ligand's molecular surface is described in terms of its matching surface description. The complementarity between the two surfaces amounts to the shape matching description that may help finding the complementary pose of docking the target and the ligand molecules. Another approach is to describe the hydrophobic features of the protein using turns in the main-chain atoms. Yet another approach is to use a Fourier shape descriptor technique. Whereas the shape complementarity based approaches are typically fast and robust, they cannot usually model the movements or dynamic changes in the ligand/ protein conformations accurately, although recent developments allow these methods to investigate ligand flexibility. Shape complementarity methods can quickly scan through several thousand ligands in a matter of seconds and actually figure out whether they can bind at the protein's active site, and are usually scalable to even protein-protein interactions. They are also much more amenable to pharmacophore based approaches, since they use geometric descriptions of the ligands to find optimal binding.\n\nSimulating the docking process is much more complicated. In this approach, the protein and the ligand are separated by some physical distance, and the ligand finds its position into the protein's active site after a certain number of “moves” in its conformational space. The moves incorporate rigid body transformations such as translations and rotations, as well as internal changes to the ligand's structure including torsion angle rotations. Each of these moves in the conformation space of the ligand induces a total energetic cost of the system. Hence, the system's total energy is calculated after every move.\n\nThe obvious advantage of docking simulation is that ligand flexibility is easily incorporated, whereas shape complementarity techniques must use ingenious methods to incorporate flexibility in ligands. Also, it more accurately models reality, whereas shape complementary techniques are more of an abstraction.\n\nClearly, simulation is computationally expensive, having to explore a large energy landscape. Grid-based techniques, optimization methods, and increased computer speed have made docking simulation more realistic.\n\nTo perform a docking screen, the first requirement is a structure of the protein of interest. Usually the structure has been determined using a biophysical technique such as x-ray crystallography, NMR spectroscopy or cryo electron microscopy (cryo-EM), but can also derive from homology modeling construction. This protein structure and a database of potential ligands serve as inputs to a docking program. The success of a docking program depends on two components: the search algorithm and the scoring function.\n\nThe search space in theory consists of all possible orientations and conformations of the protein paired with the ligand. However, in practice with current computational resources, it is impossible to exhaustively explore the search space—this would involve enumerating all possible distortions of each molecule (molecules are dynamic and exist in an ensemble of conformational states) and all possible rotational and translational orientations of the ligand relative to the protein at a given level of granularity. Most docking programs in use account for the whole conformational space of the ligand (flexible ligand), and several attempt to model a flexible protein receptor. Each \"snapshot\" of the pair is referred to as a pose.\n\nA variety of conformational search strategies have been applied to the ligand and to the receptor. These include:\n\n\nConformations of the ligand may be generated in the absence of the receptor and subsequently docked or conformations may be generated on-the-fly in the presence of the receptor binding cavity, or with full rotational flexibility of every dihedral angle using fragment based docking. Force field energy evaluation are most often used to select energetically reasonable conformations, but knowledge-based methods have also been used.\n\nPeptides are both highly flexible and relatively large-sized molecules, which makes modeling their flexibility a challenging task. A number of methods were developed to allow for efficient modeling of flexibility of peptides during protein-peptide docking.\n\nComputational capacity has increased dramatically over the last decade making possible the use of more sophisticated and computationally intensive methods in computer-assisted drug design. However, dealing with receptor flexibility in docking methodologies is still a thorny issue. The main reason behind this difficulty is the large number of degrees of freedom that have to be considered in this kind of calculations. Neglecting it, however, in some of the cases may lead to poor docking results in terms of binding pose prediction.\n\nMultiple static structures experimentally determined for the same protein in different conformations are often used to emulate receptor flexibility. Alternatively rotamer libraries of amino acid side chains that surround the binding cavity may be searched to generate alternate but energetically reasonable protein conformations.\n\nDocking programs generate a large number of potential ligand poses, of which some can be immediately rejected due to clashes with the protein. The remainder are evaluated using some scoring function, which takes a pose as input and returns a number \nindicating the likelihood that the pose represents a favorable binding interaction and ranks one ligand relative to another.\n\nMost scoring functions are physics-based molecular mechanics force fields that estimate the energy of the pose within the binding site. The various contributions to binding can be written as an additive equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe components consist of solvent effects, conformational changes in the protein and ligand, free energy due to protein-ligand interactions, internal rotations, association energy of ligand and receptor to form a single complex and free energy due to changes in vibrational modes. A low (negative) energy indicates a stable system and thus a likely binding interaction.\n\nAn alternative approach is to derive a knowledge-based statistical potential for interactions from a large database of protein-ligand complexes, such as the Protein Data Bank, and evaluate the fit of the pose according to this inferred potential.\n\nThere are a large number of structures from X-ray crystallography for complexes between proteins and high affinity ligands, but comparatively fewer for low affinity ligands as the later complexes tend to be less stable and therefore more difficult to crystallize. Scoring functions trained with this data can dock high affinity ligands correctly, but they will also give plausible docked conformations for ligands that do not bind. This gives a large number of false positive hits, i.e., ligands predicted to bind to the protein that actually don't when placed together in a test tube.\n\nOne way to reduce the number of false positives is to recalculate the energy of the top scoring poses using (potentially) more accurate but computationally more intensive techniques such as Generalized Born or Poisson-Boltzmann methods.\n\nThe interdependence between sampling and scoring function affects the docking capability in predicting plausible poses or binding affinities for novel compounds. Thus, an assessment of a docking protocol is generally required (when experimental data is available) to determine its predictive capability. Docking assessment can be performed using different strategies, such as:\n\nDocking accuracy represents one measure to quantify the fitness of a docking program by rationalizing the ability to predict the right pose of a ligand with respect to that experimentally observed.\n\nDocking screens can also be evaluated by the enrichment of annotated ligands of known binders from among a large database of presumed non-binding, “decoy” molecules. In this way, the success of a docking screen is evaluated by its capacity to enrich the small number of known active compounds in the top ranks of a screen from among a much greater number of decoy molecules in the database. The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is widely used to evaluate its performance.\n\nResulting hits from docking screens are subjected to pharmacological validation (e.g. IC affinity or potency measurements). Only prospective studies constitute conclusive proof of the suitability of a technique for a particular target.\n\nThe potential of docking programs to reproduce binding modes as determined by X-ray crystallography can be assessed by a range of docking benchmark sets.\n\nFor small molecules, several benchmark data sets for docking and virtual screening exist e.g. \"Astex Diverse Set\" consisting of high quality protein−ligand X-ray crystal structures or the \"Directory of Useful Decoys\" (DUD) for evaluation of virtual screening performance.\n\nAn evaluation of docking programs for their potential to reproduce peptide binding modes can be assessed by \"Lessons for Efficiency Assessment of Docking and Scoring\" (LEADS-PEP).\n\nA binding interaction between a small molecule ligand and an enzyme protein may result in activation or inhibition of the enzyme. If the protein is a receptor, ligand binding may result in agonism or antagonism. Docking is most commonly used in the field of drug design — most drugs are small organic molecules, and docking may be applied to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292624", "title": "Continuous stirred-tank reactor", "text": "Continuous stirred-tank reactor\n\nThe continuous stirred-tank reactor (CSTR), also known as vat- or backmix reactor, mixed flow reactor (MFR), or a continuous-\"flow\" stirred-tank reactor (C\"F\"STR), is a common model for a chemical reactor in chemical engineering and environmental engineering. A CSTR often refers to a model used to estimate the key unit operation variables when using a continuous agitated-tank reactor to reach a specified output. The mathematical model works for all fluids: liquids, gases, and slurries.\n\nThe behavior of a CSTR is often approximated or modeled by that of an ideal CSTR, which assumes perfect mixing. In a perfectly mixed reactor, reagent is instantaneously and uniformly mixed throughout the reactor upon entry. Consequently, the output composition is identical to composition of the material inside the reactor, which is a function of residence time and reaction rate. The CSTR is the ideal limit of complete mixing in reactor design, which is the complete opposite of a plug flow reactor (PFR). In practice, no reactors behave ideally but instead fall somewhere in between the mixing limits of an ideal CSTR and PFR.\n\nA continuous fluid flow containing non-conservative chemical reactant \"A\" enters an ideal CSTR of volume \"V\".\n\nAssumptions:\n\n\nIntegral mass balance on number of moles \"N\" of species \"A\" in a reactor of volume \"V\":formula_2\n\nformula_3\n\nwhere,\n\n\nApplying the assumptions of steady state and \"ν\" = −1, Equation 2 simplifies to:\n\nformula_4\n\nThe molar flow rates of species \"A\" can then be rewritten in terms of the concentration of \"A\" and the fluid flow rate (\"Q\"):\n\nformula_5\n\nEquation 4 can then be rearranged to isolate \"r\" and simplified:\n\nformula_6\n\nformula_7\n\nwhere,\n\n\nResidence time is the total amount of time a discrete quantity of reagent spends inside the reactor. For an ideal reactor, the theoretical residence time, formula_10, is always equal to the reactor volume divided by the fluid flow rate. See the next section for a more in-depth discussion on the residence time distribution of a CSTR.\n\nDepending on the order of the reaction, the reaction rate, \"r\", is generally dependent on the concentration of species \"A\" in the reactor and the rate constant. A key assumption when modeling a CSTR is that any reactant in the fluid is perfectly (i.e. uniformly) mixed in the reactor, implying that the concentration within the reactor is the same in the outlet stream. The rate constant can be determined using a known empirical reaction rate that is adjusted for temperature using the Arrhenius temperature dependence. Generally, as the temperature increases so does the rate at which the reaction occurs.\n\nEquation 6 can be solved by integration after substituting the proper rate expression. The table below summarizes the outlet concentration of species \"A\" for an ideal CSTR. The values of the outlet concentration and residence time are major design criteria in the design of CSTRs for industrial applications.\nAn ideal CSTR will exhibit well-defined flow behavior that can be characterized by the reactor's residence time distribution, or exit age distribution. Not all fluid particles will spend the same amount of time within the reactor. The exit age distribution (E(t)) defines the probability that a given fluid particle will spend time t in the reactor. Similarly, the cumulative age distribution (F(t)) gives the probability that a given fluid particle has an exit age less than time t. One of the key takeaways from the exit age distribution is that a very small number of fluid particles will never exit the CSTR. Depending on the application of the reactor, this may either be an asset or a drawback.\n\nWhile the ideal CSTR model is useful for predicting the fate of constituents during a chemical or biological process, CSTRs rarely exhibit ideal behavior in reality. More commonly, the reactor hydraulics do not behave ideally or the system conditions do not obey the initial assumptions. Perfect mixing is a theoretical concept that is not achievable in practice. For engineering purposes, however, if the residence time is 5-10 times the mixing time, the perfect mixing assumption generally holds true.\n\nNon-ideal hydraulic behavior is commonly classified by either dead space or short-circuiting. These phenomena occur when some fluid spends less time in the reactor than the theoretical residence time, formula_10. The presence of corners or baffles in a reactor often results in some dead space where the fluid is poorly mixed. Similarly, a jet of fluid in the reactor can cause short-circuiting, in which a portion of the flow exits the reactor much quicker than the bulk fluid. If dead space or short-circuiting occur in a CSTR, the relevant chemical or biological reactions may not finish before the fluid exits the reactor. Any deviation from ideal flow will result in a residence time distribution different from the ideal distribution, as seen at right.\n\nAlthough ideal flow reactors are seldom found in practice, they are useful tools for modeling non-ideal flow reactors. Any flow regime can be achieved by modeling a reactor as a combination of ideal CSTRs and plug flow reactors (PFRs) either in series or in parallel. For examples, an infinite series of ideal CSTRs is hydraulically equivalent to an ideal PFR.\n\nTo model systems that do not obey the assumptions of constant temperature and a single reaction, additional dependent variables must be considered. If the system is considered to be in unsteady-state, a differential equation or a system of coupled differential equations must be solved. Deviations of the CSTR behavior can be considered by the dispersion model. CSTRs are known to be one of the systems which exhibit complex behavior such as steady-state multiplicity, limit cycles, and chaos.\n\nCSTRs facilitate rapid dilution of reagents through mixing. Therefore, for non-zero-order reactions, the low concentration of reagent in the reactor means a CSTR will be less efficient at removing the reagent compared to a PFR with the same residence time. Therefore, CSTRs are typically larger than PFRs, which may be a challenge in applications where space is limited. However, one of the added benefits of dilution in CSTRs is the ability to neutralize shocks to the system. As opposed to PFRs, the performance of CSTRs is less susceptible to changes in the influent composition, which makes it ideal for a variety of industrial applications:\n\nEnvironmental engineering\n\n\nChemical engineering\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292628", "title": "Bukit Gombak MRT station", "text": "Bukit Gombak MRT station\n\nBukit Gombak MRT station (NS3) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South Line in Bukit Batok, Singapore. Located at the junction of Bukit Batok West Avenue 5 and Bukit Batok East Avenue 5, it is the nearest MRT station to the Bukit Batok Town Park, a scenic parkland otherwise known as \"Little Guilin\".\n\nOpened on 10 March 1990, Bukit Gombak station was part of the Branch Line before the opening of the North South Line Woodlands Extension on 10 February 1996.\n\nInstallation of half-height screen doors at the station started on 30 April 2010 and operations commenced on 16 August 2010 with Clementi. Then, this station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operations on 31 October 2012.\n\nBukit Gombak was a temporary terminus for the North South Line from 18 to 19 September 2010 during the Jurong East Modification Project upgrade. and during the late openings of the MRT on Sundays from June to November 2016.\n"}
{"id": "2292631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292631", "title": "Roland Lethem", "text": "Roland Lethem\n\nRoland Lethem (born 1942) is a Belgian filmmaker and writer.\n\nInfluenced at his beginnings by Buñuel, Cocteau, the surrealists and by the Japanese cinema (Seijun Suzuki, Ishirō Honda, Kōji Wakamatsu, Yoko Ono), stunned by the Festival of the film expérimental of Knokke in 1967 and by May 1968, Roland Lethem wants to push the people to look at the things of which they say they are freed, it's to say to place them in front of their responsibilities. Even if sometimes the results leaves much to be desired, the idea of each one of his films is seductive and exemplary. A fact is\ncertain, his films are disturbing, they are sometimes unpleasant to look at. The narcissistic and provocative play of the debuts turned itself into direct, visual, and verbal insult, and in slandering. His dream was one moment to be able to film the intimate life of the pope or the sexual plays of the Belgian sovereigns. Through violence, pornography and cruelty of some scenes, Roland Lethem is a gentle, generous man with of a lot of humour. The work of Roland Lethem evolves, becomes political, ecological. \"La Ballade des amants maudits\" (The Ballad of the cursed lovers, 1966) or \"La Fée sanguinaire\" (The Bloodthirsty Fairy, 1968) still tell stories. \"Les Souffrances d'un oeuf meurtri\" (The Sufferings of a ravaged Egg, 1967), poem of love in several parts (Étoiles/Stars, Corps/Bodies, Hymen/Marriage or Hymen (ambiguous in French), Oeuf/Egg) dedicated to all who conceive and to all who are conceived, irresistibly makes you think at the \"Histoire de l'oeil\" (Story of the Eye, 1928) of Georges Bataille.\n\nSome of the titles of his films include \"Le Saigneur est avec nous\" and \"Le sexe enragé\". There are several thorough studies published on his films (Cinema/London, Skoop/Amsterdam) and\nBandes de cons! (Bunch of Assholes!, 1970), his most famous film, was the subject of a seminar at the University of Amsterdam.\n\nHe frequently collaborated with Jean-Pierre Bouyxou and Jio Berk.\n\n\"La Double Insomnie\" & \"Lili au Lit\". Prix M. Fraikin for originality of cinematographic language at 2nd Prix du Jeune Cinéma Belge, La Louvière 1966.\n\n\"Les Souffrances d'un Œuf Meurtri\" Selected for the 4th Compétition Internationale du Film Expérimental, Knokke 1967—68, 3rd Prize of Jeune Cinéma Belge. La Louvière 1968, Sélectionné au Festival d'Oberhausen, 1968\n\n\"La Fée Sanguinaire\". Prix d'Excellence of Ciné-Club Europa, Bruxelles 1969 Sélectionné au Festival d'Oberhausen 1969, invitation to Underground Festival of London 1971\n\n\"Le Sexe Enragé\" \"One Night Stand Award\" at the first Wet Dream Film Festival d'Amsterdam, 197, invited to the Biennale underground de Venise 1971; invited to the Underground Festival of London 1971\n\n\"Le Vampire de la Cinémathèque\" invitations to the Quinzaine des Réalisateurs, Cannes 1971, Underground Festival of London 1971, and Festival der Struktural Film, Hamburg 1972\n\n\"Le Saigneur est avec Nous\" : \"Prix de la Presse—Lucien Deroisy\" at the 10th Festival National du Cinema Belge, Bruxelles 1974\n\nA group of films : Festival \"Sigma\", Bordeaux,: invitation to the Journées du Film Surréaliste, Toulon 1974\n\n\"Le Sexe Enragé\" & \"La Fée Sanguinaire\": I: invitations to the Festival du Film Tabou, Amsterdam~Utrecht, 1980, Festival de l'Imaginaire et de la Science—Fiction à Madrid, 1980, & Journées du Film Anarchiste, Gent, 1981\n\nHis work as a whole : Awarded a special Prize by l'Académie Morlock, Paris, 1980\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292635", "title": "Taken at the Flood", "text": "Taken at the Flood\n\nTaken at the Flood is a work of detective fiction by British writer Agatha Christie, first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in March 1948 under the title of There is a Tide . . . and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in the November of the same year under Christie's original title. The US edition retailed at $2.50 and the UK edition at eight shillings and sixpence (8/6). It features her famous Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot, and is set in 1946.\n\nThe novel tells a story of post-World War II England, when life seems turned upside down, with the relief of the end of the war, the changes from who lived and who died, and the economic challenge of post-war life, playing out for one family in a village not far from London. The detective Superintendent Spence is introduced in this novel, with whom Poirot works again in a few more stories. The Cloade family, brothers and one sister, have had many abrupt changes from the war, losing their brother Gordon in a London bombing raid shortly after his unexpected marriage to a young widow. One son is lost to fighting, a daughter returns from serving as a Wren, and another son seems to be making a successful venture at farming, despite losing his partner in the venture to the war. When the Wren Lynn returns, her interrupted engagement to her cousin resumes, with troublesome interruption from the brother of Uncle Gordon's widow Rosaleen. A stranger in the village, using the literary name Enoch Arden, blackmails David Hunter and is soon found murdered. Hercule Poirot is called in.\n\nRichardson found the \"doubly twisted\" plot, to be \"ingenious enough\", but for him, \"the quintessential zest, the sense of well-being which goes to make up that Christie feeling, is missing.\" Another was more pleased with the novel, saying that Poirot solves the mysteries \"with all the acumen that has endeared him to Agatha Christie fans. Fantastic and topping.\" A review in 1990 was pleased to find a Christie novel tied distinctly to a specific year and world event, but had a more complex commentary on the novel as a whole, calling it a \"Compulsive reworking of Tennysonian and Christiean themes, and pretty high up in the range of classic titles.\"\n\nIn spring 1944 during World War II, Gordon Cloade marries a widow he meets onboard ship to New York, Rosaleen Underhay. A few days after arriving in London with his new wife, his London home is bombed, killing all but two people. One survivor is Gordon's brother-in-law, David Hunter, and the other is his new wife, Rosaleen Cloade. Gordon did not write a new will upon arrival, and his existing will is invalidated by the marriage. Rosaleen inherits Gordon's fortune. A day or so later, during another raid, Poirot sits in a shelter with people from the Concordia club in London and listens to a story about Major Porter's friend Robert Underhay in Africa, about his unhappy marriage and that Underhay may not be dead, told after reading out the news that Gordon Cloade, the second husband of Underhay's widow, was killed by enemy action.\n\nThe death of Gordon Cloade brings unexpected change to his siblings and their families. Gordon gave them capital to start a venture, to handle unexpected expenses, encouraged them not to save, and promised his fortune would be split among them when he died.\n\nIn spring 1946, Lynn Marchmont, a Wren during the war, settles again in her mother’s home in the village of Warmsley Vale in peacetime, at first happy to be home, then finding life dull. She has been engaged to farmer Rowley Cloade since before the war.\n\nDavid guards his sister and her fortune. Mrs Marchmont gets up the courage to ask Rosaleen for five hundred pounds when David is away, and Rosaleen writes a check. David angrily turns down a request from Frances Cloade, whose family is in desperate need of money.\n\nA man calling himself Enoch Arden arrives at the village inn The Stag, and attempts to blackmail David by saying he knows how to find Rosaleen's first husband, Robert Underhay. Their conversation is overheard by the landlady, who tells Rowley Cloade. A few days later, a maid finds Arden's body in his room with his head smashed in. That same day, David was down from London. He met Lynn on his dash to catch the last train to London, and evidently telephoned her from the London flat shortly after 11 pm, arguing first that he loves her and then that he cannot be good for her. As the murder is believed to have happened before 9 pm, he had enough opportunity and motive and he is arrested.\n\nRowley Cloade appeals to the detective Hercule Poirot to find the true identity of the dead man. Poirot asks Major Porter. Rosaleen sees the body and says she does not know the man at all. At the inquest, Porter says that Arden was indeed Robert Underhay, and the coroner's jury votes against advice to believe him, voting willful murder by David. The estate will revert to the Cloades, if the jury's decision holds, as it means Rosaleen's second marriage was not valid.\n\nPoirot talks to people in the village, including Mrs Leadbetter, a guest at the inn who saw a hussy, a heavily made up woman wearing slacks and an orange scarf, enter the room assigned to the dead man after 10 pm on the fateful evening. As the police believe that David was on the train to London at that time, they let him go, and look more seriously at women. Poirot learns how the death occurred, with a fall on the marble fender of the fireplace. He proposes it was accidental death, not intentional murder.\n\nLynn is falling in love with David. Major Porter commits suicide in London but leaves no note. Poirot realises from a photo at the home of Frances Cloade that Arden was related to her; she admits Arden was Charles Trenton, her second cousin. She came up with the plan to blackmail Rosaleen after hearing Major Porter's story about Underhay. This explains Arden's true identity, but nothing else. Frances denies bribing Major Porter.\n\nWhen Poirot and Lynn visit Rosaleen at home, the maid realizes she does not respond. Poirot sees that Rosaleen has died in her sleep. The doctor identifies the harmless sleeping powder she took, at her bedside table. Superintendent Spence, the investigating officer, suggests that she was the murderer. Rosaleen died from too much morphine; where did she get it?\n\nLynn tells Rowley that she wishes to marry David Hunter and he explodes in anger. Rowley is strangling Lynn when Poirot enters the house, and Rowley stops. David arrives shortly, and Poirot explains everything. Rowley visited Arden, and seeing the resemblance to Frances, reacted angrily to the deception. Punched by Rowley, Arden fell against the marble fireplace fender and died. Rowley saw the opportunity to incriminate David. He smashed in Arden's head with fire tongs and left David's lighter at the scene. Rowley persuaded Porter to give the false identification by offering him money. Then Rowley employed Poirot, who would be sure to go to Porter. Porter's guilt led him to commit suicide, leaving a note that Rowley destroyed. David was about to pay the blackmail to Arden; upon discovering Arden's body, David ran for the late train but missed it. David then backtracked to The Stag, disguised himself as a woman, and played out the scene, heard by Mrs Leadbetter, which established the later time of death. Then he called Rosaleen, who placed a call to Lynn that was delivered by the operator but then cut off. A minute later, David called Lynn from the local train station, giving her the impression that he was calling from London. He returned to London on the early morning milk train the next day.\n\nOf the three deaths, Poirot says one is accidental, one is a suicide, and one is murder. The true murder victim was Rosaleen. The woman known as Rosaleen was not David Hunter's sister; his sister was killed and the housemaid Eileen Corrigan had survived the bombing. Poirot sent to Ireland for a photo of Eileen, which explained the truth of what happened during the war. David persuaded her to be Rosaleen. Now he could kill this accomplice with a morphine pill and marry Lynn, whom he loved. Poirot knows all these details but only some of them are known to the police. Rowley feels guilty about the deaths of Trenton and Porter. The police focus on David killing Rosaleen/Eileen, and proving all of that case. After a while, Lynn returns to Rowley, realizing she does love him, especially after his show of force. Life will not be dull with him.\n\n\nThe title of the book in both the UK and US markets is a line from Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\" in a speech by Brutus in Act IV: \"There is a tide in the affairs of men, which taken at the flood leads on to fortune . . .\". The quotation is given in full as the epigraph to the novel.\n\nNo review of this book appeared in the \"Times Literary Supplement\".\n\nFor once, Maurice Richardson, in his review of the 21 November 1948 issue of \"The Observer\" was slightly unimpressed: \"Agatha Christie has, if not a whole day off, at least part of the afternoon. The killing of the blackmailing Enoch Arden, who puts up at the local to harry the already embarrassed Cloade family, the murder that follows, and Poirot's doubly twisted solution are ingenious enough, but the characterisation is a little below par. The quintessential zest, the sense of well-being which goes to make up that Christie feeling, is missing.\"\n\nAn unnamed reviewer in the \"Toronto Daily Star\" of 10 April 1948 said, \"Hercule Poirot, whose eggshaped cranium is crammed with lively gray cells, proves himself a bit of a mug before he sorts out all the details of [Enoch Arden's] death and other even more baffling mysteries. But he does it with all the acumen that has endeared him to Agatha Christie fans. Fantastic and topping.\"\n\nRobert Barnard summarised the plot of the novel as an \"Elderly man married to a glamorous nitwit of dubious social background [which] is a common plot-element in Christie. Here she is widowed (in an air-raid – this is one of the few Christies anchored to an actual time), and burdened by financially insatiable relatives, both of blood and in-law. But who exactly is dead, and who isn't? And who is what they seem, and who isn't?\" His commentary is favorable on the title, more cryptic on the novel itself, as he said it was a \"Compulsive reworking of Tennysonian and Christiean themes, and pretty high up in the range of classic titles.\" \n\nThe false alibi used by the murderer of a witness sighting the missed train smoke was a partial re-use of a plot device used by Christie in the 1925 short story \"The Sign in the Sky\", later published in the 1930 collection \"The Mysterious Mr. Quin\".\n\n\nA television film was produced in 2006 with David Suchet as Poirot in the ITV series \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\". The cast included Elliot Cowan as David Hunter, Eva Birthistle as Rosaleen, Celia Imrie as Kathy Cloade, Jenny Agutter as Adela Marchmont and Tim Pigott-Smith as Dr. Lionel Woodward. The film made several significant changes to the plot:\n\n\nThis story was adapted for television in the episode \"Le flux et le reflux\" [The Ebb and the Flow] in the French series \"Les Petits Meurtres d'Agatha Christie\", the eighth episode in the first series, first airing 15 April 2011. Antoine Duléry was Superintendent Larosière, and Marius Colucci was his assistant, Lampion. The adaptation was written by Anne Giafferi and Murielle Magellan, and directed by Sylvie Simon. The plot is essentially the same, but set in a chateau in France, where the extended family of Capitaine Delarive lives. He marries late in life to a younger woman, and brings her and her brother back to France. There is a fire, he is killed. He has not revised his will after his marriage, so his widow inherits his wealth. The denouement is announced by Larosière, who gets back on the case once he overcomes his grief for his good friend Delarive. The woman put forth as his wife surviving the fire was a maid, and the man who claimed to be her brother, was not her brother, and he killed the maid. There is a suicide and an accidental death, as well.\n\nJohn Moffatt played Poirot in the 2004 BBC Radio 4 adaptation of the novel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292636", "title": "Yew Tee MRT station", "text": "Yew Tee MRT station\n\nYew Tee MRT station (NS5) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South line in Choa Chu Kang, Singapore, located at Choa Chu Kang Drive near the junction of Choa Chu Kang North 6 and Choa Chu Kang Street 62. Yew Tee station is named after an expunged village that once stood in the area.\n\nThe station primarily serves Neighbourhoods 5 to 7 of Choa Chu Kang New Town as well as Sungei Kadut Industrial Estate.\n\nThe station was built in 1995, together with the other stations of the North South line Woodlands Extension. The two-storey station building, with a simple facade and a kampung-style roof, was officially opened on 10 February 1996 along with the other five stations on the Woodlands Extension. During the construction of the Woodlands extension, land between the Yew Tee and Kranji MRT stations was acquired. Measuring a total of 18,685 m sq, affecting a total of 16 factories operating along the stretch. Formerly named Choa Chu Kang North, it was renamed to Yew Tee in 1994.\n\nFollowing numerous incidents of commuters falling on the tracks and unauthorized intrusions, the Land Transport Authority made the decision in 2008 to install half height platform screen doors for all above-ground stations in phases. The platform screen doors started operations at this station on 1 February 2012.\n\nThis station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operations on 27 November that year, together with Kranji station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292640", "title": "Brittany Andrews", "text": "Brittany Andrews\n\nBrittany Andrews (born August 13, 1973) is an American exotic dancer, pornographic actress, film producer and club DJ. In 2008, Andrews was inducted into the AVN Hall of Fame.\n\nShe worked in a Milwaukee beauty supply company before starting her career as an exotic dancer. After doing photo shoots for men's magazines, she began her career in adult films after meeting Jenna Jameson in 1995, during a photo shoot for \"Hustler\" magazine in Jamaica.\n\nIn February 2008, Andrews retired from porn, and held a Presidents Day party announcing that she was moving to New York to attend film school at the New York Film Academy. However, in 2010 Andrews returned to the business to star in the adult film \"Sex and the City: A XXX Parody\".\n\nIn December 2003, Brittany Andrews was appointed to the Women in Adult (WIA) board of directors as the Talent Liaison. Andrews has promoted using a condom for hardcore sex scenes. She claims that she is very politically active in the adult business and that her least enjoyable aspect of the business is standing by and watching the exploitation of women being coerced into performing without condoms.\n\nIn addition to her adult film work she hosts several cable TV shows, including Playboy TV and \"Talking Blue\", which she co-produces. At her self-owned Britco Pictures studio, Andrews starred in, directed and produced pornographic movies such as the strap-on movie \"Brittany's Bitch Boys\", and \"Lesbians in Lust\".\n\nAndrews has started her own mainstream film production company Discipline Filmworks. In 2010, she produced and appeared in the short film \"Crumble\". The film had its world premiere at the 2010 New York International Independent Film and Video Festival, where it won a number of awards including Audience Award for Short Film, Best Actor in a Short Film (for Steven Bauer) and Best Actress in a Short Film (Oksana Lada). She has also acted as executive producer for the film \"Trick of the Witch\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292641", "title": "Kranji MRT station", "text": "Kranji MRT station\n\nKranji MRT station (NS7) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South line in Sungei Kadut, Singapore. Situated along Woodlands Road, it is the nearest station to the Singapore Turf Club as well as Woodlands Wafer Fabrication Park and is currently the only MRT station to be located within Sungei Kadut planning area. It is also located near Kranji Road and the Kranji Industrial Estate, areas named after the \"keranji\" tree, Malay for \"Dialium indum\", velvet tamarind tree. Cross-border bus connections to Johor Bahru, Malaysia are available from this station. SBS Transit bus services 160, 170, 170X and Causeway Link CW1 shuttles commuters from Woodlands Road to JB Sentral and Larkin via the Johor-Singapore Causeway.\n\nWhen the North South line Woodlands Extension was proposed in 1990, Kranji MRT station was not included on this planned route. It was later included as a provisional station to be built at a later stage. However, the government later decided to construct this station as part of the extension and also to serve the Singapore Turf Club. On 30 September 1991, the piece of land which is now the Turf Club was acquired for the construction of this station. On 15 July 1992, rock blasting has occurred at the Woodlands MRT extension. This station opened on 10 February 1996 alongside the rest of the Woodlands Extension.\n\nFollowing numerous incidents of commuters falling on the tracks and unauthorized intrusions, the Land Transport Authority made the decision in 2008 to install half height platform screen doors (HHPSD) for all above-ground stations in phases. HHPSDs started operating on 14 March 2012, the last set of gates on the system to go operational. All the elevated MRT stations have Half-height Platform Screen Doors in operation with effect from that day.\n\nThis station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operations on 27 November that year together with Yew Tee.\n"}
{"id": "2292644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292644", "title": "Jarrod Englefield", "text": "Jarrod Englefield\n\nJarrod Ian Englefield (born 18 December 1979 in Blenheim in Marlborough, New Zealand) is a New Zealand cricketer. He captained New Zealand in three Under-19 Tests against England in 1998/9, winning one and losing one. He is a right-handed batsmen, who has since played first-class, List A and Twenty20 cricket for Central Districts and Canterbury, but has not played for the senior New Zealand team.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292648", "title": "Marsiling MRT station", "text": "Marsiling MRT station\n\nMarsiling MRT station (NS8) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South line in Woodlands, Singapore.\n\nLocated along Woodlands Avenue 3 between the junctions of Woodlands Avenue 1, Woodlands Centre Road and Woodlands Street 11, Marsiling station serves the residential area in the western part of Woodlands New Town, and is the nearest MRT station to Woodlands Checkpoint located at Woodlands Crossing as well as Woodlands Train Checkpoint and the now-demolished old Woodlands Town Centre located at Woodlands Centre Road.\n\nThe government came up with a proposal to build the North South line Woodlands Extension in 1990 with the aim of extending the existing North-South and East-West lines, thus connecting Choa Chu Kang in the West to Yishun in the North. Marsiling was one of the four stations in the initial proposal which was later expanded to six. Construction commenced in 1991 and the station was opened on 10 February 1996 along with the other five stations on the Woodlands Extension. Formerly named Woodlands West, it was renamed to Marsiling in 1994.\n\nFollowing numerous incidents of commuters falling on the tracks and unauthorized intrusions, the Land Transport Authority made the decision in 2008 to install half-height platform screen doors (HHPSD) for all above-ground stations in phases. HHPSDs started operation from 22 December 2011 with Admiralty. This station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operations on 21 November 2012.\n\nDue to the station's proximity to neighbouring Housing and Development Board apartment blocks, a privacy screen was built along the tracks at the side of the station (southbound platform) facing these apartment blocks for privacy, similar to those installed at Pioneer MRT station, and extended between Woodlands Centre Road and Woodlands Street 12 from January 2016. Cash top-ups are no longer accepted at passenger service centres from 1 September 2017, at Marsiling MRT station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292649", "title": "Behind Locked Doors", "text": "Behind Locked Doors\n\nBehind Locked Doors is a 1948 film noir directed by Budd Boetticher and starring Lucille Bremer, Richard Carlson and Tor Johnson. At the behest of a pretty reporter, an amorously forward private detective goes undercover as a patient in a private sanitarium in search of a judge hiding out from the police. The two plan to split the $10,000 reward for the judge's capture. As the reporter and detective begin to fall in love, the detective also falls deeper into danger from an abusive attendant and difficult inpatients. The latter include an arsonist and \"The Champ,\" a lunatic ex-boxer who attacks anyone put into a room with him after he hears what sounds like a bell.\n\nThe title \"Human Gorilla\" for this movie can be found on various copies of this movie. Although the film features noir lighting and camerawork, depicts corruption, and provides suspense, it lacks most of the characterizations common to film noir. And it ends happily for the protagonists.\n\n\nIt was the first of a three picture deal Boetticher had with Eagle Lion films.\n\nReviews for the movie when released on DVD in 2002 were mixed. Keith Phipps, writing for the Onion AV Club, wrote of the film, \"A probable inspiration for Sam Fuller's \"Shock Corridor\", \"Doors\" suffers in comparison; Fuller made transcendent B-movies, and this isn't one. In just about every other respect, however, it's everything it should be: fast-paced, stylishly shot, a little lurid, a little topical, and thoroughly entertaining.\"\n\nFilm critic Dennis Schwartz gave the film a mixed review, writing, \"Budd Boetticher directs a fast-paced low-budget B-film thriller with a far-fetched idea as its storyline and presents a shaky portrayal of the mental health profession. The film's claustrophobic and oppressive surroundings in a private mental hospital, moves this paranoiac tale somewhat into film noir territory ... No character was developed, the storyline never seemed believable, and despite the attempts made through the dark photography to create tension that wasn't possible because we didn't know enough about the lead characters and the villains were merely cardboard characters. Aside from being well directed, this melodrama has little else to recommend it. Boetticher is better known today for the many splendid Westerns he directed during the 1950s with Randolph Scott as star, which include \"Comanche Station\", \"Ride Lonesome\", and \"The Tall T\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2292653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292653", "title": "Woodlands MRT station", "text": "Woodlands MRT station\n\nWoodlands MRT station (NS9/TE2) is a Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) interchange station on the North South Line and Thomson–East Coast Line in Woodlands, Singapore. It is located next to the Woodlands Temporary Bus Interchange and Causeway Point. A circular road, Woodlands Square, provides access to the station and its surrounding developments. Woodlands station is one of the five MRT stations in Singapore that have both an above-ground platform and an underground platform, the other four stations being Paya Lebar MRT station, Buona Vista MRT station, Tampines MRT station and Expo MRT station.\nThe government came up with a proposal to build the North South line (NSL) Woodlands Extension in 1990 with the aim of extending the existing North South line, thus connecting Choa Chu Kang in the northwest to Yishun in the North. Woodlands was one of four stations in the initial proposal which was later expanded to six. \n\nConstruction commenced in 1991 and the station was opened on 10 February 1996 along with the other five stations on the Woodlands Extension. \n\nIt was the first and only station to have a bus interchange located underneath, before the temporary relocation of the bus interchange on 12 March 2016.\n\nFollowing numerous incidents of commuters falling on the tracks and unauthorized intrusions, the Land Transport Authority made the decision in 2008 to install half-height platform screen doors for all above-ground stations in phases. Installation for this station began from 17 September 2011 and started operation on 30 November that year. \n\nThis station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operation on 6 November 2012.\n\nOn 4 November 2013, the MRT station became the first station to be awarded with the Building and Construction Authority’s Green Mark (Gold), and tenants of Woodlands Xchange also became the first shop owners in Singapore to be certified with the Project: Eco-Shop label.\n\nCash top ups are not accepted at this station's passenger service centre from 21 January 2018.\n\nThe Thomson-East Coast Line (TEL) Woodlands station was announced by then Transport Minister Lui Tuck Yew on 29 August 2012. \n\nOn 15 August 2014, LTA announced that Woodlands station would be part of the proposed Thomson East-Coast line (TEL). The station will be constructed as part of Phase 1, consisting of 3 stations between Woodlands North and Woodlands South, and is expected to be completed in 2019. The Contract T203 for the design and construction of Woodlands Station and associated cut-and-cover tunnels was awarded to GS Engineering & Construction Corp at a sum of S$292 million on October 2013. Construction started in 2014, with completion in 2020. \n\nAnother contract, the Contract T206 for the construction of bored tunnels between Woodlands Station, Woodlands South and Mandai Depot, was awarded to Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co., Ltd at a sum of S$421 million on 18 October 2013. Construction started in 2014, with completion in 2020. The contract includes completion of twin bored tunnels between Woodlands Station and Woodlands South, twin bored tunnels between Woodlands South and crossover tunnels to Mandai Depot, as well as a single bored tunnel between Woodlands Station and Mandai Depot.\n\nConstruction began with a ground breaking ceremony held at the Woodlands station construction site on 27 June 2014 and the station was opened on 31 January 2020.\nThere were claims by Facebook posts that Woodlands station has been closed for disinfection due to a suspected case of the 2019 novel coronavirus infection on 28 January 2020. However, the posts were false and the station operations are still as normal.\n\nA high sculpture called \"Faces II\" weighing , designed by Singaporean artist Min Chen, is displayed at the NSL Woodlands station platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292654", "title": "A823(M) motorway", "text": "A823(M) motorway\n\nThe A823(M) is a motorway in Fife, Scotland. It is a 1-mile (1.6 km) spur from the M90 into Dunfermline. The road provides a fast route for traffic from Dunfermline to the Forth Road Bridge. When it opened in 1964 it was intended to be part of a longer motorway continuing eastbound along to the north coast of the Firth of Forth and a bridge was built for this extension. Following the upgrade of the A92 it is unlikely this route will be constructed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292656", "title": "Admiralty MRT station", "text": "Admiralty MRT station\n\nAdmiralty MRT station (NS10) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South line in Woodlands, Singapore. This station took its name from a former British naval base located on the northern coast of Singapore.\n\nAdmiralty station is located along Woodlands Avenue 7 near the junctions of Woodlands Avenue 6 and Woodlands Drive 71, primarily serving the residential precincts in the eastern part of Woodlands New Town.\n\nThe government came up with a proposal to build the North South line Woodlands Extension in 1990 with the aim of extending the then existing North-South and East-West lines, thus connecting Choa Chu Kang in the west to Yishun in the north. Admiralty was one of the four stations in the initial proposal which was later expanded to six. Construction commenced in 1991 and the station was opened on 10 February 1996 along with the other five stations on the Woodlands Extension. Formerly named Woodlands East, it was however renamed to Admiralty in 1994. Further developments were built in the vicinity since 1994, with additional bus services connecting to the station. Television screens were installed at Admiralty station, along with Woodlands, Marsiling and Yew Tee stations..\n\nOn 2 March 2007, 2,900 commuters were stranded as train services between the Admiralty and Kranji MRT stations were disrupted for about 45 minutes. Bridging bus services were deployed to ferry the passengers to Kranji. \n\nFollowing numerous incidents of commuters falling on the tracks and unauthorized intrusions, the Land Transport Authority made the decision in 2008 to install half-height platform screen doors for all above-ground stations in phases. Installation started on 4 October 2011 and started operations since 22 December that year with Marsiling.\n\nThe station is equipped with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operations on 9 November 2012 together with Sembawang. Cash top-ups at both self-service ticketing machines and passenger service centres will not be accepted at this station from 13 June 2018.\n\nOn 30 July 1996, a bee swarm near the station was destroyed. A tobacco retailer at Admiralty MRT station has had his retail licence suspended for six months on 19 May 2009 after his employee was caught selling cigarettes to underaged youths for the second time. \n\nThe police said on 7 June 2017 that a 34-year-old man was arrested after leaving a luggage bag unattended at the bicycle bay of Admiralty MRT station. The police said that they were alerted to the case at 8.45 am. Officers quickly traced the owner of the luggage bag and arrested him for causing public nuisance. Investigations showed that the man had left the bag unattended while he went to buy something at a convenience store. Clothing, toiletries and medication were found in the bag. Police investigations are still ongoing, the authorities said.\n"}
{"id": "2292661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292661", "title": "Khatib MRT station", "text": "Khatib MRT station\n\nKhatib MRT station (NS14) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South line in Yishun, Singapore.\n\nThe station is located at the junction of Yishun Ring Road and Yishun Avenue 2, and is one of the two stations that currently serve Yishun New Town; the other being Yishun MRT station. The section of tracks between this station and Yio Chu Kang MRT station is the longest between any two stations on the North South line.\n\nKhatib is an Arabic word (خطيب khaṭīb) meaning a person who delivers the sermon during Friday prayers and Eid (Hari Raya) prayers in the mosque.\n\nFormerly named Nee Soon South, it was renamed to Khatib in January 1987 after Sungei Khatib Bongsu, a river nearby, and a military base nearby, along with Yishun MRT station which was initially named Nee Soon. In 1990, there was a power failure which occurred at Yishun station, affecting services at this station.\n\nIn 2002, lift upgrading commenced at this station and was completed on 10 January 2003.\n\nAfter several successful tests at Jurong East, Yishun and Pasir Ris, installation of the half-height screen doors started and operations commenced on 30 September 2011. The station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which began operations since 28 August 2012. On 29 October 2013, TITAN faregates were installed at this station.\n"}
{"id": "2292675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292675", "title": "A308(M) motorway", "text": "A308(M) motorway\n\nThe A308(M) is a motorway in Berkshire, England. It is 0.6 miles (1 km) long. It forms part of the Maidenhead bypass and runs from the M4 at junction 8/9 to the A308 south of Maidenhead town centre.\n\nIn 1961 the A4(M) was opened and ran from the existing junction 7, through a junction with the A308 and ending at a junction with the A4. In 1963 the Slough bypass was opened to junction 7 and the A4(M) was renumbered M4, junction 8 being with the A308 and junction 9 with the A4.\n\nThe proposed route of the M4 was then changed to go south of Reading, instead of north of it. When the M4 was extended in 1971, a new junction was provided to connect with what would become a spur. This new interchange was built too close to the original junction 8, so this had to be closed. A new junction (numbered 8/9 so as not to confuse motorists) was built. The original M4 north of this was renumbered as the A423(M) and in the 1990s this was again reclassified as the A404(M). A new spur, the A308(M), was built to maintain access to the A308 and connected with the A404(M) and the M4 at the same grade separated roundabout.\n\n\"Information above gathered from Advanced Direction Signs April 2011\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292680", "title": "Sir John Sulman Prize", "text": "Sir John Sulman Prize\n\nThe Sir John Sulman Prize is one of Australia's longest-running art prizes, having been established in 1936.\n\nIt is now held concurrently with the Archibald Prize, Australia's best-known art prize, and also with the Wynne Prize, at the Art Gallery of New South Wales (AGNSW), Sydney.\n\nThe Sir John Sulman Prize is awarded each year for \"the best subject/genre painting and/or murals/mural project executed during the two years preceding the [closing] date\", and as of 2008 is valued at $20,000. Media may be acrylic, oil, watercolour or mixed media, and applicants must have been resident in Australia for five years.\n\nThe definition of the terms as given by the AGNSW is: \n\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292684", "title": "Schwebel's Bakery", "text": "Schwebel's Bakery\n\nSchwebel's Bakery is a regional producer of bread and other baked goods that was established in Youngstown, Ohio, in the early 20th century.\n\nThe Schwebel's brand was created by Joseph Schwebel and Dora Schwebel, a married couple that started baking bread in the kitchen of their Campbell, Ohio, home, in 1906. The Schwebels eventually began to sell bread to customers in nearby Youngstown, an event which marks the official beginning of the Schwebel's Bakery. In 1914, Dora and Joseph entered the world of retail sales by working out agreements with several local \"mom and pop\" stores – a move that opened up new and more profitable sales channels for their fledgling business. To ensure that fresh bread was in the stores when customers asked for it, the young couple added more bakers to assist the family. Eventually, Schwebel's expanded its distribution to areas beyond Youngstown and relied on horses and wagons to transport their products.\n\nBy 1923, Schwebel's secured its first fleet of trucks, with six vehicles on hand. That same year the Schwebel's invested $25,000 and built a small bakery complete with a store front for retail business. At this time, the family could bake and deliver 1,000 loaves a day using six delivery trucks. The bakery was improving but in the 1920s and 1930s the company had a temporary downfall.\n\nDora Schwebel faced many challenges during the late 1920s and 1930s. In 1928, Joseph Schwebel died suddenly at the age of 46 – leaving Dora with six children and the family's business to run by herself.\n\nIn 1928, many people believed the baking business was no place for a woman with young children. Dora Schwebel was told she should sell her bakery and stay home with her children, but she still kept the company, trying to continue the business she and her husband started.\nThe stock market crashed in the fall of 1929, less than a year after Joseph Schwebel's passing, and Dora and her young family found out just how difficult running a business could be.\n\nVowing to meet her obligations by working all day and all night if necessary, Dora negotiated a number of critical agreements that kept the business running in the face of national financial ruin. She built a new bakery in 1936 that doubled production and improved efficiency, and added to it in 1938 and again in 1941.\n\nBy the late 1940s, demand for the company's products was growing by leaps and bounds as soldiers returned home from World War II and the baby boom began.\n\nIn 1951, Dora and her children moved into a new facility on Youngstown's Midlothian Boulevard, outfitted with equipment and baking processes that would significantly help the business.\n\nThe 1960s marked the beginning of the third generation's active participation in the company. Their entry would add vitality, new ideas, and a quest for rapid growth and expansion outside of Youngstown. In 1967, the popularity of Schwebel's Golden Rich Bread led to a successful national licensing program throughout the country.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s, the company had noticeably expanded its distribution network. In rapid fashion, Schwebel's had now become a key player in the Canton, Ohio, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Cleveland, Ohio markets. In addition, the company had undertaken a significant bakery expansion program that fully automated the bread and buns lines, doubling capacity.\n\nRecord growth characterized the 1980s and 1990s. As a result of several key acquisitions, Schwebel's had become a regional force in the baking industry. To complement this expansion the company added distribution facilities in Columbus, Ohio and Buffalo, New York. This period also heralded special baking agreements with Stouffer's, Pillsbury Company, and Disney's Epcot theme park.\n\nSchwebel’s closed its plant in Cuyahoga Falls in 2013 and shifted some of the production there to its Solon, Ohio plant. The company closed its bakery outlet stores in Austintown and Warren in January 2019, and its outlet in Meadville, Pennsylvania in November 2018. On March 18, 2019, Schwebel’s announced would close its bakery in Solon and cut 204 jobs in May 2019. This will leave the company with approximately one thousand employees.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292685", "title": "Yio Chu Kang MRT station", "text": "Yio Chu Kang MRT station\n\nYio Chu Kang MRT station (NS15) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South Line in Ang Mo Kio, Singapore.\n\nThis station primarily serves students of adjacent educational institutions such as Anderson Serangoon Junior College and Nanyang Polytechnic, as well as the residential and industrial estates in the northern part of Ang Mo Kio.\n\nThe section of tracks between this station and Khatib MRT station is the longest between any two stations on the North South Line. Opened on 7 November 1987, Yio Chu Kang station is one of the five stations that collectively make up Singapore's oldest MRT stations.\n\nYio Chu Kang station was the northern terminus of the North South Line when it first opened on 7 November 1987 along with the first five stations of the MRT. Trains terminated at Platform A before reversing and crossing over to the adjacent track.\n\nOn 3 March 2003, a 23-year-old drove his car onto an MRT track off Lentor Avenue, in the sector between Yio Chu Kang and Khatib, the first accident of its kind in the 15 years of MRT operations in Singapore. The accident occurred when the car, which was travelling at along Lentor Avenue – the speed limit was – mounted an kerb, crossed of grass verge (inclusive of a wide pavement), jumped over a drain, went through a fence away from the track, and went uphill onto a steep stone embankment before landing on the track. Witnesses tried to remove the car from the tracks to prevent a possible collision, however an oncoming train from Yio Chu Kang stopped their efforts. One of the witnesses signalled the train driver to stop. Although the train driver was not able to stop in time, he was able to slow the train down enough to prevent derailment.\n\nInstallations of the half-height screen doors started on 15 August 2011, and began operation on 18 October that year. The station is installed with high-volume low-speed fans in operations since 24 August 2012. TITAN faregates were replaced in November that year.\n\nOn 12 February 2015, a 29-year-old motorcyclist died after he was flung onto the MRT tracks between Khatib and Yio Chu Kang stations early on Thursday morning following a traffic accident on the Lentor flyover, similar to the 2003 accident.\n"}
{"id": "2292687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292687", "title": "Registered association (Germany)", "text": "Registered association (Germany)\n\nAn (, \"registered association\" or \"incorporated association\"), abbreviated e.V. (), is a legal status for a registered voluntary association in Germany. While any group may be called a ', registration as ' confers many legal benefits, because it confers the status of a juridical person rather than just a group of individuals. The legal status must be mentioned in the name as well. Like certain other corporate bodies, a \"eingetragener Verein\" can apply for the status of a charitable organization (\"Gemeinnützigkeit\").\n\nThe Civil Code of Germany regulates registered non-profit, and for-profit associations regarded as juridical persons (') in sections 2179 and any other associations by contract (' in sections 705740. The Verein is the basic type of a juridical person while the Gesellschaft is dogmatically more a partnership. Due to this theoretical distinction, the concept of Verein is also the legal basis for particular economic entities (\") such as GmbH and Aktiengesellschaft, which are also endowed with juridical personhood. These are regulated in separate statutes as special economic associations but bear the same basic features.\n\nThe ' (Act regulating the public law of associations) and the associated regulations ' contain specific provision on the rights and duties of in general.\n\nAll natural and juridical persons in Germany, including entities such as municipalities, counties and other entities under public law, can form associations and be member of an association. This means that associations are not limited to private clubs formed by natural persons but have a much broader scope.\n\nThe statutory minimum number of members for forming a registered association is seven. The minimum number of members before a registered association needs to be dissolved is five. \n\nThe registration of ' is regulated in the Vereinsregisterverordning VRV (Regulations for the registry of associations). It requires registration of an e. V. with the association registry (') either kept at the district court of its seat or, if directed by state law, as a centralized register for the \" its seat is located in.\n\nIn other German-speaking countries such a distinction does not exist. But there may be legal requirements which oblige an association to register itself; for example, in Switzerland there is no association registry, but an association must be listed in the commercial register if its yearly turnover is high enough to legally require an audit (\"\"). In Austria, all associations are registered in a special register, and having an e.V. in the name is not allowed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292690", "title": "A Murder Is Announced", "text": "A Murder Is Announced\n\nA Murder Is Announced is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in June 1950 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in the same month. The UK edition sold for eight shillings and sixpence (8/6) and the US edition at $2.50.\n\nThe novel features her detective Miss Marple and is considered a crime novel classic. The book was heavily promoted upon publication in 1950 as being Christie's fiftieth book, although in truth this figure could only be arrived at by counting in both UK and US short story collections. The storyline had previously been explored in Christie's Miss Marple short story \"The Companion\", where the characters also lived in Little Paddocks.\n\nA notice appears in the paper of Chipping Cleghorn: \"A murder is announced and will take place on Friday, 29 October, at Little Paddocks, at 6.30 pm. Friends accept this, the only intimation.\" This surprises Letitia Blacklock, owner of Little Paddocks; however, she takes it in stride and prepares for guests that evening. The villagers are intrigued by the notice, and several of them appear with awkward reasons but definite interest. As the clock strikes 6.30, the lights go out and a door swings open, revealing a man with a blinding torch who demands the guests \"Stick 'em up!\" Most do so, believing it to be part of a game, but the game ends when shots are fired into the room. When the lights turn on, Miss Blacklock's ear is bleeding, from a bullet grazing her earlobe, and the gunman is dead on the ground. Dora Bunner (\"Bunny\") recognizes the gunman as Rudi Scherz, a foreigner who works as a receptionist at a local hotel, and who had asked Letitia for money a few days ago.\n\nThe scene suggests to the police that this is a strange suicide or accidental death, but Inspector Craddock is not satisfied. Craddock is advised to involve Miss Marple, currently a guest at the spa hotel where Scherz was employed, in the case, and the two work together. They learn that Scherz has a criminal background of petty theft and forgery. Scherz's girlfriend, a waitress at the spa, reveals that he had been paid to appear as the holdup man; he believed it was \"a silly English joke\". Craddock returns to Chipping Cleghorn, where Miss Marple stays with the local vicar's wife.\n\nEstablishing a motive for Scherz's attack on Miss Blacklock is difficult. She worked for the financier Randall Goedler and has done well for herself but is not wealthy. However, she may inherit a great deal of money; Randall Goedler's estate passed to his wife Belle, who is now frail and ill. When Belle dies, Miss Blacklock inherits everything, but if she predeceases Belle, the estate goes to the mysterious \"Pip\" and \"Emma\", children of Randall's estranged sister, Sonia.\n\nInspector Craddock discovers oil on the hinges of a door into the parlour, thought to be unused, and Bunny mentions that until recently there had been a table placed against the door. Craddock travels to Scotland to meet Belle; she mentions that Letitia had a beloved sister, Charlotte, who developed a goitre. Their father, a doctor, tried unsuccessfully to treat Charlotte, but she only withdrew further into herself as her goitre worsened. Their father died shortly before World War II, and Letitia gave up her job with Goedler and took her sister to Switzerland for surgery. The two sisters waited out the war in Switzerland, but before it was over, Charlotte died very suddenly. Letitia returned to England alone.\n\nMiss Marple takes tea with Bunny, and Bunny reveals the recently oiled door she found with the Inspector. She is sure that Patrick Simmons, a young cousin of Letitia's, is not as he appears. Simmons, with his sister Julia and Phillipa Haymes, a young widow, is staying at Little Paddocks. Bunny is also certain there was a different lamp in the room on the night of the murder, but their tête-à-tête is interrupted when Letitia arrives.\n\nLetitia arranges a birthday party for Bunny, complete with almost everyone who was at the house when Scherz was killed. She asks Mitzi the cook to make her special cake, which Patrick has nicknamed \"Delicious Death\". After the party, Bunny has a headeache, but she cannot find her recently purchased aspirin so takes some from a bottle in Letitia's room. The next day, Bunny is found dead. Miss Marple visits the mourning Miss Blacklock and asks to see photo albums which might contain pictures of Sonia Goedler, Pip and Emma's mother, but all photos of Sonia have been removed from the albums. When Miss Blacklock receives a letter from the real Julia Simmons, she confronts the impostor, who reveals herself to be \"Emma\"; however, she denies attempting to kill Miss Blacklock, and claims she has not seen her twin Pip.\n\nThrough deduction and re-enactment, Misses Hinchcliffe and Murgatroyd (two spinsters present at the time of the Scherz shooting) figure out that Miss Murgatroyd, who was behind the opened door and thus not blinded by the torch, could see who was in the room when the torch shone on their faces.. The two women conclude that the person who \"was not\" in the room could have left the room when the lights went out and come around behind Scherz and shot him and at Miss Blacklock. Just as Miss Murgatroyd remembers the one person not in the room, the phone rings, summoning Miss Hinchcliffe to the veterinarian. As Miss Hinchcliffe drives away, Murgatroyd runs into the driveway, shouting \"She wasn't there!\". When Miss Hinchcliffe returns, she meets with Miss Marple, and together they discover Murgatroyd's body, strangled. The distraught Hinchcliffe informs Miss Marple of Murgatroyd's cryptic statement.\n\nWhen the vicar's cat shorts out a lamp at the vicarage, the final clue falls into place for Miss Marple. Inspector Craddock gathers everyone at Little Paddocks, where Mitzi claims to have seen Miss Blacklock shoot Scherz. But Craddock dismisses her and accuses Edmund Swettenham (who, with his widowed mother, was also present at the shooting) of being Pip. However, Phillipa Haymes comes forward and confesses she is Pip. Craddock accuses Edmund of wanting to marry a rich wife in Phillipa by murdering Letitia, but as Edmund denies this, a scream is heard from the kitchen, where they find Miss Blacklock attempting to drown Mitzi in the sink. When Miss Blacklock hears Dora Bunner's voice, she releases Mitzi and breaks down, and is arrested.\n\nMiss Marple reveals the truth: it was not Charlotte who died in Switzerland, but Letitia. Aware that Letitia was in line to inherit a fortune, Charlotte posed as her deceased sister and returned to England, where few people knew her. She avoided people who knew Letitia well, such as Belle Goedler, and covered her throat with strings of pearls or beads to hide the scars from her goitre surgery. But Rudi Scherz could have exposed her, as he worked at the Swiss hospital where Charlotte had been treated and could identify her, which is why Charlotte killed him. Dora Bunner, whom Charlotte had taken into her confidence, was prone to slip-ups. On several occasions, she referred to Miss Blacklock as \"Lotty\" (short for \"Charlotte\") instead of \"Letty\" (short for \"Letitia\"), and her conversation with Miss Marple in the cafe proved fatal. Amy Murgatroyd was killed for realising that Charlotte was the one person whose face was not illuminated by Rudi Scherz's torch.\n\nMiss Marple persuaded Mitzi and Edmund to play parts in tripping up Charlotte Blacklock; Phillipa's admission to being Pip was not planned, but Inspector Craddock managed to keep up the act and claim Edmund was after Phillipa's money. Mitzi had agreed to serve as the bait, and Miss Marple imitated Bunny's voice to cause Charlotte to break down. Ultimately, Phillipa and \"Julia\" inherit the Goedler fortune; Edmund and Phillipa get married and return to Chipping Cleghorn to live.\n\n\nEdmund Swettenham announces to have written \"a roaring farce in three acts\" titled \"Elephants Do Forget\". Agatha Christie later wrote a novel named \"Elephants Can Remember\" featuring Hercule Poirot. \"Scherz\" was the name of the Swiss publisher (Scherz Verlag) that published \"Five Little Pigs\" in 1944 in German.\n\nAfter five years of not reviewing any of Christie's detective novels, Julian MacLaren-Ross in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" was lavish in his praise of the book in the issue dated 23 June 1950: \"A new novel by Mrs Agatha Christie always deserves to be placed at the head of any list of detective fiction and her fiftieth book, \"A Murder is Announced\", establishes firmly her claim to the throne of detection. The plot is as ingenious as ever, the writing more careful, the dialogue both wise and witty; while suspense is engendered from the very start, and maintained skilfully until the final revelation: it will be a clever reader indeed who anticipates this, and though Miss Christie is as usual scrupulously fair in scattering her clues, close attention to the text is necessary if a correct solution of the mystery is to be arrived at before the astute Miss Marple unmasks the culprit.\" The review concluded, \"Miss Christie has several surprises up her sleeve besides the main one, and (this much may be said without spoiling the reader’s pleasure) she once again breaks new ground by creating a weak and kindly murderer who is yet responsible for the deaths of three people: that such a character should, in the last analysis, seem credible, is a tribute to the author’s psychological acumen and originality of concept.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson, in the 4 June 1950 issue of \"The Observer\" said, \"For her fiftieth book she has chosen a snug, residential village setting with her favourite detective, silver-haired, needle-sharp spinster, Miss Marple, making a delayed appearance. Not quite one of her top notchers, but very smooth entertainment. The Prime Minister (Clement Attlee), who is her fervent admirer, might fittingly celebrate this jubilee by making her a Dame.\" (It took until 1971 for Christie to be awarded the DBE).\n\nNorman Shrapnel in \"The Guardian\"'s issue of 9 June 1950 noted that this was Christie's 50th book and said that the murderer was \"run to earth in a brilliantly conducted parlour game\".\n\nAn unnamed reviewer in the \"Toronto Daily Star\" of 30 September 1950 opined that \"\"A Murder is Announced\" displays all the adroit and well-bred legerdemain one has come to expect from Agatha Christie... This jubilee whodunit is as deft and ingenious a fabrication as Agatha Christie has contrived in many a year.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"Superb reworking of the standard Christie setting and procedures, marred only by an excess of homicide at the end. The book is distantly related to \"The Companion\", in \"The Thirteen Problems\".\"\n\nIn the \"Binge!\" article of \"Entertainment Weekly\" Issue #1343–44 (26 December 2014 – 3 January 2015), the writers picked \"A Murder Is Announced\" as an \"EW favorite\" on the list of the \"Nine Great Christie Novels\".\n\nThe Goodyear Playhouse showed an adaptation by William Templeton in 1956 with Gracie Fields as Miss Marple, Roger Moore as Patrick Simmons and Jessica Tandy as Letitia Blacklock.\n\nLeslie Darbon adapted the novel into a stage play in 1977. It was first presented at the Theatre Royal, Brighton, by Peter Saunders – who brought Christie's \"The Mousetrap\" to the stage – and then on 21 September 1977 at the Vaudeville Theatre, London, which he then owned. The play first toured Australia in 2013 with Judi Farr as Miss Marple, Robert Grubb as Inspector Craddock, Libby Munro as Phillipa Haymes, directed by Darren Yap.\n\nThe novel was adapted by Alan Plater and filmed in 1985 with Joan Hickson as Miss Marple and Ursula Howells as Miss Blacklock, directed by David Giles for the BBC series \"Miss Marple\". Only a few changes were made: Mitzi was renamed Hannah and is said to be Swiss (in the book, her nationality is unknown) and in the novel the vicarage cat was male and called Tiglath Pileser. In the film the cat was female and called Delilah.\n\nIn 2005, it was part of the first season of the ITV series \"Agatha Christie's Marple\" which featured Geraldine McEwan as Miss Marple, Zoë Wanamaker as Letitia Blacklock, Keeley Hawes as Phillipa Haymes, Elaine Paige as Dora Bunner, Cherie Lunghi as Sadie Swettenham, Catherine Tate as Mitzi and Alexander Armstrong as Inspector Craddock. While the basic plot is retained from the novel, most of the characters in this adaptation have been heavily altered.\n\nTV Asahi adapted the novel in 2019 starring Ikki Sawamura and Mao Daichi, with the title \"Drama Special: Agatha Christie's A Murder Is Announced\" (). This drama changed the main role to a chief inspector from Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department.\n\n\nIkki Sawamura – Chief Inspector Ryuya Shokokuji, based on Jane Marple\nYoshiyoshi Arakawa – Inspector Banpei Tatara\nSei Ashina – Inspector Osako Tsukimi\nTakehiro Murata – Chief Inspector Bunroku Onigawara, based on Dermot Craddock\nMao Daichi – Reiri Kuroiwa, based on Letitia Blacklock\nShigeru Muroi – Torami Tsuchida, based on Dora Bunner\nRyosuke Yamamoto – Hatoji Momobata, based on Patrick Simmons\nAi Yoshikawa – Kijika Momobata, based on Julia Simmons\nRuby Moreno – Mitchi, based on Mitzi\nKii Kitano – Shiori Tachibana, based on Phillipa Haymes\nTomiyuki Kunihiro – Tomekuro Burui, based on Archie Easterbrook\nReiko Tajima – Sakurako Burui, based on Laura Easterbrook\nSeminosuke Murasugi – Monma Hachiya, based on Julian Harmon\nKaori Yamaguchi – Machi Hachiya, based on Diana Harmon\nSuzuka Ogo – Kurie Shinaji, based on Miss Hinchcliffe\nRyo Sato – Totoko Machida, based on Amy Murgatroyd\nKatsuhiro Suzuki – Fumishi Akutagawa, based on Edmund Swettenham\nChinu Izumi – Fumiko Natsume, based on Mrs Swettenham\nYoko Natsuki – Suzu Gedo, based on Belle Goedler\nIto Ono – Renina Annaka, a stage actress\nRyuichi Oura – Kyuzo Kurumai, based on Rudi Scherz\nKokoro Nakayama – Mana Harukawa, based on Myrna Harris\n\nThe novel was serialised in eleven parts in the \"Daily Express\" from Tuesday, 28 February to Saturday, 11 March 1950. Five instalments carried an illustration by long-term \"Express\" artist Andrew Robb. This version did not contain any chapter divisions and contained only about half of the text that appeared in the book publication, totally omitting chapters five, six, seven, fourteen and the epilogue. It had been planned for this serialisation to take place closer to the eventual book publication in June 1950 but it was pulled forward by Christie's literary agent Edmund Cork in an effort to boost interest at the ailing box office for the play \"Murder at the Vicarage\".\n\nIn the US, the first publication was in the \"Chicago Tribune\" in forty-nine parts from Monday, 17 April to Monday, 12 June 1950.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292706", "title": "Bedok MRT station", "text": "Bedok MRT station\n\nBedok MRT station (EW5) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West Line in Bedok, Singapore. Located at the town centre of Bedok, this station is built on a traffic island in the middle of New Upper Changi Road. It is one of the most crowded MRT stations in eastern Singapore. Despite the close proximity of the 3 MRT stations to one another, Bedok MRT Station (East West MRT Line), Bedok North MRT station (Downtown MRT Line) and Bedok South MRT station (Thomson-East Coast MRT Line) are not connected continuously.\n\nBedok MRT station is connected to Bedok Bus Interchange. It has many amenities close-by such as Bedok Mall, Bedok Point, Djitsun Mall Bedok, Bedok Interchange Hawker Centre, Heartbeat@Bedok and Bedok Town Square.\n\nBedok MRT station opened on 4 November 1989 along with all other EWL stations from Bugis to Tanah Merah.\n\nLike many above-ground MRT stations, the station was initially built without platform screen doors to prevent passengers from falling off the platform and onto the train tracks. Installation of platform screen doors started on 4 November 2010 and started operations on 11 January 2011 along with Paya Lebar as a safety precaution, followed by HVLS fans that subsequently began operations since 26 June 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2292711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292711", "title": "Kembangan MRT station", "text": "Kembangan MRT station\n\nKembangan MRT station (EW6) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West Line in Bedok, Singapore. Built at the junction of Sims Ave East and Jalan Kembangan, part of the station stands directly above the Siglap Canal. The name \"Kembangan\" means “expansion” in Malay.\n\nOn 16 March 1997, Sunday at 8.15 am, a man in his late 60s leapt down from the platform and was believed to have died instantly as a west-bound train approached travelling at 50 km per hour. The impact threw him against the side of the tracks, and he sustained serious head injuries, a fractured left arm and a severed right foot. He was pronounced dead at the scene at 10.55 am. An SMRT spokesman said that the train was operated through an automated system, and all trains approaching the waiting area would have reduced their speed automatically. By 11 am, the entire area had been cordoned off. None of the 300 commuters on board the train was hurt as it made an emergency stop at 10.17 am. For two hours, all train services between Eunos and Tanah Merah were discontinued to allow cleaners to clear the tracks. Commuters affected were being directed to a nearby bus stop.\n\nOn 8 October 2010, Friday at about 7 pm, passengers on board a westbound MRT train were evacuated on Friday evening at this station after smoke was detected in one of its carriages. An announcement was made for passengers to alight at Kembangan station and wait for the next train.\n\nAs with most of the above-ground stations built in the past along the East West Line, it was built without platform screen doors. After several successful test at Jurong East, Yishun and Pasir Ris and eventually, installation of the half-height screen doors to prevent commuters from falling onto the train tracks. Installation started in December 2010 and the platform screen doors started operations on 25 February 2011 with Kallang.\n\nThis station is also installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which started operating 14 July 2012, together with Paya Lebar station.\n\nPrivacy screens were installed from Kembangan MRT station to Lorong Mydin to minimise noise impact from residents, from September 2016.\n\nIn 2017, the Minister for Transport Khaw Boon Wan revealed that 2 out of 4 of the station's water pumps were not maintained.\n"}
{"id": "2292712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292712", "title": "They Came to Baghdad", "text": "They Came to Baghdad\n\nThey Came to Baghdad is an adventure novel by Agatha Christie, first published in the United Kingdom by the Collins Crime Club on 5 March 1951 and in the United States by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed at eight shillings and sixpence (8/6) and the US edition at $2.50.\n\nThe book was inspired by Christie's own trips to Baghdad with her second husband, archaeologist Sir Max Mallowan, and is also one of few Christie novels belonging to the action and spy fiction genres, rather than to mysteries and whodunnits.\n\nA secret summit of superpowers is to be held in Baghdad, but it is no longer secret. A shadowy group (which is both anti-Communist and anti-Capitalist) is plotting to sabotage the event. Things get complicated when enthusiastic young \"adventurer\" Victoria Jones discovers a dying secret British agent – Henry \"Fakir\" Carmichael – in her hotel room. His last words – \"Lucifer...Basrah...Lefarge\" – propel her into investigation. \"Lucifer\" refers to the mastermind, Victoria's false lover Edward, who is behind the plot. \"Basrah\" is the city where Carmichael saw Edward and recognised him as an enemy.\n\n\"Lefarge\" turns out to actually be \"Defarge\" and is a reference to a Charles Dickens character; it is an allusion to the fact that the name of a vital witness has been stitched into a scarf. While Victoria is the central character, the real heroine is Anna Scheele, secretary/executive assistant to an American banker, who has discovered a great deal about finances of the shadowy group. She appears rather sparingly, with a few brief appearances in the early part of the story, then seems to vanish, to the chagrin of the evil organization who fear her financial knowledge and who want to liquidate her, and of her allies who wish to protect her. She is presumed dead by her allies but she reappears at the eleventh hour in a most surprising manner.\n\nAn interesting comparison can be made between the romance themes of this novel and \"The Man in the Brown Suit\", which is also primarily an adventure novel, rather than a straight whodunnit. In that book, the exciting, mysterious young man that falls into the heroine's room ends up as the romantic hero. In Baghdad, an exciting, mysterious young man also falls into the heroine's room, but he is disposed of, as is the other exciting, mysterious young man that the heroine has followed to Baghdad. A more conventional and staid archaeologist ends up as the romantic hero; Christie herself was married to Mallowan by this date.\n\n\"They Came To Baghdad\" is one of the few Agatha Christie novels where one of the minor characters is a real person. When Victoria first comes to Baghdad, she visits the Tio Hotel, where she meets a bartender named Jesus. Jesus was a Chaldean Christian bartender from northern Iraq. He makes a brief appearance in Archibald Bulloch Roosevelt, Jr.'s book \"For Lust of Knowing: Memoirs of an Intelligence Officer\". \n\nJulian MacLaren-Ross enthusiastically reviewed the novel in the 20 April 1951 issue of \"The Times Literary Supplement\" when he said it was: \"more of a thriller than a detective story, though there are plenty of mysteries and two surprises reserved for the closing chapters; one of these is perhaps her best since the unmasking of the criminal in \"The Seven Dials Mystery\"\". He went on to comment on that, \"the easy expertise of the writing is once more a matter for admiration\" and concluded that Christie's powers of invention \"never fail her\".\n\nMaurice Richardson of \"The Observer\" (4 March 1951) wrote: \"A bit light and frilly, in parts almost giggly, as Agatha Christie's thrillers are apt to be, but it has the usual creamy readability and a deeply planted fiend.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"Fairly preposterous example of thriller-type Christie, but livelier than some. Engaging heroine and unusually good minor characters – archeologists, hotelkeeper, etc. The plot concerns attempts to prevent The Big Three (Britain was one of them then) from coming together and making peace. Though the villains are not left-wing, they sound like her left-wing idealists of the 'thirties (wanting, as usual, to create a 'New Heaven and Earth' – highly dangerous!)\"\n\nIt was adapted as an episode of Westinghouse Studio One in 1952.\n\n\nIn the UK the novel was first serialised in the weekly magazine \"John Bull\" in eight abridged instalments from 13 January (Volume 89, Number 2324) to 3 March 1951 (Volume 89, Number 2331) with illustrations by \"Showell\". An abridged version of the novel was published in the 1 September 1951 issue of the \"Star Weekly Complete Novel\", a Toronto newspaper supplement, with an uncredited cover illustration.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292713", "title": "Eunos MRT station", "text": "Eunos MRT station\n\nEunos MRT station (EW7) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West MRT Line in Geylang, Singapore. It is located next to the Eunos Bus Interchange.\n\nThe station was named in honour of an early Malay pioneer, Muhammad Eunos bin Abdullah, who secured 700-hectares of land for Malay settlements in the area called Jalan Eunos Malay Settlement (Kampung Melayu).\n\nThe station has a different style of architecture from other stations on the eastern part of the East West Line, having been designed with a traditional Malay roof structure (Atap Minangkabau) and with a shape similar to the stations in the western part of the East-West Line (Chinese Garden to Boon Lay stations), and the northern part of the North South Line (Bukit Batok to Khatib stations) except for Woodlands, using modern materials such as steel beams, similar to that of the Eunos Bus Interchange. This is to provide a sense of identity to the area, as Eunos Bus Interchange lies close to Geylang Serai and the Malay Village.\n\nThe Contract 303 was awarded to Okumura/Oh Teck Thye for the construction of a viaduct from Paya Lebar station to Kembangan station, including Eunos station and Kembangan station on 17 December 1985. Construction began on January 1986 and was completed on 4 November 1989.\n\nAs with most of the above-ground stations along the East West Line, it was built without platform screen doors. The installation of half-height platform screen doors started on 5 October 2010 and operations started on 16 December that year. This station is installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which started operations on 11 September 2012 together with Queenstown MRT station.\n\nInstallation of a privacy screen from Eunos Road 5 to Eunos Road 2 began in January 2017 and was completed in July 2017.\n"}
{"id": "2292715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292715", "title": "Aljunied MRT station", "text": "Aljunied MRT station\n\nAljunied MRT station (EW9) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West line in Geylang, Singapore. Named after Aljunied Road, this station primarily serves Aljunied, one of the subzones that make up Geylang planning area. Aljunied station is the nearest MRT station to Geylang East Town Centre. Despite its name, the station is not located in Aljunied Group Representation Constituency but in MacPherson Single Member Constituency.\n\nOn 26 June 2009, train services along the East West line were disrupted for almost 18 minutes at about 7.25 pm after a man jumped off the platform and ran towards Paya Lebar. However, SMRT staff did not manage to find the man. The Chinese man in his 40s found his way down the tracks to the street but was later arrested by the police. He sustained leg injuries and was charged with attempted suicide.\n\nIn view of one incident over the years, half height platform screen doors were operational on 11 February 2011, and this station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which began operating on 27 July 2012. This station was upgraded with TITAN faregates in 30 November 2013.\n\nAljunied was the temporary terminus from Joo Koon during the early closures, late openings and full closures from 5 January 2018 to 4 February that year.\n"}
{"id": "2292718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292718", "title": "Stephen Lynch", "text": "Stephen Lynch\n\nStephen Lynch may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292720", "title": "Kallang MRT station", "text": "Kallang MRT station\n\nKallang MRT station (EW10) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West line in Kallang, Singapore. Located next to the Kallang River and along Sims Avenue at the junction of Lorong 1 Geylang, this used to be the nearest MRT station to the National Stadium until Stadium MRT station on the Circle line opened on 17 April 2010. Today, a sheltered walkway links Kallang station with the new Singapore Sports Hub.\n\nKallang station is the last above-ground station on the eastern section of the East West line for trains travelling westwards. It is close to Geylang Bahru MRT station on the Downtown line.\n\nThe Lorong 1 Geylang bus terminal is located across the station.\n\nOn 8 November 1985, Lee Kim Tah was awarded the MRT civil contract for Kallang, Aljunied and Paya Lebar stations under Contract 302 and 303, including the viaducts from Kallang portal to Paya Lebar MRT station.\n\nOn 28 December 2005, a 32-year-old Indian man died within minutes after he fell onto the tracks and was subsequently hit by an oncoming west-bound train. The incident occurred at about 3 pm and disrupted train services heading towards Boon Lay for 50 minutes. 4000 passengers had their trips disrupted. The man is believed to have jumped to his death.\n\nOn 14 October 2011, some 6,500 commuters were affected by a train delay along the East West line on Friday evening. An SMRT spokesperson said a westbound train at Kallang encountered a train fault and had to be taken out of service at 5.50 pm. Westbound train service between Kallang and Bugis were disrupted for 20 minutes. Trains were turned around at Bugis and Eunos.\n\nAs with most of the above-ground stations along the East West line, it was built without platform screen doors. Installation of half-height platform screen doors, to prevent commuters from falling onto the train tracks, was started on 19 December 2010 and started operation on 25 February 2011 with Kembangan. This station is fitted with high-volume low-speed fans, which have been operating since 28 July 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2292723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292723", "title": "Lavender MRT station", "text": "Lavender MRT station\n\nLavender MRT station (EW11) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West line in Kallang, Singapore. Located under the junction of Kallang Road and Kallang Walk, Lavender station is adjacent to the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) Building.\n\nLavender MRT station is the last underground MRT station on the East West line for trains travelling east. It is within walking distance to Bendemeer MRT station on the Downtown line.\n\nAlthough it was built together with the original two-line MRT network, Lavender station only became operational on 4 November 1989, almost exactly two years after the first MRT trains started running in Singapore as the original network was opened in phases. Lavender station was opened along with the section of the East West line from City Hall to Tanah Merah as well as Marina Bay along the North South line.\n\nSimilar to other older stations, Lavender has been renovated to make it accessible to the physically and visually challenged. Apart from this and some other minor works, the station has remained virtually unchanged since it was built in the late 1980s.\n\nTo commemorate Total Defence Day in 2000, the Singapore Civil Defence Force conducted the first ever Shelter Open House at this station on 15 and 16 February, together with Tiong Bahru and Somerset stations.\n"}
{"id": "2292727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292727", "title": "Tanjong Pagar MRT station", "text": "Tanjong Pagar MRT station\n\nTanjong Pagar MRT station (EW15) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West line located at Maxwell Road between the junctions of Peck Seah Street and Cecil Street in Downtown Core, Singapore. This station primarily serves the business district along Robinson Road and Shenton Way. It sits at the Tanjong Pagar area, alongside the Anson Road, Robinson Road and Cecil Street area.\n\nHistorically, the area was a fishing village, with Tanjong Pagar in Malay referring to wooden stakes propping the \"kelong\" (offshore huts) above the waterline. Land reclamation has since extended the coastline, where the current Central Business District now stands.\n\nThe station was first opened on 12 December 1987, as part of the extension of the system to Outram Park.\n\nThe station was expanded in 2004 to facilitate disabled access and the new Exit I was later opened in 2006, which was the lift-only former exit to Choon Guan Street and Tanjong Pagar Ricoh Park, had a direct lift to the general ticketing machines as well as the faregates at street level. These were modified in the early part of 2017. It was later integrated with the Guoco Tower development via the ticket concourse and the Tanjong Pagar Xchange, located at basement 2 and basement 1, which is also Exit J and this is the only barrier-free accessibility. Then there is also another exit, called Exit K which is also linked to Exit J and goes to Frasers Tower. Exit E, which is located at AXA Tower, is currently closed for renovation.\n\nThere is an artwork called \"Stainless Steel Mobiles\" by artist Anthony Poon hanging from the ceiling on the station as well as a polymarble mural by Aw Tee Hong called \"Epic of Singapore\".\n"}
{"id": "2292730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292730", "title": "Square principle", "text": "Square principle\n\nIn mathematical set theory, a square principle is a combinatorial principle asserting the existence of a cohering sequence of \nshort closed unbounded (club) sets so that no one (long) club set coheres with them all. As such they may be viewed as a kind of\nincompactness phenomenon. They were introduced by Ronald Jensen in his analysis of the fine structure of the constructible universe L.\n\nDefine Sing to be the class of all limit ordinals which are not regular. \"Global square\" states that there is a system formula_1 satisfying:\n\n\nJensen introduced also a local version of the principle. If \nformula_9 is an uncountable cardinal, \nthen formula_10 asserts that there is a sequence formula_11 satisfying:\n\n\nJensen proved that this principle holds in the constructible universe for any uncountable cardinal κ.\n"}
{"id": "2292731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292731", "title": "Mrs McGinty's Dead", "text": "Mrs McGinty's Dead\n\nMrs. McGinty's Dead is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in February 1952 and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club on 3 March the same year. The US edition retailed at $2.50 and the UK edition nine shillings and sixpence (9/6). The Detective Book Club issued an edition, also in 1952, as Blood Will Tell.\n\nThe novel features the characters Hercule Poirot and Ariadne Oliver. The story is a \"village mystery\", a subgenre of whodunit which Christie usually reserved for Miss Marple. The novel is notable for its wit and comic detail, something that had been little in evidence in the Poirot novels of the 1930s and 1940s. Poirot's misery in the run-down guesthouse, and Mrs Oliver's observations on the life of a detective novelist, provide considerable entertainment in the early part of the novel. The publication of \"Mrs McGinty's Dead\" may be considered as marking the start of Poirot's final phase, in which Ariadne Oliver plays a large part. Although she had appeared in \"Cards on the Table\" in 1936, Mrs Oliver's most significant appearances in Christie's work begin here. She appears in five of the last nine Christie novels featuring Poirot to be written, and appears on her own without Poirot at all in \"The Pale Horse\" (1961).\n\nPoirot, disillusioned by the \"senseless cruel brutality\" of modern crime, pays no attention to the sad case of Mrs McGinty, an old woman apparently struck dead by her lodger for thirty pounds that she kept under a floorboard. When, however, he is asked by the investigating officer to take another look at the case to stop an innocent man going to the gallows, he realises that things may not be as simple as they appear.\n\nSuperintendent Spence informs Hercule Poirot of the case of Mrs McGinty, an elderly charwoman, apparently killed by her lodger, James Bentley, for her savings of £30, which she kept under a floorboard. Bentley is convicted and to be executed for the crime, but Spence does not think he is guilty. Poirot agrees to go to the town of Broadhinny and investigate the murder further. Poirot finds that Mrs McGinty often worked as a cleaner at the houses of people in the village. No one wants to talk to Poirot, and most believe Bentley is the killer.\n\nDuring a search among Mrs McGinty's possessions, Poirot finds a newspaper from which an article has been cut out. The newspaper is dated a few days before the murder. He later discovers that the missing article is about women connected with famous murder cases, and includes photographs of them. He also discovers that Mrs McGinty had purchased a bottle of ink in a local shop shortly before her murder. He concludes that she had recognised one of the women in the article, and had written to the paper in question. Someone must have found out about it and then killed her to prevent her from talking. Poirot and Spence, using the ages of people in the town, conclude that someone is either Lily Gamboll, who committed murder with a meat cleaver as a child, or Eva Kane, who had been the love interest who inspired a man to murder his wife and bury her in a cellar. Another possibility is that someone is Evelyn Hope, the daughter of Eva Kane. Shortly afterwards, Poirot discovers the murder weapon, a sugar hammer, left around in plain sight at his boarding house and accessible to all the suspects. In an attempt to flush out the murderer, Poirot claims to know more than he does and is nearly pushed under an oncoming train. Poirot decides to show most of the suspects the photos at a party. Mrs Upward claims to have seen the photo of Lily Gamboll, but does not say where.\n\nThe following day, Poirot is contacted by Maude Williams, who had approached him a few days earlier, telling him that she had known Bentley when they worked together briefly for the same estate agents. She told Poirot that she liked Bentley and did not believe he was guilty or even capable of murdering Mrs McGinty. She now offers to help Poirot who takes up her offer by getting her to pose as a maid in the house of Mrs Wetherby, a resident in the village for whom Mrs McGinty worked as housekeeper, and whose daughter, Deirdre, Poirot suspects may have some connection with the circumstances surrounding Mrs McGinty's murder. During the maid's night off, Mrs Upward's son Robin, a somewhat flamboyant theatre director, and Ariadne Oliver, a famed mystery novelist who has been working on a theatre adaptation with Robin, leave for an evening at the theatre, leaving Mrs Upward alone at the house. When they return, they find Mrs Upward strangled to death. She has evidently had coffee with her murderer, and the lipstick on a coffee cup and perfume in the air points to a woman having committed the crime. Mrs Upward had invited three people to her house that night: Eve Carpenter, Deirdre Henderson and Shelagh Rendell. Any of the three women could be someone from the photographs. Additionally, the postmistress's assistant, Edna, saw someone with blonde hair enter the house, which points to either Carpenter or Rendell, as Henderson is not blonde. Confusing matters even further is the fact that a book is discovered in the Upward house with Evelyn Hope's signature written on the flyleaf, suggesting Mrs Upward was actually Eva Kane. Poirot connects the final piece of the puzzle when he finds the photo Mrs McGinty saw at Maureen Summerhayes' house. It is of Eva Kane and has the inscription “my mother” on the back. Poirot gathers the suspects together and reveals the murderer – Robin Upward.\n\nRobin is Eva Kane's \"son\", Evelyn, which can be a man's name as well as a woman's. Mrs Upward had not known who was the mother of her adopted son, but he realised that any scandal would be to his detriment. Mrs McGinty saw the photo of Eva Kane while working at the Upward house and assumed the photo was of Mrs Upward as a young woman. Robin killed her to prevent her from telling anyone who might recognise the photo, and framed Bentley by stealing the £30, correctly assuming Bentley would incriminate himself by panicking. Mrs Upward thought Kane's photograph to be similar to a photo Robin had shown her of his mother, whose back story he made up. She wanted to confront Robin by herself, so she pointed to the wrong photo (that of Lily Gamboll) to put Poirot off the scent.\n\nRobin, however, sensed the truth and killed her before leaving for the play. Then he planted the evidence and made the three calls to make it appear that a woman had committed the crime. At this point he still had the photo, but rather than destroy it, he kept it and planted it at Mrs Summerhayes' house to incriminate her. But Poirot had gone through the drawer earlier and did not see the photo, so he knew it had been planted subsequently. Further revelations are also made. Eve Carpenter wanted to conceal her past for reasons of her own, which was why she didn't co-operate in the investigation. Poirot discovers that Dr Rendell may have killed his first wife, which led Mrs Rendell to talk about anonymous letters she'd received warning her of the fact. Poirot now suspects it was Dr Rendell, convinced that Poirot was in Broadhinny to investigate the death of his first wife, and not that of Mrs McGinty, who tried to push him under the oncoming train, not Robin. Maude Williams turns out to be the daughter of Eva Kane's lover, and has always believed that her mother was murdered by Eva and that her father took the blame. She came to see Mrs Upward, whom she thought was Eva Kane, intending to confront her, but found her dead and left quietly. She admits this to Poirot, who agrees to keep it a secret and wishes her good luck in her life.\n\n\nThe novel is named after a children's game – a sort of follow-the-leader type of verse somewhat like the Hokey-Cokey — that is explained in the course of the novel.\n\nNo review of this book appeared in the \"Times Literary Supplement\".\n\nMaurice Richardson of \"The Observer\" of 23 March 1952 thought that Poirot was \"slightly subdued\" and summed up \"Not one of A.C's best-constructed jobs, yet far more readable than most other people's.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"This village murder begins among the rural proletariat (cf. \"Death by Drowning\" in \"The Thirteen Problems\" and the excellent London working-class woman in \"The Hollow\"), but after a time it moves toward the better-spoken classes. Poirot suffers in a vividly awful country guesthouse in order to get in with the community and rescue a rather unsatisfactory young man from the gallows. Highly ingenious – at this point she is still able to vary the tricks she plays, not repeat them.\"\n\n\nThe novel was adapted by MGM in 1964 as the film \"Murder Most Foul\". However, in an unusual move, the character of Poirot was replaced with Christie's other most famous detective Miss Marple (portrayed by Margaret Rutherford), who comes onto the case when she is a juror in the trial of the lodger who is accused of the murder. As she is the only juror to believe the lodger is innocent and will not join with the others to vote guilty. The jury foreman says to the judge that they cannot make up their minds. The judge rules for a mistrial and arranges for a retrial for a week's time, giving Miss Marple seven days to solve the case.\n\nA television programme was produced in 2007 with David Suchet as Poirot in the ITV series \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\", first broadcast on 14 September 2008. It was directed by Ashley Pearce, who also directed \"Appointment with Death\" and \"Three Act Tragedy\" for the ITV series. It also starred Zoë Wanamaker returning as Ariadne Oliver (who first appeared in \"Cards on the Table\") and Richard Hope as Superintendent Spence (who first appeared in \"Taken at the Flood\"), respectively. The adaptation is reasonably faithful to the novel, with the deletion of a few characters and omitting two of the women from the newspaper article – only focusing on Lily Gamboll and Eva Kane. The characters of Deirdre Henderson and Maude Wiliams are merged in the film. As such it is Maude Williams, the estate agents' secretary (with dark hair instead of blonde), who is in love with Bentley and helps Poirot throughout his investigation. Maude and Bentley are reunited by Poirot in the final scene. Also, Dr Rendall's secret is not that he is suspected of killing his first wife, but of mercy killing terminally ill patients. It is Mrs Rendall, rather than her husband, who makes an attempt on Poirot's life.\n\n\"Mrs McGinty's Dead\" was adapted for radio by BBC Radio 4 in 2006, featuring John Moffatt as Poirot.\n\n\nIn the US, the novel was serialised in the \"Chicago Tribune\" in its Sunday edition in thirteen parts from 7 October to 30 December 1951 under the title of \"Blood Will Tell\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2292736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292736", "title": "Redhill MRT station", "text": "Redhill MRT station\n\nRedhill MRT station (EW18) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West Line located in Bukit Merah, Singapore. This is the last above-ground station eastbound until Kallang MRT station.\n\nRedhill is the only MRT station in which the two platforms are not parallel.\n\nThe MRTC has awarded the Contract 202 for the construction of Redhill and Queenstown MRT stations on 7 February 1985 for $50 million, together with the viaduct from Tiong Bahru Road to Queensway, construction starts on March 1985 for the completion in December 1987.\n\nRedhill station opened on 12 March 1988, which is part of the Phase 1B of the MRT line. It travels from Outram Park to Clementi.\n\nOn 31 August 2004, a lady in her 40s was hit by a train after she fell on to the tracks. She suffered head injuries and was sent to the Singapore General Hospital. This incident took place just hours after another train hit another lady in her 50s earlier in the day at Bukit Batok MRT station.\n\nOn 18 May 2010, eastbound train services between Queenstown and Outram Park MRT stations were disrupted for about 45 minutes when a passenger was hit by a train at 11.35 am. To maintain eastbound service at the unaffected sections, some westbound trains were turned around at Outram Park MRT station. Close to 5,500 passengers were affected by the incident and train services resumed at about 12.20pm.\n\nIn view of accidents along the MRT line, platform screen doors were installed and started operations on 31 May 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2292741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292741", "title": "Dave Stevens", "text": "Dave Stevens\n\nDave Lee Stevens (July 29, 1955 – March 11, 2008) was an American illustrator and comics artist. He was most famous for creating \"The Rocketeer\" comic book and film character, and for his pin-up style \"glamour art\" illustrations, especially of model Bettie Page. He was the first to win Comic-Con International's Russ Manning Most Promising Newcomer Award in 1982, and received both an Inkpot Award and the Kirby Award for Best Graphic Album in 1986.\n\nStevens was born July 29, 1955, in Lynwood, California, but grew up in Portland, Oregon. His family relocated to San Diego, where he attended San Diego City College for two years, and attended the then-new annual San Diego Comic-Con (now Comic-Con International).\n\nStevens' first professional comic work was inking Russ Manning's pencils for the \"Tarzan\" newspaper comic strip and two European \"Tarzan\" graphic novels in 1975; he later assisted Manning on the \"Star Wars\" newspaper strip.\n\nHe began doing occasional comic book work, including providing illustrations for fanzines (inking drawings by comic book veteran Jack Kirby among them), as well as creating the Aurora feature for Japan's Sanrio Publishing.\n\nStarting in 1977, he drew storyboards for Hanna-Barbera's animated TV shows, including \"Super Friends\" and \"The Godzilla Power Hour\", where he worked with comics and animation veteran, Doug Wildey. For the rest of the decade, he continued to work in animation and film, joining the art studio of illustrators William Stout and Richard Hescox in Los Angeles, working on projects such as storyboards for George Lucas and Steven Spielberg's \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\" and pop singer Michael Jackson's video \"Thriller\".\n\nThe Rocketeer series was an adventure story set in a pulp fiction-styled 1930s (with allusions to heroes like Doc Savage and The Shadow emphasizing the pulp tradition), about a down-on-his-luck pilot named Cliff Secord who finds a mysterious rocket pack. Despite its erratic publishing history, the Rocketeer proved to be one of the first successful features to emerge from the burgeoning independent comics movement. Influenced by Golden Age artists Will Eisner, Lou Fine, Reed Crandall, Maurice Whitman, Frank Frazetta and Wally Wood, Stevens was widely recognized, along with artists such as Steve Rude and Jaime Hernandez, as one of the finest comic book artists of his generation.\n\nStevens was a longtime admirer of 1950s glamour and pin-up model Bettie Page; he modeled the look of the Rocketeer's girlfriend after her and featured her image in other illustrations too, which helped contribute to the renewed public interest in Page and her modeling career. After discovering that the retired Page was still alive and lived nearby, Stevens became friends with her, providing both personal assistance and helping to arrange financial compensation to her from various publishers for the use of her image and reprints of her many glamor and pin-up photos. Two other characters that show up in the \"Rocketeer\" stories were based on personal acquaintances of Stevens: the \"Peevy\" character, based on cartoonist Doug Wildey, and the sleazy \"Marco of Hollywood\" character, based on real life glamour and porn photographer Ken Marcus.\n\nThe first comic book featuring the Rocketeer was released in 1982. Those first stories appeared as a second feature in issues #2 and #3 of Mike Grell's Pacific Comics' \"Starslayer\" series. For its next two installments, Steven's feature moved to the anthology comic title \"Pacific Presents\" #1 and #2. The fourth chapter ended in a cliffhanger that was later concluded in a lone \"Rocketeer\" comic released by Eclipse Comics. The character was then continued in the \"Rocketeer Adventure Magazine\", with two issues being published in 1988 and then 1989 by ; a third and final issue was published six years later in 1995 by Dark Horse Comics. Stevens' extensive background research and meticulous approach to his illustrations contributed to the long delays between \"Rocketeer\" issues. The first completed story line was then collected into a graphic novel by Eclipse Comics, in both trade paperback and hardcover formats, and simply titled \"The Rocketeer\" (); the second story line was collected into a glossy trade paperback graphic novel by Dark Horse called \"The Rocketeer: Cliff's New York Adventure\" ().\n\nIDW Publishing announced a hardcover edition collecting the entire Rocketeer series for the first time, due originally in October 2009. \"Dave Steven's The Rocketeer, The Complete Adventures\" would contain all-new coloring by Laura Martin who was chosen by Dave Stevens before his untimely death. The book finally appeared in December of that year in two separate states: a trade hardcover edition with full color dust jacket and a second, more lavish, deluxe hardcover edition () of 3000 copies. The deluxe edition sold out almost immediately upon publication, and IDW announced a second printing.\n\nIn 2011 IDW launched an all-new Rocketeer comic book series, illustrated by various artists, called \"Rocketeer Adventures\"; the series features four quarterly issues per year (the second series of four began appearing in May 2012). The four 2011 issues were then collected by IDW and published in hardcover as a graphic novel. All four issues in each series offers additional variant covers in shorter-run editions, some of them reprinting Stevens original Rocketeer cover art in both full color and just black and white.\n\nA second IDW four-issue comics miniseries of Rocketeer adventures, \"Rocketeer: Cargo of Doom\", began appearing in 2012. Each issue offered a regular retail cover design and one alternate Retailer Incentive cover. In addition publisher Jet Pack Comics issued several additional Retailer Incentive variants with Dave Stevens re-colored artwork reprinted on their covers. The miniseries was then collected into two variant graphic novel hardcovers, one offered with a regular dust jacket, the other without.\n\nA third IDW four-issue comic book miniseries of Rocketeer adventures, \"Rocketeer: Hollywood Horror\", began appearing in late February 2013. As with the previous series, each issue offered a regular retail cover design and one Retailer Incentive alternate cover. The miniseries was then collected into two variant graphic novel hardcovers, one with a regular dust jacket, the other without.\n\nA fourth IDW Rocketeer comics miniseries, \"Rocketeer and The Spirit: Pulp Friction\", began appearing in 2013, as another limited four-issue miniseries. As with the two previous miniseries, each issue offered a regular retail cover design and one Retailer Incentive alternate cover. A special San Diego Comic Con International promotional variant issue #1, with a black and white wraparound cover, was offered only at the 2013 convention. The miniseries was then collected into two variant graphic novel hardcovers, one with a regular dust jacket, the other without.\n\nIn September 2014, IDW changed the Rocketeer's format and published a 376-page, 6x9 trade paperback \"The Rocketeer: Jet-Pack Adventures\", an original anthology featuring ten short prose stories by Cody Goodfellow, Don Webb, Gregory Frost, J Bone, Lisa Morton, Nancy A. Collins, Nancy Holder, Nicholas Kaufmann, Robert Hood, Simon Kurt Unsworth, and Yvonne Navarro.\n\nStevens began developing a Rocketeer theatrical film proposal in 1985 and then sold the rights to his character to the Walt Disney Company, which then developed and produced the 1991 film \"The Rocketeer\". The film was directed by Joe Johnston, and starred Billy Campbell, Jennifer Connelly, Alan Arkin and Timothy Dalton. Stevens was a hands-on co-producer of the film. It received a mixture of highly positive and lukewarm reviews and disappointing domestic ticket sales, ensuring no immediate sequels would follow. Dave Stevens always felt that a majority of the problem was that the studio's movie poster and promotional graphics were over-stylized, vague, and didn't convey to people what the film was all about. After the Walt Disney Company purchased the Rocketeer character for film production, comics artist Russ Heath illustrated a promotional film tie-in graphic novel, \"The Rocketeer: The Official Movie Adaptation\", based on their feature film.\n\nFollowing \"The Rocketeer\", Stevens worked primarily as an illustrator, doing a variety of ink and painted illustrations for book and comic book covers, posters, prints, portfolios, and private commissions, including a number of covers for 's \"Jonny Quest\" title and a series of eight covers for Eclipse comics, featuring characters such as Airboy and the DNAgents. The Eclipse covers were also published in the form of large posters. Many of his illustrations were in the \"good girl art\" genre. He also returned to art school to study painting.\n\nBefore his death in 2008 from hairy cell leukemia, Stevens was working on a career retrospective collection of his work to be titled \"Brush with Passion – The Life and Art of Dave Stevens\". The book was published the same year as both a regular hardcover and as a deluxe slipcased hardcover edition, both from Underwood Books.\n\nIn 1980 Stevens married longtime girlfriend Charlene Brinkman, later known as horror film scream queen Brinke Stevens; their marriage ended in divorce just six months later, but she later modeled for her ex-husband.\n\nFollowing several years of struggling with uncommon hairy cell leukemia, which caused a gradual reduction in his artistic output, Stevens died on March 11, 2008 in Turlock, California.\n\nStevens' work has had a significant influence on comic book and fantasy illustrators, among them Adam Hughes.\nArtist Laura Molina, with whom Stevens had a romantic relationship in the late 1970s, used him as the subject of her controversial \"Naked Dave\" series of paintings.\n\n\"Dave had more artistic integrity than anyone I've ever known. He always marched to his own drummer whether it benefited him financially or not. He turned down many lucrative job offers—including a monthly pin-up assignment for \"Playboy\" offered by Hugh Hefner as a replacement for their regular Alberto Vargas feature—when they didn't jibe with his own highly personal vision of what he should be doing. As a businessman, Dave often drove his close friends nuts. We'd watch in astonishment at the riches passing him by.\" – William Stout\n\n\"Dave was truly one of the nicest people I have ever met in my life... and was certainly among the most gifted. Our first encounter was at Jack Kirby's house around 1971 when he came to visit and show Jack some of his work. As I said, Kirby was very encouraging and he urged Dave not to try and draw like anyone else but to follow his own passions. This was advice Dave took to heart, which probably explains why he took so long with every drawing. They were rarely just jobs to Dave. Most of the time, what emerged from his drawing board or easel was a deeply personal effort. He was truly in love with every beautiful woman he drew, at least insofar as the paper versions were concerned.\" – Mark Evanier\n\n\"Well, I do expect a lot of myself. I'm a harsh critic because I know what I'm capable of. I have hit those occasional peaks amongst the valleys, but the peaks are so few—things like genuine flashes of virtuoso brush inking, like I've never executed before or since—I can count on one hand the number of jobs where I've been able to hit that mark. The same with penciling. Sometimes it just flows, but more often than not, it's pure physical and spiritual torment just to get something decent on paper. I often get very discouraged with the whole creative process.\" – Dave Stevens\n\n\n\nPeople from Lynwood, California"}
{"id": "2292745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292745", "title": "Wynne Prize", "text": "Wynne Prize\n\nThe Wynne Prize is an Australian landscape painting or figure sculpture art prize. As one of Australia's longest-running art prizes, it was established in 1897 from the bequest of Richard Wynne. Now held concurrently with the Sir John Sulman Prize and the Archibald Prize at the Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney.\n\nIt is awarded annually for \"the best landscape painting of Australian scenery in oils or watercolours or for the best example of figure sculpture by Australian artists completed during the 12 months preceding the [closing] date\".\n\nMany of Australia's most famous artists have won the prize, including William Dobell, Hans Heysen, Lloyd Rees, Fred Williams, William Robinson, Eric Smith and Sali Herman.\n\nIn 2010, the prize awarded was A$25,000, but the painting by Sam Leach which was awarded the prize, was later revealed to be a close copy of the 17th-century painting \"\" by Adam Pijnacker. Concern was expressed that the prize had been awarded to a painting which did not fulfil the prize's criteria. Nevertheless, the trustees of the Art Gallery of New South Wales decided that the award would stand.\n"}
{"id": "2292748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292748", "title": "They Do It with Mirrors", "text": "They Do It with Mirrors\n\nThey Do It with Mirrors is a detective fiction novel by Agatha Christie, first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in 1952 under the title of Murder with Mirrors and in UK by the Collins Crime Club on 17 November that year under Christie's original title. The US edition retailed at $2.50 and the UK edition at ten shillings and sixpence (10/6). The book features her detective Miss Marple.\n\nOne review at the time of publication praised the essence of the plot but felt the latter half of the novel moved too slowly. A later review considered that this novel showed \"Definite signs of decline.\" and felt the author was not entirely comfortable with the setting she described in the novel.\n\nWhile visiting her American school friend Ruth Van Rydock in London, Miss Marple learns that Ruth is seriously concerned for her sister Carrie Louise. She asks Miss Marple to visit Carrie Louise at Stonygates, her home in England. Miss Marple agrees to the visit. She is impressed by the size of the Victorian mansion, which now has a separate building for delinquent boys, the cause which engages Carrie Louise and her third husband, Lewis Serrocold. Carrie Louise has her family living with her, as her granddaughter Gina has brought her American husband Walter to England to meet her family. Daughter Mildred Strete moved back home after she was widowed. Stepsons Stephen and Alexis Restarick, now grown, are frequent visitors and are present during Miss Marple's visit. One of the first people Miss Marple encounters is young Edgar Lawson, a young man acting as a secretary to Serrocold; Lawson shows clear signs of paranoid schizophrenia, but these are largely ignored.\n\nMiss Marple learns that Carrie Louise has experienced health problems incident to old age. Nevertheless, Miss Marple is pleased to see that Carrie Louise is still the sweet, idealistic, and loving person she has known.\n\nAn unexpected visitor arrives at Stonygates—Christian Gulbrandsen, Carrie Louise's stepson from her first marriage and a trustee of the charitable foundation that his father set up with the wealth he generated in his life. Lewis Serrocold walks from the train station and meets Christian on the terrace. Miss Marple watches them through her bird-watcher's binoculars and tries to learn the reason for Christian's unexpected visit. She hears a few phrases concerning the importance of keeping a problem from Carrie Louise, and that the two men agree to call for outside help. Both men enter for dinner, and afterwards, Christian retires to his room to write letters.\n\nThe rest of the household is held entranced by a scene that plays out in the office of Lewis Serrocold. Lawson enters it with a gun, locks the door, and speaks loudly to Lewis, claiming Lewis is his father and has treated him badly. Lawson threatens to shoot him, while Lewis tries to calm the young man.\n\nTension is added to the scene because an electrical problem has caused most of the “Great Hall” outside Lewis's office to go dark. Walter knows how to fix the overloaded fuse, so he leaves the room to fix it and then rejoins the group. While Edgar Lawson is ranting to Lewis, the family hear shots and intervene by trying to open the door. Another shot (not fired in Lewis's office) had been heard by some, but not all. When the door to Lewis's office is finally opened, Lewis scoffs at any concern for himself, and they see that the shots Lawson fired had hit the wall. Lawson collapses in tears and apologies.\n\nMeanwhile, \"Jolly\" Juliet Bellever, housekeeper and companion to Carrie Louise, had gone out to find the key to the office. She returns to the room and says she has called the police, not because of the scene between Edgar Lawson and Lewis Serrocold, but because she has found Christian Gulbrandsen dead in his room from a gunshot.\n\nLewis proceeds to Christian's room, followed by Carrie Louise and Miss Marple. Alexis Restarick arrives at the house. His brother Stephen was already there, playing the piano after dinner. Then the police arrive.\n\nInspector Curry quickly establishes that none of the people from the facility for delinquent boys are involved, nor any of the servants either. Curry discovers that there was a sheet of paper in the typewriter when Jolly entered the dead man's room. Lewis admits to removing it, explaining that he had feared his wife would read it and discover that the reason for Christian's visit was his fear that someone had been poisoning Carrie Louise. Lewis suggests that the poison is in her medicine, a liquid which is shown to contain arsenic.\n\nMiss Marple comments that most of the family would be pleased if Walter were found to be the killer, but Christian was not killed by Walter's gun, which was in Lawson's hand during the interval. Police find the murder weapon under some music inside the piano bench.\n\nAlexis explains that his drive to the house was slowed by the fog, and that what he saw and heard in the fog, such as a shot and the sound of someone running, gave him an idea for a stage set. Alexis envisions the house as a stage, which causes Miss Marple to begin thinking differently about the murder. The next evening, Alexis and the boy Ernie Gregg are killed by stage weights.\n\nMiss Marple explains to the police how one person could run from Lewis's study to Christian's room along the terrace in under two minutes—Lewis Serrocold. Lawson spoke as both himself and Lewis, while Lewis killed Christian and returned out of breath. The suspicion of Carrie Louise's poisoning was a ruse created by Lewis. The real reason for Christian Gulbrandsen's visit was that he'd learned that Lewis was embezzling from the Gulbrandsen Trust. The reader also learns that Edgar Lawson was only pretending to be schizophrenic; in reality, he is the illegitimate son of Lewis.\n\nWhen confronted by the police, Lawson flees the house, jumping into an old boat to cross a lake on the property. The boat begins to sink, so Lewis Serrocold jumps into the lake to rescue his son. Both are caught in the reeds lining the lake and drown before the police can reach them. The scene of these deaths ends with Carrie Louise walking indoors with her daughter Mildred, as a new solidarity between mother and daughter is manifest. Carrie Louise's granddaughter Gina agrees to head back to America with her American husband Walter, averting a threatened separation.\n\n\nIn the text, Miss Marple says \"they do it with mirrors\" is the slang term for the illusions of magicians and of a stage set. It is thinking of that which leads her to looking a new way at the evening of the first murder.\n\nMaurice Richardson of \"The Observer\" of 30 November 1952 summed up thus: \"First half is lively and the trick alibi for the murder of the stepson neat enough; there is a marked decline in sprightliness later on, but half a shot is better than no dope.\"\n\nRobert Barnard said of this novel that its setting was: \"Unusual (and not entirely convincing) setting of delinquent's home, full of untrustworthy adolescents and untrustworthy do-gooders. Christie not entirely at home, perhaps because she believes (in Miss Marple's words) that 'young people with a good heredity, and brought up wisely in a good home…they are really…the sort of people a country \"needs\".' Otherwise highly traditional, with houseplans, Marsh-y inquisitions, and second and third murders done most perfunctorily.\" He summed it up as showing \"Definite signs of decline.\"\n\n\nA condensed version of the novel was first published in the US in \"Cosmopolitan\" magazine in the issue for April 1952 (Volume 132, Number 4) under the title \"Murder With Mirrors\" with illustrations by Joe Bowler. In the UK the novel was first serialised in the weekly magazine \"John Bull\" in six abridged instalments from 26 April (Volume 91, Number 2391) to 31 May 1952 (Volume 91, Number 2396) with illustrations by George Ditton.\n\nSeveral adaptations were made of the book for TV and Film:\n\nThe novel's first adaptation was the 1985 television film \"Murder with Mirrors\" with Sir John Mills as Lewis Serrocold, Bette Davis as Carrie Louise, Neil Swettenham as Edgar Lawson and Helen Hayes as Miss Marple.\n\nA second adaptation was aired on 29 December 1991 in the BBC series \"Miss Marple\" starring Joan Hickson as Miss Marple, Jean Simmons as Carrie-Louise Serrocold, Joss Ackland as Lewis Serrocold and Faith Brook as Ruth van Rydock. The film was basically faithful to the novel, with the exception that Alexis survives the attack on his life. Also, Ruth van Rydock is present at the house when the first murder takes place and Lawson attempts to swim across the lake, and does not use a rotted boat.\n\nA third adaptation was aired on 1 January 2010 for the fourth season of the ITV series \"Agatha Christie's Marple\", starring Julia McKenzie as Miss Marple, Penelope Wilton as Carrie Louise, Brian Cox as Lewis Serrocold, and Joan Collins as Ruth Van Rydock. This adaptation has several notable changes and additions:\n\nThere is a French television production aired in 2013, \"Les Petits Meurtres d'Agatha Christie\", season two, first episode, \"Jeux de glaces\", which can mean \"Game of Mirrors\".\n\nSome elements of the plot were also incorporated into the 1964 film \"Murder Ahoy!\", which starred Margaret Rutherford as Miss Marple, along with a token tribute to \"The Mousetrap\". Instead of a sprawling Victorian estate, the delinquent boys are housed on board a retired ship called the Battledore, and they go ashore periodically to commit mischief under the direction of their criminal mastermind. Apart from these elements, however, this film is not based on any of Christie's works.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292752", "title": "Queenstown MRT station", "text": "Queenstown MRT station\n\nQueenstown MRT station (EW19) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West Line in Queenstown, Singapore. It is built on a traffic island along Commonwealth Avenue. The station is named after Queen Elizabeth II to mark her coronation in 1952.\n\nThe station was opened on 12 March 1988, as part of the extension of the MRT system from Outram Park to Clementi. Half-height platform screen doors were installed in January 2011 and started operations on 28 April 2011 together with Commonwealth.\n\nThe station was expanded starting mid-2012 and was opened on 23 August 2015 with a new overhead bridge and two new exits, the same day as Commonwealth MRT Station. \n\nOn 29 November 2010, a Chinese man in his 40s was knocked by an incoming train at about 8.15 pm, was found lying on the tracks below the last carriage and was pronounced dead by SCDF medics. Train services were disrupted for about 1 hour and were resumed at 9.15 pm.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292756", "title": "Johann Heinrich Merck", "text": "Johann Heinrich Merck\n\nJohann Heinrich Merck (11 April 1741 – 27 June 1791), German author and critic, was born at Darmstadt, a few days after the death of his father, a chemist.\n\nHe studied law at Gießen, and in 1767 was given an appointment in the paymaster's department at Darmstadt, and a year later himself became paymaster. For a number of years he exercised considerable influence upon the literary movement in Germany; he helped to found the \"Frankfurter gelehrte Anzeigen\" in 1772, and was one of the chief contributors to Nicolai's \"Allgemeine Bibliothek\".\n\nIn 1773 he accompanied the Landgravine Karoline of Hesse-Darmstadt to Saint Petersburg, and on his return was a guest of the duke Charles Augustus of Weimar in the Wartburg. Unfortunate speculations brought him into pecuniary embarrassment in 1788, and although friends, notably Goethe, were ready to come to his assistance, his losses — combined with the death of five of his children — so preyed upon his mind that he committed suicide on 27 June 1791.\n\nMerck distinguished himself mainly as a critic; his keen perception, critical perspicacity and refined taste made him a valuable guide to the young writers of the Sturm und Drang. He also wrote a number of small treatises, dealing mostly with literature and art, especially painting, and a few poems, stories, narratives and the like; but they have not much intrinsic importance. Merck's letters are particularly interesting and instructive, and throw much light upon the literary conditions of his time.\n\nMerck's \"Ausgewählte Schriften zur schönen Literatur und Kunst\" were published by A Stahr in 1840, with a biography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292758", "title": "Chinese Garden MRT station", "text": "Chinese Garden MRT station\n\nChinese Garden MRT station (EW25) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West Line in Jurong East, Singapore. It primarily serves the residential estate of Yuhua, as well as the various tourist attractions in Jurong Lake, including the Chinese Garden, where the station derived its name from.\n\nThe roof of Chinese Garden station is based on traditional Chinese architectural design.\n\nThe station was opened on 5 November 1988, as part of the first portion of Phase 2 of the MRT system.\n\nAs with most of the stations along the East West Line, it was built without platform screen doors to prevent commuters from falling onto the train tracks. After several successful test at Jurong East, Yishun and Pasir Ris and eventually, installation of the half-height platform screen doors started on 14 August 2010 and operations commenced on 1 October 2010.\n\nThe station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operations on 16 November 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2292761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292761", "title": "A Pocket Full of Rye", "text": "A Pocket Full of Rye\n\nA Pocket Full of Rye is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club on 9 November 1953, and in the US by Dodd, Mead & co. the following year. The UK edition retailed at ten shillings and sixpence (10/6) and the US edition at $2.75. The book features her detective Miss Marple. \n\nLike several of Christie's novels (e.g., \"Hickory Dickory Dock\" and \"One, Two, Buckle My Shoe\") the title and substantial parts of the plot reference a nursery rhyme, in this case \"Sing a Song of Sixpence\". Miss Marple travels to the Fortescue home to offer information on the maid, Gladys Martin. She works with Inspector Neele until the mysteries are revealed.\n\nTwo reviewers at the time of publication felt that \"the hidden mechanism of the plot is ingenious at the expense of probability\" and that the novel was \"Not quite so stunning as some of Mrs Christie's criminal assaults upon her readers\". Christie's overall high quality in writing detective novels led one to say \"they ought to make her a Dame\". Writing later, another reviewer felt that the characters included an \"exceptionally nasty family of suspects\" in what was \"Still, a good, sour read.\"\n\nWhen London businessman Rex Fortescue dies after drinking his morning tea, Scotland Yard Detective Inspector Neele spearheads the investigation. An autopsy reveals that the cause of death was poisoning by taxine, a toxic alkaloid obtained from the yew tree, and that Fortescue ingested it with his breakfast, while a search of his clothing reveals a quantity of rye in his jacket pocket.\n\nRex's wife Adele is the main suspect in the murder. Son Lancelot and his wife Pat are travelling from Kenya to London, at the invitation of his father, according to Lance; at Paris, he wires that he will be home next day, and police meet him at the airport. The day Lance arrives at Yewtree Lodge, leaving his wife in London, Adele dies of cyanide in her tea, and a few hours later the maid Gladys Martin is found strangled in the yard, with a clothes pin put on her nose.\n\nInspector Neele is working full-time with the aid of Sergeant Hay on these murders, interviewing all at the office and in the home. The older son, Percival, tells the Inspector that his father was erratic and ruining the business. After the story of the three murders is in the newspapers, Miss Marple arrives at Yewtree Lodge to shed light on Gladys Martin, who learned serving and cleaning at Miss Marple's home. Miss Ramsbottom, Rex's sister-in-law, invites her to stay. Inspector Neele agrees to work with Miss Marple, seeing what she can add. Neele learns that the taxine was ingested in marmalade, with a new jar put out at breakfast used by Rex alone; that jar had been tossed in the yard and found by police. When Miss Marple and Inspector Neele discuss the case, she asks him if he has asked about blackbirds, having seen the pattern of the old children's rhyme \"Sing a Song of Sixpence.\" When he does ask, he learns of dead blackbirds on Rex's desk at home, a pie whose contents were removed and replaced with dead blackbirds, and from Lance, of the Blackbird Mine in east Africa.\n\nThe Blackbird Mine was found by a Mr MacKenzie and suspected of containing gold. Rex Fortescue investigated the land after investing capital in it, then left MacKenzie there to die, returning alone and owning the land that he felt was of no value. Mrs MacKenzie had subsequently blamed Rex for her husband's death, promising to teach her children to avenge their father. Both the Inspector and Miss Marple suspect that the daughter is in the household under another name, as the son died in the war. The Inspector suspects Mary Dove, the housekeeper, and tells her so; later, Jennifer Fortescue, wife of Percy, tells Miss Marple that she was the MacKenzies' daughter, and the Inspector confirms it. Jennifer put out the dead blackbirds near Rex to remind him of his past offense; Miss Marple realizes this gave the theme to the murderer. Dove immediately blackmails Jennifer; Inspector Neele says if Dove pays the money back, he will not charge her.\n\nMiss Marple explains to Inspector Neele who killed Rex Fortescue: Gladys, who put the poison in the marmalade believing it was a truth drug, and the rye in his pocket, at the direction of her boyfriend, Albert Evans. The unattractive Gladys was very easy to persuade to assist him, never questioning his motives and flattered by his attentions. Miss Marple explains that Albert Evans is really Lance Fortescue, who wants the deed to the Blackbird Mine, as uranium has been found there. He arranged the murder of his father to stop the loss of cash and to deal only with his brother. He murdered his stepmother because she would inherit a large amount of money, but only if she lived thirty days after her husband, and he killed Gladys so she would not talk, leaving the clothes pin to match the line in the rhyme.\n\nWhen Miss Marple returns home, a letter from Gladys waylaid in the post awaits her. She explains all she did and begs Miss Marple's help, as she does not know what to do, and encloses a photo of her and her Albert -- clearly Lance Fortescue. Inspector Neele's case will be very strong.\n\n\nPhilip John Stead in \"The Times Literary Supplement\", 4 December 1953 wrote that \"Miss Christie's novel belongs to the comfortable branch of detective fiction; it never harrows its readers by realistic presentation of violence or emotion or by making exorbitant demands on their interest in the characters. Crime is a convention, pursuit an intellectual exercise, and it is as if the murderer of the odious financier did but poison in jest. The characters are lightly and deftly sketched and an antiseptic breeze of humour prevails. It is a pleasure to read an author so nicely conscious of the limitations of what she is attempting.\" He concluded, \"Miss Christie has a reputation for playing fair with the reader who likes to assume detective responsibility, and also for being one too many for him. In the present case it may be felt that the hidden mechanism of the plot is ingenious at the expense of probability, but the tale is told with such confidence that (like murder itself, in this pastoral atmosphere) it does not matter very much.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson in \"The Observer\" (15 November 1953) posited, \"Not quite so stunning as some of Mrs Christie's criminal assaults upon her readers; the soufflé rises all right, but the red herrings aren't quite nifty enough. But how well she nearly always writes, the dear decadent old death-trafficker; they ought to make her a Dame or a D. Litt.\"\n\nRobert Barnard said of the characters that \"Super-stockbrokerbelt setting, and quite exceptionally nasty family of suspects. (Christie usually prefers to keep most of her characters at least \"potentially\" sympathetic as well as potential murderers, but here they are only the latter).\" He felt that the plot was \"Something of a re-run of \"Hercule Poirot's Christmas\" (loathsome father, goody-goody son, ne'er-do-well son, gold-digger wife, etc.), but without its tight construction and ingenuity. And the rhyme is an irrelevancy.\" His bottom line on this novel was that \"Still, a good, sour read.\"\n\nThe aril, the fleshy part of the berry, is the only part of the yew that is non-toxic. The seeds inside the berry contain a high concentration of taxine and are poisonous if chewed. Pets that chew on yew branches or leaves have become ill. One of the characters in the novel remarks that Taxine has \"no medical uses,\" which was correct at the time. In 1963, Taxol which is a member of the Taxine family, was found to be one of the most potent and effective chemotherapy drugs for the treatment of solid tumors.\n\nThe novel was adapted into the Russian-language film \"Tayna chyornykh drozdov\" (\"The Secret of the Blackbirds\") and starred Estonian actress Ita Ever as Miss Marple.\n\n\"A Pocket Full of Rye\" was the fourth transmitted story in the BBC series of Miss Marple adaptations, which starred Joan Hickson as the elderly sleuth. It was first broadcast in two parts on 7 & 8 March 1985. Despite remaining faithful to the novel, apart from giving the title as \"A Pocketful of Rye\", the characters of Mrs MacKenzie, Gerald Wright and Elaine Fortescue did not make an appearance. In the end the murderer dies in a car crash, while there is no such thing in the novel.\n\nThe novel was adapted for the fourth series of the British television series \"Agatha Christie's Marple\" broadcast on ITV on 6 September 2009, starring Julia McKenzie as the title character.\n\n\nThe novel was first serialised, heavily abridged, in the UK in the \"Daily Express\" starting on Monday 28 September, running for fourteen instalments until Tuesday 13 October 1953.\n\nThe novel was first serialised in the US in the \"Chicago Tribune\" in forty-two parts from Monday, 11 January to Saturday, 27 February 1954.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292762", "title": "Lakeside MRT station", "text": "Lakeside MRT station\n\nLakeside MRT Station was originally named Corporation, it was renamed in 1986. The station was opened on 5 November 1988, it was a western terminal station for the East West Line, when westbound train terminates at Platform B before it turnaround utilised nearby crossover to Platform A headed back to the East, before Boon Lay was fully opened on 6 July 1990 and the MRT system that time was declared opened by the late President Wee Kim Wee.\n\nLakeside station provides MRT access to residents living in Taman Jurong and Hong Kah. It is currently one of the three stations that serve Jurong West New Town; the other two being Boon Lay MRT station and Pioneer MRT station.\n\nThe station was designed with a curved Chinese roof, similar to those at the nearby Chinese Garden. \n\nAs with most of the above-ground stations built in the past along the East West Line, it was built without platform screen doors. After several successful tests at Jurong East, Yishun and Pasir Ris and eventually, installation of the half-height screen doors started on 9 June 2010 and operations commenced on 31 August that year along with Bukit Batok.\n\nHigh-volume low-speed fans were installed and commenced operation on 30 November 2012. Privacy screens were installed from Lakeside MRT station to Corporation Road, excluding Lakeside crossover to minimise noise generated from their residents.\n"}
{"id": "2292765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292765", "title": "Pioneer MRT station", "text": "Pioneer MRT station\n\nPioneer MRT station (EW28) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West Line in Jurong West, Singapore.\n\nDespite its name, Pioneer station is not physically located within the Pioneer planning area. Rather, its name was derived from Pioneer Road North, a major road to the west of the station that travels in the north-south direction. Pioneer station is currently the nearest MRT station to the Nanyang Technological University until 2028 when Nanyang Gateway and Nanyang Crescent stations along the Jurong Region MRT line opens.\n\nIt is one of two above-ground stations on the MRT network with a privacy screen built along the track of the eastbound platform to ensure the privacy of nearby residents; the other station being Marsiling MRT station.\n\nBuilt along with Joo Koon, it was part of the Boon Lay Extension (BLE) project announced by the Land Transport Authority in December 2004 to help people working in the Jurong Industrial Area travel faster.\n\nThe station opened on 28 February 2009 and following the opening, SBS Transit introduced a new feeder bus service 241 to provide bridging services for the N9 residents and the Land Transport Authority carried out amendments and additions (A&A) works on Pioneer Road North, such as expanding the road and constructing an overhead pedestrian ramp bridge, as complements to the station to serve the residents of Nanyang and Pioneer.\n\nAs with most of the above-ground stations built in the past along the East West Line, it was initially built without platform screen doors that prevent commuters from falling onto the train tracks. Installation of the half-height screen doors eventually started on 21 June 2011. By 24 August that year, all of the screen doors were installed and began operations.\n\nThe station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, which commenced operations on 10 June 2012. It was the second station, after Tampines to have them installed.\n\nWhen the Tuas West Extension opened on 18 June 2017, service on every other westbound train was extended to the new terminus at Tuas Link.some trains continued to terminate at Joo Koon; these trains proceeded to a turn back siding to reverse direction before heading back to Pasir Ris. As the section of track between Pioneer and Joo Koon support 'mixed-mode' of both signalling systems, all trains in either direction dwelled at the station for a longer amount of time to change between the old and new signalling systems.\n"}
{"id": "2292771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292771", "title": "Joo Koon MRT station", "text": "Joo Koon MRT station\n\nJoo Koon MRT station (EW29) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station along the East West Line in Pioneer planning area, Singapore.\n\nJoo Koon station is named after Joo Koon Village, a rural Chinese settlement that once stood in the area before it was turned into an industrial estate in the 1960s. It was the western terminus of the East West Line from 28 February 2009 to 18 June 2017, until Tuas Link station was built. Train services now alternate between Joo Koon and Tuas Link stations.\n\nBuilt along with Pioneer, it was part of the Boon Lay MRT Extension (BLE) project announced by the Land Transport Authority in December 2004 to help people working in the Jurong Industrial Area travel faster.\n\nThe station opened on 28 February 2009 together with Pioneer. It replaced Boon Lay as the western terminus of the East West Line from its opening until 18 June 2017, when the Tuas West Extension to Tuas Link began operations.\n\nAs with most of the above-ground stations built in the past along the East West Line, it was built without platform screen doors that prevent commuters from falling onto the train tracks. Installations of the half-height platform screen doors were eventually started on 16 May 2011. On 26 July that year, all of the platform screen doors at the station have been installed and began operating.\n\nThe station was installed with high-volume low-speed fans, in operation since 19 August 2012.\n\nOn 18 June 2017, Tuas Link station took over Joo Koon station as the western terminus, as part of the opening of the Tuas West Extension. At that time, every other westbound train continued to terminate at this station, due to the extension using a different signalling system from the rest of the line towards Pasir Ris. It was planned to remain that way until the entire line was upgraded to the new signalling system by the end of 2018. \n\nOn 15 November 2017 at approximately 8.18am, 2 C151A trains collided at Joo Koon MRT station. A train fault caused the first train heading in the direction of Tuas Link to stall at the station. A minute later, a second train stopped behind the first and then \"moved forward unexpectedly\", resulting in the collision. 36 passengers and 2 SMRT staff sustained light to moderate injuries, and have been conveyed to Ng Teng Fong General Hospital and National University Hospital. This is the second of such incidents after 5 August 1993, with the first being when 2 C151 trains collided at Clementi.\n\nAs a result, train services between Tuas Link and Boon Lay stations were temporally suspended on both directions for 2 hours on the day itself and for the entire day on 16 November that year, resulting that the westbound trains would terminate at Boon Lay station.\n\nAn update by the Land Transport Authority (LTA) & SMRT on that day stated that LTA and SMRT have decided to isolate for up to one month for the operations of the Tuas West Extension, which runs on the new signalling system, from the rest of the East West Line, which runs on the old signalling system. This will enable LTA engineers to carry out further assurance checks together with Thales.\n\nTrain service on the Tuas West Extension between Gul Circle and Tuas Link resumed operations on 20 November that year, using the new signalling system. The rest of the East West Line continues to run on the old signalling system between Pasir Ris and Joo Koon. However, train services between Joo Koon and Gul Circle were suspended till 27 May 2018, and free bridging bus service is available between these two stations. Continuous service to Tuas Link resumed in stages.\n"}
{"id": "2292777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292777", "title": "Hastingleigh", "text": "Hastingleigh\n\nHastingleigh is a small civil parish centred on an escarpment of the Kent Downs.\n\nThe parish is three miles east of Wye and ten miles south of Canterbury, extending to the hill-scape of the Devil's Kneading Trough, on the North Downs Way with views towards Ashford, Romney Marsh and the patchy remnant forest of The Weald (between the Greensand Ridge and South Downs).\n\nCommon amenities are a garage and a public house.\n\nHastingsleigh gets its name from the Haestingas, a Jutish tribe that lived in the area.\n\nThe village was in existence before the Domesday Book and originally lay in the valley by the Church of England church (St. Mary the Virgin) but following the plague, the main settlement was relocated to its current position. The church is made of stone, in the Early English style, and has a tower containing one bell: there is a brass to John Halke, d.1604, and Amia his wife, d.1596: The maternal grandparents of Dr. William Harvey; his mother Joane was born at South Hill, Hastingleigh and married Thomas Harvie of Folkestone, in Hastingleigh Church.\nThe nave and aisle were restored in 1880 and the chancel in 1886: the church affords 200 sittings. 12th-century murals were partially uncovered on the north wall, and south east corner of the church in 1966.\n\nHastingleigh was late in receiving a broadband service, in late 2006. It held most requests status for six months before conversion.\n\nThe village is reached from west or east. The main route (Churchfield Way) through more populated but larger Wye in the west connects, after a short section then a steep descent outside of the civil parish borders, to Elmsted and then to Canterbury.\n\nBus 620 runs between Canterbury, Hastingleigh and Waltham.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292778", "title": "The Showroom", "text": "The Showroom\n\nThe Showroom is a not-for-profit art gallery in Marylebone, London, which displays site-specific works by emerging artists. The gallery presents four shows each year, a schedule that allows artists the time to develop and realise their work on site.\n\nEstablished in 1983, the gallery was based at a site in Bethnal Green, East London. In 2008, the gallery relocated to a building in Marylebone, London, on Penfold Street, which was converted by Berlin-based architects ifau + Jesko Fezer.\n\nSolo shows at The Showroom in the former East End space included Mona Hatoum, Sam Taylor-Wood, Simon Starling, Christina Mackie, Jim Lambie, Claire Barclay, and Eva Rothschild. \n\nThe Showroom receives fixed-term funding from Arts Council of England and other organisations and individuals. The director Elvira Dyangani Ose replaced Emily Pethick in 2017. Previous directors were Kirsty Ogg, Kim Sweet and David Thorp.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292779", "title": "Hickory Dickory Dock (novel)", "text": "Hickory Dickory Dock (novel)\n\nHickory Dickory Dock is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club on 31 October 1955 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in November of the same year under the title of Hickory Dickory Death. The UK edition retailed at ten shillings and sixpence (10/6) and the US edition at $3.00. It features her Belgian detective Hercule Poirot. The novel is notable for featuring Poirot's efficient secretary, Miss Felicity Lemon, who had previously only appeared in the Poirot short stories.\n\nAn outbreak of apparent kleptomania at a student hostel arouses Hercule Poirot's interest when he sees the bizarre list of stolen and vandalised items. These include a stethoscope, some lightbulbs, some old flannel trousers, a box of chocolates, a slashed rucksack, some boracic powder and a diamond ring later found in a bowl of a soup – he congratulates the warden, Mrs Hubbard, on a 'unique and beautiful problem'. Poirot's solution of the petty thefts is unsubtle but effective: once he has threatened to call in the police, Celia Austin quickly confesses to the pettier incidents. She denies, however, the following: stealing Nigel Chapman's green ink and using it to deface Elizabeth Johnston's work; taking the stethoscope, the light bulbs and boracic powder; and cutting up and concealing a rucksack. She committed the lesser thefts to attract the attention of Colin McNabb, a psychology student who then becomes engaged to her. She makes restitution for the crimes and reconciles with her victims. The more important incidents remain unsolved. Celia is discovered dead the following morning from an overdose of morphine. It does not take investigators long to see that her death is murder.\n\nInspector Sharpe solves the mystery of the stolen stethoscope during his interviews with the inhabitants of the hostel. Nigel Chapman admits to having stolen the stethoscope to pose as a doctor and steal some morphine tartrate from the hospital dispensary as part of a bet to acquire three deadly poisons (the other two being digitalin and hyoscine). He claims the poisons were carefully disposed of, but cannot be sure that the morphine was not stolen from him while it was in his possession. Poirot turns his attention to the reappearance of the diamond ring, and confronts Valerie Hobhouse, in whose soup the ring was found. It seems that the diamond had been replaced with a zircon and that only Valerie could place it in the dish of soup; Poirot accuses her of having stolen the diamond. She admits to having done so, saying that she needed the money to pay off gambling debts. She also admits to having planted in Celia Austin's mind the idea of the thefts.\n\nMrs Nicoletis is behaving very nervously. She is killed by drinking poisoned brandy. Poirot focuses his attention now on the cutting up of the rucksack. By careful study of the rucksack's design, he identifies an unusual corrugated base, and suggests to the police that the rucksack is part of an international smuggling operation. The rucksacks were sold to innocent students, and then used to transport drugs and gems. Mrs Nicoletis had been bankrolling the organisation, but was not the brain behind it. When the police visited Hickory Road on an unconnected issue, the murderer had cut up the rucksack to avoid its being found and removed light bulbs to avoid being recognised.\n\nPatricia Lane comes to Nigel and admits that she has taken the morphine from the bottle in his drawer and substituted for it bicarbonate of soda. Now the bottle of bicarbonate of soda has been taken from her own drawer. While they are searching for this bottle she mentions that she is intending to write to his father to reconcile the two. Nigel tells her that the reason for his estrangement from his father is that he discovered that his father had poisoned his mother with Medinal, a trade name for barbitone sodium. This is why he changed his name and carries two passports. Nigel goes to Inspector Sharpe and tells him about the missing morphine, but while he is there, Patricia telephones to say that she has discovered something further. By the time that Nigel and Sharpe get to the house, she is dead, killed by a blow to the head. Akibombo comes to Sharpe and says that he had taken Patricia's bicarbonate to ease a stomach complaint; when he took a teaspoonful of the bicarbonate, however, he had stomach pains and later discovered that the white powder was in fact the boracic powder. By the time Patricia had substituted the bicarbonate, the morphine had already been substituted by the stolen boracic powder. Poirot's suspicions about Valerie Hobhouse's role in the smuggling operation are proved correct by a police raid on her beauty shop.\n\nThe murderer is Nigel Chapman, who was known to have the morphine in his possession. He killed Celia because she knew about his dual identity and also knew that Valerie travelled abroad on a false passport. He killed Mrs Nicoletis because she was sure to give the smuggling operation away under pressure, and killed Patricia because she was likely to draw his father's attention to the recent events, as she was on the verge of writing a letter to him in the hope of reconciling him with his son before his death. When Poirot outlines to Nigel's father's solicitor the case against Nigel, the solicitor provides final proof. Nigel's mother had been poisoned, not by his father, but by Nigel. When the father discovered this ( is a poison slow to act, and the mother told her husband), he forced him to write a confession and left it with his solicitor together with a letter explaining that it should be presented to the authorities in case of any further wrongdoing by Nigel. Valerie placed the call to the police station, which had apparently come from Patricia, to establish an alibi for Nigel who had already bludgeoned Patricia. The green ink was a double-bluff intended to divert suspicion away from him. Valerie is willing to incriminate Nigel fully because Mrs Nicoletis was actually her mother.\n\n\nThe title is taken, as are other of Christie's titles, from a nursery rhyme: \"Hickory Dickory Dock\". This is nevertheless one of her most tenuous links to the original nursery rhyme, consisting of little more than the name of a road.\n\nPhilip John Stead's review in the \"Times Literary Supplement\" of 23 December 1955 began: \"Poirot's return to the happy hunting grounds of detective fiction is something of an event. He is called upon to solve the mystery of a series of apparently trivial thefts at a student's hostel but soon finds himself partnering the police in investigating murder. Mrs. Christie rapidly establishes her favourite atmosphere by her skilful mixture of cheerfulness and suspense.\" After summarising the plot he concluded, \"The amount of mischief going on in the hostel imposes some strain on the reader's patience as well as on Poirot's ingenuity; the author has been a little too liberal with the red herrings. Yet the thumb-nail sketches of the characters are as good as ever and in spite of the over-elaborate nature of the puzzle there is plenty of entertainment.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"A significant falling-off in standards in this mid-'fifties story. A highly perfunctory going-through-the-paces: the rhyme has no meaning within the story; the plot (drugs smuggled in imported haversacks) is unlikely in the extreme; and the attempt to widen the range of character types (Africans, Indians, students of Freud etc.) is far from successful. Evelyn Waugh's diary records that it 'began well' but deteriorated 'a third of the way through into twaddle' – a judgment which, unusually for him, erred on the side of charity.\"\n\nWhen the students are attempting to place Hercule Poirot, during Chapter 4, one of them mentions the case retold in \"Mrs McGinty's Dead\" (1952). When Poirot comes to lecture to the students about his cases in the same chapter, he retells the story of \"The Nemean Lion\", published in book form in \"The Labours of Hercules\" (1947). In chapter 5 Poirot also remembers Count Vera Rossakoff's \"exotic splendour...even in decay\", something that he has only observed in \"The Capture of Cerberus\", also from \"The Labours of Hercules\". In Chapter 21, Poirot visits a solicitor by the name of Mr. Endicott to confirm his suspicions of Nigel Chapman. Endicott says to Poirot, \"...I'm deeply in your debt. You cleared up that nasty Abernethy business for me.\" This may be a reference to the events in \"After the Funeral\" (1953), though Abernethie is mistakenly spelt \"Abernethy\" and not \"Abernethie\" as it is in \"After the Funeral\". Furthermore, the catalyst to Poirot's direct involvement to the events in \"After the Funeral\" is a solicitor named Entwhistle, not Endicott\n\nIn Chapter 11, Elizabeth Johnston refers to anti-Communist “witch hunts” in America. The term was first used in its metaphorical sense in 1938, but its specific connection with McCarthyism dates from the first performance of Arthur Miller's play, \"The Crucible\", in 1953. This implies that the setting of the novel is at most two years before its publication.\n\nA television adaptation, starring David Suchet as Poirot; Philip Jackson as Inspector Japp; Pauline Moran as Miss Lemon; Damian Lewis as Leonard Bateson; Sarah Badel as Mrs Hubbard; Elinor Morriston as Valerie Hobhouse and Jonathan Firth as Nigel Chapman, was broadcast in 1995 in the series \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\". In common with the rest of the series, the setting is moved back in time from the post-World War II period of Christie's original novel to the 1930s. This results in an anachronism: the American student Sally Finch is said to be on a Fulbright scholarship, though the Fulbright Program was not founded until after the Second World War.\n\nThis adaptation differed from Christie's novel in that Sharpe is replaced with the recurring character of Inspector Japp, and a number of the students from the novel are left out, most notably Akibombo, Elizabeth Johnston, and Lal, who are students but neither English nor American. Other aspects omitted from the TV adaptation include the red herring of the green ink, the change of the motive for the murder of Celia, the theft of the poison being the only thing taken and the person who takes it (McNabb) and the smuggling involving only diamonds, the inclusion of a Custom and Excise Officer conducting an undercover operation, and the relationship between Valerie and Mrs Nicoletis. \n\n\nIn the UK the novel was first serialised in the weekly magazine \"John Bull\" in six abridged instalments from 28 May (Volume 97, Number 2552) to 2 July 1955 (Volume 98, Number 2557) with illustrations by \"Fancett\".\n\nThe novel was first serialised in the US in \"Collier's Weekly\" in three abridged instalments from 14 October (Volume 136, Number 8) to 11 November 1955 (Volume 136, Number 10) under the title \"Hickory Dickory Death\" with illustrations by Robert Fawcett.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292783", "title": "Nicoll Highway MRT station", "text": "Nicoll Highway MRT station\n\nNicoll Highway MRT station (CC5) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line in Downtown Core, Singapore located underneath Republic Avenue and adjacent to Nicoll Highway.\n\nLocated on the western bank of the Kallang Basin, Nicoll Highway station took its name from Nicoll Highway, a semi-expressway that directly connects the junctions of Mountbatten Road, Guillemard Road and Sims Way in Kallang with the junctions of Raffles Avenue, Stamford Road and Esplanade Drive in Downtown Core. Landmarks within the vicinity of this station include Golden Mile Complex, The Concourse and Kampong Glam.\n\nThe road was realigned in September 2002 for the construction of the station. As part of the LTA's survey in April 2004 for the Circle line station names, two names were selected - Sultan Gate and Kampong Glam. In the end, Nicoll Highway was selected when it was relocated.\n\nOn 20th of that month, a section of tunnel being built for the Circle line collapsed, apparently when a retaining wall used in the tunnel's construction gave way. This occurred near what was to become the Nicoll Highway station on the Circle line, not far from the Merdeka Bridge. The accident left a collapse zone 150m wide, 100m long, and 30m deep. Four workers were killed, with three more injured and one body which was never recovered.\n\nConsequently, the station site was moved around 100 m south of the initial location. Moreover, the tunnels between Promenade and Stadium were constructed on an alignment that bypassed the collapsed area. The collapse also resulted in the completion of the Circle MRT line Stage 1 being pushed back from 2008 to 2010.\n\nPrior to 27 March 2019, Nicoll Highway MRT station was located entirely within Kallang planning area. The URA Draft Master Plan 2019 has realigned the Downtown Core–Kallang boundary; Nicoll Highway MRT station now falls wholly within Downtown Core planning area.\n\nKhiew Huey Chian highlights wild plants frequently overlooked in Singapore using silhouettes of wild plants, resembling these with shapes to create slight contrast but harmony to the entire installation for this station's Art in Transit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292789", "title": "Destination Unknown (novel)", "text": "Destination Unknown (novel)\n\nDestination Unknown is a work of spy fiction by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club on 1 November 1954 and in US by Dodd, Mead and Company in 1955 under the title of So Many Steps to Death. The UK edition retailed at ten shillings and sixpence (10/6) and the US edition at $2.75.\n\nIt is one of the five Christie novels to have not received an adaptation of any kind, the others being \"Death Comes as the End\", \"Passenger to Frankfurt\", \"They Came to Baghdad\", and \"Postern of Fate\".\n\nHilary Craven, a deserted wife and bereaved mother, is planning suicide in a Moroccan hotel, when she is asked by British secret agent Jessop to undertake a dangerous mission as an alternative to taking an overdose of sleeping pills. The task, which she accepts, is to impersonate the wife of Thomas Betterton, a nuclear scientist who has disappeared and may have defected to the Soviet Union. Soon she finds herself in a group of oddly-assorted travellers being transported to the unknown destination of the title.\n\nThe destination turns out to be a secret scientific research facility disguised as a modern leper colony and medical research center at a remote location in the Atlas Mountains. The scientists are well-treated, but they are not allowed to leave the facility, and they are locked in secret areas deep inside the mountain whenever government officials and other outsiders visit. Hilary Craven successfully passes herself as Betterton's wife Olive, because he is miserable and wants desperately to escape. \n\nHilary discovers that the facility was built by the fabulously wealthy and somewhat villainous Mr Aristides, for financial rather than political ends. He has lured the world's best young scientists to it with various deceptions so that he can later sell their services back to the world's governments and corporations for a huge profit. She falls in love with Andrew Peters, a handsome young American who was in the group with her on their journey to the facility. \n\nWith the help of clues she has left along the way, Jessop eventually locates and rescues her and the others held there. Peters turns out also to be on a mission, intent on bringing Betterton to justice for the murder of his first wife. Betterton, revealed to also be a scientific fraud who plagiarized his work, is arrested. Hilary no longer wants to die, and she and Peters are free to begin their life together.\n\n\nThis book explores the 1950s subject of defection to the Soviets, but it also demonstrates how the break-up of Christie's first marriage in the 1920s remained with her. Like her 1934 Mary Westmacott novel \"Unfinished Portrait\", it starts with a youngish woman who has married, had a daughter and whose husband has replaced her with someone else. \n\nIn both books, a young man displays remarkable perceptiveness in spotting her intention to end her life and defies convention to save her, not only in tackling a stranger on intimate matters but in spending time in the woman's hotel bedroom to talk her out of suicide. In this story he talks her into espionage instead.\n\n\"The Times Literary Supplement\" in its review, written by Philip John Stead, of 19 November 1954, was enthusiastic when it asked, \"Where do scientists go when they vanish from the ken of the Security Services? A solution to this fascinating problem is propounded in \"Destination Unknown\". While it must be admitted that the secret, when disclosed, smacks rather of \"The Thousand and One Nights\" than of modern international rivalry for scientific talents, it may surely be excused on the ground that it provides Mrs. Christie with a story-tellers holiday from the rigours of detective fiction. Readers may regret the absence of the tonic logicalities of crime's unravelling – though \"clues\" are not altogether missing – for the secret service story belongs largely to Adventure, but in their place is the author's obvious pleasure in the wider horizons of the more romantic genre.\" The review concluded, \"However much the purist yearns for Poirot or Miss Marple, he can hardly deplore Mrs. Christie's bright, busy excursion into this topical and extravagant sphere.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson of \"The Observer\" of 31 October 1954, said, \"The thriller is not Agatha Christie's forte; it makes her go all breathless and naïve.\" He concluded, \"Needs to be read indulgently in a very comfortable railway carriage. She probably had a delicious busman's holiday writing it.\"\n\nRobert Barnard wrote, \"Slightly above-average thriller, with excellent beginning (heroine, whose husband has left her for another woman, and whose small daughter had died, contemplates suicide in strange hotel). Thereafter topples over into hokum, with a notably unexciting climax. Mainly concerns disappearing scientists – it is written in the wake of the Fuchs/Pontecorvo affairs. Mentions the un-American Activities Committee, without obvious disapproval.\"\n\n\nIn the UK the novel was first serialised in the weekly magazine \"John Bull\" in five abridged instalments from 25 September (Volume 96, Number 2517) to 23 October 1954 (Volume 96, Number 2521) with illustrations by William Little.\n\nThe novel was first serialised in the US in the \"Chicago Tribune\" in fifty-one parts from Tuesday, 12 April to Thursday 9 June 1955 under the title of \"Destination X\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2292793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292793", "title": "Stadium MRT station", "text": "Stadium MRT station\n\nStadium MRT station (CC6) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle Line in the area of Kallang, Central Region, Singapore. Located within the Singapore Sports Hub on the eastern bank of the Kallang Basin, this station derived its name from the National Stadium. Other than the National Stadium, other facilities part of the Singapore Sports Hub, such as the Kallang Theatre and Leisure Park Kallang, are also located close to the station.\n\nSince the opening of the Circle Line Extension on 14 January 2012, trains from Marina Bay MRT station terminate at Platform A of this station during off-peak hours. This station is also within walking distances to both Mountbatten MRT station on the Circle Line and Kallang MRT station on the East West Line. The future Tanjong Rhu MRT station on the Thomson–East Coast MRT Line will also be in close proximity to this station, located just across the Geylang River.\n\nOn 6 February 2002, traffic around the former National Stadium had to be realigned for the construction of the station. To facilitate the construction of the station, Stadium Boulevard was closed from Stadium Drive to Stadium Walk.\n\nPrior to the opening of the station, it was tentatively named \"Boulevard\", after the nearby road Stadium Boulevard. The current name, \"Stadium\", was later selected to reflect the upcoming flagship development in the area, the new National Stadium.\n\nThis station was designed by WOHA Architects and was awarded \"Design Of The Year\" of the President's Design Award in 2010.\n\nThis station was featured in the HBO science fiction television series \"Westworld\".\n"}
{"id": "2292798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292798", "title": "Mountbatten MRT station", "text": "Mountbatten MRT station\n\nMountbatten MRT station (CC7) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line, located on the boundary of Kallang and Geylang, Singapore.\n\nServing the Mountbatten subzone, the area and the station is named after British Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten, the Supreme Allied Commander of the South East Asia Command who accepted the Japanese surrender of Singapore during the Second World War.\n\nBuilt at the junction of Mountbatten Road, Old Airport Road and Stadium Boulevard, Mountbatten station provides MRT access to residents of the Old Kallang Airport Estate and the numerous sports facilities at Kallang Sports Complex, including Kallang Field, Kallang Tennis Centre and Kallang Netball Centre.\n\nMountbatten station is within walking distances to Stadium MRT station and Dakota MRT station.\n\nOn 26 September 2003, construction started at Mountbatten MRT station with road realignment being done at Old Airport Road/Mountbatten Road junction.\n\nBefore the station was built, it is named Old Airport Road. As there are two stations surrounding the Old Airport Road, it was renamed to Mountbatten. Mountbatten was selected after Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma, the Supreme Allied Commander (Southeast Asia) who accepted the Japanese surrender of Singapore during the Second World War.\n\nThe station was opened on 17 April 2010 along with the rest of Stage 1 & 2 of the Circle line.\n\nThe contractor in charge of building this station was Nishimatsu-Lum Chang joint venture, the same joint venture that was in charge of the Nicoll Highway station.\n\nThe alignment of the underground Kallang–Paya Lebar Expressway intersects with the alignment of the railway tunnels of the Circle line between Mountbatten and Stadium. It posed a construction challenge as both were constructed at the same time from 2003 to 2006.\n\nThe distance between Dakota MRT station and this station is one of the shortest between any two stations on the Circle line, taking less than a minute to travel between the two stations. Both stations are located on Old Airport Road, hence the short distance.\n"}
{"id": "2292805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292805", "title": "4.50 from Paddington", "text": "4.50 from Paddington\n\n4.50 from Paddington is a detective fiction novel by Agatha Christie, first published in November 1957 by Collins Crime Club. This work was published in the United States at the same time as What Mrs McGillicuddy Saw!, by Dodd, Mead. The novel was published in serial form before the book was released in each nation, and under different titles. The US edition retailed at $2.95.\n\nReviewers at the time generally liked the novel, but would have liked more direct involvement of Miss Marple, and less consideration of her failing strength, using others to act for her. A later review by Barnard found the story short on clues, but favorably noted Lucy Eyelesbarrow as an independent woman character.\n\nThe 1961 film \"Murder, She Said\" was based on this novel as were several television programs.\n\nMrs Elspeth McGillicuddy is on her way from a shopping expedition to visit her old friend Jane Marple for Christmas. Her train passes another train running parallel and in the same direction as her train. Then, a blind in one compartment flies up and she sees a man with his back to her strangling a woman. She reports it to a sceptical ticket collector who passes the report for investigation. When arriving at Miss Marple's cottage, she tells all to her. Mrs McGillicuddy describes the dying woman as having blonde hair and wearing a fur coat and the man as tall and dark, though she saw only his back. Miss Marple believes her story, knowing her friend to be trustworthy in description. With no report of a body found in the next day's news, Miss Marple sets out to determine where the body is. With a good map and several rides on the trains to feel the effect of a sharp curve on standing passengers, she determines that the body is on the grounds of Rutherford Hall. Miss Marple sends Lucy Eyelesbarrow, a young professional cook and housekeeper, to work at Rutherford Hall and find the body.\n\nLuther Crackenthorpe is a semi-invalid widower who lives in Rutherford Hall with his daughter Emma. Luther's father wrote a will that left his property for his eldest grandson, not liking his son. Luther receives the income for life. After Luther's death, the capital is to be divided equally among Luther's surviving children, not unlike a tontine pension. The share of cash rises to the living children as each sibling dies before their father dies.\n\nEdmund, the firstborn son, died during World War II. Youngest daughter Edith (\"Edie\"), died four years before the novel begins, leaving a son, Alexander. The remaining children are Cedric, an Ibiza-based bohemian painter; Harold, a married banker; Alfred, who engages in shady business dealings; and Emma. Others at the family home include Alexander's father Bryan Eastley, and Alexander's school friend James Stoddart-West, and local physician Dr Quimper, who looks after Luther but is in love with Emma.\n\nLucy uses golf practice as a way to search the grounds. She discovers fur from a woman's fur coat caught on a bush. Then she finds a cheap compact. Lucy takes these to Miss Marple, who believes the murderer knew all about Rutherford Hall. He removed the body from the embankment where it had fallen away from the railway, drove a car outside the grounds at night and hid the body. Lucy finds the woman's body hidden in a sarcophagus in the old stables containing Luther's collection of dubious antiques. Who was she?\n\nThe police, led by Inspector Craddock, identify the victim's clothing as purchased in Paris. Emma tells the police of two letters, one from her brother shortly before his death in the retreat to Dunkirk, and another received a few weeks before the woman's body is found. Her brother said he would marry a woman named Martine. The recent letter seemed to be from Martine, wanting to connect with the family of her son's father. There was not a second letter, nor a meeting with Martine. The police conclude that the body in the sarcophagus is that of Martine until Lady Stoddart-West, mother of James, reveals her identity. She confirms that Edmund's letter spoke of her, but he died before they could marry. She spoke up only because her son told her of the letter supposedly from Martine.\n\nThe whole family, apart from the absent Bryan and Alexander, takes ill suddenly, and Alfred dies. Later, the curry made by Lucy on the fateful day is found to contain arsenic. Some days later, Harold, after returning home to London, receives a delivery of tablets from Dr Quimper, who had told him not to take more, yet sends him more. Harold takes them; poisoned with aconitine, Harold dies whilst being watched taking the tablets by Lady Alice, his wife.\n\nLucy arranges an afternoon-tea visit to Rutherford Hall for Miss Marple and Mrs McGillicuddy. Miss Marple instructs Mrs McGillicuddy to ask to use the lavatory as soon as they arrive. Miss Marple is eating a fish-paste sandwich when she begins to choke on a fish bone. Dr Quimper moves to assist her. Mrs McGillicuddy enters the room at that moment, sees the doctor's hands at Miss Marple's throat, and cries out, \"But that's him – that's the man on the train!\"\n\nMiss Marple realised that her friend would recognise the real murderer if she saw him again in a similar pose. The dead woman was Quimper's wife, who would not divorce him so he killed her to be free to marry Emma. After the Quimpers separated, she joined a ballet troupe as Anna Stravinska. Quimper's scheme grew to killing Emma's brothers, so the inheritance need not be shared.\n\nHe poisoned the cocktail jug, not the dinner, and added arsenic to the sample of curry he took before he gave it in for testing. He added a second dose of arsenic to Alfred's tea. He sent the poisoned tablets to Harold. Miss Marple then tells Mrs McGillicuddy and Inspector Craddock that Luther Crackenthorpe may die soon, that Emma will get over the doctor, and that there will be wedding bells for Lucy – though she refuses to be drawn on the identity of the groom. It is obvious to Miss Marple.\n\n\nThe UK title \"4.50 from Paddington\", specifies a train time departing from Paddington station in London, a major station in central London. The train is identified by the time it is scheduled to leave that station, at ten minutes before five in the afternoon. In British style, the time is written as 4.50 (nowadays it would be 16.50). The London railway stations were perhaps not considered well known by the US publisher, and thus the title was changed to \"What Mrs McGillicuddy Saw!\", which also refers to that moment on the train, for the US market.\n\nPhilip John Stead's review in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" (29 November 1957) concluded that \"Miss Christie never harrows her readers, being content to intrigue and amuse them.\" \n\nThe novel was reviewed in \"The Times\" edition of 5 December 1957 when it stated, \"Mrs Christie's latest is a model detective story; one keeps turning back to verify clues, and not one is irrelevant or unfair.\" The review concluded, \"Perhaps there is a corpse or two too many, but there is never a dull moment.\"\n\nFellow crime writer Anthony Berkeley Cox, writing under the \"nom de plume\" of Francis Iles, reviewed the novel in the 6 December 1957 issue of \"The Guardian\", in which he confessed to being disappointed with the work: \"I have only pity for those poor souls who cannot enjoy the sprightly stories of Agatha Christie; but though sprightliness is not the least of this remarkable writer's qualities, there is another that we look for in her, and that is detection: genuine, steady, logical detection, taking us step by step nearer to the heart of the mystery. Unfortunately it is that quality that is missing in \"4.50 from Paddington\". The police never seem to find out a single thing, and even Miss Marples (sic) lies low and says nuffin' to the point until the final dramatic exposure. There is the usual small gallery of interesting and perfectly credible characters and nothing could be easier to read. But please, Mrs Christie, a little more of that incomparable detection next time.\"\n\nRobert Barnard said of this novel that it was \"Another locomotive one – murder seen as two trains pass each other in the same direction. Later settles down into a good old family murder. Contains one of Christie's few sympathetic independent women. Miss Marple apparently solves the crime by divine guidance, for there is very little in the way of clues or logical deduction.\"\n\n\nIn the UK the novel was first serialised in the weekly magazine \"John Bull\" in five abridged instalments from 5 October (volume 102 number 2675) to 2 November 1957 (volume 102 number 2679) with illustrations by KJ Petts.\n\nThe novel was first serialised in the US in the \"Chicago Tribune\" in thirty six instalments from Sunday 27 October to Saturday 7 December 1957 under title \"Eyewitness to Death\".\n\nThe novel was published in the US under the title \"What Mrs McGillicuddy Saw!\" by Dodd Mead and Co. The UK version was to be titled \"4.54 from Paddington\" until the last minute, when the title and text references were changed to \"4.50 from Paddington\". This change was not communicated to Dodd Mead until after the book was being printed, so the text references to the time show 4:54 rather than 4:50.\n\nAn abridged version of the novel was also published in the 28 December 1957 issue of the \"Star Weekly Complete Novel\", a Toronto newspaper supplement, under the title \"Eye Witness to Death\" with a cover illustration by Maxine McCaffrey.\n\nThe book was made into a 1961 movie starring Margaret Rutherford in the first of her four appearances as Miss Marple. It was the first Miss Marple film.\n\nThe BBC broadly follows the original plot with its 1987 version, starring Joan Hickson, (who also starred as Mrs Kidder in the 1961 film, \"Murder, She Said\"). There are several changes:\n\n\nITV adapted the novel for the series \"Marple\" in 2004 starring Geraldine McEwan as Miss Marple, with the title \"What Mrs McGillicuddy Saw!\" used when it was shown in the US. The adaptation contains several changes from the novel:\n\n\nIn addition to these changes, Miss Marple is seen reading Dashiel Hammett's \"Woman in the Dark and Other Stories\", providing an inter-textual detail that suggests some of Miss Marple's detective insights come from her reading of classic murder fiction as well as her shrewd understanding of human nature.\n\n\n\"Le crime est notre affaire\" is a French film directed by Pascal Thomas, released in 2008. Named after the book \"Partners in Crime\", and, like the book, starring Tommy and Tuppence as the detective characters, the film is in fact an adaptation of \"4.50 From Paddington\". The locations and names differ, but the story is essentially the same. The film is a sequel to \"Mon petit doigt m'a dit...\", a 2004 film by Pascal Thomas adapted from \"By the Pricking of My Thumbs\". Both are set in Savoy in the present day.\n\n\nTV Asahi adapted the novel in 2018 starring Yuki Amami and Atsuko Maeda, with the title \"Two Nights Drama Special: 4.50 from Paddington - Night Express Train Murder\" () as the first night. The second night was \"The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side\".\n\n\nOn 17 June 2010, I-play released a downloadable hidden object game based on \"4.50 from Paddington\" (see the external links). Dialogue interspersed with the hidden object puzzles follows the plot of the original story. Items mentioned in the dialogue are among those hidden in each round. The player finds locations on the map by textual clues, which makes the map a hidden object scene, too. At three points during play the player is asked to hypothesize on the identity of the murderer, but as in the novel there is little in the way of relevant evidence. Unlike the games based on \"Evil Under the Sun\", \"Murder on the Orient Express\", and \"And Then There Were None\", this does not include any actual detection and unlike the latter two does not add an additional character to represent the player. This is the 4th in a series of Oberon Games' hidden object games based on Agatha Christie's novels, the first three were based on \"Death on the Nile\", \"Peril at End House\", and \"Dead Man's Folly\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292806", "title": "Dakota MRT station", "text": "Dakota MRT station\n\nDakota MRT station (CC8) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line in Geylang planning area, Singapore, next to Geylang River.\n\nLocated along Old Airport Road between the junctions of Jalan Dua and Dakota Crescent, Dakota station took its name from the Dakota DC-3 aircraft that used to frequently land at the former Kallang Airport. This station primarily serves the Old Kallang Airport Estate, and is within walking distance to Mountbatten MRT station.\n\nBefore the station was built, it was originally known as Tanjong Katong. As Tanjong Katong is too far away, it was renamed to Dakota in March 2005. Construction started in October that year. The old Guillemard Camp Road was widened to provide public buses enough space to drive through. Despite the widening of the road. The closed stretch of Old Airport Road has since re-opened on 29 December 2008 at 5am.\n\nThe artwork featured in this station is \"Little things, little stories\" by A Dose of Light (Ang Song Nian and Zhao Renhui). This artwork narrates an open-ended story of Dakota Crescent through the objects inside residents’ homes, along the HDB flat corridors and shared outdoor spaces which attempt to chronicle a visual history and narrative of the space before the station is built.\n"}
{"id": "2292807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292807", "title": "Davinder Singh", "text": "Davinder Singh\n\nDavinder Singh Sachdev s/o Amar Singh (born August 1, 1957) is a Singaporean lawyer and the Executive Chairman of law firm Davinder Singh Chambers LLC. He has been described by \"Asia Pacific Legal 500 2009/2010\" as being \"without peer at the bar\".\n\nSingh was educated in Saint Michael's School, Saint Joseph's Institution, National Junior College and the National University of Singapore (NUS)'s Faculty of Law. Along with Steven Chong, V K Rajah and Jimmy Yim, he was part of the NUS team which won the 1982 Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition, during which he was also named the Best Oralist.\n\nSingh was appointed Senior Counsel (SC) in 1997. His legal career, spanning over 30 years, covered areas such as banking and corporate litigation, civil and commercial litigation, intellectual property, defamation, trust, tort and negligence. He is the Chairman of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre.\n\nIn 2005, Singh represented Singapore Press Holdings in a lawsuit brought against them by T. T. Durai (CEO of the National Kidney Foundation (NKF)) for defamation in relation to an article written by one of their correspondents. Durai dropped the case on the second day of the trial.\n\nIn 2014, Singh and three other lawyers from Drew & Napier represented Lee Hsien Loong, the Prime Minister of Singapore, in a defamation lawsuit against blogger Roy Ngerng, who was represented by M Ravi and Eugene Thuraisingam. On 7 November 2014, the judge, Lee Seiu Kin, found Ngerng to have defamed Lee Hsien Loong in an online article whose contents suggested that the Prime Minister was guilty of criminal misappropriation. In July 2015, during a hearing to assess the amount of damages he has to pay Lee Hsien Loong, Ngerng broke down in tears while he was being cross-examined by Singh. On 17 December 2015, the judge handed down a judgement ordering Ngerng to pay S$100,000 in general damages and S$50,000 in aggravated damages. Ngerng, through his lawyer Eugene Thuraisingam, proposed to pay the S$150,000 in instalments – a request granted by Lee Hsien Loong on the condition that Ngerng paid the S$30,000 in hearing costs immediately, i.e., by 16 March 2016. Ngerng is expected to repay $100 a month from 1 April 2016 onwards over five years until 1 April 2021 when instalments are increased to S$1,000 until the full sum has been paid by the year 2033.\n\nApart from his legal career, Singh also served as a Member of Parliament for Bishan-Toa Payoh Group Representation Constituency from 1988 to 2006. He has also held, or currently holds, independent and/or non-executive directorial positions in various companies, including Delfi Limited, PSA International Pte Ltd, ST Engineering, Singapore Airlines and Singapore Exchange.\n"}
{"id": "2292814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292814", "title": "Tai Seng MRT station", "text": "Tai Seng MRT station\n\nTai Seng MRT station (CC11) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line, situated along the boundary of Hougang and Toa Payoh planning areas, Singapore.\n\nLocated underneath Upper Paya Lebar Road near the junction of MacPherson Road and Airport Road, Tai Seng station was named after and primarily serves the industrial clusters at Tai Seng, which in turn means \"big accomplishment\" in Chinese. The name was first used on a rubber factory constructed in the area in 1917.\n\nThe Upper Paya Lebar Road was realigned from Kim Chuan Road to Jalan Bunga Rampai on 14 April 2003 for the construction of the station. The station was completed in November 2007.\n\nBefore the station was built, it was tentatively named Upper Paya Lebar. It was renamed to Tai Seng to reflect the location of the area.\n\nThe station was opened on 17 April 2010 along with the rest of Stage 1 & 2 of the Circle line.\n\nOn 16 May 2017, it was announced that Tai Seng MRT station on the Circle line to be linked by an underground walkway to the bustling Paya Lebar industrial and commercial hub called 18 Tai Seng on the other side of the road. The station is the only station on the eastern stretch of the line that does not have an underground link to the other side of Upper Paya Lebar Road, where it proceeds to 18 Tai Seng, J'Forte, Sakae Building, BreadTalk IHQ, RE&S Building, Charles & Keith Building and Jackson Design Hub (Tupperware). Work started in March 2015 and was completed on 7 December 2017. There will be an escalator and a lift for pedestrians' use.\n"}
{"id": "2292822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292822", "title": "Puerto Casado", "text": "Puerto Casado\n\nPuerto Casado (formerly known as La Victoria) is one of the 4 districts in Alto Paraguay Department, Paraguay. It includes the town of La Victoria or Puerto La Victoria, which has a population of around 7,800.\n\nFounded in 1889 in time of President Patricio Escobar, formerly known as Angel Custodio. It was based on Enterprise Taninera Carlos Casado, which is also called \"Puerto Casado.\" Elevated by district in 1973. \n\nThis was used as a port of transit for Paraguayan troops on their way to fight the Bolivians during the Chaco War. \n\nThe Carlos Casado Company came to have more than 5,000,000 hectares in the Paraguayan Chaco, today the factory is shut down. It is from here that Mennonites and Paraguayan soldiers passed, using the narrow-gauge trains of the Chaco Central railroad that extended 145 km west from the River Paraguay. \n\nIn Puerto Casado there are places of historical epoch of the Chaco War, the first Mennonite settlers arrived here in 1920. \n\nGalvan Hill is located 5 km south of \"Kilometro 11,\" the former railway station that left from Puerto Casado. The boat makes a high Aquidabán here, part of Concepcion. Another boat that is here for the \"Cacique II,\" which part of Asuncion for Vallemí. \n\nAt Galvan Hill one can still see the old railroad tracks. Here Emiliano R. Fernández wrote his poem \"The Fashion\" in 1926. This is the first railroad station of importance along the railroad. \n\nThe railway was built by the company for the extraction of timber, with nearly 150 km of narrow gauge track into the heart of the Chaco. The same route of the railway was extended up to 160 km, which enabled the Paraguayan troops in campaign to access the fortresses to stop the advance of Bolivians in this vast territory during the Chaco War. \n\nDuring the Chaco War of the railroad was vital to transport soldiers, arms, ammunition, supplies, vehicles, fuel, medicines and wounded. \n\nThe old Kilometro 11 station, a former house that was part of the old railway station of the Carlos Casado Company, is one of the historic landmarks still standing in the locality. \n\nWith the sale of public lands in the late nineteenth century was established company Carlos Casado Ltda., which acquired in 1886 over , was devoted to logging and production of tannin. Tannin is a substance extracted from the \"quebracho\" tree, used for tanning hides. The son of the founder, José Casado, arrived in 1929 to manage the site, lived on site until 1945. \n\nDuring the Chaco War, the facilities were used as workshops for all kinds of machinery, armaments, especially motor vehicles, before being sent into battle. It also was used as river port and military post. \n\nIn 1931 the Command Infantry Division was installed at the port, José Félix Estigarribia accepted the post of Commander that he proposed the then president Joseph P. Guggiari since late July, 1931 Estigarribia was already installed there. When the new commander settled in the place, the owner of the factory provided him with a house, called \"La Chaqueña\", a large and comfortable residence located in the city centre. \n\nEmiliano R. Fernandez, popular poet and musician, often called the \"northern poet,\" to 1923 was in Puerto Casado, where he performed several tasks. Often his works are signed as having been written in Alto Paraguay. \n\nAs for handicrafts, in the early 80's a former worker of the company had the idea of making a guampa (mate cup) for his own use from pieces of the stainless steel that was used to store tannin. The idea was warmly accepted and began to receive orders and the manufacturer improved technology and creating new models of guampa for drinking mate and terere. Today these are manufactured in various designs on special orders for gifts or as souvenirs of Puerto Casado. \n\nIn the Paraguay and Apa Rivers and in the many streams in the area, an important tourist activity is fishing.\n\nPuerto Casado is a company town founded by the Compañía Carlos Casado, established in the city of Rosario (Argentina). For many years, quebracho logs were processed into tannin here. In the late 1990s, the company ceased production and the tannin operation was closed down.\n\nThe climate is tropical, with a maximum of 45 degrees Celsius in summer, and a minimum of 9 degrees Celsius in winter. The average is 25 degrees. We present long drought followed by torrential rains. \nThe climate of Puerto Casado can be classified as tropical savannah climate (Aw).\n\nThe terrain is a plain that does not exceed 300 meters above sea level. There are sporadic and undulations of fertile land, used for agriculture and animal husbandry.\n\nLa Victoria has a total of 6,489 inhabitants, of whom 3304 are men and 3185 women, according to estimates by the Directorate General of Statistics, Census and Surveys.\n\nIts main business is animal husbandry. Previously the company was located here taninera Carlos Casado Ltda. \n\nOne of the largest companies in the country was the company Carlos Casado, former factory tannin, about the company looks at the homes of former employees and owners, as well as the old Hotel de Puerto Casado.\n\nIn search of our land,\"Guarani', with whom he traveled nearly 600 km from Puerto Casado to Asuncion, 156 km for six days on foot and the rest by truck. The villagers say it is the longest in the social struggle in the country. They call on the government to expropriate the property sold by the Casado Company to Moon Sect, which includes the district.\n\nYou can reach the town by Transchaco Highway (National Route N° 9), to the junction of the Pioneers, located 409 km from Asunción, then an unpaved road to Puerto Casado, about 230 km east, this is the Amalia Route. \n\nIn Puerto Casado there is a landing strip for aircraft, and one can also get to Puerto Casado by riverboat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292827", "title": "Bartley MRT station", "text": "Bartley MRT station\n\nBartley MRT station (CC12) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Stage 3 of the Circle line, located on the boundary of Serangoon and Toa Payoh planning areas, Singapore.\n\nSituated along Bartley Road near How Sun Estate, Maris Stella High School and Ramakrishna Mission Singapore, this station serves the residential estate along Serangoon Avenue 1 and the upcoming Bidadari estate.\n\nThis station is being built in tandem with the Outer Ring Road System project which consists of extending Bartley Road to Eunos Road via a viaduct over the part of the underground site of the Kim Chuan Depot. On 13 August 2003, the section of Bartley Road was realigned for the construction of the station. On 16 September 2004, Bartley Road was realigned again.\n\nAs part of the project, Upper Paya Lebar Road was rebuilt and opened on 17 January 2010 as an underpass heading towards MacPherson and Paya Lebar. The station opened first on 28 May 2009 along with the rest of Stage 3 of the Circle line due to the result of Nicoll Highway collapse on 20 April 2004.\n\nBefore the station opened, Singapore Civil Defence Force conducted the third Shelter Open House at this station on 4 April 2009, together with Bishan and Lorong Chuan stations. It also held an open house for the SMRT staff on 1 May that year. This station was a terminal for the Circle line until the line was extended to Dhoby Ghaut on 17 April 2010.\n\nThe art piece at this station, which called \"The Coin Mat\", consists of a mural made-up of 160,000 one-cent coins embedded in glass, done by Jane Lee.\n"}
{"id": "2292831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292831", "title": "Lorong Chuan MRT station", "text": "Lorong Chuan MRT station\n\nLorong Chuan MRT station (CC14) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line in Serangoon, Singapore. It is located underneath Serangoon Avenue 3 near the junction of Lorong Chuan where it was named after that road. The station is in close proximity to schools such as the Nanyang Junior College, Zhonghua Secondary School, Yangzheng Primary School and the Australian International School, and also near to other condominiums such as The Scala, Goldenhill Park, Chuan Park, Chiltern Park and The Springbloom.\n\nIn June 2003, Singapore Land Authority (SLA) offered Chuan Park (a 99-year leasehold condo near the site of the station) residents S$1 for 220 sq m of land, which comprised mainly car park lots, as the land was necessary to build the Circle line. The 99-year leasehold condominium at Lorong Chuan, off Serangoon Avenue 3, has 446 units, so the compensation works out to just 0.2 cents a household. Nominal compensation was paid as it takes into account, the increase in the market value of the condominium when the MRT station is built on the acquired land. On 7 January 2004, the street nearby, Serangoon Avenue 3, was realigned.\n\nThe station was opened on 28 May 2009 along with the rest of Stage 3 of the Circle line, delayed due to the result of Nicoll Highway collapse on 20 April 2004. Before the station opened, Singapore Civil Defence Force conducted the third Shelter Open House at this station on 4 April that year, together with Bartley and Bishan stations. The Land Transport Authority also organised a Circle line Discovery open house on 23 May that year on all stations of the Stage 3 of the Circle line.\n\nAt this station, Yoma and A Dose of Light designed a hand-drawn artwork depicting the entire island of Singapore as well as the seafaring activities. \"Through the Looking Glass\" is the name of that station's Art in Transit.\n"}
{"id": "2292832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292832", "title": "Marymount MRT station", "text": "Marymount MRT station\n\nMarymount MRT station (CC16) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line in Bishan, Singapore.\n\nLocated underneath Marymount Road near the junction of Marymount Lane and Bishan Street 21, this station provides MRT access to residents living in the western part of Bishan New Town and Shunfu, as well as students and staff of the nearby Raffles Institution.\n\nThe station is named after the road of the same name on the surface, Marymount Road, which in turn took its name from the Marymount Convent of the Little Sisters of the Poor. It serves nearby businesses, housing developments and Raffles Institution and Shunfu HDB.\n\nOn 10 February 2004, Marymount Road was temporarily closed for realignment works. The options for station names are - 'Marymount' and 'Shunfu', in the end Marymount was chosen.\nThis station was a terminus for the Circle line until the opening of the HarbourFront portion of the Circle line on 8 October 2011. Before the future Upper Thomson opens in 2020, this station is the nearest MRT station within the Thomson area.\n\nIn this station's Art in Transit, Joshua Yang's artwork \"Superstring\" consists of individual pieces constructed with only one continuous line that winds around itself to let the viewer explore real and virtual spaces.\n"}
{"id": "2292838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292838", "title": "Bras Basah MRT station", "text": "Bras Basah MRT station\n\nBras Basah MRT station (CC2) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line, located in Museum planning area, Singapore, underneath Bras Basah Road bordering Waterloo Street and Queen Street.\n\nLocated next to the Singapore Management University, this station is in extreme close proximity to Bencoolen MRT station on the Downtown line, even though they are not directly connected from within which would otherwise make them an interchange. Bras Basah (Modern Spelling: Beras Basah) means \"wet rice\" in Malay – \"beras\" means harvested rice with husk removed, and \"basah\" means wet.\n\nBefore the station was built, it was named Museum. Later on in 2005, it was renamed to Bras Basah, as the name is still popular and was chosen for all Singaporeans and to reflect the area's heritage. The name SMU was not used because it was not owned by the public.\n\nDuring the construction of the Bras Basah MRT station for the Circle line, on 25 March 2003, the section of Bras Basah Road was realigned. The road was narrowed on 12 April that year before realigning on 2 May that year.\n\nThe station's construction required the realignment of Bras Basah Road for 2 years before re-cladding of the Singapore Management University for another 2 years. The junction of Bras Basah Road and Waterloo Street was reinstated on 6 September 2006.\n\nThis station was completed in April 2007, mainly due to the presence of Singapore Management University.\n\nThe station was commissioned through the Marina Line Architectural Design Competition jointly organised by the Land Transport Authority and the Singapore Institute of Architects. The competition required no track record and is acknowledged by the industry as one of the best run competitions held in Singapore to date. \n\nIn 2009, \"Best Transport Building\" was awarded to the designers at WOHA Architects at the World Architecture Festival.\n\nDuring the opening of the station on 17 April 2010, Transport Minister Raymond Lim, who officiated the opening, said, \"The Circle line will enhance the quality of commute for the public – connecting homes, workplaces and social and recreational destinations more quickly and seamlessly.\" He also added that the stations will connect commuters to the \"doorsteps of major cultural destinations\" like the Esplanade and Fort Canning.\n\nIn addition, it won the Chicago Athenaeum and the European Centre for Architecture Art Design and Urban Studies and International Architecture Awards in 2011. This station was 'featured' in video game, when Windows Vista came out together. \n\nExit A directs passengers to the Singapore Art Museum, Exit B and C directs to the SMU underpass, and connects to National Museum of Singapore and Fort Canning Park. Exit D and E directs to Manulife Centre as well.\n\nThe station is 35 metres below ground and its island platform is located at basement 5. It was the deepest station from its opening until 22 December 2013 when the Downtown line at Promenade MRT station was completed. It is also the station with the longest escalator, at 41 metres which stretches from the ticket concourse to the transfer level and takes approximately one minute to travel.\n\nTo let light into the station, a reflective pool of water with glass panels outside the Singapore Management University was created.\n\nA video work was commissioned for the Art in Transit for this station. It is presented in 29 units of sound and images, forming a narrative of an action figure caught in a Chain of Wonderful Underwater Adventures. It is displayed in the evening at the concourse level of the station.\n"}
{"id": "2292841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292841", "title": "List of new wave artists", "text": "List of new wave artists\n\nThe following is a list of artists and bands associated with the new wave music genre during the late 1970s and early-to-mid 1980s. The list does not include acts associated with the resurgences and revivals of the genre that have occurred from the 1990s onward. Acts associated with these revivals are found in the list of post-punk revival bands article.\n\nGroups and artists with aliases are listed by the first letter in their name, and individuals are listed by their surname.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292844", "title": "Würzel", "text": "Würzel\n\nMichael Richard Burston (23 October 1949 – 9 July 2011), commonly known by the stage name Würzel, was an English musician, who played professionally for three decades. He played guitar in British rock band Motörhead from 1984 to 1995, playing on six studio albums and two live albums. Burston died at the age of 61, following heart complications.\n\nBefore joining Motörhead in 1984, Burston had been a corporal in the British Army, serving in Germany and Northern Ireland with the 1st Battalion of the Gloucestershire Regiment, and had played in the bands Bastard and Warfare. In the early eighties Wurzel played in a Cheltenham band, originally named Made in England, then The Meek; their lead singer Kevin Keane played Brian Eno to Wurzel for many hours. He joined another relatively unknown guitarist, Phil Campbell, at a Motörhead audition; both were hired. The new four-piece line-up made its debut recording a backing track for \"The Young Ones\" on 14 February 1984. He also played on the Lemmy produced album for Warfare entitled Metal Anarchy in 1985.\n\nBurston acquired the nickname 'Würzel' whilst in the Army, being compared to the character Worzel Gummidge owing to his scarecrow-style hair and bumpkin-like manner. Motörhead singer Lemmy encouraged Würzel to add an umlaut to the 'U' in his nickname, for heavy metal effect.\n\nWürzel saw a number of changes to the band's line-up, each involving the drummer, until he left in 1995. Although he played on the album \"Sacrifice\", he left Motörhead before the tour. He was not replaced; the band reverted to a three-piece line-up. He later made a few guest appearances with them, at the 2008 Download Festival and at the 2009 Guilfest, as well as a few other appearances on the band's 2008 UK tour.\n\nWürzel recorded his first solo EP, \"Bess\", in 1987; it was not far removed from the Motörhead sound, but also allowed for slightly different ideas. The EP included the instrumental title track, two rock pieces, \"Midnight in London\" and \"People Say I'm Crazy\", and an instrumental jazz rock-oriented track, \"E.S.P.\".\n\nIn 1998, inspired by psychedelically-informed experiences in Ghent, Belgium, Würzel recorded and released an ambient, improvised avant-garde album entitled \"Chill Out Or Die\".\n\nOn 9 July 2011, Tim Butcher, longtime bass technician of Motörhead leader Lemmy, reported that Würzel had died. The cause of death was ventricular fibrillation triggered by cardiomyopathy. Before he died, Würzel was working on new material with his new band, Leader of Down, who had previously announced the release of their debut single for early 2010. The following day, Lemmy dedicated Motörhead's performance at Sonisphere Festival in Knebworth to his memory, as well as dedicating their entire set to him. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292846", "title": "Esplanade MRT station", "text": "Esplanade MRT station\n\nEsplanade MRT station (CC3) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the Circle line in Downtown Core, Singapore.\n\nLocated at the junction of Bras Basah Road, Raffles Boulevard and Nicoll Highway, the station is in close proximity to the JW Marriott Hotel (Singapore), South Beach Towers, War Memorial Park, Suntec City Mall and the Suntec Singapore Convention and Exhibition Centre. Esplanade station is linked to City Hall MRT station via CityLink Mall or Raffles City.\n\nThe underpass from One Raffles Link to War Memorial Park was closed on 24 April 2002. On 9 August that year, the section from Bras Basah Road to Nicoll Highway was realigned. The underpass linking CityLink Mall and Suntec City Mall had been closed on 15 January 2003 to facilitate the construction of the station and pedestrians had to use a temporary covered overhead bridge to cross Raffles Boulevard.\n\nOn 24 October that year, the Bras Basah Road and Nicoll Highway was realigned to the former NCO Officers Club, and the Beach Road Camp, one of the central army camps in Singapore that was closed in 2000, for the construction of Esplanade MRT station.\n\nIt was tentatively named Convention Centre until January 2005. In April 2004, 'Esplanade' and 'Suntec' was chosen for their stations. In the end it was renamed to Esplanade to reflect its heritage with the War Memorial Park, Esplanade Park and The Esplanade.\n\nOn 30 April 2008, the underpass was reopened to the public after five years of closure. It's also the first of the Circle line stations where the public can have a glimpse of the interior. The station had almost completed in August 2007. During the opening of the underpass, Suntec City Mall gave away free coffee, chocolates and sweets to pedestrians to mark the reopening of the underpass. There were also music and line dancing performances.\n\nThe bridge underwent dismantlement on 12 May 2008.\n\nAn artwork by the late Lim Mu Hue, titled \"A Piece of Ice-Clear Heart\", is located on a large wall within the walkway within the station between Raffles City and Marina Square. This black and white artwork features shadow puppetry and other performances enjoyed by the early settlers of Singapore. Consisting of a set of seven pieces of wood block prints depicting various aspects of theatre, the artwork is a collage of early and later works by Lim Mu Hue who died soon after completing this commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292852", "title": "Northern Region, Nigeria", "text": "Northern Region, Nigeria\n\nNorthern Nigeria was an autonomous division within Nigeria, distinctly different from the southern part of the country, with independent customs, foreign relations and security structures. In 1962 it acquired the territory of the British Northern Cameroons, which voted to become a province within Northern Nigeria.\n\nIn 1967, Northern Nigeria was divided into the North-Eastern State, North-Western State, Kano State, Kaduna State, Kwara State, and the Benue-Plateau State, each with its own Governor. \n\nThe Nok culture, an ancient culture dominated most of what is now Northern Nigeria in prehistoric times, its legacy in the form of terracotta statues and megaliths have been discovered in Sokoto, Kano, Birinin Kudu, Nok and Zaria. The Kwatarkwashi culture, a variant of the Nok culture centred mostly around Zamfara in Sokoto Province is thought by some to be the same or an offshoot of the Nok.\n\nThe Fourteen Kingdoms unified the diverse lore and heritage of Northern Nigeria into a cohesive ethno-historical system. Seven of these Kingdoms developed from the Kabara legacy of the Hausa people. In the 9th century as vibrant trading centers competing with Kanem-Bornu and Mali slowly developed in the Central Sudan, a collection of Kingdoms merged dominating the great savannah plains of Hausaland, their primary exports were leather, gold, cloth, salt, kola nuts, animal hides, and henna.\n\nThe Seven Hausa states included:\n\n\nThe growth and conquest of the Hausa Bakwai resulted in the founding of additional states with rulers tracing their lineage to a concubine of the Hausa founding father, Bayajidda. Thus they are called the Banza Bakwai, meaning Bastard Seven. The Banza Bakwai adopted many of the customs and institutions of the Hausa Bakwai but were considered unsanctioned or copy-cat kingdoms by non-Hausa people. These states include:\n\n\nBetween 500 CE and 700 CE Hausa people, who are thought to have slowly moved from Nubia and mixing in with the local Northern and Middle Belt population, established a number of strong states in what is now Northern Nigeria and Eastern Niger. With the decline of the Nok and Sokoto, who had previously controlled Central and Northern Nigeria between 800 BCE and 200 CE, the Hausa were able to emerge as the new power in the region. They are closely linked with the Kanuri people of Kanem-Bornu (Lake Chad), the Birom, Gwari, Nupe and Jukun.\nThe Hausa aristocracy, under influence from the Mali Empire adopted Islam in the 11th century CE. By the 12th century CE the Hausa were becoming one of Africa's major powers. The architecture of the Hausa is perhaps one of the least known but most beautiful of the medieval age. Many of their early mosques and palaces are bright and colourful and often include intricate engraving or elaborate symbols designed into the facade. By 1500 CE the Hausa utilized a modified Arabic script known as Ajami to record their own language; the Hausa compiled several written histories, the most popular being the Kano Chronicle.\n\nUsuman dan Fodio led a jihad against the Hausa States and finally united them into the Sokoto Caliphate. The Sokoto Caliphate was under the overall authority of the Commander of the Faithful. Under Dan Fodio, the Empire was bicephalous and divided into two territories each controlled by an appointed vizier. Each of the territories was further divided into autonomous Emirates under mainly hereditary local Emirs. The Bornu Empire was initially absorbed into the Sokoto Caliphate of Usman dan Fodio, but broke away a few years later.\n\nInitially, the British involvement in Northern Nigeria was predominantly trade-related, and revolved around the expansion of the Royal Niger Company, whose interior territories spread north from about where the Niger River and Benue River joined at Lokoja the Mount Patti hill. The Royal Niger Company's territory did not represent a direct threat to much the Sokoto Caliphate or the numerous states of Northern Nigeria. This changed, when Frederick Lugard and Taubman Goldie laid down an ambitious plan to pacify the Niger interior and unite it with the rest of the British Empire.\n\nThe protectorate of Northern Nigeria was proclaimed at Ida by Frederick Lugard on January 1, 1897. The basis of the protectorate was the 1885 Treaty of Berlin which broadly granted Northern Nigeria to the British sphere of influence, on the basis of their existing protectorates in Southern Nigeria. Hostilities with the powerful Sokoto Caliphate soon followed. the Emirates of Kotogora and Ilorin were the first to be conquered by the British. In February 1903, the great fort of Kano, seat of the Kano Emirate was captured, Sokoto and much of the rest of its Caliphate soon capitulated.\n\nOn March 13, 1903, the Grand Shura of Caliphate finally conceded to Lugard's demands and proclaimed Queen Victoria as suzerain of the Caliphate and all its lands.\n\nGovernor Lugard, with limited resources, controlled the region with the consent of local rulers through a policy of indirect rule, which he developed into a sophisticated political theory. The geographical area included in the Northern Nigeria Protectorate included the Okun-Yoruba land of Kabba, Ogidi, Ijumu, Gbede, Yagba, as well as, Ebira land, Igala land fashioned collectively under Kabba Province. The Ifelodun, Offa, Omuaran, Ifelodun and Irepodun areas, also Yorubas, were fashioned into Ilorin province. Lugard left the protectorate after some years, serving in Hong Kong, but was eventually returned to work in Nigeria, where in 1914 he sought the merger of the Northern Nigeria Protectorate with Southern Nigeria, creating the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria.\n\nAgitation for independence from the radically different Southern Protectorate, however, led to a formidable split in the 1940s. The Richards constitution proclaimed in 1945, gave overwhelming autonomy to the North, including eventually in the areas of foreign relations and customs policy.\n\nNorthern Nigeria gained self-government on 15 March 1957 with Sir Ahmadu Bello as its first premier. the Northern Peoples Congress under Bello dominated parliament while the Northern Elements Progressive Union became the main opposition party.\n\nIn 1967, Northern Nigeria was disestablished by subdivision. \n\nThe government of Northern Nigeria was modelled after the Westminster system. A premier actee as head of government and presided over the day-to-day affairs of government, while a Governor of Northern Nigeria acted as viceroy and as commander-in-chief of the constabulary.\n\nThe lower house of parliament, called the House of Assembly was composed of elected representatives from the various provinces of the country. The Upper House of parliament, called the House of Chefs, was similar to the British House of Lords, composed of unelected emirs of the various Native Authority Councils of the nation's provinces.\n\nIn 1967, the Federal Military Government of General Yakubu Gowon broke up the four regions that until then had constituted the Federation of Nigeria, creating twelve new states. Northern Nigeria was divided into the North-Eastern State, North-Western State, Kano State, Kaduna State, Kwara State, and the Benue-Plateau State, each with its own Governor and government. \n\nThe High Commissioner or Governor of Northern Nigeria, originally the High Commissioner of the Northern Nigeria Protectorate, after 1914 the Lieutenant Governor, Chief Commissioner, or Governor-General of the Northern Provinces of Nigeria, was effectively the viceroy of Northern Nigeria, exercising British suzerainty as representative of the Crown. \n\nThe office of High Commissioner was first established on 1 January 1897, by letters patent from Queen Victoria. After the departure of the British in 1960, a Governor continued to be appointed until 1967 as representative of the new administration in Lagos.\n\nThe governor presided over all ceremonial functions and appointed the members of the nation's upper legislative house, the Northern Nigerian House of Chiefs.\n\n\n\nThe highest point in Northern Nigeria is Chappal Waddi at 2,419 m (7,936 ft). The main rivers are the Niger and the Benue River which converge at Kabba province from where it travels southwards ultimately emptying into the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe expansive valleys of the Niger and Benue River valleys dominate the southern areas of the region. To the southeast of the Benue river, hills and mountains which forms the Mambilla Plateau create the highest plateau in Northern Nigeria. This plateau extends to the border with Cameroon, this montane land forms part of the Bamenda Highlands in Cameroon.\n\nThe great savannah belt of the Great Plains of Hausaland dominates much of the rest of the province. this region experiences rainfall between 20 and 60 inches (508 and 1,524 mm) per year. The savannah zone's three categories are Guinean forest-savanna mosaic, Sudan savannah, and Sahel savannah. Guinean forest-savanna mosaic is plains of tall grass which are interrupted by trees. Sudan savannah is similar but with shorter grasses and shorter trees. Sahel savannah consists of patches of grass and sand, found in the northeast. In the Sahel region, rain is less than 20 inches (508 mm) per year and the Sahara Desert is encroaching. In the dry north-east corner of the country lies Lake Chad, which Northern Nigeria shares with Niger, Chad and Cameroon.\n\nThe South Western part of the region included Ogidi, Iyamoye, Iyara that have deep forests inter spacing the guinea savannah areas (and borders the forested areas of southern protectorate and as such shared similar rain patterns and given to the cultivation of cash crops such as coffee and cocoa).\n\nNorthern Nigeria was divided into nineteen provinces:\n\n\nKano, the largest of the provinces in terms of population and economy, is in the North-Central part of the country. The Kano Native Authority, an offshoot of the fula Kano Emirate, inherited the ancient trade industries that fuelled the trans-Saharan trade with North Africa.\nThe Province of Zaria is home to the City of Kaduna, an autonomous capital city that serves as the nation's capital and home to its national institutions.\n\nGroundnut and cotton industries in the province of Kano provided the main source of revenue for Northern Nigeria. Tin mining in the Province of Plateau, Steel mining in the Province of Benue, and other metal industries in the Province of Sokoto, built up the diverse mining industry of the region.\n\nCement industries in Sokoto and Bauchi and leather processing industries in Kano constituted the main manufacturing sector.\n\nNorthern Nigeria though an ethnically and religiously diverse region, is an overwhelmingly majority Muslim region. The Hausa, Fulani, and Gbagyi people dominate much of the North Western and central parts of the Country. While the Hausa and Fula are chiefly Muslims, they also have a Christian history, an Ancient Hausa King of Gobir known as 'Mai Sakandami' - the Cross bearer was a Christian long before the coming of European evangelists and a minority Christian Hausas and Fulbe thrive in the North Western Provinces. A small part of the Hausa population also adheres to the ancient religion of Hausa Animism.\n\nThe Biroms and Ngas of the Plateau and the Tiv and Jukun of the Benue are chiefly Christian, they were converted to Christianity after the colonisation of the country by the British.\nThe Nupe, Kebawa and Yoruba peoples (Kabba, Ogidi, Iyara, Ilorin, Offa, Omuaran and others) occupy the south western parts of the region, these people are also mainly Muslims with Emirate type Native systems that predate the country's existence in the case of Ilorin and traditional king systems for the other Yoruba towns.\n\nAttacks by Fulani tribesman on pastoral villages have resulted in the deaths of 6000 since 2015, according to the Barnabas Fund. Fulani tribesmen have also had to endure merciless killings of them and their livestocks by christian farmers, they are aggressors on both side of this conflicts. \n\n"}
{"id": "2292854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292854", "title": "May Pen", "text": "May Pen\n\nMay Pen is the capital and largest town in the parish of Clarendon in Middlesex County, Jamaica. It is located on the Rio Minho river (Jamaica's longest), and is a major market centre for the Parish. The population was 61,548 at the 2011 census increasing from 59,550 in 2001, including the surrounding suburbs of Sandy Bay, Mineral Heights, Hazard, Palmers Cross, Denbigh, Race Track, and Four Paths among others. The town has a mayor.\n\n May Pen was established as a plantation settlement by the British between 1660 and 1683 on a crossing point of the Rio Minho river. It became part of an estate named after its owner; Reverend William May who was born in England in 1695 but in his later years resided in Jamaica. He was rector of the Kingston Parish Church but was later transferred to Clarendon, where he served for 32 years.\n\nMay Pen is well located from an administrative point of view in the centre of a largely agricultural parish, and as a midpoint on the Kingston to Manchester road. Boasting a large open air market and transportation centre along Main Street and Sevens Road, the town's centre is often chaotic with activities of shoppers, vendors daily and motorized traffic. May Pen also has many banks, hardware stores, pharmacies and eateries. The town also has a large post office, headquarters for local government, and court house.\n\nThe clock tower in the town centre was erected in 1908 after the death of a doctor Robert Glaister Samuel Bell who drowned while attempting to cross the Rio Minho river in 1904. As well as having a memorial plaque to Bell, it has another dedicated to World War I (1914-1918). The first bridge over the Rio Minho was built by 1874 for the local railway company, and rebuilt in the 1920s, it was demolished in 1950 after floods and rebuilt downstream.\n\nMay Pen is also an important citrus packing centre, including oranges and a hybrid citrus fruit called an ugli. The Denbigh Agricultural Showground is located approximately three miles west of the centre of the town. May Pen's geographical position is situated near the centre of the entire island. May Pen has long been viewed as one of Jamaica's most important agriculture towns. During its heyday of Jamaican bauxite mining, citrus and sugar production, Clarendon was among Jamaica's leading parishes in terms of economic activity. With the now defunct Jamaica Railway Corporation, May Pen then served as the crossroads of Jamaica natural resources, connecting Frankfield and its citrus plantations in the north of the parish, with Lionel Town and its sugar production in the South. The Alcoa mining and refinery in partnership with the Jamaican government (Jamalco), located south of the town, is the single largest employer of the town, along with the Trout Hall citrus business. The Denbigh Agricultural Show Ground is the largest in the English-speaking Caribbean, and has served to promote regional farmers agriculture, textile and livestock production. Held annually during Jamaica's Independence Celebration weekend, Denbigh often attracted large crowds from all parts of the island to see Jamaica's best in agricultural output, and enjoy festive activities.\n\nIt is the birthplace of reggae and ska singer Frederick \"Toots\" Hibbert, frontman for Toots & the Maytals.\n\nWhile May Pen has no universities, it does have several public and private schools, including Central High School, Denbigh High School, Glenmuir High School (Anglican), Glenmuir Preparatory School (Anglican primary), May Pen High School (Adventist private), May Pen Primary School, Foundation Preparatory School, and St. Thomas Moore Preparatory School (Catholic primary).\n\nMay Pen consists of 16 communities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292858", "title": "Productive and unproductive labour", "text": "Productive and unproductive labour\n\nProductive and unproductive labour are concepts that were used in classical political economy mainly in the 18th and 19th centuries, which survive today to some extent in modern management discussions, economic sociology and Marxist or Marxian economic analysis. The concepts strongly influenced the construction of national accounts in the Soviet Union and other Soviet-type societies (see Material Product System).\n\nThe classical political economists, such as Adam Smith and David Ricardo, raised the economic question of which kinds of labour contributed to increasing society's wealth, as against activities which do not increase wealth. In the introduction to \"The Wealth of Nations\", Smith spoke of the \"annual labour\" and \"the necessaries and conveniences\" a nation \"annually consumes\" before explaining that one of the two steps to increase wealth is reducing the amount of \"unproductive labour\". \"Annual\" and \"annually\" refer to a cyclical reproduction process; \"unproductive labour\" are commodities and services which are not inputs to the next economic circle and are therefore lost to economic growth. In contrast, theories with no such time horizon tend to understand Smith's unproductive labour as referring to services, and productive labour as meaning vendible goods. Smith’s distinction between productive and unproductive labour corresponds to Sraffa’s (1960) distinction of basic and non-basic goods, as basic goods re-enter the productive process, whereas non-basic goods are destined for consumption, with no value for reproduction.\n\nAs Edwin Cannan observes, Smith’s view of annual reproduction and as a consequence the distinction of productive and unproductive labour stems from his meeting, and the influence of, the French economists known as the Physiocrats. Before his visit to France in his \"Theory of Moral Sentiments\" Adam Smith sees the gluttony of the landlords as an \"invisible hand\" which helps the poor to partake in the landlords wealth. In \"The Wealth of Nations\" it is seen as the consumption of unproductive labour, limiting the growth of wealth. Smith's view that human labour – but not unproductive labour – is the source of wealth reflects the classical position that all commodities can be reduced to actual labour and produced inputs which in turn resolve into labour and former inputs.\n\nWithin an enterprise, for example, there were many tasks which had to be performed, such as cleaning, record keeping and bookkeeping, and repairs, which did not directly contribute to producing and increasing wealth in the sense of making a net addition to it – in other words, such tasks represented a net cost to the enterprise which had to be minimized.\n\nThere were also whole occupations such as domestic servants, soldiers, schoolteachers, etc. which, although necessary, did not seem \"productive\" in the sense of increasing the material wealth of a society.\n\nPart of the population consumed wealth but did not create it. To maximize economic growth, therefore, \"unproductive costs\" which consumed part of the total national income rather than adding to it should be \"minimized\"; productive labour had to be \"maximized\".\n\nMany different economic and moral arguments were made to either justify or else criticise the incomes gained from different activities, on the ground that they were \"productive\" or \"unproductive\", \"earned\" or \"unearned\", \"wealth-creating\" or \"wealth-consuming\".\n\nIn neoclassical economics, the distinction between productive and unproductive labour was however rejected as being largely \"arbitrary\" and irrelevant. All the factors of production (land, labour and capital) create wealth and add value; they are all \"productive\".\n\nIf the \"value\" of a good is just what somebody is prepared to pay for it (or its marginal utility), then regarding some activities as value-creating and others not is a purely subjective matter; \"any\" activity which produces anything, or generates an income, could be considered \"production\" and \"productive\", and the only question that remains is \"how\" productive it is.\n\nThis could be measured by striking a ratio between the monetary value of output produced, and the number of hours worked to produce it (or the number of workers who produce it). This is called a \"output/labour ratio\". The ratio \"GDP per capita\" is also used by some as an indicator of how productive a population is.\n\nHowever, in calculating any output value, some concept of value is nevertheless required, because we cannot relate, group and aggregate prices (real or notional) at all without using a valuation principle. All accounting assumes a value theory, in this sense - we always need to distinguish conceptually the definition of value equivalence, comparable value, value transfer, loss of value, conservation of value and newly created value. For this purpose, a knowledge of prices is ultimately not sufficient, since the decision to group and categorize prices in a certain way involves criteria and valuations which themselves cannot be derived from prices.\n\nA persisting management preoccupation, particularly in large corporations, also concerns the question of which activities of a business are value adding. The reason is simply that value-adding activities boost gross income and profit margins (note that the \"value-added\" concept is a measure of the \"net\" output, or gross income, after deduction of materials costs from the total sales volume).\n\nIf the aim is to realise maximum shareholder value, two important valuation problems occur. Firstly, productive assets being used in production have no actual market price, being withdrawn from the market and not offered for sale. They have at best an historic cost, but this cost does not apply to inventories of new output produced. The current value of productive assets can therefore be estimated only according to a probable price that they would have, \"if\" they were sold, or if they were replaced. Secondly, there is the problem of what exactly the increases or decreases in the value of productive assets being held can be attributed to.\n\nIn what has become popularly known as \"value-based management\", these problems are pragmatically tackled with the accounting concepts of market-value added (MVA) and economic value-added (EVA). This style of management focuses very closely on how assets and activities contribute to maximum profit income.\n\nIn national accounts and social accounting theory the concepts of productive and unproductive labour do survive to some extent.\n\nA large amount of work done in society is not captured in national accounts, because it is unpaid voluntary labour or unpaid household labour. The monetary value of this work can be estimated only from time use surveys. Thus, national accounting definitions of \"production\" are strongly biased towards activities which yield a money-income.\n\nKarl Marx regarded land and labour as the source of all wealth, and distinguished between \"material\" wealth and \"human\" wealth. Human wealth was a wealth in social relations, and the expansion of market trade created ever more of those. However, wealth and economic \"value\" were not the same thing in his view; value was a purely social category, a social attribution.\n\nBoth in \"Das Kapital\" and in \"Theories of Surplus-Value\", Marx devoted a considerable amount of attention to the concept of \"productive and unproductive labour\". He sought to establish what economic and commercial ideas about productive labour would mean for the lives of the working class, and he wanted to criticise apologetic ideas about the \"productive\" nature of particular activities. This was part of an argument about the source of surplus value in unpaid surplus labour. His view can be summarised in the following 10 points.\n\nMarx accordingly made, explicitly or implicitly 10 distinctions relevant to defining productive labour in a capitalist mode of production:\n\nIn most cases, using these distinctions, it would be obvious whether the labour was capitalistically productive or not, but in a minority of cases it would be not altogether clear or controversial. In part, that is because the division of labour is not static but constantly evolving. The general criterion which Marx suggests is that:\n\n\"If we have a function which, although in and for itself unproductive, is nevertheless a necessary moment of [economic] reproduction, then when this is transformed, through a division of labour, from the secondary activity of many into the exclusive activity of a few, into their special business, this does not change the character of the function itself\" (Capital Vol. 2, Penguin ed., p. 209).\n\nObviously, functions falling outside capitalist production altogether would not be \"capitalistically\" productive.\n\nGenerally, Marx seems to have regarded labour as mainly unproductive from the point of view of capitalist society as a whole, if it involved functions which have to do purely with:\n\nSuch activities were an inevitable \"cost\" to capitalist society which had to be met from reserves and from current income. This didn't necessarily mean that unproductive functions are \"not socially useful\" or economically useful in some sense; they might well be, but they normally did not directly \"add\" net new value to the total social product, that was the point, they were a (necessary) financial cost to society, paid for by a \"transfer\" of value created by the productive sector. Thus, they represented an appropriation or deduction from the surplus product, and not a net addition to it. Obviously, unproductive activities could stimulate productive activities however (for example, the production of security installations). Many unproductive costs are accepted by business, either because they involve activities which lower total business costs, and thereby indirectly contribute to income, or because they are unavoidable in doing business.\n\nIn the division of labour of modern advanced societies, unproductive functions in this Marxian sense occupy a very large part of the labour force; the wealthier a society is, the more \"unproductive\" functions it can afford. In the USA for example, one can calculate from labour force data that facilitating exchange processes and processing financial claims alone is the main activity of more than 20 million workers. Legal staff, police, security personnel and military employees number almost 5 million workers.\n\nIn the first volume of \"Das Kapital\", Marx suggests that productive labour may be a misfortune:\n\nThe idea here seems to be that being capitalistically \"productive\" effectively means \"being exploited,\" or, at least, being employed to do work under the authority of someone else. Marx never finalised his concept of capitalistically productive labour, but clearly it involved \"both\" a \"technical\" relation (between work and its useful effect) \"and\" a \"social\" relation (the economic framework within which it was performed).\n\nThe ecological critique focuses on mindless \"production for production's sake\", attacking both the neoclassical notion and the Marxist concept of \"productiveness\". It is argued neoclassical economics can understand the value of anything (and therefore the costs and benefits of an activity) \"only\" if it has a \"price\", real or imputed. However, physical and human resources may have a value which \"cannot\" be expressed in price terms, and to turn them into an object of trade via some legal specification of property rights may be harmful to human life on earth. Activities may have \"non-priced costs and benefits\" which never feature on the balance sheet, at most in propaganda and advertising.\n\nThe Marxian view is also dismissed by ecologists, because it argues only human labour-time is the substance and source of economic value in capitalist society. Again, it is argued a very \"restricted\" idea of economic value is being operated with by Marxists. In part, this misses Marx's own point, namely that it was not him, but the growth of commercial trade which made labour-exploitation the fulcrum of wealth creation. Nevertheless, the ecological argument is that for the sake of a healthy future and a sustainable biosphere, a \"new valuation scheme\" for people and resources needs to be adopted.\n\nThe core of this critique is clearly an ethical one: all the existing economic theories \"provide no healthy norms that would ensure correct stewardship for the environment\" in which all people have to live. Markets provide no moral norms of their own apart from the law of contract. To develop a better concept of \"productiveness\" would require a new morality, a new view of human beings and the environment in which they live, so that harmful economic activity can be outlawed, and healthy alternatives promoted.\n\nEcologists typically distinguish between \"good\" and \"bad\" market trade and production. Some believe capitalism can \"go green\" (producing in an environmentally friendly way), and that capitalism is \"cleaner\" than Soviet-type socialism. Others think that capitalism \"cannot\" \"go green\" because of the nature of the beast; so long as human accounting is done in terms of private costs and private profits, many \"external effects\" (externalities) will be disregarded, and at most legal restrictions and taxation can limit the environmental damage somewhat.\n\nIn the Soviet Union and later other socialist countries in Eastern Europe, China and Cuba, a system of social accounts was created based around the notion of the \"material product\" (Material Product System, or MPS). This was an alternative to GDP based accounts. Behind the MPS was a modernization theory according to which the criterion of progress consisted of the physical quantity of material goods being produced.\n\nThis system was, paradoxically, strongly influenced by Marx's critique of wealth creation in \"capitalist\" society, and his distinction between capitalistically productive and unproductive labour. The \"material product\" represented, in price terms, the net new value created annually by the production of \"tangible material goods\". Many service industries were excluded from the material product; a rigorous statistical attempt was made to separate out a productive \"sector\" and an unproductive \"sector\". Enterprise managers could be punished by law if they failed to provide accurate information.\n\nDissident socialists objected to this approach, because they felt that in a socialist society, \"productive\" labour should really be defined by such things as:\n\nSince the end of communist rule in the USSR and Eastern Europe, however, the material product system has been abandoned, and new GDP-based accounts have been implemented following international standards recommended by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the United Nations System of National Accounts (UNSNA). The advantage of this change is that economic activity is more comprehensively valued and visible in monetary terms; a possible disadvantage is that no national accounting is done anymore of physical product units (e.g., x tons of steel produced, or y number of tractors assembled).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292860", "title": "Bubka", "text": "Bubka\n\nBubka () is a Ukrainian surname. People with that name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292861", "title": "Naranjal", "text": "Naranjal\n\nNaranjal (Spanish for orange grove) may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292862", "title": "Lubin Baugin", "text": "Lubin Baugin\n\nLubin Baugin (c. 1612 – July 11, 1663) was a French painter known for a small number of still lifes, and for religious and mythological paintings.\n\nHe was born in Pithiviers to a prosperous family. Although it is not known to whom he was apprenticed, he received his artistic training from 1622 to 1628, and entered the guild of St.-Germaine-des-Prés as a master painter on May 23, 1629. His earliest surviving paintings are still lifes. Around 1632–33 he traveled to Italy, where he settled in Rome. After 1641 he worked in Paris, where he died in 1663.\n\nMost of his surviving subject pictures are religious works, including numerous small paintings representing the \"Virgin and Child\" or the \"Holy Family\". No painted portraits by his hand are known to have survived, although several are known through engravings. None of his works are dated.\n\nThe divergence of style between Bauguin's still lifes and his religious paintings is, according to the art historian Arnaud Brejon de Lavergnée, \"one of the great paradoxes of seventeenth-century French art: that one and the same artist ... should have produced still-life paintings controlled by a subtly rigorous construction and learned use of rules, as well as religious and mythological subject pictures with an evidently decorative character; compounding the enigma is the fact that the still lifes are signed while the subject paintings are not.\" During the twentieth century, some scholars speculated that there were two painters with the same name.\n\nThe four still lifes securely attributed to Baugin—\"Still life with Apricots\", \"Still life with Candlestick\", \"Still life with Chessboard\" (also known as \"The Five Senses\"), and \"Still life with Water Wafers\"—were completed before the artist was twenty years of age. Trevor Winkfield calls Baugin \"one of the most innovative of all French still life painters\", and says the off-balance perspective of the \"Still life with Chessboard\" produces a \"topographical alienation\" reminiscent of the metaphysical art of Giorgio de Chirico.\n\nIn contrast to the precise observation of Baugin's still lifes, his religious and historical paintings are stylized and graceful, showing the influence of Raphael and Parmigianino. He often painted several versions of a composition using different techniques, so that one may be thinly painted in broad, opaque tones while another is painted using enamel-like glazes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292863", "title": "Ranks in Polish Scouting", "text": "Ranks in Polish Scouting\n\nRanks in Polish Scouting are common to the majority of Scouting organisations in Poland, including the two most popular organisations. However, the exact system used is usually left to the discretion of individual groups. Some groups may only grant a subset of these ranks, whereas others may use different names for an equivalent rank.\n\nAlthough Polish Scouting's customs and attire follow closely those of the military, the uniforms used may vary. For example, some uniforms do not have shoulder straps, whereas other groups recently introduced a chevron system.\n\nA Guide or Leader (Polish male form: \"przewodnik\", female form: \"przewodniczka\", short: \"pwd.\") is the lowest rank of adult instructor common to most organisations within Polish scouting. Generally Guides wear a navy blue felt tee under the Scouting Cross as well as a navy blue chevron in the shape of a Fleur-de-lis worn on the left sleeve of their Scout uniform (a so-called \"instructor's Fleur-de-lis\").\nUntil World War II Polish Scouts used the title \"drużynowy po próbie\" (short: \"DPP\"; en. \"team leader after the challenge\") in place of \"Guide\".\n\nDuring the PRL the ZHP (Polish Scouting Association) introduced a lower instructor rank, organizer. This rank still exists today in the Independent Scouts Instructor Sphere \"Nursery-Garden\" organisation of scouting.\n\nOrganizer was the lowest rank in Polish scouting. It was introduced during Polish People's Republic. Signed with white felt tee under the Scouting Cross. People having this rank was usually new-nominated team leaders in Scout Service for Socialistic Poland and teachers. \"Organizer\" had been functioning by 1980, in 1982 this rank was abolished.\n\nRank of \"Organizer\" has been still functioning in Independent Scouts Instructor Sphere \"Nursery-Garden\". This rank is allocated to underages.\n\nAccording to the ZHP, a \"Guide\" (\"Leader\") should be a role model, show leadership among their peers, and enjoy working with children and young adults. Guides should apply the Scouts' educational method to aid their leadership and should aim to promote cooperation. A Guide should also actively help with other leaders within their District. The ZHP states that being a Guide is rewarding, and helps Guides learn about themselves and their motivations.\n\n\nThe candidate must:\n\nA Guide also must have participated in:\n\n\nSomeone who is a Guide can:\n\nThe rank of Guide is the lowest instructor rank in ZHR.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292864", "title": "Jury Duty (film)", "text": "Jury Duty (film)\n\nJury Duty is a 1995 American comedy film directed by John Fortenberry, written by Neil Tolkin, Barbara Williams, and Samantha Adams, and starring Pauly Shore, Tia Carrere, Stanley Tucci, Brian Doyle-Murray, Shelley Winters, and Abe Vigoda.\n\nThe film was actress Billie Bird's last screen appearance. Reviews were negative, and the film was a box office bomb.\n\nTommy Collins is an unemployed erotic dancer living at his mother's home in a trailer park while he looks for a decent job. He finds out that she and her boyfriend Jed, a polystyrene collector, are going to Las Vegas to be married and taking the mobile home with them. Although his mother had arranged for Tommy to stay with the Woodalls, he considers them awful people and decides to look for other living arrangements for him and his chihuahua Peanut (who loves the game show \"Jeopardy!\").\n\nHe rummages through the trash and finds his letter for jury duty that he had thrown away and decides to enter. Each of the jurors get their own free accommodation plus $5 a day. After several cases he gets chosen to be a juror for a murder case involving a man named Carl Wayne Bishop, a fast food employee who had been fired and is now accused of murdering several other fast food employees. The evidence against him gets stronger when several employees appear as witnesses saying that he threatened to kill them.\n\nAll the jurors are staying at the Holiday Suite in the section that is being remodeled. Tommy seems to be enjoying himself, until he finds he is sharing his room with his former high school principal, who puts motivational tapes on at night to full blast. He makes a deal with the manager of the hotel who says that he will get a different room if he advertises their business during news broadcasts. Tommy agrees and ends up staying in a luxurious suite.\n\nFinally the jurors go to the jury room for deliberation and appoint Tommy as their foreman. The other jurors immediately think that Bishop is guilty and want to vote straight away. Not wanting to lose his suite and luxurious lifestyle, Tommy votes not guilty and stalls and prolongs the deliberations as well as continuously going over the evidence. After many delays, the other jurors become increasingly angry with Tommy, especially Monica, whom Tommy had fallen in love with, and threaten to throw him out of the jury unless he finds a better way to prove Bishop's innocence.\n\nAfter reading up on the law and further investigating, both of which activities are prohibited under standard instructions to jurors, Tommy finds some evidence after seeing a picture of Carl Wayne Bishop on the window of a store, finally convincing the jurors that Bishop is not guilty; they celebrate. Unfortunately, later on, Monica finds Peanut and follows him up to Tommy's luxury suite, with security guard Murphy following her. Even though Tommy tries to explain that he is now a changed person, she is deeply upset on how he used them and walks out in tears.\n\nLater the Judge declares a mistrial and arranges another hearing at a later date. Back at the trailer park, Tommy goes mining for polystyrene with Jed at the city dump. After seeing many polystyrene containers with fast food logos on them, Tommy realizes that the murderer was an environmentalist. He calls Monica, who immediately hangs up on him, but he goes looking for Frank, another fellow juror, who was also obsessed with the environment. Later that night someone meets another man named Frank who thanks him for volunteering to do jury duty on his behalf while he was on vacation, only to be killed with a stun gun. The killer is revealed to be Frank, the man Tommy was seeking. Tommy arrives at the same house and relays his new evidence to Frank, asking Frank to help find Monica at the library she works at in order to convince her that his evidence is genuine.\n\nWhen they arrive at the library, Frank reveals to Tommy and Monica that he was the killer. He ties them up and attempts to stab them with a sharp jagged knife. He tells them that he committed these terrible murders and framed Carl Wayne Bishop because he thought there was no truth and justice in the world. With Peanut's help, however, they manage to subdue Frank and knock him unconscious.\n\nTommy is given a check for his contribution in the case and Monica starts dating Tommy. He uses his earnings from erotic dancing towards law school and eventually becomes an attorney. Meanwhile, Peanut is shown accomplishing his lifelong dream of becoming a contestant on \"Jeopardy!\".\n\n\nThe film is loosely based on the teleplay \"Twelve Angry Men,\" which itself was adapted into film in 1957 starring Henry Fonda.\n\nAt review aggregation site Rotten Tomatoes, the film received a score of 0%, based on 12 reviews with an average score of 2.4/10, as of July 26, 2014.\n\nCritic Leonard Maltin gave it a \"BOMB\" rating in his book \"Movie and Video Guide\", but suggested even that rating \"may be too high\". Critic Roger Ebert said, on \"At the Movies\", that Pauly Shore was the \"cinematic equivalent of long fingernails, drawn very slowly and quite loudly over a gigantic blackboard\" and noted that although his co-host, Gene Siskel, disliked Chris Farley, he would \"rather attend a dusk-to-dawn Chris Farley film festival than sit through any 5 minutes of \"Jury Duty\"\". Siskel agreed, referring to Shore as \"aggravating\". Ebert estimated that Shore's \"appeal must be limited to people whose self-esteem and social skills are so damaged that they find humor, or at least relief, in at last encountering a movie character less successful than themselves\".\n\nPauly Shore \"won\" a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Actor. The film itself was nominated for Most Painfully Unfunny Comedy at the 1995 Stinkers Bad Movie Awards but lost to \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2292869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292869", "title": "Eastern Region, Nigeria", "text": "Eastern Region, Nigeria\n\nThe Eastern Region was an administrative region in Nigeria, dating back originally from the division of the colony Southern Nigeria in 1954. Its first capital was Calabar. The capital was later moved to Enugu and the second capital was Umuahia. The region was officially divided in 1967 into three new states, the East-Central State, Rivers State and South-Eastern State. East-Central State had its capital at Enugu, which is now part of Enugu State.\n\nThe region had the third-, fourth- and fifth-largest indigenous ethnic groups including Igbo, Ijaw and Ibibio. It was what later became Biafra, which was in rebellion from 1967 to 1970.\n\nThe Eastern region of Nigeria was geographically located in Southeastern Nigeria. It is bordered by the Niger river in the West and has an administrative and cultural border with the Northern region of Nigeria to the north. The eastern boundary lies between the border of Nigeria and Cameroon and the southern coast is along the Gulf of Guinea. The total surface area of the region was approximately . In 1965, the region had a population of twelve million people and some areas such as Owerri and those inhabited by the Annangs were one of the most densely populated places in West Africa. The Awka region also suffered from soil erosion.\n\nThe region had three types of vegetation. The coastal areas in the south is dominated by mangrove swamps and tidal waterways. Further north of the swamps is the tropical rainforest, however, over a period of time, many of the leafy trees of the forest were cleared for planting palm trees. In the northernmost parts of the region is the guinea savannah. Major rivers of the region include rivers of Niger Delta system such as Qua Iboe, Cross River, Orashi River and Imo River. Obudu Plateau in the northeastern area, the Oban and Ikom Hills along the eastern boundary with Cameroon were a few of the highlands in the region.\n\nIn 1849, John Beecroft, the governor of Fernando Po became the British consul agent for the Bights of Benin and Biafra. Beecroft was chosen to be in charge of regulating the trade at the ports of old and New Calabar and those at Benin, Bonny, Bimbia and the Cameroons between the residents and British merchant firms. The increase in trade within the ports led to the drive of several European firms to build trading post at Onitsha. In 1879, most of the firms merged to form the United African Company and were given a charter to manage a coastal protectorate in 1885. In 1884, the headquarters of the British agent for the Bights of Benin and Biafra was moved from Fernando Po to Calabar and in 1889, the Oil Rivers Protectorate, later known as the Niger Coast Protectorate was established. The Southern Nigeria Protectorate was formed in 1900 and by 1914 British colonial rule had established most of the administrative divisions in the Southern Nigeria Protectorate. In 1939, the Southern Province was divided into the Western and Eastern Province. During the war period, the provinces were given more power due to shortage of personnel.\n\nHistorically, residents of Eastern Nigeria had an individualistic and democratic culture. To establish indirect rule within the administrative divisions, the British began a tendency to strengthen the powers of the traditional village heads beyond their traditional pre-colonial duties.\n\nAlong with the British traders, Christian missionaries also established mission bases in the region. In 1846, Reverend Hope Masterton Waddell formed a branch of the Church of Scotland Mission. Ajayi Crowther of CMS established a Niger division at Onithsa, and soon followed by the Catholic Church. These missions found some converts among the residents including Rev James Boyle of Bonny, a priest at St. James Cathedral.\n\nPrior to World War II, there were five major cities in Eastern Nigeria, Port Harcourt and Enugu created after World War I, Calabar, Uyo, Ikot Ekpene, Onitsha and Aba. Majority of the people lived in small communities and towns. The rise in trade contributed to the migration of men to towns and cities to find work and to trade but during Christmas and other festival periods, they usually come home. The men also built their family houses in their native villages.\n\nTraditional authority in many villages is earned by the most senior man of the family next in line to the throne or a wealthy man who has paid footing to other title holders. Among the Efiks and Ibibio's, masked secret societies played an important social and regulatory role. The masked societies kept debtors in check and played important part in local festivals. In many areas in the region, the use of native courts to settle debts and bride price were important social institutions.\n\nDancing and sports were also important social elements in the Eastern region. Football was played between April to November. Sports was regulated by the regional branch of the Nigeria Football Association and those of the athletics association. Emmanuel Ifeajuna, was a gold member in High Jump at the Empire Games in Vancouver in 1954.\n\nThe Eastern region had an ethnically diverse population. The largest ethnic group in the region were the Igbos. The traditional society of the Igbos was democratic and individualistic with titles, wealth and age being the primary determinants of prestige. During colonial rule, the Igbos spread to other regions of British West Africa, first working as traders and laborers and then establishing small scale businesses in Lagos and other urban districts. The Ibibios and Efiks lived in the districts of Uyo, Opobo, Calabar, Enyong, Eket, Creek Town, Duke Town, Old Town and Ikot Ekpene. During pre-colonial and colonial rule, the Efiks controlled trading post up the Cross River to the Ports of Calabar. The other ethnic groups of the Niger Delta system include the Ijaw speaking people of Opobo, Bonny, Degema, Okrika, Buguma, Brass and Abonnema. The Ijaws had a marked chieftaincy tradition. Other groups within the region were the Annang of Ikot Ekpene, Yakurr, Oron, Ogoni and Ekoi.\n\nTrade in palm produce was a dominant feature in the economy of Eastern Nigeria. Though not indigenous to the region, the palm tree provided fronds for roofing of houses in the villages, palm wine for drinking and palm kernels as source of foreign exchange income. After World War II, prices sought for palm produce skyrocked and by 1954, Palm produce generated an income of 54 million pounds. However, the prices stabilized by the middle of the 1950s. Employment in farming and agriculture was a significant source of income for many residents engaged in yam farming and fishery. In the 1960s, the government promoted rubber, cocoa and palm grove schemes to increase the output of cash crops. The government also established farm settlements at Ohaji, Igbariam, Boki, Ulonna, Erei, Uzo-Uwani and Egbema to encourage agriculture.\n\nTrading of goods was also a major part of the regional economy. In 1954, imports to the region was about 25 million pounds a year which were brought into the country by a few European firms but distributed by thousands of traders within the region. The trade in imported goods such as dried fish, motor parts, textiles goes on along with the trade in local foodstuff.\n\nIn industry, the coal mines of Enugu managed by the Nigerian Coal Corporation and Nigersteel's rolling mill which used steel scraps to produce mild steel bars were one of the few coal mines and steel plants in operation in West Africa in 1963. During the NCNC led government, a cement factory was established at Nkalagu, Nigerian Breweries chose a stout factory at Aba, a Tobacco and glass making plant was located at Port Harcourt. Oil mining in the region started by Shell D' Archy in 1937 did not yield commercial quantities until 1957. But by 1965, oil was a promising source of income.\n\nThe task of managing the trade and income earned in palm oil kernels was given to the Eastern Nigeria Marketing Board and the Eastern Nigeria Finance Corporation. The Eastern Nigeria Marketing Board came into effect in 1954 and was given the responsibility to manage the region's cash or export crops. The board assigned grade to palm produce according to free fatty acid content and then assigns producer prices to each grade. The board conducts the purchase of palm oil and kernels that are to be exported through the use of licensed buying agents and engages in the evacuation of the produce to the ports for export. Most of the profits from the sales of export produce is transferred to the Eastern Nigeria Development Corporation. The development corporation was involved in producing quality palm oil kernels for the export markets through erection of pioneer oil mills and the development of other export crops such as cocoa, cashew nuts, rubber and coconut. Rice cultivation was also encouraged in Abakaliki and Ogoja.\n\nCommunity development was one of the initiatives of the NCNC led Eastern regional government in the 1950s and the phrase was also popular among community residents of villages and towns. Part of the initiative of the community development ministry was the clearing of land for passable laterite and earth roads. In 1955 about of roads were cleared but less than 10% were tarred. Most travelers use lorries with expressive mottoes such as 'God's time is best' or 'No sweat, No sweat' to move between cities. In the southern parts of region where tidal waterways and swamps dominate the vegetation, barges and river craft are used for transportation.\n\nThe Nigerian railway line in the region runs through Enugu, Umuahia, Aba and Port Harcourt. Construction of the railway began in 1913 and completed in 1919. The line was extended to Kaduna in 1926.\n\nThe Port of Port Harcourt was the second largest port in Nigeria in the 1950s. In 1954, it cleared about $54 million worth of imports and exports, while the shipping facilities at Calabar cleared $11 million worth of goods.\n\nThe region like Nigeria during the first republic operated a parliamentary system of government with a premier leading the executive branch and a bicameral legislature. The figurehead position of governor existed but it was subordinate to the premier. Apart from the regional government, Eastern Nigeria also had a local government modeled after the English system. There were three tiers of governance levels within the system, the county and urban districts, the municipalities and the local councils.\n\nAn African dominated government institution, the Eastern Regional Assembly with the powers to debate but not enact laws was established in 1948. It had fifteen nominated African members and fourteen nominated European officials. In 1951, the regional assembly was given more legislative and financial powers following the enactment of the McPherson Constitution. In addition, the assembly number of members in the assembly was enlarged to eighty elected African members, three special members and five officials. Though the NCNC dominated the 1951 election, party organization was not particularly strong because the party's headquarters was in Lagos and its leader did not contest election in the region. Many members elected into the House were previously independent candidates and only declared for the NCNC after their election to get political backing. After a crisis in 1953, party organization was strengthened and in a new election conducted in 1953 and in which Azikiwe, the NCNC leader contested, the party had a decisive victory.\n\nThe history of local government representation in the region were in three phases. The first phase was through warrant chiefs many of whom were created by the colonial government. But after the Aba riot of 1929, the system gradually gave way to the Native Authority administration led by older men within the communities. This system was not particularly strong as it was in Northern Nigeria. In the 1950s, local government system following the English model of boroughs county and district councils was introduced.\n\nThe village school was an important part of the community. Members of the community at home and abroad voluntarily gave money for the erection of school buildings. Wealthy or salaried family members were encouraged to sponsor the education of their younger ones. In 1956, there were about six thousand primary schools and fifty four secondary schools. Many of the secondary schools were managed by voluntary agencies and Christian missions and some schools were named after members of the mission including the Hope Waddell Training School, Dennis Memorial, Onitsha, Cornellia Connelly, Uyo and Crowther Memorial, Port Harcourt. Education became a major priority in the late 1950s and early '60s with the regional government at times devoting close to one third of its budget to education. Half of the money was used as subvention given to agencies managing the schools and to ensure a universal primary education programme.The church was instrumental to the education of the people, the Church of Scotland Mission (Later the Presbyterian Church of Nigeria), Figures like, the Dr. E. N. Amaku, Mr. Ntieyong U. Akpan, Justice Egbert Udo Udoma where all educated by the Mission.\nUniversity of Nigeria, Nsukka was established by the regional government. An agriculture training and research center was at Umudike.\n\nThe following cities were in the Eastern Region, Nigeria:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292877", "title": "Naranjal District", "text": "Naranjal District\n\nNaranjal is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n\nThe mayor of Narajal elected in 2015 is Edoard Schaffrath.\n\nThe population is 13,000, most of whom work in agriculture in small farms situated in Narajanl, San Alfredo and Aurora II. \nNaranjal was colonized by Brazilian immigrants, and the majority of the people living at Narajal today retain Brazilian culture and language (Portuguese).\nThe main activity for its people is agriculture, cultivating soybeans, corn and wheat. There are a number of small family owned stores, a few supermarkets, a couple of drugstores and restaurants. \n\nConsidered a safe place to live by its inhabitants, people know each other by family name and mingle together at local festivities such as Fiesta de la Costilha, which is an event where more than 5000 people attend to eat ribs cooked over a period of 12 hours.\n"}
{"id": "2292884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292884", "title": "Doctor Juan León Mallorquín District", "text": "Doctor Juan León Mallorquín District\n\nDoctor Juan León Mallorquin is a town and district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292888", "title": "San Alberto District", "text": "San Alberto District\n\nSan Alberto is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay. The city of San Alberto is located in the district. Population is 12060 in 2019. \n"}
{"id": "2292889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292889", "title": "San Cristóbal District, Paraguay", "text": "San Cristóbal District, Paraguay\n\nSan Cristóbal is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292905", "title": "Santa Rita, Paraguay", "text": "Santa Rita, Paraguay\n\nSanta Rita is a town in Santa Rita District of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292912", "title": "Presidente Franco District", "text": "Presidente Franco District\n\nPresidente Franco is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay. Aside from rich exports in fruits and vegetables, Presidente Franco District is well known for Saltos del Monday - 45 m tall and 120 m wide waterfall.\n\nIt is a border port city in Paraguay, located in the eastern sector of the country, along the Paraná River, Alto Paraná Department.\n\nCity located at the junction of rivers Parana and Monday, neighbor of Puerto Iguazú, in Argentina, is called the \"City of the Three Borders\", since there converge the territories of the countries of Paraguay, Brazil and Argentina.\n\nIts name is in honor of Manuel Franco, president of Paraguay in 1918.\n\nThe average annual temperature is 21 °C, the highest reaches 38 °C and the minimum 0 °C. The highest annual amount of the country in rainfall occurs in the region of Alto Paraná.\n\nPresidente Franco has a total of 68,242 inhabitants, whom 33,998 are male and 34,245 are women, according to the Directorate General of Statistics, Census and Surveys.\n\nSince the limits of Ciudad del Este and Presidente Franco and are not distinguishable due to population growth in the area, they are integrated into all aspects, economic, educational, health, etc.\n\nPresident Franco is considered a \"dormitory town\" because more than half of its residents active in the labor Ciudad del Este, departmental capital of Alto Paraná.\n\nThe city was founded in 1929 by Don Vicente Matiauda, near Ciudad del Este, and constitutes one of the largest ports in the region, especially for transporting timber and mate.\n\nIn 1974 it became a municipality of the third category and in 1979 a first-class municipality. After several years of development and population increase, the city became the head of other river ports such as Puerto Indio, Hernandarias, Marangatú and Carlos Antonio Lopez. It became an outstanding commercial center, being near the river port of Encarnación and the major commercial products that came.\n\nPresident Franco, is a sort of \"mother of cities\" in the department because it was the first to be founded. Within the district boundaries are two major attractions that are Monument Scientific Moises Bertoni, botanical interest, ethnic and historic and beautiful Saltos del Monday, natural wonder, station Tape Avirú and today the site of adventure sports.\n\nBecause of the variety of trees several sawmills operate in the area. The production of soybeans is also very important.\nIndustry in the city includes dairy factories, oil palm and processing.\n\nPresidente Franco is a rich area on vegetation and wildlife, some of the attractions are:\n\n\nThe park is used by tourists in the region for picnics, hikes and camps. Its nature is its own species of flora and fauna unique characteristics and very representative of the forested region of the former Alto Paraná.\n\nThe stone walls are ideal for tourists to be able to practice climbing and rappelling, surrounded by wild foliage, almost virgin to the hand of man. You can hike trails that cut through the park and go up the banks of the river, shortly after the waterfalls.\n\nThe beaches near the break are very busy during summer by tourists to placate the heat.\n\n\nThere are parties in March such as Festival of integration and the Brotherhood in the Tres Fronteras.\n\nThe Paraná River, one of the most plentiful in the world, offers in Ciudad President Franco scenarios of great beauty.\n\nThese attractions water joined several streams and major river Monday, which flow into the Parana but not before forming with its beautiful waters and giant leaps that captivate with their strength and imposing to visitors.\n\nThe Interior Atlantic Forest, which once covered the entire territory of Alto Paraná, is kept in large areas of state protection as the Monument Scientific Moses Bertoni, with its rich flora serve as a natural habitat for wild animals indigenous to the area.\n\nThe park may also serve to observe animals, birds and to contemplate nature. In their environment, in the region, four indigenous communities are settled. There are 40 families of the Guarani tribe who sell crafts in the museum Bertoni.\n\nYou reach the city, located 341 km from Asunción, on Route II \"Mcal. Estigarribia \"and then Route VII\" Dr. Gaspar Rodriguez de France. \" 7 km from Ciudad del Este.\n\nSince Presidente Franco, following a road not paved south, you come to Los Cedrales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292914", "title": "Los Cedrales District", "text": "Los Cedrales District\n\nLos Cedrales is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292917", "title": "Itakyry", "text": "Itakyry\n\nItakyry is the main town in Itakyry District in the Alto Paraná Department of Paraguay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292920", "title": "Ciudad del Este District", "text": "Ciudad del Este District\n\nCiudad del Este is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay. The capital is Ciudad del Este.\n\nAlong with Asunción, it is the only district in Paraguay with 100% urban population.\n"}
{"id": "2292923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292923", "title": "Hernandarias District", "text": "Hernandarias District\n\nHernandarias is a district and city of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay. It was named after Hernando Arias de Saavedra, the first South American governor born in the Americas. It is located across the highway from the Itaipu Dam.\n\nLocated 349 km from Asunción. It is known as the \"Latin American Capital of Electric Power\" and is part of the Gran Ciudad del Este.\n\nHernandarias formerly called \"Tacurú Pucu\" \"Long antplace\", now bears this name in honor of Hernando Arias de Saavedra, the first native governor of the province Giant Indies during the colonial era.\n\nThe average annual temperature is 21 °C, the highest reaches 38 °C and the minimum 0 °C. The highest annual amount of the country in rainfall occurs in the region of Alto Paraná. In winter are permanent dew and fog.\n\nThe town of Hernandarias is surrounded by Acaray and Paraná Rivers.\n\nOf the 79,735 inhabitants, 40,389 were males and 39,346 females, according to estimates by the Directorate General of Statistics, Census and Surveys.\n\nThe municipality of the third category July 26, 1988 and March 22, 1990 rose as the first class.\n\nFormer yerba capital, there was the huge factory yerba \"Industrial Paraguaya\". With the construction of dams, development and growth of the region can be seen.\n\nIt was named after Tacurú Puku by the number of mounds of sand formed by ants scattered across the ground.\n\nThe Capital Latin American electric power has two hydroelectric plants, Acaray which was launched in 1968 and Itaipú, built between 1976 and 1982, is the world's largest dam, considered one of the wonders of the modern world.\n\nIt is an agricultural area with palm exploitation, mint, maize, coffee, cotton, rice, beans, wheat and castor, also engaged in animal hunting, forestry and trade.\n\nThey are interesting places for tourists, dams Itaipu and Acaray. \nSome tourist sites in Hernandarias created from the construction of the Itaipu are:\n\n\nThis city is located 15 km from Ciudad del Este, on Route II \"Mcal. Estigarribia\" until the viaduct in the 4 km; take the highway that leads to Saltos del Guairá.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292941", "title": "Kan-Laon", "text": "Kan-Laon\n\nKan-Laon is the name of an ancient Hiligaynon deity. During pre-Hispanic times, the deity was worshiped by indigenous people as their Supreme Ruler. In the Visayan language, Kan-Laon means \"One Who Is the Ruler Of Time.\"\n\nKanlaon Volcano, is the largest active stratovolcano in the Philippines and highest peak in the Visayas region, specifically Negros, where it is situated. A story states that Kan-Laon used to live in Mount Madia-as in Panay with some ally deities, but later moved her abode into Mount Kanlaon after the Hiligaynon epic heroes and lovers, king Laon and Kan (who were named after the goddess), defeated the dragon-like monster that lived in the volcano. The volcano is said to be where Kanlaon made her presence felt to the people. In ancient times, native priests and priestesses (\"babaylan\") would climb up the volcano and do rituals every good harvest season or when there was a special ceremony. They would also offer gifts as a sign of respect. \n\nKan-Laon has many counterparts all over the Philippine archipelago. Some of the more popular are Bathala of the Tagalogs, Gugurang of the Bicolanos, and Kabunian of the Ilocanos and Ifugaos.\n"}
{"id": "2292946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292946", "title": "Santa Rosa del Monday", "text": "Santa Rosa del Monday\n\nSanta Rosa del Monday is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292947", "title": "Minga Porá District", "text": "Minga Porá District\n\nMinga Porá is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292949", "title": "Minga Guazú", "text": "Minga Guazú\n\nMinga Guazú is a city & district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay. It is part of the Gran Ciudad del Este. It was formerly known as Colonia Presidente Stroessner, but was changed after the fall of the dictator Alfredo Stroessner. Minga Guazú was established in 1958 and is located in the Department of Alto Paraná, 20 km. west of the department capital, Ciudad del Este. The Guaraní International Airport is located in the city.\n\nIts name derives from the Quechua word \"minga\", which means \"cooperative work for improvement\" and the Guaraní word \"guasu\", meaning big. These two words together mean \"Big Work in Community\", more or less.\n\nMinga Guazú was founded and grew due to labor of the Salesians of Don Bosco, led by the priest Guido Coronel, the founder of the town. In the mid-1960s, Coronel decided to build a city 20 kilometers away from the border with Brazil. The center of the city, however, is located 16 kilometers away; the development at 20 kilometers is second in population.\n\nThe average annual temperature is 21 °C, the highest reaches 38 °C and the minimum 0 °C. The highest annual amount of the country in rainfall occurs in the region of Alto Paraná.\n\nOf the 60,719 inhabitants, 31,358 were males and 29,361 females, according to estimates by the Directorate General of Statistics, Census and Surveys.\n\nMuch of the economic activity of the city is based on the Cooperative that include its inhabitants, now converted into a real agro-industrial complex.\n\nIts main product is soybeans, in addition to maize, cassava, cotton, wheat, mate, sugarcane, poultry, vegetables and beans.\n\nThe biggest oil industry of Paraguay is in Minga Guazú, the multinational \"Cargill\".\n\nThe Guarani Airport is located in the city of Minga Guazú, one of the most modern airports in South America, located 4 km from Route VII \"Dr. Gaspar Rodriguez de Francia\" and 30 km from Ciudad del Este.\n\nThe Minga Guazú Expo is conducted annually in September and the Patronal party is celebrated on May 24, the day of Mary Help of Christians. On July 6 is celebrated the \"Day of Minguero.\"\n\nIt has two major urban centres in the Km 20 and Km 16. In the first, in 1966 was built a school and a church dedicated to the patron saint of Agro, \"Maria Auxiliadora\". Years later was established the Cooperative Minga Guazú, which enabled the villagers to a more dignified life and better working conditions.\n\nIn another center, are key public institutions and the Don Bosco College.\n\nIn the area the rivers are Monday, Acaray, the stream Acaray-mi and Santa Maria.\n\nA very attractive club to tourists is the Paradise Golf Club, located 24 km from Ciudad del Este, on Route VII. At lakeside, there are bungalows for visitors, so they can make riding, archery and aerobic, in the lake is practised sport fishing of species such as tilapia. You can taste the dishes of international cuisine at the restaurant Club, on the banks of a beautiful pool and natural landscapes. For children there is a lot with games and activities. The soccer fields have regulatory measures; there are courts of beach volleyball, soccer 5, tennis and table tennis. The golf course is the main attraction of the place, since the 18 holes are perfectly combined with nature, earrings, lakes, waterfalls and jungle.\n\nThe city has easy access to Route VII and good connection with Encarnacion via Route VI.\n\nGuaraní International Airport, located in the west side of the district, offers regular flights to Asunción, São Paulo, and connections with other flights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292951", "title": "Yguazú District", "text": "Yguazú District\n\nYguazú District is a district of the Alto Paraná Department, Paraguay.\n\nYguazu is a Japanese Agricultural Colony 40 kilometers to the West of Ciudad del Este.\n"}
{"id": "2292957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292957", "title": "Carmen Callil", "text": "Carmen Callil\n\nDame Carmen Thérèse Callil, (born 1938) is an Australian publisher, writer and critic who has spent most of her career in the United Kingdom. She founded Virago Press in 1973. She is a recipient of the Benson Medal from the Royal Society of Literature in 2017.\n\nCallil was born in Melbourne, Australia, but has lived in London since 1960. Her widowed mother, Lorraine Clare Allen, raised four children, of whom Callil was the third. Her father, Frederick Alfred Louis Callil, was a barrister and lecturer in French at the University of Melbourne. She was educated at Star of the Sea Convent and at Loreto Mandeville Hall. She graduated from the University of Melbourne with a Bachelor of Arts degree in History and Literature in 1960.\n\nIn the same year she left for Europe, and, after a period in Italy, settled in London in 1964. She worked for Marks & Spencer as a buying assistant, then, after placing an advertisement in \"The Times\" (\"Australian, B.A. wants job in book publishing\"), began work at Hutchinson in 1965.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1970 she was publicity manager of the paperback imprint Panther Books, and later all imprints of Granada Publishing, and then at Anthony Blond and André Deutsch. She left to work for \"Ink\", a countercultural newspaper founded by Richard Neville, Andrew Fisher, Felix Dennis and Ed Victor in 1971. \"Ink\" was an offshoot of \"Oz\" and was intended to be a bridge between the underground press of the 1960s and the national newspapers of that time. Launched in May 1971, it collapsed in February 1972, following the \"Oz\" obscenity trial.\n\nAt \"Ink\", Callil met Marsha Rowe and Rosie Boycott, who soon afterwards founded the feminist magazine \"Spare Rib\" in June 1972. At the same time, Callil founded Virago Press (initially known as Spare Rib Books), to \"publish books which celebrated women and women's lives, and which would, by so doing, spread the message of women's liberation to the whole population\", through the work of new and neglected women writers. Rowe and Boycott became directors of Virago in its first years.\n\nAlso in 1972 Callil launched a book publicity company, Carmen Callil Limited. Harriet Spicer became Callil's assistant. This company, run by Spicer and Callil, helped to finance Virago in its early years, together with Callil's inheritance from her grandfather. Further assistance came from Quartet Books, with whom the first nine Virago titles were published. Ursula Owen became a part-time editor in 1974. She was to become a full-time director, with considerable responsibility for the content of the Virago publishing list. In 1976 Virago became an independent company, with Callil, Owen and Spicer as directors, shortly to be joined by Lennie Goodings and Alexandra Pringle.\n\nIn 1982 Callil was appointed managing director of Chatto & Windus and The Hogarth Press, where she remained until 1994, continuing also as chairman of Virago until 1995. In 1994 she was Editor-At-Large for the worldwide group of Random House publishing companies. At Virago, among other business and editorial aspects of the company she was responsible for the creation and development of the Virago Modern Classics list, which brought back into print many hundreds of the best women writers of the past.\n\nCallil left book publishing in 1994, and for some years divided her time between London and Caunes-Minervois in France. As a writer and critic, she has contributed reviews and features to many newspapers and journals, in addition to undertaking occasional radio and television work. From 1985 to 1991 she was a member of the Board of Channel 4 Television. She was a member of the committee for the Booker Prize, 1979–84; a founder director of the Groucho Club, London, 1984–94, and in 1989 received the Distinguished Service Award from the International Women's Writing Guild. She is a Doctor of Letters from Sheffield University, the University of York, Oxford Brookes University and the Open University. She has also been a judge of the International Dublin Literary Award and the Orwell Prize. In 1996 she chaired the Booker Prize for Fiction panel of judges, which included Jonathan Coe, Ian Jack, A. L. Kennedy and A. N. Wilson. Callil was a judge for the 2011 Man Booker International Prize but resigned in protest after her co-judges Rick Gekoski and Justin Cartwright chose Philip Roth as the winner.\n\nHer 2006 book, \"Bad Faith: A Forgotten History of Family & Fatherland\", was very well reviewed and shortlisted for the Samuel Johnson Prize.\n\nCallil was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 2010, and in 2017 was honoured with their Benson Medal.\n\nShe was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in the 2017 Birthday Honours (UK) for services to literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292968", "title": "Fulad-zereh", "text": "Fulad-zereh\n\nFulad-zereh ( Fulâd-zereh) meaning \"[possessing] steel armor,\" is the name of a huge horned demon in the Persian story of Amir Arsalan. He made aerial wanderings and spotted and kidnapped beautiful women, and took them to his lair.\n\nEarly in his career he was the chief general of the fairy king, Malek Khazen, who ruled over the land of Zahrgiah. \n\nFulad-zereh's mother, a powerful witch in her own right, used a charm to make Fulad-zereh's body invulnerable to all weapons except the blows of the sword Shamshir-e Zomorrodnegar. At the end of the story, however, both Fulad-zereh and his mother were slain by Amir Arsalan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292970", "title": "Ten Brink", "text": "Ten Brink\n\nTen Brink is a Dutch toponymic surname originally meaning \"at the village green\". Variations include \"Ten Brinke\" and \"Tenbrink\". People with this name include\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292975", "title": "Loma Grande District", "text": "Loma Grande District\n\nLoma Grande is a district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292977", "title": "Vz. 24", "text": "Vz. 24\n\nThe vz. 24 rifle is a bolt-action carbine designed and produced in Czechoslovakia from 1924 to 1942. It was developed from the German Mauser Gewehr 98 line, and features a very similar bolt design. The rifle was designed in Czechoslovakia shortly after World War I, to replace the Vz. 98/22, also a Czech-designed derivative of the Gewehr 98. The vz. 24 featured a barrel which was shorter and considered more handy than the Gewehr 98 barrel. The vz. 24 was chambered in 7.92×57mm Mauser like its predecessors.\n\nThroughout the late 1920s and into the 1930s, Czechoslovakia exported hundreds of thousands of vz. 24 rifles to various countries across the globe, with variants chambered in the original 7.92×57mm Mauser, 7×57mm Mauser, and 7.65×53mm Argentine. These included contracts for several South American countries, most of which were 7 mm or 7.65 mm guns. Around 40,000 rifles were sent to Spanish Republican forces during the Spanish Civil War. Nearly 200,000 rifles were purchased by China, seeing action in the Second Sino-Japanese War, which became part of World War II. Iran purchased vz. 24 rifles, along with two other variants, through the late 1920s and 1930s, and later produced their own copies in the late 1940s.\n\nGermany acquired hundreds of thousands of the rifles in 1939 when they occupied Czechoslovakia and pressed them into service under the designation \"Gewehr 24(t)\"; during the occupation, production of the rifles continued until 1942, when the factories were converted to the German-designed Karabiner 98k. During this period, several hundred thousand rifles were also built for the Romanian Army. Vz. 24 rifles saw extensive service during World War II in multiple theaters, predominantly with the German and Romanian armies on the Eastern Front. Lithuanian vz. 24s, which had been captured during the German invasion in 1941, were later seized by Soviet forces, who in turn used them to arm the Viet Cong during the Vietnam War in the 1960s.\n\nAfter World War I, the Austro-Hungarian Empire was dismantled; one of the new states to emerge from the ruins of the Habsburg Monarchy was Czechoslovakia. The new state received control of the Skoda factory in Brno, which was renamed the Brno Arms Works in November 1918. The following year, the factory began producing the first short rifles based on the German Gewehr 98 design, the \"Mauser Jelená\". At least 150 of the rifles were chambered in 7mm Mauser, with at least as many also chambered in 7.92×57mm Mauser. The original Gewehr 98 rifle featured a barrel that was long, which proved to be too long and cumbersome in the trench fighting of World War I. Nevertheless, Brno developed the long vz. 98/22 in 1922 from the basic Gewehr 98 design, with a long barrel, along with a vz. 98/22 Short Rifle variant, though it did not see significant production. \n\nStarting in 1923, Brno decided to develop a rifle based on the German \"Karabiner\" 98AZ, a shortened version of the Gewehr 98 with a barrel. This resulted in the vz. 23, a rifle with a long barrel that was initially produced with parts cannibalized from other rifles. The design was further refined into the vz. 23A, which consisted of newly manufactured components. Further refinements produced the vz. 24, which entered production in 1924. That year, Brno Arms Works, which had been controlled by the Czechoslovak government, was privatized to encourage export sales.\n\nThe vz.24 became the primary rifle of the Czechoslovak Army before World War II. It resembled the German Karabiner 98k, which it predated by more than a decade. Unlike the K98k, the vz. 24 has a longer top handguard, and it retains a straight bolt handle. Between 1924 and 1938, Czechoslovakia manufactured more than 775,600 rifles, with the first rifles entering service in 1926. The final order was placed in July 1938, as tensions escalated with Nazi Germany over the Sudeten Germans. Following the German occupation of Czechoslovakia, production continued for the Slovak Republic (a Nazi client state). The exact number of rifles manufactured between 1938 and 1939 is unknown, but may be less than 10,000, based on serial numbers of surviving rifles.\n\nThe vz. 24 was a bolt action design based on the Mauser action, featuring a straight bolt handle. The rifle's barrel, which was long, featured 4-groove rifling with a right-hand twist. Overall, the rifle was long, and it weighed . The primary chambering was for 7.92×57mm Mauser, but export variants were also chambered for 7×57mm Mauser and 7.65×53mm Argentine. Ammunition was stored in a five-round, fixed, internal magazine that fit flush with the bottom of the stock, which was fed with stripper clips. The rifles were fitted with tangent rear sights that were graduated in increments, up to a maximum range of . The front sight blade was fitted with a protector to prevent it from being damaged.\n\nThe rifle's stock featured a pistol grip and an upper hand guard that extended from the forward receiver ring to the forward barrel band. Sling swivels were placed on the bottom rear of the butt and the left side of the grip and on the rear barrel band. Grasping grooves were placed just forward of the recoil lug to aid in handling the rifle. A cleaning rod was stored in the stock under the barrel.\n\nMany South American countries purchased the vz. 24 rifle in various calibers. Between 1928 and 1938, the Bolivian Army purchased 101,000 vz. 24 rifles, which were chambered in 7.65×53mm Argentine. These rifles were used against Paraguay during the Chaco War in the 1930s, and many of them were captured by the Paraguayan Army, which in turn used them against Bolivia. Colombia ordered 10,000 rifles between 1929 and 1937 and Venezuela purchased an unknown number of rifles in 1930; both countries' rifles were chambered in 7 mm. In 1932, Brazilian revolutionaries ordered 15,000 rifles, which were built with bent bolt handles. Peru ordered 5,000 rifles chambered in 7 mm in 1934, and Ecuador purchased 30,000 rifles in 7.92 mm in 1936. Guatemala and El Salvador ordered 4,000 and 300 7.92 mm rifles in 1937, respectively, and Nicaragua purchased 1,000 7 mm rifles that year. Also in 1937, Uruguay ordered 6,000 rifles in 7 mm, of which 2,000 were vz. 32/Modelo 1932 variants, which were essentially lightened vz. 24s.\n\nSeveral European countries also acquired the rifle, all in the 7.92 mm caliber. The Lithuanian Army acquired the vz. 24 in the 1930s, and many of these rifles were captured by German forces during Operation Barbarossa before falling into the hands of the Soviet Army later in the war. Some of these rifles were then sent to Vietnam to arm the Viet Cong, and some were captured a third time by American forces during the Vietnam War. Yugoslavia purchased 40,000 rifles in 1926, all of which came from Czechoslovak Army stockpiles, and a further 10,000+ between 1928 and 1930. These rifles saw action during World War II during the German invasion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, as well as during the Partisans' insurgency against the German occupation. In 1935, Latvia traded surplus No. 1 Mk. III Lee–Enfield rifles for 15,000 vz. 24s; Brno Arms Works in turn sold the Lee–Enfields to Iraq. During World War II, Latvian resistance fighters employed the vz. 24s that had been ordered by the Latvian Army against the German occupation forces.\n\nThe vz. 24 also saw action in the Spanish Civil War by the Catalan Republican troops. About 40,000 vz. 24s were bought by the Soviet Union from Czechoslovakia to be sent to the Spanish Civil War. The vz. 24s were shipped from Murmansk on 1 March 1938, along with other material (T-26 tanks and 76 mm French field artillery). The French freighter , which carried all the material, managed to get the weapons to Bordeaux from where they were sent by land across the border to Catalonia. Despite arriving late in the war, the vz. 24 was used in Catalonia and the Mediterranean coast of the Iberian Peninsula and saw action in the Battle of the Ebro, where the vz. 24 showed good results despite the Francoist-Nationalist victory. After the defeat of the Second Spanish Republic, Generalissimo Francisco Franco kept the rifles that survived the battle until 1959, when they were sold to Interarms.\n\nStarting in 1927, the Chinese Nationalist government began ordering rifles, and by 1937 had purchased 195,000 vz. 24s. They saw action during the Second Sino-Japanese War in the late 1930s and many of these rifles were captured by Japanese forces. They were then used to arm five infantry divisions stationed in China as well as the Collaborationist Chinese Army. After the war, Japan surrendered the rifles to China, which were then issued to Nationalist forces for use during the Chinese Civil War. China manufactured a copy of the vz. 24 that featured a shorter barrel and a side folding bayonet. Some of these rifles were captured by the People's Liberation Army and used in Korea. Japan also ordered 40,000 rifles for the Imperial Japanese Navy in 1938.\n\nAfter World War II, rifles from Czechoslovakia were sent to Iraq. In 1967, the secessionist state of Biafra ordered various weapons from Czechoslovakia, including 1,860 vz. 24 rifles.\n\nAfter the occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1938, the Germans took existing stocks of the vz.24 into service under the designation Gewehr 24(t) ('t' being the national origin designator \"tschechoslowakisch\", the German word for \"Czechoslovak\"; such national origin designators were German practice for all foreign weapons taken into service). The G24(t) rifles manufactured after the German occupation were completed to a modified design to adhere to German standards. This included changes to the butt stock, with slots cut to fit German slings and the installation of the disc and hollow rod assembly that allowed soldiers to disassemble their bolts. Brno continued production of the rifle, which progressively gained some K98k features as stocks of pre-war components were used up. The original flat butt plate was replaced with the cupped butt plate of the K98k type, and the walnut stocks were replaced with easier to produce laminate versions.\n\nIn 1942, the production line at the Považská Bystrica plant was converted entirely to building K98k rifles and the main plant in Brno was similarly converted the following year. Over the course of 1941 and 1942, a total between 255,000 and 330,000 G24(t) rifles were built before production switched over to the K98ks. The G24(t) rifles did not receive the old Czechoslovak stampings, and instead only bore standard army proof marks and \"Waffenamt\" inspection codes.\n\nIn the late 1920s and early 1930s, the Romanian Army decided to adopt the vz. 24 rifle as its standard infantry rifle, though it had not acquired enough weapons to fully arm its troops by the time the country entered World War II in 1941. The first orders for the vz. 24 rifles were placed in 1938 after the German invasion. Romanian-contract vz. 24s have a two-letter prefix at the start of the serial number, the first letter being variable and the second \"R\" to designate Romania. Each initial letter denotes manufacturing blocks of 25,000 rifles. Romanian vz. 24s \"AR\", \"BR\", \"CR\" through \"YR\" represent different periods of manufacturing, though several blocks have not been reported, including \"IR\", \"JR\", \"KR\", \"MR\", \"NR\", \"QR\", \"VR\", and \"ZR\". Over the course of the contract, the Czechs manufactured between 400,000 and 750,000 Romanian vz. 24s. The first two years of production included royal crests for the King of Romania, though rifles built from 1940 onward do not feature crests, and many of the surviving early rifles have had their crests ground off. By mid-1943, 445,640 rifles had been received by the Romanian Army.\n\nRomania was part of the Axis for much of World War II, from 1941 to 1944. Romanian vz. 24s saw action in Ukraine, Bessarabia, and in particularly heavy fighting during the Battle of Stalingrad. It was not until 1944, after significant defeats at the hands of the Soviet Red Army, that Romania joined the Allies.\n\nIn 1929, Iran ordered 30,000 vz. 24 rifles chambered in 7.92 mm, all of which came from Czechoslovak Army stocks. A further order for 240,000 rifles was placed in 1930, though these were for the vz.98/29 variant with a longer barrel; another order for 30,000 vz. 98/29 \"musketon\" rifles was placed at the same time. Like several other countries' orders, the initial contract for the 30,000 vz. 24s came from Czechoslovak Army stocks, while the later orders for the vz. 98/29 variants were new production guns. The total order was not completed before Czechoslovakia was conquered by Germany. The \"musketon\" rifles were designated as the Model 30 carbine, and in the late 1940s, Czechoslovakia assisted the Iranians with setting up a factory to manufacture their own license-built copies, the Model 49 carbine.\n\nThe rifles, which were referred to as \"Brnos\" or \"Bernos\", after their city of manufacture, proved to be prized by Iran's various tribal groups, which frequently rebelled against the government of the Shah. After Reza Shah was deposed in 1941 by the Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran, significant numbers of the rifles fell into the hands of tribal rebels, and they were used in tribal conflicts throughout the 1950s. During the Anglo-Soviet occupation, the Soviets seized and distributed 10,000 of the Brnos to Kurdish tribes in western Iran, which they also helped to train. The Kurdish force proved to be the basis of the Peshmerga.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292982", "title": "San José Obrero", "text": "San José Obrero\n\nSan José Obrero is a district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2292983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292983", "title": "Civitella in Val di Chiana", "text": "Civitella in Val di Chiana\n\nCivitella in Val di Chiana (official name), often also Civitella di Val di Chiana, is a \"comune\" in the province of Arezzo, south of Arezzo in Tuscany, Italy. It is one of the best-preserved of the network of Lombard fortresses of the 6th and the 7th century in central Italy, strategically placed to control the whole territory. The characteristic elliptical shape of the military settlements can still be seen in the layout of the town walls.\nAlready inhabited in Roman times, it was occupied and fortified by the Lombards in the 6th century. In the 11th century it became a possession of the Bishops of Arezzo, and renamed \"Civitella del Vescovo\" (\"Little Bishop's City\"). In the 13th century the city was destroyed after the battle of Pieve al Toppo, cited by Dante Alighieri and fought nearby between Arezzo and Siena. After the Aretine defeat at Campaldino (1289) the city was annexed by Florence. In 1311 Arezzo regained it, holding until 1348, whenceforth it remained the seat of a Florentine podestà. Civitella enjoys one of the most scenic views of the Arezzo valley.\n\nOn 29 June 1944, 244 citizens of Civitella were massacred by Hermann Göring Division, in retaliation for the killing of two German soldiers by the hands of partisans. In 1963 the city received the Gold Medal for Civilian Valour. A book by Enzo Gradassi about Elga Elmqvist (the Swede) and Giovanni Cau recoups the historic events that led to the massacre. A trailer for the book can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X-pIT2AcV6g.\n\nThe city council has also opened a room of memories.\n\nOn 10 October 2006, SS Max Josef Milde was convicted by the Italian military court of La Spezia for his role in the Civitella massacre. The Italian Court of Cassation in October 2008 ruled that Germany was to pay one million dollars to 203 victims of the massacre. However, the International Court of Justice later ruled that Italy was required to void the judgment out of respect for Germany's state immunity\n\n\nCivitella in Val di Chiana is twinned with:\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "2292984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292984", "title": "Kelly Marie", "text": "Kelly Marie\n\nKelly Marie (born Jacqueline McKinnon, 16 October 1957) is a Scottish disco singer, best known for \"Feels Like I'm in Love\", a #1 hit in the UK in 1980.\n\nBorn to parents Alex and Jeanette McKinnon, the future Kelly Marie began to train for a performing career at age ten: she began appearing in singing competitions at age twelve and made her television debut at age fifteen. At age sixteen as Keli Brown she appeared on the television talent show \"Opportunity Knocks\" winning four times with her rendition of \"I Don't Know How to Love Him\". This exposure led to her signing with Pye Records, who released Marie's debut single \"Who's that Lady with my Man\" in April 1976: that track reached No. 5 in France during the summer and earned a gold disc for sales in excess of 300,000 copies: the follow-up, \"Help Me\", was also a hit in France, reaching #17. Also in 1976, Marie was credited for her cameo vocal on \"Sister Mary\" a #2 hit in Ireland for Joe Dolan. Her 1977 single, \"Run to Me\", was a hit in the Netherlands (#22) and South Africa (#5) and in 1978 \"Make Love to Me\" gave Marie her most significant success (to that point) in the English-speaking world, reaching No. 2 in South Africa and No. 5 in Australia: the track spent forty-one weeks in the Australian Top 40 and was ranked as the No. 12 hit of the year.\n\nMarie chanced across the song \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" in a music publishing office: Ray Dorset had written it in 1977 in hopes of having Elvis Presley record it: it's unclear if the song was ever pitched to Presley before his death that year. Dorset's group Mungo Jerry did record the song but their version was relegated to the B-side of a Belgian single \"Sur Le Pont D'Avignon\" (A-side).\n\nMarie and Peter Yellowstone – who had co-written her hits with Mike Tinsley – saw the potential of the song as a follow-up to \"Make Love to Me\", and Marie's recording of \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" returned her to the Top 10 in South Africa (#7) in November 1979.\n\nLike all of Marie's recordings to that date, \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" failed to become a hit in the UK, but it did become a popular disco item first in Scotland and eventually all over Britain. The track's prolonged popularity in the clubs led Pye to re-release the song in the summer of 1980, after a No. 61 debut on the chart dated 2 August \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" entered the Top Ten 23 August and spent the weeks of 13 and 20 September at No. 1. The track also enjoyed international success with chart rankings of No. 6 in Austria, No. 2 in Belgium, No. 6 in Australia, No. 5 in (Germany), No. 3 in the Netherlands and No. 3 in Ireland. In addition the track reached No. 10 on the U.S. dance charts in 1981.\n\nThe intense success of \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" did not result in any significant stardom for its singer. The decline of Marie's mainstream career became clear when her UK releases subsequent to \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" charted first outside the Top 20 (\"Loving Just For Fun\" #21; \"Hot Love\" #22) and then outside the Top 50 (\"Love Trial\" #51). Marie continued to record dance tracks, through which she remained a presence on the international club scene. She took a break from recording in 1984, around the time she met her husband and began a family which would extend to five daughters and one son. \n\nAfter another absence from recording, Marie cut a new version of \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" in 1997, and continued recording with dance versions of \"Rescue Me\", \"\", \"Blanket on the Ground\", \"Runaway\", \"Millennium\", \"I Need a Man\" and \"River Deep - Mountain High\" as well as a new version of \"Hot Love\". Her final recording to date would seem to be a 2002 collaboration with Tina Charles with whom she remade \"To Sir With Love\" and \"Your Disco Needs You\".\n\nOn 7 May 2005, Marie appeared on the ITV show, \"Hit Me, Baby, One More Time\", singing \"Feels Like I'm in Love\" and \"Oops!... I Did It Again\" in hopes of progressing to the final to compete for the major label release of a new single. The popular vote went to Chesney Hawkes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292985", "title": "ČZ vz. 27", "text": "ČZ vz. 27\n\nThe vz. 27 is a Czechoslovak semi-automatic pistol, based on the pistole vz. 24, and chambered for 7.65 mm Browning/.32 ACP. It is often designated the CZ 27 after the naming scheme used by the Česká zbrojovka factory for post-World War II commercial products. However, it is correctly known as vz. 27, an abbreviation of the Czech \"vzor 27\", or \"Model 27\".\n\nAfter the German occupation of Czechoslovakia in mid-March 1939 the pistol was folded into the German armed and police forces as the P27. Construction of the pistol continued in Czechoslovakia until the 1950s. Allegedly, the Czechoslovak military authorities sold five and a half thousand surplus vz. 27s to the Swiss in 1973 for half a million marks. Between 620,000 and 650,000 were manufactured in total, 452,500 of those under German occupation. In December 1948, a gift of five \"ČZ 247\" automatic variants of the pistol (based on both the vz. 24 and vz. 27) was sent to Ethiopian emperor Haile Selassie. In 1949, the pistol was exported to 28 countries, including Turkey (3,286 pistols), Great Britain, South Africa, Egypt, Kenya, and Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292987", "title": "Nueva Colombia District", "text": "Nueva Colombia District\n\nNueva Colombia is a \"distrito\" in the Cordillera Department of Paraguay, located on the road between Emboscada and San Bernardino. It stands 160 metres above sea level.\n\nThis name was adopted by the town's founders because the coffee grown in the area was similar to Colombian coffee. Nueva Colombia, in English, means \"New Colombia\".\n"}
{"id": "2292990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292990", "title": "Tobatí", "text": "Tobatí\n\nTobatí is a city in Tobatí District in the Cordillera Department, Paraguay. The population of the city is 9,688.\n\nTobati was founded in June 1539 by Domingo Martínez de Irala. There are various opinions as to the meaning of the town's name. One is from the Spanish definition of the word, referring to the rocky terrain, consisting largely of limestone. Another is that it is the combination of the Guaraní language words \"tova,\" meaning \"face\" and \"tí,\" meaning \"nose,\" or together - \"nose on the face.\" The third option is that the name is a combination of the Guaraní words, tova, and morotí - referring to an indigenous legend of a white faced warrior priest who would come to lead the tribes into a glorius era.\n\nOne of the greatest heroes in Paraguayan history, the \"Liberator of Paraguay,\" Captain Pedro Juan Caballero hailed from Aparypy, Tobati. Captain Caballero was the leader of the Paraguayan War for Independence from Spain, and is known as a very able military tactician. Caballero continued to serve his country after the War for Independence as one of the members of the governing Junta of Paraguay until the ascension of the \"Perpetual Dictator,\" Doctor José Gaspar Rodríguez de Francia. \n\nTobati was the subject of two very well known and respected sociological studies and books. The first is titled, \"Tobati: A Paraguayan Town\", by Helen and Elman Service. The second is titled \"Tobati : tradicion y cambio en un pueblo paraguayo\", by Diego Hay.\n\nAs with most Paraguayan towns, Tobatí is predominately Roman Catholic. There are small Evangelical, Baptist, and Jehovah’s Witnesses communities present in the town as well. The town is divided into Barrios, generally named after Saints, and feast days of the Saints are celebrated in their respective Barrios as neighborhood events. The religious life of the town centers around the feast day of Mary of the Immaculate Conception, the Patron Saint of Tobatí, on December 8.\n\nThe church in Tobatí contains the holy relic carving of the Virgin Mary of Immaculate Conception, which was carved by an indigenous convert to Christianity hundreds of years ago. This Indian was pursued by his tribe to be put to death for his conversion to Christianity. As he hid behind a tree the Indian prayed to the Holy Mother for protection in turn for his devotion and promise to create an icon to glorify her. The tribe passed him by unnoticed and he subsequently carved two statues of the Holy Virgin. One resides in the church in Tobati, and the other in the Basilica in neighboring Caacupe.\n\nTobatí is renowned throughout Paraguay for the woodworking, ceramics, and sculptures of its artisans. One artisan in particular, Don Zenón Páez is world-renowned.\n\nThe major industry and income source for Tobatí is the production of building materials. The majority of roofing tile and bricks supplying Paraguay have their origin in the many factories in Tobati. Additionally, much of the Tobateño production is exported to neighboring Argentina and Brazil. While some factories are modernized and run off electric machines and kilns, and some employ a mixture of modern and traditional methods, the vast majority are traditional operations. First, the clay for the products is milled in wooden churns powered by horses or mules walking in circles around the mill. Workers then form the tiles and bricks in hand molds and place them in the sun to dry. In the final step the products are cooked in wood fired kilns for 24 hours or more.\n\nEach year, a community service trip consisting of approximately 100 students from the Kingswood-Oxford School in West Hartford, Connecticut travel down to Tobatí. The group originated due to the organization of one instructor at the school, Ron Garcia, whose family is from Tobatí and who still has many family members in the town. Team Tobati sends a large group of students and health care professionals each year over spring break to Tobatí, Paraguay on a public service trip to work with rural villages in providing access to health care and education. The group also sends smaller contingents of students and medical professionals at various times during the year. Additionally, Team Tobati has funded an artisan village and an educational institute, which are maintained year-round.\n"}
{"id": "2292992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292992", "title": "Luostari (inhabited locality)", "text": "Luostari (inhabited locality)\n\nLuostari () is a rural locality (an inhabited locality) in Pechengsky District of Murmansk Oblast, Russia, located near the Norway–Russia border. Population: 2,260 (2010 Census).\n\nBefore World War II, Luostari was a part of Finland. It was occupied by the German army during World War II.\n\nLuostari/Pechenga airfield is located nearby.\n"}
{"id": "2292993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292993", "title": "Shizuichi Tanaka", "text": "Shizuichi Tanaka\n\nTanaka was born in Issai village, Hyōgo prefecture (now part of the city of Tatsuno) and was the younger son of a large landowner. His family claim descent from Akamatsu Mitsusuke, and served as village headmen during the Edo period. Tanaka graduated from the 19th class of the Imperial Japanese Army Academy in 1907. One of his classmates was Masaharu Homma. He graduated with honors 28th class of the Army Staff College in 1916, specializing in infantry, and was sent on an Army scholarship to England, where he earned a degree in English literature at Oxford University where he studied the works of William Shakespeare. He was the flag bearer for the Japanese troops in London's victory parade at the end of World War I in July 1918. he was promoted to major in 1922. In May 1926, he was assigned as military liaison to the Japanese consulate in Mexico. He was promoted to lieutenant colonel in March 1927, and from March 1928 headed the North American Bureau within the Imperial Japanese Army General Staff. Promoted to colonel in August 1930, he was assigned command of the IJA 2nd Infantry Regiment until May 1932.\n\nTanaka was subsequently posted as a military attaché to Washington D.C., where he met Douglas MacArthur while MacArthur was Chief of Staff of the United States Army. He remained in the United Statues until May 1934. As a result of his long service in the United States and United Kingdom, and his openly pro-western sentiments, he was passed over for promotions as Japan militarized. From August 1934 to August 1935, Tanaka was Chief of Staff of the Osaka-based IJA 4th Division. He was promoted to major general in August 1935 and was assigned command of the IJA 5th Infantry Brigade, which as a garrison force based in Manchukou. A year later, he became director of the General Affairs department of the Kempeitai, and year after that, in August 1937, became commander of the Kempeitai in the Kwantung Leased Territory. He was promoted to lieutenant general in July 1938 and commander of the Kemptai the following month.\n\nIn August 1939, Tanaka was assigned as commander of the IJA 13th Division, and spent the following year in combat on the front lines during the Second Sino-Japanese War, especially the Battle of Wuhan and the Battle of Zaoyang–Yichang. In 1940, he was awarded both the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Rising Sun and the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Sacred Treasure. He returned to Japan to resume his post was commandant of the Kempeitai in September 1940. \n\nAfter the start of the Pacific War, Tanaka, who had been vocal in his opposition to the attack on Pearl Harbor was reassigned to command of the Eastern District Army.\n\nTanaka was sent to the Philippines in 1942 as commander of the IJA 14th Army, and subsequently served as Military-Governor of the Philippines from June 1942 to May 1943. However, he was forced to return to Japan in March 1943 to recover from malaria. He spent many months in the hospital, during which time he converted to the \"Seicho-no-Ie\" [[Japanese new religions|new religion]. He was promoted to full [[general]] in September 1943. In August 1944, he was appointed commandant of the Army Staff College. In March 1945, he was assigned to head the Eastern District Army under the [[Japanese Twelfth Area Army]]. This consisted mostly of poorly trained [[military reserves|reservists]], [[military conscription|conscripted]] students and [[militia|home guard militia]] such as the [[Volunteer Fighting Corps]] as part of the last desperate defense effort by the [[Empire of Japan]] to deter landings of [[Allies of World War II|Allied forces]] in central [[Honshū]]. \n\nAs acting commander of the [[Imperial Guard of Japan|1st Imperial Guards Division]], his cooperation was crucial to the [[Kyūjō incident|15 August 1945 rebellion]] planned by Major [[Kenji Hatanaka]] and others. Hatanaka sought to occupy the [[Kokyo|Imperial Palace]], and to prevent the [[Emperor Hirohito of Japan|Emperor's]] [[Gyokuon-hoso|announcement of Japan's surrender]] from being broadcast. When Tanaka was asked to join the rebellion, he refused, and later mobilized the Eastern District Army against the \"coup\". After making a number of phone calls, and ordering troops to relieve the Palace, he drove there himself and berated Hatanaka and the other conspirators.\n\nDespite being called 'the hero of the August 15 incident', and being almost singularly responsible for bringing an end to the attempted coup d'état, Tanaka felt responsible for the damage done to Tokyo (his jurisdiction) by [[Tokyo firebombing|Allied bombing]]. Since his assignment on 19 March, he had attempted to resign three times, after he failed to prevent damage to [[Meiji Shrine]], the Imperial Palace, and other important sites, but his resignations were refused. At the [[surrender of Japan]], Tanaka told his subordinates to destroy their unit colors, but not to commit suicide; as burning the regiment's banners would be enough, and that he intended to take full responsibility himself, on behalf of all his men.\n\nOn 24 August, at his office in Tokyo's [[Dai-ichi Life]] Building (later [[Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers]] headquarters), Tanaka shot himself through the heart; he left his desk covered in [[Buddhist texts|sutras]], letters to his officers and his family, a statue of [[Emperor Meiji of Japan|Emperor Meiji]] and a scroll bearing Emperor Hirohito's words to him following the August 15th incident.\n\n\n\n \n\n[[Category:1887 births]]\n[[Category:1945 deaths]]\n[[Category:Military personnel from Hyōgo Prefecture]]\n[[Category:Suicides by firearm in Japan]]\n[[Category:Japanese military personnel who committed suicide]]\n[[Category:Japanese military personnel of World War II]]\n[[Category:Japanese generals]]\n[[Category:Alumni of the University of Oxford]]\n[[Category:Recipients of the Order of the Golden Kite]]\n[[Category:Grand Cordons of the Order of the Rising Sun]]\n[[Category:Recipients of the Order of the Sacred Treasure, 1st class]]"}
{"id": "2292994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292994", "title": "Arroyos y Esteros", "text": "Arroyos y Esteros\n\nArroyos y Esteros (Spanish for \"Streams and Swamps\") is a district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay.\n\nIts name describes exactly the real aspect of this place, which is surrounded by swamps and streams. It was also named Tobatí Tuyá, which is one of the rivers of this region.\n\nIts founder, Governor Pedro de Melo de Portugal called it \"Chapel Duarte\", but in 1849 Carlos Antonio López named it \"Arroyos y Esteros\".\n\nArroyos y Esteros is a small town, growing economically as well as in population. There are approximately 20,000 people living in the district, but these are found mostly in 13 outlying satellite communities, with only 8,000 inhabitants in the center of town. The topography can best be described in the words of the towns founder, Father Fidel Maíz, as having a lot of streams and swamps.\n\nOnce quite isolated, Arroyos now sits on the International Highway 3, which allows for rapid transit to Asuncion and the possibility of round trip travel in the same day. Historically Arroyos has close ties to the larger and more prosperous Tobati, approx. 23 km to the south.\nThe principal economic activity in Arroyos y Esteros is agriculture, especially sugarcane. Pineapple and melons are other important crops. Sesame was introduced a few years ago and is slowly making inroads, despite some early crop failures. There are several large ranches in the area with cattle, and some other lesser animals (sheep, goats). The arrival of a sugar factory dedicated to producing organic sugar changed the face of the arroyense economy as many former small molasses factories shut down to deliver the raw material to the more efficient large factory.\n\nThe town's \"fiesta patronal\" is October 4- San Francisco, however each company has its own fiesta patronal, also the Foundation Day, March 9, celebration invented by the current mayor to boost tourism in Arroyos y Esteros.\n\nArroyos y Esteros is a city of Paraguay, it was founded in 1767 and is 67 km away from the capital city Asunción.\n\nThe land is completely surrounded by rivers, Piribebuy and Manduvirá River, which are mouths of many swamps and streams before these important rivers flow into Paraguay River.\nAccording to a local legend, two images of the Mother Virgen were found, one of those is the one in Caacupé, the faithful capital city of Paraguay, and the other one is in Tobatí.\nArroyos y Esteros is a very wealthy region in vegetation because of its privileged location.\n\nThe weather is mild and dry. Temperature ranges from 23 to 27 Celsius (73.4-80.6 F) during winter 3 Celsius is the minimum.\n\nArroyos y Esteros has 22.723 inhabitants, who 12.052 are men and 10.670 women, according to the census (2002). There are 2.049 people in the urban area and 16.592 in the rural area.\nBecause of not enough job opportunities, young people migrate to search for better life conditions.\n\nThis city was founded by the Governor Pedro de Melo de Portugal who gave the name “Capilla Duarte”, Carlos Antonio López named it “Arroyos y Esteros” in 1849.\nSince there is no exact date on the foundation, it was established Priest Fidel Maiz birth and death as the date the town celebrates its foundation, which is March 9.\n\nPeople who live there say that when the first President, Carlos Antonio López, went to visit Priest Maíz, said to the priest: \"I had to cross rivers, streams and swamps to get here\", and that is the reason this city was named Arroyos y Esteros.\n\nArroyos y Esteros is best known as the “World's Cradle of Organic Sugar” and famous because it is the main sugar cane producer of Paraguay, honey and rum are other products gotten from the sugar cane. People also grow pineapple, banana and some other crops. The city economy is also based on cattle raising.\n\nRoute III “Gral. Elizardo Aquino” is the main way to get there. Buses from “Empresa Fidel Maiz”, which pass by Emboscada, connect the city with the capital city of Asuncion. Another way to get to Arroyos y Esteros is going from Caacupe through Tobati.\n\nSome streams nearby are:\n\n\nThe rivers that surround the city are:\n\n\nSome hills are:\n\n\nPriest Fidel Maiz, was born in Arroyos y Esteros and was a very important character during the War of the Triple Alliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292995", "title": "Orpheus (song)", "text": "Orpheus (song)\n\n\"Orpheus\" is the second single released in a physical format from the \"Meltdown\" album by the band Ash. It was released on May 3, 2004, and reached number 13 on the UK Singles Chart. It was released as a single CD (released as only 1 CD version, the first time since 1997) as a gatefold 7\" vinyl, as well as on DVD format. It was nominated for the Kerrang! Award for Best Single.\n\nOrpheus was inspired by a Jack Kerouac on the road experience, similar to that of the film \"Y Tu Mama Tambien\". Wheeler has said that, \"The song's sort of based on this idea of like a Mexican road song sort of thing. I wrote it after watching this Mexican movie where these two kids go on this road trip with this girl, it's a rights of passage kind of thing. So I always thought it had this Mexican flavour, in fact when we first wrote the song it was called 'Dirty Sanchez' for a while!\"\n\nAdditionally, it is also inspired by a screen test Tim had a couple of years ago to play the Ewan McGregor part in 2001's 'Moulin Rouge'. \"So I was in there with Baz Luhrmann, he is taking me through the whole thing and it was because he based the whole movie on the Greek myth of Orpheus. It's a weird song. It's about hitting the road and taking off and not being able to look back, just keep going is the theme. Its about a guy who joins him in fuckin' hell\". Tim explains.\n\n\"Orpheus\" has been described by Ash's bassist, Mark Hamilton, as being \"Chilli Peppers meet The Doors, Sabbath and well.. us\". Rick later described it as being \"a classic Tim Wheeler summer song with big riffs and mad freak out bits in it, that's quite a journey of a song. A musical journey.\" Originally, the song was less complicated, and was missing its mid-song breakdown and intersection, but, despite the record label's pleas, it was included.\n\nEver since its first appearance at the Royal Albert Hall for the Teenage Cancer Trust charity, it has appeared in almost every Ash performance, and also appears on the limited edition live Meltdown CD and the Commando EP. It is one of the EA Trax in the videogames \"Burnout 3\" and \"NHL 2005\". The song appeared in various musical publications' lists of songs of 2004.\n\nThe first b-side of the single is \"Everybody's Happy Nowadays\", a cover of the Buzzcocks single from their Singles Going Steady compilation, with a guest appearance from Coldplay's lead singer, Chris Martin, who sings lead vocals in the chorus. The song was recorded for the soundtrack to the film Shaun of the Dead.\n\nThe single's second b-side was Ash's longest released track (until A-Z series single \"Sky Burial\" in 2010), \"Tinseltown\", which was originally meant to appear on the album itself. Mark has described it as \"a 9½ minute epic which goes on a music oddessy, covers every genre from '4 to the Floor Handbag' to Sonic Youth spaz outs and kraut rock\". The song alternates between gentle acoustic and harsh dance floor beats.\n\nLike the video for \"There's a Star\", it was directed by Jeff Thomas. The video is a car chase across the desert with two bandits chasing the band in a Gumball Rally style vehicle. Mark described it as follows: \"The video was made in Almeria, Southern Spain. It's basically a car chase across the desert with two bandits trying to run us off the road, total Wacky Racers stuff. Intercut with us performing in a dirty biker bar it's a full throttle sweatfest!\"\n\nWheeler has described it as: \"It was fantastic, basically; flying off to Spain, getting in a car, smashing it up and rocking out! By the end of it the car was pretty much totaled on one side so we had to film the last shots from the other side of the car. The cars were like totally mangled. It was great, we got to drive through barrels of water as well, as you can see later on. The way we've got the numbers on the screen is, I suppose, reminiscent of a computer game.\"\n\n\"Orpheus\" was also released as a DVD. It contained \"Orpheus\" and \"Tinseltown\" as audio tracks, the music videos for \"Orpheus\" and download only single \"Clones\" and a video of the making of \"Orpheus\".\n\nThe song was featured on the soundtrack of the \"Criterion Games\" 2004 Video Game \"Burnout 3 Takedown\" (\"Burnout 3 soundtrack\") and the 2004 EA Sports video game \" NHL 2005\" \n\nThe song was also featured in a scene of the film \"Shaun of the Dead\".\n\nCD\n\n7\"\n\nDVD\n"}
{"id": "2292996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292996", "title": "Shamshir-e Zomorrodnegar", "text": "Shamshir-e Zomorrodnegar\n\nShamshir-e Zomorrodnegār (, 'the Emerald-Studded sword') is a sword in the Persian legend Shahnameh. The witch mother of a hideous horned demon called Fulad-zereh used a charm to make his body invulnerable to all weapons except this specific sword.\n\nShamshir-e Zomorrodnegār was forged by Kāve for the Legendary Persian Prince Milad. After Milad’s death in the 7th story of Shahnameh the sword was carefully guarded by Fulad-Zereh, not only because it was a valuable weapon, and indeed the only weapon that could harm the demon, but also because wearing it was a charm against magic. A wound inflicted by this sword could only be treated by a special potion made from a number of ingredients, including Fulad-Zereh’s Brain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292997", "title": "Mismade Girl", "text": "Mismade Girl\n\nThe Mismade Girl is a stage illusion, designed by American magician Chuck Jones. It is a variation of the sawing a woman in half illusion.\n\nFour cubes with open tops and bottoms are stacked to form a cabinet. An assistant stands inside and the cabinet is closed. Metal blades are slid into the cabinet, apparently slicing the assistant into four pieces, and closing the top and bottom of each cube. The cubes are then unstacked, and restacked in a different order. Inset doors in the front of the cabinet are opened, and it appears that the assistant's body has divided and rearranged. The whole process is then reversed, and the assistant is released unharmed.\n\nThe Mismade Girl is often performed as a production effect—four cubes, each apparently too small to contain a person, are stacked into a cabinet, which is then opened to reveal someone inside.\n\nSometimes the routine will omit the second restacking, and the magician may instead exchange numbers or pictures on the front of those cubes which appear to be out of order, apparently magically moving the divided parts of the assistant's body into the correct order.\n\nThere are two notable variants of the Mismade Girl.\n\n\nOne method as to how this illusion might be achieved is as follows: when the cabinet is closed, the assistant crouches down into the bottom cube. Hidden compartments in three of the cubes hold fake body parts, which are revealed by simply rotating the relevant cube when it is restacked and opening an inset door in what was originally the rear of the cabinet. The blade or blades dividing the bottom cube from that above have a trap door, allowing the assistant to show her head—apparently disembodied.\n\nThe Masked Magician performed the Mismade Girl on his third television special, with Elizabeth Ramos as his assistant, and subsequently revealed the method as described above.\n\nDawes, A. E., et al. \"Making Magic\". London: Multimedia Books, Ltd, 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292998", "title": "Juan de Mena, Paraguay", "text": "Juan de Mena, Paraguay\n\nJuan de Mena is a district of Cordillera Department in Paraguay. It is named after the Spanish Renaissance poet Juan de Mena, and is located 88 metres above sea level, surrounded by the lowlands of the Rivers Manduvira, Yhaguy, and Hondo. General Lino Cesar Oviedo, military and politician, was born in this district.\n"}
{"id": "2292999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292999", "title": "Emboscada, Paraguay", "text": "Emboscada, Paraguay\n\nEmboscada is a town and district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay.\n\n“San Agustín de la Emboscada” refers to the ambush before the Spanish Conquest, against Carios tribe made by Guaicurú people. It is also known as the Stone City because many people there work in mining.\n\nThe weather in Cordillera Region is mild and dry. Temperature ranges from 22 °C to 39 °C, in winter the temperature is 3 °C.\n\nEmboscada has 12,225 inhabitants, 6,337 are men and 5,888 women (Census 2002) In the urban area 5,153 people and the rural area with 7,072 people. 80% of Emboscada's population considers itself to be of African descent.\n\nThe first settlers were slaves from Brazil called “libertos” in XVIII. It was founded in 1740 by Governor Rafael de la Moneda with the name of “San Agustín de la Emboscada”. The most important penitentiary of Paraguay was built in Emboscada in 1816. During Stroessner's dictatorship it worked as the prison for convicts of political issues.\n\nThe most important activity is mining. Others industries are coffee, oil and fishing.\n\nIt is located 38 km far from Asunción, to get there one needs to go through Route Nº III “Gral. Elizardo Aquino”.\nFrom Emboscada City you can visit Nueva Colombia and from this city Loma Grande, through a paved road. From Loma Grande one can get to Altos, Atyrá and San Bernardino. All these cities have paved roads connected to Route Nº II “Mariscal José Félix Estigarribia”.\n\nOn June 24. in minas a small town, there is a festival honoring San Francisco Solano. During this parade people walk behind San Francisco Solano's image singing and praying throughout the town till they get to the church. They wear masks and dance to drums rhythms, as a way to remember their ancestors, enslaved Africans. There is a lot of typical food, many local bands and pilgrims wearing feathers and leaves from banana plants together at the big square dancing and giving thanks for the favours to San Francisco Solano.\n\nThe church was built by Priest Amancio Gonzalez in 1774 honoring San Agustín, the altarpieces and the images made of carved woods belong to the Franciscan Style, the walls, doors and windows were engraved in XVIII.\nThe craftmanship of this place consists of making hats, they make it from karanda´y (a kind of palm), and a fan shaped object. They also make sweets, “guampa” a special kind of glass made of wood (usually palo santo) to drink tereré and mate, they also make sweets and finery from ysypo a kind of liane.\nYou can also find strange pyramids in this place.\n\nPriest Amancio González was born in Emboscada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293000", "title": "National Dairy Development Board", "text": "National Dairy Development Board\n\nThe National Dairy Development Board is an institution of national importance set up by an Act of Parliament of India. The main office is in Anand, Gujarat with regional offices throughout the country. NDDB's subsidiaries include IDMC Limited-Anand, Mother Dairy, Delhi, NDDB Dairy Services, Delhi and Indian Immunologicals Limited, Hyderabad. The Board was created to finance, support and support producer-owned and controlled organisations. Its programmes and activities seek to strengthen farmer cooperatives and support national policies that are favourable to the growth of such institutions. Cooperative principles and cooperative strategies are fundamental to the board's efforts.\n\nIt was founded by Dr. Verghese Kurien. The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) was created in 1965, fulfilling the desire of the then prime minister of India — the late Lal Bahadur Shastri to extend the success of the Kaira Cooperative Milk Producers' Union (Amul) to other parts of India.\n\nThat success combined the wisdom and energy of farmers with professional management to successfully capture liquid milk and milk product markets while supporting farmer investment with inputs and services. The major success of this mission was achieved through the World Bank financed Operation Flood, which lasted for 26 years (1970 to 1996) and was responsible for making India the world's largest producer of milk. This operation was started with the objective of increasing milk production, augmenting farmer income and providing fair prices for consumers.\n\nNDDB has now integrated 1,17,575 dairy co-operatives in what it calls the Anand Pattern, linking the village society to the state federations in a three-tier structure.\n\nNDDB launched its Perspective Plan 2010 with four thrust areas: Quality Assurance, Productivity Enhancement, Institution Building and National Information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293002", "title": "Pete Smith (announcer)", "text": "Pete Smith (announcer)\n\nPeter Philip Smith OAM (born 29 May 1939 in Melbourne, Victoria) is a former Australian radio and television voice-over artist. He is primarily known for his work with GTV-9 Melbourne as their announcer, including being the announcer on the nationally screened quiz show \"Sale of the Century\" for twenty-one years.\n\nPeter was educated at Wesley College, Melbourne.\n\nUpon leaving school, Smith joined the Australian Broadcasting Corporation as a messenger boy before progressing through the ranks to an announcer on the home service and Radio Australia.\n\nOn radio in the 1960s, Pete worked with radio station 3AK as a \"Good Guy\" and with on the Greater 3UZ as it was known during the seventies.\n\nSince this time he has made guest appearances on comedy-based radio programmes, including \"Get This\" and \"Tough Love\" , which both aired on Triple M.\n\nAs television was introduced into Australia, Smith performed the role of announcer and host for the weekly ABC TV television program \"Sports View Hit Parade\", broadcast on Saturday afternoons.\n\nOn 11 April 1964, Smith took up a position at the local Melbourne Nine Network station GTV-9. There he worked on voice-overs and appeared on \"In Melbourne Tonight\", for which he presented commercials, appeared in comedy sketches, and, on several occasions, acted as compere. From the mid-60s, following Bert Newton's transfer to a rival network, Smith took over as chief voice-over announcer at GTV-9, a position he would retain for around forty years.\n\nDuring his time at the network, Smith has also been seen as on-camera host for numerous specials, as well as working for a period in the seventies as a National Nine newsreader. He was also associated for many years with network personality Bert Newton on the long running \"New Faces\" talent show, and on Bert’s night-time variety program. During the late seventies, Smith also hosted his own \"Tonight Show\" on NWS-9 in Adelaide.\n\n1979 saw Peter Smith awarded the Douglas Wilkie Medal for doing the least for Australian rules football in the fairest manner.\n\nStaying with the Nine Network, Pete was involved with Ernie Sigley and Denise Drysdale on their weekday morning program \"Ernie & Denise\". From 1980, Smith became the voice-over man for the popular quiz program, \"Sale of the Century\". His voice boomed out for twenty-one years welcoming viewers to the show each night until its demise in 2001. His announcement at the end of the show usually finished with the phrase \"Pete Smith speaking\".\n\nHe went on to become the spokesman for Australian retailer Copperart, appearing in numerous commercials during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn the early 1990s Smith made several appearances on \"The Late Show\" on ABC-TV, having formed an association with some members of the creators of the show, The D-Generation, when they filmed several ultimately rejected pilot episodes of programs at Nine. Smith's most memorable performance on \"The Late Show\" was performing the Aerosmith song \"Dude Looks Like A Lady\". He also made a guest appearance during the mid-1990s on the current affairs spoof \"Frontline\", also created by former members of The D-Generation and screened on the ABC.\n\nSmith's later roles with Nine were warming up and giving announcements to the studio audience for \"Bert's Family Feud\" and \"Sale of the Century's\" revival, \"Temptation\", although he did not appear on the show's broadcast (except for one episode in September 2007 to introduce a contestant, which included an on-camera appearance). In 2007, he was the announcer for Mick Molloy's short-lived \"The Nation\". In 2011 he was the guest on the seventh episode of Tony Martin's comedy program, \"The Joy of Sets\".\n\nIn film he appeared in \"Crackerjack\" (as a passerby) and \"Bad Eggs\" (as a police officer). During the 1990s he was the voiceover man for television advertisements for the Australian homewares chain Copperart, and had a small stint on the ill-fated Nine Network variety show \"Micallef Tonight\" parodying his usual voice over work, announcing joke prizes for their game show segment (describing an ugly couch as \"a welcome subtraction from any living-room\" and guests' choice to fly by aeroplane with the question \"why risk death by ballooning or being fired from a giant cannon when aeroplanes are available?\"), and insulting the contestants. He currently plays a similar role on the latest season of Micallef's game show, Talkin' 'Bout Your Generation.\n\nHe has also performed in cabaret with Tony Martin, Mick Molloy and Judith Lucy and released two nostalgic double CD’s, \"Pete Smith Specialties: The Great British Dance Bands Of The Thirties\" and \"Pete Smith Specialties: The Great British Dance Bands Of The Forties\", containing his favourite popular music featuring classic British Dance bands of the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nNow in semi-retirement, Pete splits his time between his homes in both Melbourne and the bayside village of Portsea.\n\nSmith is currently chairman and patron of the GTV Foundation.\n\nHe is also a Life Ambassador for Australia Day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293006", "title": "Eusebio Ayala, Paraguay", "text": "Eusebio Ayala, Paraguay\n\nEusebio Ayala is a city and district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay. It is named after Eusebio Ayala, a former President of Paraguay. It is located approximately 72 km of the city of Asuncion, capital of the Republic of Paraguay.\n\nThis city lies on the right bank of the stream Piribebuy, being axis road from where routes depart inside and outside the department. It is well known for being the birthplace of the famous Chipa Barrero and for being located next to the fields of Acosta Ñú, where children were slain in a battle during the Paraguayan War (1864 to 1870).\n\nThis district has a length of 338 km, with a population of approximately 20,843 inhabitants., Of which nearly 40% of the people living in urban areas, its population's density is 67.22 persons per square kilometers.\n\nEusebio Ayala was founded by Governor Carlos Morphi in the year 1770 under the name Barrero Grande. Previously, it was called the San Roque and Barrero Grande. Its current mayor is Mr. Nestor Fabian Delgadillo Diaz, of the NRA, for the period 2006 to 2010.\n\nThe Battle of Acosta Ñu, the final major battle in the Paraguayan War. was fought here on August 16, 1869. The Paraguayan army, composed of, by this time in the war, 6000 mostly elderly, children, adolescents, women and invalids, faced 20 000 Brazilians and Argentinians. The battle began with an infantry assault on Paraguayan positions which lasted for eight hours until the Paraguayans retreated to a fortified redoubt. The redoubt was destroyed by Brazilian artillery fire, and the defenders formed a defensive square around the eight cannon stationed there. However, the square was soon destroyed by a huge Brazilian cavalry charge, but the battered Paraguayan survivours managed to scatter them afterwards. The Brazilian commander, Gaston d'Orléans, ordered a final bayonet charge, which broke the remaining Paraguayan lines. General Caballero, the Paraguayan commander, finally ordered a withdrawal and left the field with his remaining 3000 troops. According to Brazilian historian Chiavenatto, when Eu noticed movements within the forest behind the plain of Acosta, he believed that they were Paraguayans preparing a counter-attack, and so ordered his engineers to burn the forest. The movement was in fact Paraguayan camp followers attempting to recover the injured from the field.\n\nThe number of children and teenagers fighting on the Paraguayan side killed in the battle today marks Children's Day in Paraguay.\n\nThe District of Eusebio Ayala's main wealth is agriculture and the production of Chipa, which is famous for its flavor throughout the country. The inhabitants are engaged in livestock and breeding livestock beef pigs horse and sheep. In relation to agriculture, it is growing maize cotton cassava, sugarcane, snuff bean, mate, coffee, Citrus and grapes. \nThe industry in Eusebio Ayala focuses on the production of traditional and delicious Cheese bun Barrero which may by accompanied with a cup of hot cooked mate tea. In this area there is a place called \"The house of peanut\" owned by a family of farmers, where various products made from peanuts such as cakes, sweets and ice cream can be bought.\n\n Ramon Ayala, a former resident of the district Eusebio Ayala, was the originator of a company that turned this town famous throughout the country and also known outside the country. Rescuing the family tradition in the development of the chipà (prepared as bread maize and starch cassava, Mr. Ramon Ayala began marketing the product in the years 1970, at the beginning with a small truck, and with a high speaker, traveled to provide food until the country's capital.\n\nThere are currently more than half a hundred micro producers in the city, several stalls appreciated this product, are located on the side of the route No. 2 Mariscall José Félix Estigarribia.\n\nThe population growth rate has not undergone major changes in recent years, \nIts current total population is 20,843 inhabitants, which is overwhelmingly rural and with a slight predominance of men.\n\nAs for the projection of the population held, include the following details:\n\n\nThe district Eusebio Ayala, is located towards the South Centre Department of Cordillera.\n\nEusebio Ayala, whose boundaries: \n\nThe district of Eusebio Ayala is accessed by the international route No. 2 Mariscal José Félix Estigarribia which is the most important route, also accessed through the route No. 1 by the Department of Paraguarí.\n\nIts roads are accessible at all times, all roads are paved, all stuffed and embankments, and stoned roads. As for roads, the villagers of their companies enjoy good stretches for vehicular traffic.\n\nIt offers digital telephone services, radio and TV channels relay.\n\nPredominates a dry climate and temperate, with an average temperature of 22 °C, a minimum of 3 °C and a maximum of 40 °C. The amount of rainfall in the year reaches of 1.536 mm, giving an average of 153 mm per month. The months of June and August are the months of lowest rainfall.\n\nMaking a connection with the district's total population it can be seen that 56.05% of the population is settled in rural areas.\n\nKey indicators socio - demographic: \n\n\nProceeding from the city of Asuncion, taking the international route No. 2 Mariscal José Félix Estigarribia, to the departmental capital, Caacupé and continuing along the same route paved until reaching the city of Eusebio Ayala, approximately 72 kilometers from the city of Asuncion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293008", "title": "Blue Moon (2002 film)", "text": "Blue Moon (2002 film)\n\nBlue Moon is an Austrian movie written and directed by Andrea Maria Dusl in 2002. The road movie romantic comedy is Dusl's first as a director.\n\nIn a month with two full moons, Austrian petty criminal Johnny Pichler is hired to carry a bag of cash to the Slovakian border and deliver it to a gangster. Johnny arrives late in a battered taxi. He is forced into the car behind the gangster's beautiful but unhappy escort. Shirley, who is no bimbo, squirts the gangster with an incapacitating spray, kicks him out of the car and races away with Johnny and the cash. The pair makes a series of unsuccessful attempts to sell the obviously stolen car. In a Slovak hotel Johnny offers to buy Shirley's share of the car with his share of the cash. She refuses but when he returns from the bar, she is gone.\n\nLonely Johnny teams up with Ignaz Springer, an East German con man who is having trouble adapting to post-Communist Europe, but claims to have business interests in Ukraine: shoe import-export. Springer introduces Johnny to a couple of Slovak waitresses and then disappears after selling the car without Johnny's knowledge. Johnny hitchhikes to Ukraine looking for Shirley with only the town Lviv stamped on a strip of photographs as a guide. In Lviv he meets a taxi driver who differs from Shirley only in her hair colour. Jana reveals that she is Shirley's twin sister and they soon become lovers. Jana tells him that Shirley's real name is Dana and that she had left Lviv some months ago after a bout of craziness. Johnny soon discovers that Jana is not being entirely honest with him. And the city is hardly welcoming: a gang force him to buy an ordinary brick from them with all the money that he has. He follows Jana to Kiev and finally to Odessa on the Black Sea, where he is also reunited with Springer. The movie ends on a ferry as the blue moon rises and the final scene explains the enigmatic opening scene on the Odessa Steps (made famous by \"The Battleship Potemkin\").\n\nDusl sees the love that develops between Johnny and Jana as a metaphor for the relationship between the east and the west. More inspiration for the film may have come from a transatlantic romantic entanglement with an American whom she visited before going into production.\n\n\n\nShot in German, English, Ukrainian, Russian and Slovak, the movie is available with English subtitles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293009", "title": "Salter", "text": "Salter\n\nSalter may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293013", "title": "San Bernardino District, Paraguay", "text": "San Bernardino District, Paraguay\n\nSan Bernardino is a district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay.\nSan Bernardino or San Ber is a town in Paraguay, located on the shores of Ypacarai Lake in the Cordillera Department. It is a popular holiday resort for people from Asunción, and both Alfredo Stroessner and former Nicaraguan president Anastasio Somoza have had lakehouses there.\n\nThe town contains a museum, a \"rathaus\", a \"bierstube\" and a cemetery that contains the grave of Los Paraguayos singer Luis Alberto del Paraná.\n\nThe town was founded in 1881 by German immigrants who named the town New Bavaria. More Germans came from Tanganyika and the Sudetenland after the First World War, though the town was renamed after General Bernardino Caballero, president of Paraguay from 1880 to 1886.\n\nThe Lake Hotel in San Bernardino was where the German nationalist Dr. Bernhard Förster spent the last six weeks of his life, before committing suicide on 3 June 1889 by taking an overdose of strychnine. Inspired by the writing of Richard Wagner, and because of his own strong anti-semitism, he set out to establish a German settlement in Paraguay with his wife Elisabeth Förster \"née\" Nietzsche (sister of the philosopher, Friedrich Nietzsche) and some German families. Their efforts, at a site called Nueva Germania, failed dismally causing Förster to leave for San Bernardino.\n\nFörster was buried in the town's cemetery. As Nazism became increasingly popular amongst Paraguay's German community in the 1930s, Förster became something of a hero. In 1934, Adolf Hitler ordered a small memorial service to take place at his graveside, with German soil sent to sprinkle over the grave.\n"}
{"id": "2293017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293017", "title": "Santa Elena, Paraguay", "text": "Santa Elena, Paraguay\n\nSanta Elena, named after Helena of Constantinople, is a district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "2293021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293021", "title": "Kyōko Hasegawa", "text": "Kyōko Hasegawa\n\nOn May 30, 2009 she gave birth to a boy. On January 25, 2012 she gave birth to a girl.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293023", "title": "RSR", "text": "RSR\n\nRSR is a three letter acronym which may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293028", "title": "Monte San Savino", "text": "Monte San Savino\n\nMonte San Savino is a town and comune in the province of Arezzo, Tuscany (Italy). It is located on the Essa stream in the Valdichiana. Several of its frazioni occupy higher hills, like Gargonza at and Palazzuolo, at an elevation of .\n\nMonte San Savino was one of the first urban settlements in Tuscany, Italy. It originated around 1100, but a further century had to pass before Monte San Savino could be considered a centre of a certain social, political and cultural importance of Tuscany in those times. But it is no longer now.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293029", "title": "Dobermann (film)", "text": "Dobermann (film)\n\nDobermann is a 1997 French film directed by Jan Kounen starring Tchéky Karyo, Vincent Cassel, and Monica Bellucci.\n\nThe charismatic criminal Dobermann (Vincent Cassel), who got his first gun when he was christened, leads a gang of brutal robbers with his beautiful, deaf girlfriend Nat the Gypsy (Monica Bellucci). After a complex and brutal bank robbery, they are being hunted by the Paris police. The hunt is led by the sadistic cop Christini (Tchéky Karyo), who only has one goal: to catch Dobermann at any cost. He manages to catch gang member Olivier, who is also a tranvestite named Sonia. Christini threatens to kill Olivier's baby if he does not help him to catch the gang. Olivier has no choice and visits a party in a disco where the other gang members celebrate their robbery. He informs Christini with an alarm transmitter that all gang members are here so the police start a raid.\nAfter a gun fight the police arrest several members of the gang but some manage to escape, including Dobermann, who flees into a hidden basement which also has monitoring screens to show what happens in the disco.\nAs Christini kills Pitbull and abducts Nat with a car to rape her, Dobermann leaves his hiding place and follows him in a stolen ambulance. He overtakes Christini and manages to wrestle him down in the car. Dobermann grinds the head of Christini on the road while still driving the car at high speed as revenge for the killed friends. Christini is left heavily disfigured on the road, presumably dying.\nThe surviving gang members are able to escape and bury Sonia (the personage), suggesting that her treason results in Olivier having to drop his transvestite role. As they leave the scene in their cabrio a police helicopter is shown following them, with their car in its sights.\n\n\nOn May 24, 2011, \"Dobermann 2: Arm Wrestle\" was announced. Vincent Cassel is in talks to reprise the role of Dobermann, and will have a $35 million budget.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293036", "title": "Vali Myers", "text": "Vali Myers\n\nVali Myers (2 August 1930 – 12 February 2003) was an Australian visionary artist, dancer, bohemian and muse whose coverage by the media was mostly in the decades of the 1950s and 1960s in Europe and the United States.\n\nMyers was born in Canterbury, Sydney, on 2 August 1930, to a violinist mother and marine wireless operator father. She displayed a talent for art at an early age. The family moved to Box Hill, Melbourne in 1941 and Vali left home at 14. After working in factories to support her dance lessons, she became immersed in dance and later became the leading dancer for the Melbourne Modern Ballet Company. In 1949 at age 19 Myers travelled to impoverished post-war Paris to pursue a dance career but found herself living on the streets of the Saint-Germain-des-Prés Quarter on the Left Bank. \"Love on the Left Bank\" is a 1954 book of photographs from Dutch photographer Ed van der Elsken (1925–1990), documenting the bohemian life on the Rive Gauche of Paris; Vali Myers is the heroine of this semi-biographical \"roman à clef\", and is also photographed along with some of her early drawings.\n\nMyers was a flamboyant fantasy artist who worked in pen and ink and watercolour as well as being a nightclub dancer. She divided her life between her adopted home of Melbourne, the Hotel Chelsea in New York City, Paris, and a 14th-century cottage in a valley near Il Porto (Positano), Italy.\n\nHer visionary art works developed from early detailed monochromes to a full range of vibrant colours and tones extending to watercolour and gold leaf, displaying a \"fastidiously rendered depiction of a personal spirit world\". She was acquainted with many celebrities and creatives including Tennessee Williams, Salvador Dalí, Django Reinhardt, Jean Cocteau, Patti Smith, Jean Genet, Sam Shepard and many others.\n\nMyers' paintings have sold for up to $US40,000 ($A68,000) in New York. Her work was held in the Stuyvesant collection in the Netherlands, New York's Hurryman Collection, and is owned by private collectors such as George Plimpton and Mick Jagger.\n\nWhile in Europe she married Rudi Rappold, an Austrian from Vienna, and moved to Positano. The marriage ended and eventually her lover, Italian artist Gianni Menichetti moved in and helped turn the property into a wildlife sanctuary endorsed by the World Wildlife Fund. Later, after she began having seizures, she returned to Melbourne in 1993, and opened a studio in the Nicholas Building; only returning to Positano occasionally.\n\nMyers died in Melbourne on 12 February 2003 shortly after being diagnosed with cancer at the age of 72.\n\nOn 18 January 2003, a month before Myers' death, \"The Age\" newspaper printed an article about her life. The article concluded with the following quote from Myers:\n\nI've had 72 absolutely flaming years. It [the illness] doesn't bother me at all, because, you know, love, when you've lived like I have, you've done it all. I put all my effort into living; any dope can drop dead. I'm in the hospital now, and I guess I'll kick the bucket here. Every beetle does it, every bird, everybody. You come into the world and then you go.\"\n\nAn exhibition of her work was held at LUMA (La Trobe University Museum of Art) in 2013. The show, \"Between Dusk and Dawn\" was a personal retrospective that included works from private collections in the US and Europe and ran in September and October.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293049", "title": "Vz. 50", "text": "Vz. 50\n\nThe Vz. 50 (also known as the CZ 50) is a Czech made double-action, semi-automatic pistol. Vz is an abbreviation of the Czech (as well as Slovak) term \"vzor\" meaning model.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Czechoslovakia's Ministry of the Interior requested a new pistol design from Česká zbrojovka Uherský Brod. The resulting gun was chambered in .32 ACP and designed by two brothers Jan and Jaroslav Kratochvíl. It combined elements from both the Walther PP and PPK. The pistol is fed from an 8-round single-stack magazine, located within the bakelite paneled grip. Small fixed sights are located on top of the slide. The pistol functions via the blowback principle - gas pressure from burning powder simultaneously forces the cartridge case and slide backward and forces the bullet forward in the barrel. After it reaches the end of its rearward travel, the recoil spring returns the slide to its forward position, stripping and chambering a new round from the magazine as it does so, rendering the gun ready to fire again. Hammer and trigger operation is single and double action .\n\nVz. 50s were sold commercially but most were distributed to police agencies under control of the Ministry of the Interior. They were produced initially at Strakonice and later at Uherský Brod. Manufacture ended in 1970 with the refinement of the pistol in a new model known as the Vz. 70.\n\nSerial numbers start at 650001, continuing from the discontinued vz. 27 serial number range. Pistols manufactured at the Strakonice factory fall in the 740000 range. Pistols manufactured at Uhersky Brod have 5 digit serial numbers preceded by a letter (which may change in the middle of a number series).\n\nThe last two digits of the year of manufacture are stamped on the left rear of the slide next to the proof stamp (a lion superimposed on an \"N\").\n\nVz 50s bearing a stamp of crossed swords indicates they were government property.\n\nIn 1970, an update of the Vz. 50 was released with minor cosmetic changes and internal improvements called the Vz. 70 (also known as CZ 70). These changes included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293052", "title": "Santa Elena District", "text": "Santa Elena District\n\nSanta Elena District may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293070", "title": "Valenzuela, Paraguay", "text": "Valenzuela, Paraguay\n\nValenzuela is a town and district of the Cordillera Department, Paraguay, located some 107 km from Asunción. It was founded in 1783 in an area previously known as Yvyraity. The full name of the settlement was Capilla de Valenzuela de los Naranjos because it was formed around a Chapel of San Jose, built by father Antonio Fernandez de Valenzuela.\nAs of 2002, the district's population amounted to 5,581.\n\nEconomy is based on agriculture, especially cultivation of ananas. The parish church of Valenzuela houses a Baroque pulpit dating to the first Jesuit missions in the country.\n"}
{"id": "2293078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293078", "title": "Primero de Marzo", "text": "Primero de Marzo\n\nPrimero de Marzo (or 1° de Marzo) is a small town and district in the marshy lowlands of the Cordillera Department in Paraguay. The area is located near the shallow meandering river Yhaguy which locals utilize primarily for fishing and recreation. Primero de Marzo's name is derived from the date March 1, 1870, when then Paraguayan President Francisco Solano López was killed by Brazilian troops at Cerro Corá, thereby ending the bloody War of the Triple Alliance.\n\nAccording to the 2002 National Paraguayan census, Primero de Marzo has a population of 6,019 inhabitants: 3,210 male and 2,809 female. 795 inhabitants live in the urban center of Primero de Marzo while another 5,224 maintain dwellings in the various surrounding rural campos. Some of the larger outlying rural campos include General Diaz, Sargento Cabellero, San Isidro, and Mariscal Estigarribia. Running water and electricity is available to the urban inhabitants, but only some of the rural campos. There are a very few landlines for telephone service in the area. The most reliable being at the Municipality and the Cooperative, Niño Jesus Ltd. Currently, there is limited internet or cellular phone service in the area due to the geography and poor public infrastructure.\n\nPrimero de Marzo was founded in 1931 as \"Colonia Primero de Marzo\" under the aegis of the district of Caraguatay. On June 23, 1955, the town was declared its own departmental district by presidential decree from dictator Alfredo Stroessner. Primero de Marzo is sometimes called by its lesser known name of Colonia Alphonso Tranquera. The town celebrates its Fiesta Patronal on December 25 in honor of its patron saint Niño Jesus. Other large fiestas celebrated in the area include Cerra Corá (March 1), Pascua (Easter), la fiesta de San Juan (June), and la fiesta de San Blas (February 3).\n\nA rural agricultural area, Primero de Marzo is centered in a region well known for its high-quality production of petitgrain (orange essence) from the bitter orange tree (citrus aurantium). This petitgrain is generally exported to Europe for use in perfumes and skin care products. The vast majority of the harvest, production, and sale of this crop of petitgrain is organized by members of the small credit and marketing cooperative Niño Jesus Ltd. Other important crops in the area include mandioca (yuca), ka'a he'ê (stevia), watermelon, tomato, pineapple, cotton, and soybeans. Fishfarming production of Tilapia is becoming increasingly important in the rural campos.\n\nThe bus company, Empresa 1º de Marzo operates out of the town center and maintains hourly service (3½ hours) to Asuncion passing through the Cordillera towns of Isla Pucú, Eusebio Ayala District, and finally Caacupe via Ruta 2 - Monday through Saturday. While the majority of Primero de Marzo's roads remain unpaved, flooding during the Paraguayan wet season does not adversely affect bus service to and from the Asuncion bus terminal as the main exit road is paved in crude cobble stone until its convergence with a paved highway at Isla Pucú. Daily morning service to Arroyos y Esteros and Ruta 3 usually can be made by contracting private transportation in town; however, this route is subject to frequent rain washout.\n\nGeografía Ilustrada del Paraguay, Distribuidora Arami SRL; 2007. \n\nGeografía del Paraguay, Primera Edición 1999, Editorial Hispana Paraguay SRL\n\nUS Peace Corps 2002–2004, 2019-2020\n\n"}
{"id": "2293086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293086", "title": "Messapians", "text": "Messapians\n\nThe Messapians (; ) were a Iapygian tribe that inhabited Salento in classical antiquity. Two other Iapygian tribes, the Peucetians and the Daunians, inhabited central and northern Apulia respectively. All three tribes spoke the Messapian language, but had developed separate archaeological cultures by the seventh century BC. The Messapians lived in the eponymous region Messapia, which extended from Leuca in the southeast to Kailia and Egnatia in the northwest, covering most of the Salento peninsula. This region includes the Province of Lecce and parts of the provinces of Brindisi and Taranto today.\n\nStarting in the third century BC, Greek and Roman writers distinguished the indigenous population of the Salento peninsula differently. According to Strabo, the names \"Iapygians\", \"Daunians\", \"Peucetians\" and \"Messapians\" were exclusively Greek and not used by the natives, who divided the Salento in two parts. The southern and Ionian part of the peninsula was the territory of the Salentinoi (; ), ranging from Otranto to Leuca and from Leuca to Manduria. The northern part on the Adriatic belonged to the Kalabroi (; ) and extended from Otranto to Egnatia with its hinterland.\n\nAfter the conquest of the Salento by the Roman Republic in 266 BC the distinction between the Iapygian tribes blurred as they were assimilated into ancient Roman society. Strabo makes it clear that in his time, the end of the first century BC, most people used the names \"Messapia\", \"Iapygia\", \"Calabria\" and \"Salentina\" interchangeably for the Salento. The name \"Calabria\" for the entire peninsula was made official when the Roman emperor Augustus divided Italy in regions and gave the whole region of Apulia the name \"Regio II Apulia et Calabria\". Archaeology still follows the original Greek tripartite division of tribes based on the archaeological evidence.\n\nJulius Pokorny derives their ethnonym \"Messapii\" from \"Messapia\", interpreted as \"(the place) Amid waters\", \"Mess-\" from Proto-Indo-European and \"*mes-\", \"middle\" cf. Albanian \"*medhyo-\", \"middle\" (cf. Ancient Greek μέσος \"méssos\" \"middle\"), and \"-apia\" from Proto-Indo-European \"*ap-\", \"water\" (cf. another toponym, \"Salapia\", \"salt water\").\n\nThe origin of the Messapii is debated. The most credited theory is that they came from Illyria as one of the Illyrian tribes who settled in Apulia and that they emerged as a sub-tribe distinct from the rest of the Iapyges. It seems that the Iapyges spread northwards from the Salento.\n\nThe pre-Italic settlement of Gnatia was founded in the fifteenth century BC during the Bronze Age. It was captured and settled by the Iapyges, as they occupied large tracts of territory in Apulia. The Messapii developed a distinct identity from the Iapyges. Rudiae was first settled from the late ninth or early eighth centuries BC. In the late sixth century BC, it developed into a much more important settlement. It flourished under the Messapii, but after their defeat by Rome it dwindled and became a small village. The nearby Lupiae (Lecce) flourished at its expense. The Messapi did not have a centralised form of government. Their towns were independent city-states. They had trade relationships with the Greek cities of Magna Graecia.\n\nIn 473 BC, the Greek city of Tarentum (which was on the border with Messapia) and its ally, Rhegion, tried to seize some of the towns of the Messapii and Peucetii. However, the Iapyge tribes defeated them thanks to the superiority of their cavalry. The war against Tarentum continued until 467 BC.\n\nDuring the Second Peloponnesian War between Athens and Sparta, the Mesapii were allies of Athens. They provided archers for Athens' massive expeditionary force sent to attack Syracuse in Sicily (415–13 BC). The expedition was a disaster and the entire force was destroyed.\n\nIn 356 BC, an alliance between Messapii and Lucani led to the conquest of Heraclea and Matapontus. In 342 BC, Tarentum called for the aid of Archidamus III of Sparta. Archidamus died in battle under the walls of the Messapian city of Manduria in 338 BC.\n\nIn 333 BC, Tarentum called Alexander I of Epirus to help them in their war with their Lucani. Alexander defeated the Messapii. He died in a battle against the Lucani in 330 BC.\n\nAfter the campaign of Alexander I, the Messapii switched allegiance. They allied with Tarentum and Cleonymus of Sparta, who campaigned in the region in 303–02 BC to help Tarentum against, again, the Lucani.\n\nDuring the Second Samnite War (327–304 BC) between Rome and the Samnites, the Messapii, Iapyges and Peucetii sided with the Samnites. Some of the cities of the Dauni sided with Rome and some of them sided with the Samnites. The city of Canusium went over to the Romans in 318 BC. Silvium, a Peucetii frontier town, was under Samnite control, but it was captured by Rome in 306 BC.\n\nDuring the Pyrrhic Wars (280–75 BC), the Messapii sided with Tarentum and Pyrrhus the king of Epirus, in Greece, who landed at Tarentum, ostensibly to help this city in her conflict with the Romans. According to ancient historians, his aim was to conquer Italy. Pyrrhus fought battles against the Romans and a campaign in Sicily. He had to give up the latter and was defeated by the Romans and left Italy. The Messapii were mentioned by Dionysius of Halicarnassus as fighting for Pyrrhus in the Battle of Asculum.\n\nIn 272 BC, the Romans captured Tarentum. In 267 BC, Rome conquered the Messapii and Brundisium. This city became Rome's port for sailing to the eastern Mediterranean. Subsequently, the Messapii were rarely mentioned in the historical record. They became Romanised. In 217 BC, Hydra started issuing coins, which often featured Iapagus, the legendary founder of the Iapyges.\n\nDuring Hannibal's invasion of Italy in the Second Punic War (218–201 BC), the Messapii remained loyal to the Romans. The Battle of Cannae, where Hannibal routed the forces of the Romans and their Italic allies, was fought in the heart of the neighbouring Peucetii territory. The Roman survivors were welcomed into nearby Canusium. Part of the final stages of the war were fought out at Monte Gargano, in the northernmost part of Apulia, in the territory of the Dauni.\n\nThe Messapian language is generally considered similar to the Illyrian languages, although this has been debated as a mostly speculative grouping, as Illyrian languages are themselves poorly attested. Albanian dialects are still a relatable group with Messapian, due to toponyms in Apulia, some of towns that have no etymological forms outside Albanian linguistic sources.\n\nThe language became extinct following the Roman conquest of the region, which began during the late 4th century BC. It has been preserved in about 300 inscriptions written in the Greek alphabet and dating from the 6th to the 1st century BC. \n\nMessapia was relatively urbanized and more densely populated compared to the rest of Iapygia. It possessed 26–28 walled settlements, while the remainder of Iapygia had 30–35 more dispersed walled settlements. The Messapian population has been estimated at 120.000 to 145.000 persons before the Roman conquest.\n\nThe main Messapic cities included:\n\nOther Messapic settlements have been discovered near Francavilla Fontana, San Vito dei Normanni and in Vaste (Poggiardo).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293101", "title": "Roger Climpson", "text": "Roger Climpson\n\nRoger Climpson OAM (born 18 October 1931) is a retired English-born Australian media personality who served a lengthy career in both radio and television, as a journalist, announcer, newsreader and presenter. He is best known for his time at \"Seven News\" in the 1980s and 1990s and for his hosting duties on shows from 1977 until 1998, such as the local version of \"This Is Your Life\" and true-crime series \"Australia's Most Wanted\".\n\nClimpson was born on 18 October 1931 in Peterborough, England. The son of a butcher, he aimed to become a pilot in the Royal Air Force, until a rugby union accident at the age of 14 punctured his lung, leading him to take up acting instead of flying. He emigrated to Australia in 1949, and met his future wife Claire at a Christmas party in 1952.Climpson started his career in theatre radio\n\nClimpson began his television career in 1957, working at Channel Nine as an announcer, weatherman and newsreader. He got the job at Nine after asking his friend Brian Henderson to have a word with the head of the network, Bruce Gyngell. During his time at Nine, he hosted two programs of his own: \"Rendezvous with Roger\" and \"The House and Garden Show\".\n\nHe left Channel Nine in 1965 after chairman Sir Frank Packer refused to grant him a five-pound pay rise. Climpson found himself briefly unemployed and worked at his father's butcher shop, until he was asked to fill a temporary newsreader role at Channel Seven – where he stayed for fifteen years.\n\nIn 1977, he began hosting \"This Is Your Life\" until returning to newsreading in 1978. In 1982, Climpson retired from television work, but returned to the station in 1989 as anchor of Sydney's \"Seven News\", until a diagnosis of prostate cancer in November 1994 forced his temporary retirement. Ann Sanders replaced him the following year.\n\nIn 1997, he was host of \"Australia's Most Wanted\", which lasted until 1998 when he retired from television.\n\nIn 1977, he was a presenter in the afternoon shift on Sydney's 2GB, which lasted for several years.\n\nIn recent years, Climpson has been heavily involved in Christian radio, and from 1995 until his retirement in 2004, was chairman of the Christian Broadcasting Association Ltd, licensee of Sydney Christian radio station Hope 103.2.\n\nOn Australia Day 2004 he was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia (OAM).\n\n"}
{"id": "2293102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293102", "title": "Spalahores", "text": "Spalahores\n\nSpalahores (also spelled Spalohres or Spalahora) was an Iranian king who ruled Sakastan in the 1st-century BC. Before his rise to kingship, he served as a commander of his predecessor, Vonones, who had minted coins with his name and that of another commander, Spalirisos, who are both referred to as \"brother of the king\". Scholars such as R.C. Senior and Khodadad Rezakhani consider Spalahores and Spalirisos to indeed be Vonones' brothers, while others such as K.W. Dobbins argue that it was an honorific title given to them, whom he considered to be Saka satraps.\n\nA major argument against the proposal of a blood relationship between Vonones and the two commanders was due to both of them having Saka names, contrary to Vonones' Parthian name. Saghi Gazerani has suggested that after the Arsacid re-conquest of Sakastan (sometime between 124–115 BC), which was given as a fiefdom to the Surenid general that led the expedition, the Surenids (who became independent after 88 BC) and Sakas became closely connected, presumably through alliances and intermarriages. Indeed, Parthians and Sakas are often mixed up in Indian literature. The mythological Iranian hero Rostam (who was from Sakastan), is mentioned in Iranian traditions as both Parthian and Saka, thus supporting this dual-identity.\n\nSpalahores' son and successor, Spalagadames, has been suggested by Rezakhani to be the same figure as the first Indo-Parthian king Gondophares ().\n\n"}
{"id": "2293105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293105", "title": "Antequera District", "text": "Antequera District\n\nAntequera is a district of the San Pedro Department, Paraguay with Puerto Antequera the main location at the Paraguay River. It is an agricultural region. Puerto Antequera has 1,632 inhabitants.\n\nIt can be reached by Route 11.\n"}
{"id": "2293110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293110", "title": "Choré District", "text": "Choré District\n\nChoré is a district of the San Pedro Department, Paraguay. It has a population of 35,950 based on 2002 \nCensus .\n"}
{"id": "2293115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293115", "title": "Alkinoos Ioannidis", "text": "Alkinoos Ioannidis\n\nAlkinoos Ioannidis (; born 19 September 1969) is a Greek Cypriot composer, lyricist, singer, and orchestrator.\n\nHe was born in Nicosia on 19 September 1969. His artistic family, with a painter father and poet brother was a source of inspiration for him. He first wanted to study drums, but couldn't due to the lack of a drum teacher in Nicosia. Instead, he studied guitar.\n\nFor the first 20 years of his life, he lived in a Nicosia suburb. After his military service, he went off to Greece to study theatre. He also entered the School of Philosophy, University of Athens, which he later gave up. He was more successful in his theatre studies where he played some major roles in well known Greek tragedies such as \"Alcestis\".\n\nAt the age of 23 he recorded his first album called \"Stin Agora Tou Kosmou\" (Greek: Στην Αγορά Του Κόσμου, \"In The World's Market\") with lyrics and music written by Nikos Zoudiaris. This demo tape eventually reached the hands of a well known singer, Dimitra Galani. She instantly became fond of their music and Alkinoos' voice and helped them get a record deal.\n\nAlkinoos and Zoudiaris followed with another album called \"Opos Mistika Kai Isicha\" (Greek: Οπως Μυστικά Και Ήσυχα, \"As Secretly and Quietly\"). Both albums turned gold.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1997 he toured frequently in support of other artists, including one of the most important female figures of Greek music, Eleftheria Arvanitaki. He also carried out one solo tour.\nIoannidis rarely appears to give interviews or take part in television shows. His primary public appearance consists of concert tours that he gives every year in locations around Greece and Cyprus.\n\nIn 1997 his first self-penned album, \"O Dromos, O Hronos Kai O Ponos\" (Greek: Ο Δρόμος Ο Χρόνος Και Ο Πόνος, \"The Road, The Time and The Pain\"), was released to critical praise. The cover to was painted by his father. His subsequent albums have also had their covers painted by his father.\n\nIn 1999 he released another self-penned album, \"Anemodiktis\" (Greek: Ανεμοδείκτης, \"Weather Vane\").\n\nIn 2000 he released a double-disc live album \"Ektos Topou kai Xronou\" (Greek: Εκτός τόπου και χρόνου, \"Out of Space and Time\").\n\nIn 2003, he released \"Oi Peripeties enos Proskiniti\" (Greek: Οι περιπέτειες ενός προσκυνητή, \"The Adventures of a Pilgrim\"). It was a popular and critical hit.\n\nIn April 2006, he released an album of Cypriot folk songs titled \"Pou Disin Os Anatolin\" (Greek:΄Πού Δύσην Ώς Άνατολήν, \"From dusk till dawn\") with his longtime violinist Miltiadis Papastamou.\n\nOn 9 March 2009, he released the album \"Neroponti\" (Greek: Νεροποντή, \"Downpour\").\n\nReleased in March 2012, \"Local Stranger\" is his 12th solo album and examines the “political and economic whirlwind” that has hit Greece in recent months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293118", "title": "Freek de Jonge", "text": "Freek de Jonge\n\nFrederik \"Freek\" Jan Georg de Jonge (born 30 August 1944) is a Dutch cabaret performer and writer.\n\nDe Jonge was born in Westernieland as son of a pastor. His family moved to Workum, and later to Zaandam and Goes. At age 11, De Jonge had his first performance on stage. After barely making it through high school, he studied cultural anthropology in Amsterdam. During his studies he met and Johan Gertenbach, and they formed a group of comedy performers, .\n\nIn 1978, Neerlands Hoop became famous for their opposition against the participation of the Netherlands national football team in the football world cup in Argentina, though their show \"Bloed aan de Paal\".\n\nIn 1979, Neerlands Hoop split up and De Jonge started a solo career of comedy performances. Starting in 1983, he also regularly performed on Dutch national television on New Year's Eve, humoristically looking back on the past year (the so-called \"Oudejaarsconference\").\n\nBesides performing in cabaret, De Jonge has written the novels \"Zaansch Veem\" (1987), \"Neerlands Bloed\" (1991) and \"Opa's Wijsvinger\" (1993). He has been the host of television shows and wrote two films: \"The Illusionist\" (1983) and \"De KKKomediant\" (1986). He also wrote a hip hop song with Dutch rapper Brainpower.\n\nIn 1994, De Jonge started to work with Nits. Under the name Frits, they performed covers of old Neerlands Hoop songs, translated Nits songs and newly written material. An album was released in 1995: \"Dankzij de Dijken\". De Jonge continued to work with their keyboard player Robert Jan Stips: Stips released two albums: \"Gemeen Goed\" (1997) and \"Rapsodia\" (1998). A cover of Bob Dylan's \"Death is not the End\" reached the first place of the Dutch charts in 1997.\n\nFrom 1997 to October 2000, De Jonge was a columnist of the daily newspaper \"Parool\".\n\nIn February 2004, he went to Iraq for a week to perform for the Dutch troops.\n\nOn 12 November 2005, he received the Groenman prize from the Genootschap Onze Taal; this is a society which works with the Dutch language.\n\nDe Jonge is married to Hella Asser, daughter of Dutch writer Eli Asser.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293135", "title": "Partenavia P.68", "text": "Partenavia P.68\n\nThe Partenavia P.68, now Vulcanair P68, is a light aircraft designed by Luigi Pascale and initially built by Italian Partenavia.\nIt made its first flight on 25 May 1970, its type certification was granted on 17 November 1971 and was transferred to Vulcanair in 1998.\nThe original six-seat high-wing monoplane is powered by twin piston engines and is used for light transport and training, the P.68 Observer is an observation aircraft variant, and it was developed in a stretched, 10/11-seat twin turboprop derivative.\n\nThe type certification for the P.68 \"Victor\", a twin piston engine, high wing monoplane with fixed tricycle landing gear was applied for on 22 January 1969.\nThe Partenavia P.68 was designed as a six-seat light transport and trainer powered by two Lycoming IO-360 engines, it made its first flight on 25 May 1970 at Naples.\nThe type certification for the 9.20 m (30.18 ft) long P.68 was granted by the Italian Civil Aviation Authority on 17 November 1971 for an 1860kg (4100 lb) MTOW.\nIt was approved by the FAA on 7 December 1971.\nAfter a 300 h of flight tests, production was to start in May 1972 in a new plant at Naples Capodichino Airport at a rate of three aircraft per month.\nThe prototype was built at Arzano, Italy, production began with 14 pre-production aircraft at new facilities in Casoria, Italy.\n\nThe longer, 9.35 m (30.68 ft) P.68B \"Victor\" certification was applied for on 18 October 1973 and granted on 24 May 1974 for a 1960 kg (4321 lb) MTOW.\nIts fuselage was lengthened to create more space in the cockpit.\n\nBoth derived from the P.68B and 9.55 m (31.33 ft) long, the P.68R \"Victor\" has a retractable landing gear and was certified on 31 July 1978 while the P.68C has a nose allowing a weather radar, larger fuel tanks and increased weights, and was certified on 23 July 1979 with a 1990 kg (4387 lb) MTOW.\nThe P.68C-TC, certified on 29 April 1980, has turbocharged, Lycoming TIO-360-C1A6D engines.\nThe 9.43 m (30.94 ft) long P. 68 \"Observer\", derived from the P.68B with a transparent fuselage nose, adapted systems and larger fuel tanks, was certified on 12 June 1980.\nThe observation aircraft for law enforcement were initially conversions of existing aircraft by German Sportavia-Putzer.\n\nThe 9.90 m (32.48 ft) long, fixed gear AP68TP-300 \"Spartacus\"was certified on 10 December 1983 with two Allison 250-B17C turboprops and a 2600 kg (5732 lb) MTOW.\nthe nine-seater development was helped by Aeritalia, the prototype first flew in 1978 with a retractable undercarriage.\n\nThe 9.15 m (30.02 ft) long P.68TC \"Observer\", a P.68 \"Observer\" with turbocharged engines, was certified on 18 June 1985.\nThe 10.89-11.27 m (35.73-36.97 ft) long, retractable gearAP68TP-600 \"Viator\", with two Allison 250-B17C turboprops, has a 2850-3000 kg (6283-6614 lb) MTOW and was certified on 16 October 1986.\nThe 9.54 m (31.30 ft) long P.68 \"Observer 2\" is a P.68 \"Observer\", with increased weights, upturned wing tips and modified systems, and was certified on 30 November 1989 for a 2084 kg (4594 lb) MTOW.\n\nBased in Casoria, Naples, and already manufacturing Partenavia spares, Vulcanair (then Air Samanta) acquired the type certificate, aircraft spares and the former production plant in Milan for L1.4 billion ($780,000) in April 1998.\nThe type certificate was transferred on 25 November.\nVulcanair offers the P.68R, P68C, P.68C-TC, P.68TC Observer, P.68 Observer 2 and AP68TP-600 Viator.\n\nThe P.68 was involved in 86 accidents and incidents reported in the Aviation Safety Network wiki database, including 58 hull losses.\n\nSeptember 11, 1983: A P.68C, N29561, performing an aerobatic display broke up in flight during an airshow in Plainview, Texas as horrified spectators watched. The NTSB report revealed that analysis of the video showed the aircraft performed a fly-by over the runway, exceeding its Vne (Velocity, never-exceed) speed by 27 knots. The pilot then executed a sharp nose-up pitch change of about 8 degrees, which spiked the aircraft's dynamic load factor to 8.3Gs and caused both wings to fail in the main spar just outside both engine nacelles then separate from the aircraft, which then began rotating, causing the rear fuselage to twist along its length between its cabin and empennage. The aircraft then plummeted 250 feet down just beyond the group of spectators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293137", "title": "San Pablo District, Paraguay", "text": "San Pablo District, Paraguay\n\nSan Pablo is a district of the San Pedro Department, Paraguay. It includes the village of San Pablo or San Pedro de Ycuamandiyú, which has a population of around 680, located around 330 km from the city of Asuncion.\n\nOn the river Jejui Guazú, is a small district of just over 4,000 inhabitants engaged in agriculture. Its soil is suitable for agriculture and in a great proportion for livestock, too.\n\nThe district of San Pablo, is located in the center of the department San Pedro, although the region was the victim of a process of rapid deforestation in the past, it includes one of the richest reserves of Forest that are very profitable. They attract exploitation and marketing force due to the forests.\n\nIn the region there are areas of agricultural use and low prairies that often flood.\n\nIt has an area of 603 km², with a population of 4,351 inhabitants, and a population density of 7.22 people per square kilometer.\n\nThe district has the following ports: Puerto Tayi and Puerto La Niña, which are used to trade their agricultural production, and as a means of internal communication, which communicates with the districts in the area.\n\nThis district is accessible by unpaved roads and internal roads that are also unpaved, being used as secondary rural roads. The embankment roads communicate all districts with each other and other national routes.\n\nCurrently, this district has public transport services between districts and regular services to the country's capital, in addition to Ciudad del Este Pedro Juan Caballero Brazil, Argentina and Chile.\n\nLimits:\n\nTo the north with the district of San Pedro de Ycuamandiyú, which separates the river Jejui Guazú.\n\nTo the south lies the district of Villa del Rosario.\n\nTo the east lies the district of Choré.\n\nAnd to the west, the district of Antequera.\n\nThere is the river Jejui Guazú, the least polluted of the country and with beautiful white sand beaches.\n\nThe climate is predominantly rainy and humid. The relative humidity is 70 to 80%. The average is 23 °C; the highest in summer is 38 °C and at least 10 °C.\n\nThe district has elementary schools and high school level, in which children and young people attend regularly.\n\nThe illiteracy is due to extreme poverty which makes it difficult to send children to school, which particularly affects women. The indigenous tribes also have access to primary education but with little attendance.\n\nThe working population lacks a reasonable level of qualification, which conspires against the development of the area, so it does not have trained manpower.\n\nIt predominates Guarani language which is spoken by about 80% of the inhabitants and the Castilian-Guarani (Jopara), spoken by 20% of the remaining population.\n\nIts rural population is 83.08% of the total population.\n\nThe total number of households in the district rises to the amount of 713, of which 143 of them are in urban areas, and in rural areas there are 570, which represents the 79.94% of homes that are settled in rural areas.\n\nAccording to the projection of the district's total population, by sex and by year, it includes the following details:\n\n\nIn relation to the main socio-demographic indicators, this is the following:\n\n\nThe district of San Pablo has a population of 4,351 inhabitants, of whom 2,324 are male and 2,027 are women. In percentage terms, 53.3% are male and 46.6% women. \nIt has enabled a colony by the IBR, currently INDERT, which has an area of 6,495 hectares and with an amount of 400 lots.\n\nIt is one of the districts that has lower socio-economic indicators, however, in recent years there have been major advances, allowing the inhabitants to acquire a better quality of life.\n\nIn the district of San Pablo, a large percentage of the population is poor (77.9%); having a monthly average income per family of 408,487 Guarani, and 73,834 Guarani per person.\n\nIts economy is essentially agricultural and it has increased considerably thanks to the fertility of its soil and the projects of creating new colonies. Its main agricultural products are: cotton, tobacco, soybeans, mate, cassava, sunflower, sour orange and sweet orange.\n\nThe district of San Pablo’s current mayor is Mr. Quentin Bernardino Gonzalez Guerrero for the election period from 2006 to 2010.\n\nThe main tourist attraction of San Pablo are the beaches on the river Jejui Guazú, for their less polluted waters, which together with its white sand beaches make it a perfect place to cool and relax in the summer season.\n\nGoing from the city of Asuncion, Route II Marshal José Félix Estigarribia, to the city of Coronel Oviedo, then take the Route III General Elizardo Aquino up to the district of Choré, continue westward, about 35 kilometres to reach the district of San Pablo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293138", "title": "Persian weave", "text": "Persian weave\n\nPersian weave is a method of weave used in jewelry and other art forms. When used for making chains, the Persian weave makes a dense chain with a ring pattern. Persian weaves works best with relatively large rings.\n\nThe Persian family of weaves is a \"rope\" type weave based on a stacked ring orientation. In the construction of Persian weaves the rings become stacked and form pairs, resulting in a different grain and a thicker, tighter weave. Most Persian weaves have both left and right-handed versions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293144", "title": "Les Mignons", "text": "Les Mignons\n\nLes Mignons (from \"mignon\", French for \"the darlings\" or \"the dainty ones\") was a term used by polemicists in the toxic atmosphere of the French Wars of Religion and taken up by the people of Paris, to designate the favourites of Henry III of France, from his return from Poland to reign in France in 1574, to his assassination in 1589, a disastrous end to which the perception of effeminate weakness contributed. The mignons were frivolous and fashionable young men, to whom public malignity attributed heterodox sexuality, rumors that some historians have found to be a factor in the disintegration of the late Valois monarchy.\n\nAccording to the contemporary chronicler Pierre de l'Estoile, they made themselves \"exceedingly odious, as much by their foolish and haughty demeanour, as by their effeminate and immodest dress, but above all by the immense gifts the king made to them.\" The Joyeuse wedding in 1581 occasioned one of the most extravagant displays of the reign.\n\nThe faction of the Malcontents, headed by François, duc d'Alençon, created duc d'Anjou in 1576— the presumed heir as long as Henry remained childless— appear to have stirred up the ill will of the Parisians against them. From 1576 the mignons were attacked by popular opinion, and some historians have credited without proof the scandalous stories of the time. Some fourteen favourites were singled out, including François d'Espinay, seigneur de Saint-Luc, who had accompanied Henry to his \"exile\" in Poland and was rewarded now with the château de Rozoy-en-Brie and the governorship of Brouage; but the best known of the mignons, the \"archimignons\" in L'Estoile's \"Registre-Journal\", who monopolised access to the king after the death of Henri's brother and heir the duc d'Alençon were Anne de Joyeuse, baron d'Arques, created duc de Joyeuse (died 1587) and Jean Louis de Nogaret de La Valette, created duc d'Épernon.\n\nThe appearance of the \"mignons\" on Henry's visits in July 1576 to the parishes of Paris to raise money to pay for the provisions of the Edict of Beaulieu (1576), occasioned a report by L'Éstoile:\n\nL'Éstoile added \"they wear their hair long, curled and recurled by artifice, with little bonnets of velvet on top of it like whores in the brothels, and the ruffles on their linen shirts are of starched finery and one half foot long so that their heads look like St. John's on a platter.\"\n\nThe figure of Ganymede was employed in scurrilous sonnetry, but the subtext of criticism within the court was most often that the \"mignons\" were not drawn from the cream of noble families, as had been the court favourites of his late brother Francis II or their father Henry II, but from the secondary nobility, raised up to such a degree that the social fabric appeared to be unnaturally strained.\n\nIn April 1578, the rival court parties of Henry III and Henry, Duke of Guise decided to reenact the battle of the Horatii and the Curiatii. On 27 April, Jacques de Caylus, Louis de Maugiron and Jean d'Arcès (representing the party of the King) engaged in a mock battle with Charles de Balzac, Ribérac, and Georges de Schomberg (representing the party of the Guises). Maugiron and Schomberg were killed in the fighting, Ribérac died of wounds the following noon, d'Arcès was wounded in the head and convalesced in a hospital for six weeks, while Caylus sustained as many as 19 wounds and died after 33 days of agony. Only Balzac got off with a mere scratch on his arm.\n\nThis meaningless loss of life impressed itself on the public imagination. Jean Passerat wrote an elegy, \"Plaintes de Cléophon\", on the occasion. In the political treatise \"Le Theatre de France\" (1580) the duel was invoked as \"the day of the pigs\" who \"killed each other in the precinct of Saint Paul, serving him in the Muscovite manner\". Michel Montaigne decried the event as \"an image de cowardice\", and Pierre Brantôme connected it with the deplorable spread of the Italian and Gascon manners at Henry's court. The incident accelerated the estrangement between the two Henrys.\n"}
{"id": "2293147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293147", "title": "Bottle scraper", "text": "Bottle scraper\n\nThe bottle scraper (known as both a flessenschraper (bottle scraper) and flessenlikker (bottle licker) in Dutch) is a Dutch kitchen tool similar to a small spatula. It is designed to scrape the contents of long bottles that would be impossible to reach with other kitchen tools. Although the tool is sold in Norway and has even been described in some accounts as having originated there, it is cited as a quintessentially Dutch tool as well as an example of Dutch thrift.\n\nThe scraper is made of a long shaft, frequently around in length. On one side is a small flexible rubber spatula head roughly across set perpendicular to the shaft. The head is flexible and usually has a rounded half-circle shape one side useful for scraping round bottles and jars and a flat side with two right angles useful for scraping out cartons. The head is flexible so that it can be pushed into and pulled out of bottles whose mouth is smaller than the fully expanded head of the scraper but larger than the shaft.\n\nIt is a common tool in kitchens in the Netherlands and available in many kitchen stores and supermarkets — although this may vary by region. It is almost entirely unused and unknown outside of that country.\n\nHistorically, vla (a popular dairy product with the consistency similar to custard or yoghurt) was sold in long glass bottles. Vla was frequently delivered by milkmen in bottles similar to the long, tapered-neck milk bottles used in many places in the world. However, while the use of the milk bottle streamlined production and distribution practices, the shape of the container made it hard to extract the last bits with spoons, spatulas, or other kitchen utensils. The Dutch answer was the bottle scraper which was perfectly suited to answer this problem.\n\n\"Vla\" is now primarily sold in cartons which reduces the need for a bottle scraper or make the design less efficient (e.g., bottles have rounded walls while cartons frequently have square bases with 90 degree angles). Modern bottle scrapers include a spatula-side with right angles useful for scraping \"vla\" out of these containers as well. Additionally, the scraper has come to occupy an important role in Dutch kitchens in variety of other purposes being used for scraping the contents of many other bottles and jars (e.g., peanut butter, Nutella, etc.). Much of the Dutch population is familiar with the bottle scraper and skilled in its use.\n\nThere is an element of the technical and engineering community that sees the bottle scraper as a monument to a wrong type of technical solution. This group argues that the best solution to the problem of remaining vla in bottles was to put vla in different containers preventing the problem from ever occurring, rather than inventing another tool and then educating a population in its use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293148", "title": "Hursley House", "text": "Hursley House\n\nHursley House is an 18th-century Queen Anne style mansion in Hursley, near Winchester in the English county of Hampshire. The building is Grade II* listed.\n\nThe Hursley estate was bought by William Heathcote, MP from the daughters of Richard Cromwell. Cromwell had acquired the estate by marriage to the daughter of Richard Major, MP. Heathcote commissioned the present house to be built between 1721 and 1724, during the reign of George I, and was created a baronet in 1733. The estate descended in the Heathcote family to the 5th Baronet, whose widow sold it after his death in 1881 to Joseph Baxendale, the owner of the Pickfords logistics and removal company. He sold it in 1902 to Sir George Cooper whose wife, Mary Emma Smith, an American railways heiress from Chicago, commissioned architect Alexander Marshall Mackenzie to carry out extensive development work in 1902 to create the house that can be seen today. Sir George was created a baronet in 1905.\n\nDuring the First World War the second floor of the house was made available as a nursing hospital for officers. It was intended to turn it over again as a military hospital during the Second World War but Sir George died in 1940 and it was requisitioned instead by the Ministry of Aircraft Production (MAP) to rehouse the Design and Production departments of Vickers Supermarine, which had been bombed out of its original premises in Woolston, Hampshire. During its time in the House, Supermarine worked on the development of many aircraft, of which the most famous is the Spitfire but also includes the early Jet fighters like the Attacker, Swift and Scimitar.\n\nIn 1958 IBM started using the House and its grounds as development laboratories. In 1963 IBM purchased the 100 acres (405,000 m²) of surrounding land and have since erected a large modern office complex employing over 1500 people. The original house is still used by IBM as an Executive Briefing Centre. The lower ground floor of the house is home to the IBM Hursley Museum, a computing museum that covers the history of IBM Hursley Park, IBM United Kingdom and IBM Corporation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293159", "title": "Lime sulfur", "text": "Lime sulfur\n\nIn horticulture, lime sulfur (British spelling lime sulphur) is mainly a mixture of calcium polysulfides and thiosulfate (plus other reaction by-products as sulfite and sulfate) formed by reacting calcium hydroxide with elemental sulfur, used in pest control. It can be prepared by boiling in water a suspension of poorly soluble calcium hydroxide (lime) and solid sulfur together with a small amount of surfactant to facilitate the dispersion of these solids in water. After elimination of any residual solids (flocculation, decantation and filtration), it is normally used as an aqueous solution, which is reddish-yellow in colour and has a distinctive offensive odour of hydrogen sulfide (HS, rotten eggs).\n\nThe exact chemical reaction leading to the synthesis of lime sulfur is poorly known and is generally written as: \n\nas reported in a document of the US Department of Agriculture (USDA).\n\nThis vague reaction is puzzling because it involves the reduction of elemental sulfur and no reductant appears in the above mentioned equation while sulfur oxidation products are also mentioned. The initial pH of the solution imposed by poorly soluble hydrated lime is alkaline (pH = 12.5) while the final pH is in range 11–12, typical for sulfides which are also strong bases. \n\nHowever, elemental sulfur can undergo a disproportionation reaction, also called dismutation. The here above reaction resembles a disproportionation reaction. The inverse comproportionation reaction is the reaction occurring in the Claus process used for desulfurisation of oil and gas crude products in the refining industry. \n\nClaus process:\n\nBy rewriting the last reaction in the inverse direction one obtains a reaction consistent with what is observed in the lime sulfur global reaction: \n\nIn alkaline conditions, it gives: \n\nand after simplification, or more exactly recycling, of water molecules in the above reaction: \n\nadding back 6 Ca cations from hydrated lime for the sake of electroneutrality, one obtains the global reaction. \n\nLime sulfur reaction:\n\nThis last reaction is consistent with the global lime sulfur reaction mentioned in the USDA document. However, it does not account of all the details, a.o., the production of thiosulfate and sulfate amongst the end-products of the reaction. Meanwhile, it is a good first order approximation and it usefully highlights the overall lime sulfur reaction scheme because the chemistry of reduced or partially oxidized forms of sulfur is particularly complex and all the intermediate steps or involved mechanisms are hard to unravel. Moreover, once exposed to atmospheric oxygen and microbial activity, the lime sulfur system will undergo a fast oxidation and its different products will continue to evolve and finally enter the natural sulfur cycle. \n\nThe presence of thiosulfate in the lime sulfur reaction can be accounted by the reaction between sulfite and elemental sulfur (or with sulfide and polysulfides) and that of sulfate by the complete oxidation of sulfite or thiosulfate following a more complex reaction scheme. More information on calcium thiosulfate production has been described in a patent registered by Hajjatie \"et al.\" (2006).\n\nHajjatie \"et al.\" (2006) wrote the lime sulfur reaction in various ways depending on the degree of polymerisation of calcium polysulfides, but the following reaction is probably the simplest of their series: \n\nThey also managed to successfully control this reaction to achieve the conversion of elemental sulfur in a quasi pure solution of calcium thiosulfate.\n\nA New York State Agricultural Experiment Station recipe for the concentrate is 80 lb. of sulfur, 36 lb. of quicklime, and 50 gal. Transferring this formula to the metric system and using a total volume as 100 L of purified water to this we will add 19.172 kg of sulphur and 8.627 kg of calcium hydroxide. About 2.2:1 is the ratio (by weight) for compounding sulfur and quicklime; this makes the highest proportion of calcium pentasulfide. If calcium hydroxide (builders or hydrated lime) is used, an increase by 1/3 or more (to 115 g/L or more) might be used with the 192 g/L of sulfur. If the quicklime is 85 %, 90 %, or 95 % pure, use 101 g/L, 96 g/L, or 91 g/L; if impure hydrated lime is used, similarly increase its quantity. Avoid using lime that is less than 90 % pure. Boil for an hour, stirring and adding small amounts of hot water to compensate for evaporation.\n\nLime sulfur is sold as a spray for deciduous trees to control fungi, bacteria and insects living or dormant on the surface of the bark. Lime sulfur burns leaves and so cannot be sprayed on evergreen plants or on plants still bearing green leaves in the high seasons.\n\nBonsai enthusiasts use undiluted lime sulfur to bleach, sterilise, and preserve deadwood on bonsai trees while giving an aged look. Rather than spraying the entire tree, as with the pesticidal usage, lime sulfur is painted directly onto the exposed deadwood, and is often colored with a small amount of dark paint to make it look more natural. Without paint pigments, the lime-sulfur solution bleaches wood to a bone-white color that takes time to weather and become natural-looking. In the very specific case of the bonzai culture, if the lime sulfur is carefully and very patiently applied by hand with a small brush and does not enter into direct contact with the leaves or needles, this technique can be used on evergreen bonzai trees as well as other types of green trees. However, this does not apply for a normal use on common trees with green leaves. \n\nDiluted solutions of lime sulfur (between 1:16 and 1:32) are also used as a dip for pets to help control ringworm (fungus), mange and other dermatoses and parasites. Undiluted lime sulfur is corrosive to skin and eyes and can cause serious injury like blindness.\n\nLime sulfur reacts with strong acids (including stomach acid) to produce highly toxic hydrogen sulfide (rotten egg gas) and indeed usually has a distinct \"rotten egg\" odor to it. Lime sulfur is not extremely flammable but combustion produces highly irritating sulfur dioxide gas.\n\nSafety goggles and impervious gloves must be worn while handling lime sulfur. Lime sulfur solutions are strongly alkaline (typical commercial concentrates have a pH over 11.5 because of the presence of dissolved sulfides and hydroxide anions), and are harmful for living organisms and can cause blindness if splashed in the eyes.\n\nThe corrosive nature of lime sulfur is due to the reduced species of sulfur it contains, in particular the sulfides responsible for stress corrosion cracking and the thiosulphates causing pitting corrosion. Localised corrosion by the reduced species of sulfur can be dramatic, even the mere presence of elemental sulfur in contact with metals is enough to corrode them considerably, including so-called stainless steels.\n\nLime sulfur is believed to be the earliest synthetic chemical used as a pesticide, being used in the 1840s in France to control grape vine powdery mildew \"Uncinula necator\", which had been introduced from the USA in 1845 and reduced wine production by 80%. In 1886 it was first used in California to control San Jose scale. Commencing around 1904, commercial suppliers began to manufacturer lime sulfur; prior to that time, gardeners were expected to manufacture their own. By the 1920s essentially all commercial orchards in western countries were protected by regular spraying with lime sulfur. However by the 1940s, lime sulfur began to be replaced by synthetic organic fungicides which risked less damage to the crop's foliage.\n\n\n\"Chemical Investigation of Best Conditions for Making the Lime-Sulfur Wash.\" L.L. Van Slyke, A.W. Bosworth, & C.C. Hedges, New York Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin No. 329, December 1910, Geneva, New York\n\n"}
{"id": "2293163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293163", "title": "San Estanislao", "text": "San Estanislao\n\nSan Estanislao de Kostka (usually referred to as San Estanislao or, more commonly, Santaní) is a city and district in the department of San Pedro, Paraguay.\n\nSan Estanislao was founded on November 13, 1749 by Father Sebastián de Yegros, a Jesuit priest from Asunción after Saint Stanislaus Kostka. The town was founded as a Jesuit mission with the goal of converting the surrounding Indian population.\n\nThe city is named for Stanisław Kostka, a Polish priest who was canonized by Pope Benedict XIII on November 13, 1726, 23 years before San Estanislao was founded.\n\nSantaní, as the city is commonly referred to locally and throughout Paraguay, is a contraction of the word for saint in Spanish (\"san\") and the word for Estanislao in Guaraní (\"taní\"). People from Santaní are referred to as \"santanianos\" in Spanish.\n\nIn 1869, during the Paraguayan War, San Estanislao was briefly the seat of the national government under Marshall Francisco Solano López. Following battles elsewhere in Paraguay, López and several of his regiments passed through the city. López governed from the city from August 23 to 31.\n\nAround 1880, San Estanislao became home to immigrants both from other parts of Paraguay and from Europe, especially from Germany and Italy. The influence of the Italian immigrants, in particular, can still be seen today in various buildings in Italian styles and the last names of some of the oldest Santaniana families.\n\nDecades later, around 1920, Santaní also received immigrants from Lebanon. After arriving at Itacurubí del Rosario, some of the new arrivals made their way to Santaní. Other countries that sent relatively large numbers of immigrants to the city were France, Portugal, Brazil and Spain.\n\nAfter 1870, during the postwar period, Santaní and the surrounding countryside were sustained mostly through agriculture and forestry. Tobacco was the major crop, and its production and packaging for export were a main contributor of jobs.\n\nToday the primary economic activity continues to be agriculture, especially cotton, mandioca, soy and sesame. Beef and milk production, forestry, commerce, and regional services (medical treatment, banking, and construction) also contribute to the city's economy.\n\nSan Estanislao is home to schools ranging from primary- to university-level, both public and private.\n\nIn 1994 a College of Economic Sciences was established in the city as part of the UNA. There are more than 10 universities in downtown Santani.\n\nTravel time between San Estanislao and Asunción (151 km away) was greatly reduced with the inauguration of Route 3 in May 2004. Buses leave the terminal to Asuncion every half an hour.\n\nSantani is a college town, and its many plazas come to life after 9pm when students get out of class. Sidewalk cafes serve pizza and beer from 6pm to midnight, and hamburger stands stay open all night. It is common for people to cruise the strip slowly on their motorcycles, beer in hand and music blasting. There is one karaoke bar called \"La Rustica\" which turns into a dance club after 12 or 12:30am. The bartender/DJ plays everything from cumbia to reggaeton to Brazilian music and reggae.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293174", "title": "Pietro Micca", "text": "Pietro Micca\n\nPietro Micca (6 March 1677 – 30 August 1706), also known as Pierre Micha, was a Sabaudian soldier who became a national hero for his sacrifice in the defence of Turin against the French troops.\n\nMicca was born at Andorno, now Andorno Micca, (Piedmont), near the town of Biella. His mother was Anna Martinazzo, of Riabella.\nIn his home village, he worked as a bricklayer. Micca was enlisted into the Sabaudian army as a sapper, with the rank of a private soldier; he was nicknamed \"Passepartout\".\n\nDuring the siege of Turin, Micca was employed as a tunneller and bricklayer in the military mines, which ran under the citadel. The mines were designed to detect Franco-Spanish attempts to dig under the citadel and to neutralize them by blowing them up. For this purpose, barrels of gunpowder were placed in strategic places around the network of mines.\n\nOn the night of 29–30 August 1706, a party of French grenadiers crept into a large trench, which had been the site of a failed assault on the citadel. The Piemontese had lit bonfires in the trench to burn dead bodies, and this meant that the French grenadiers were not observed. The French grenadiers attacked a small number of Savoyard soldiers at the base of the trench, who were guarding an entrance to the Savoyard mines. The French grenadiers killed them and entered the upper level of the mines.\n\nOn hearing the French attack, Micca and a comrade barred a door at the top of the steps leading down to the lower level of the mines. As the French grenadiers attempted to break down the door, Micca sent away his comrade, lit a very short fuse and placed it in two barrels of gunpowder behind the door. The gunpowder exploded as the French grenadiers broke down the door, killing and injuring most of them. Micca was severely injured in the explosion and died due to his injuries and poisonous carbon dioxide gas, which had been released by the exploding gunpowder.\n\nHad the French grenadiers reached the lower level of the mines, they could have entered the heart of the citadel and the city itself. Micca's sacrifice prevented this, and the French assault was repulsed with heavy losses.\n\nA few days later, the steps where Micca had exploded the bomb were quickly bricked over. Micca's body was buried in a mass grave.\n\nIn 1958, Captain (later General) Guido Amoretti discovered the bricked-up 'Pietro Micca steps' and these form the centre-piece of the network of military mines, which can be visited at the \"Museo Civico Pietro Micca\" (the Civic Museum of Pietro Micca and the siege of Turin). The remnants of the attackers' grenades, knives and other personal equipment were discovered, and are displayed at the museum.\n\nMicca's heroism has been the subject of poems, plays and romances. But, according to Count Giuseppe Solaro della Margherita, the commander of the Turin garrison at the time, it was through a miscalculation of the pace of the fuse, and not by deliberate intent, that he sacrificed his life.\n\nAs well as the Museo Civico Pietro Micca, a central street in Turin was named after him, and a statue erected in his honour. His home town was renamed from Andorno to Andorno Micca.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293175", "title": "Erin O'Connor", "text": "Erin O'Connor\n\nErin O'Connor (Irish: Éirinn Ní Chonchúir) MBE born 9 February 1978 is a British-Irish fashion model.\n\nO'Connor was born and brought up in Brownhills, West Midlands, where she attended Brownhills Community School. She was raised Catholic and her father is from Ballycastle, County Antrim, Northern Ireland. On a school trip to the Birmingham Clothes Show, she was spotted by a talent scout.\n\nHer first published pictures were by Juergen Teller for issue 159. The Undressed Issue issue of \"i-D\" in December 1996. She has modelled on the catwalk for John Galliano, Christian Dior, Donna Karan, Prada, Versace, Miu Miu, Jasper Conran, Giorgio Armani, Julien Macdonald, Jean-Paul Gaultier, Chado Ralph Rucci, Badgley Mischka, and Dolce & Gabbana. She has worked with many leading fashion photographers including Patrick Demarchelier, Steven Meisel, Steven Klein, Nick Knight, Mario Testino, David Sims, Bryan Adams, Nadav Kander and featured in magazines including \"Vogue\", \"W\", \"Elle\", \"Harper's Bazaar\", \"Harpers & Queen\", \"i-D\", and \"Visionaire\". She was on the January cover of British \"Vogue\". Since 2005 she has been one of the faces of the British high-street chain Marks and Spencer and in 2008 she launched the haircare line \"model.me\" for Toni & Guy, alongside Jamelia and Helena Christensen which has been already ceased.\n\nKarl Lagerfeld has described her as \"one of the best models in the world.\"\n\nShe is signed to Tess Management in London.\nIn 2011, O'Connor's personal assistant, Michelle Knox Brown was convicted of stealing around £12,000 from the model, which she spent on foreign holidays. \n\nIn 2001 she appeared as herself in the \"Paris\" episode of \"Absolutely Fabulous\". In March 2003, O'Connor was featured in a three-part Channel 4 documentary \"This Model Life\". O'Connor wrote and presented two documentaries on fashion, \"Erin's Model World\" and \"In Search of Beauty\", for BBC Radio 4. In April 2009, she appeared as a mentor and judge on the Irish reality TV series \"The Model Agent\" for RTÉ Two. In the autumn of 2013, Erin O'Connor made her television debut, starring on \"The Face\" on Sky Living HD alongside fellow supermodels Naomi Campbell and Caroline Winberg. The series followed the three supermodel mentors as they competed with each other to find 'the face' of Max Factor beauty.\n\nShe writes a column for London Fashion Week paper \"The Daily Rubbish\", contributes a regular blog to the British \"Vogue\" online and has written for \"The Sunday Times\" and the \"Daily Mail\".\n\nIn 2009, O'Connor co-founded All Walks Beyond the Catwalk alongside Caryn Franklin and Debra Bourne. An award-winninginitiative, All Walks set out to challenge the fashion industry’s dependence on unachievable and limited body and beauty ideals. For the launch campaign Erin swapped roles and stood behind the camera for the first time to photograph models holding the slogan 'Size Me Up'. She was recently recognised in the Houses of Parliament by Lib Dem Minister Jo Swinson for her dedication to models working within the industry.\n\nErin was a spokesperson for the fair trade charity Traid. Erin was an ambassador for the RED initiative. In 2011, Erin became an Ambassador for 'Save the Children'. Erin travelled to Delhi and Jaipur as part of the 'No Child Born to Die' campaign. The trip was documented by The Independent magazine newspaper to highlight the need for resources in clinics and schools.\n\nErin gave birth to her first child, a boy named Albert Tate in June 2014. In March 2019, Erin gave birth to her second child, a son named Eddie.\n\nO'Connor was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2017 Birthday Honours for services to fashion and charity. \n\nO'Connor launched her own line of fairtrade and eco friendly cotton T-shirts and bags with stylist Kate Halfpenny, She Died of Beauty, featuring quirky slogans such as 'She died of Beauty'. O'Connor is an Ambassador for Borne, a medical research charity looking into the causes of premature birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293177", "title": "Royal Park Golf Club", "text": "Royal Park Golf Club\n\nSituated on the northern boundary of Royal Park, Melbourne, Victoria, the Royal Park Golf Course is a 9-hole golf course located only 3 km from the city. It has the honour of being possibly the only golf course with both tram and trains running through it: the route 58 tram and Upfield railway line (Royal Adelaide Golf Club only has a railway line running through it).\n\nThe Royal Park Golf Club, formed in 1903, has been the nursery for many golfers who went on to make a mark in the golfing world, including Peter Thomson (club champion at the age of 16, in 1945) who won the Open Championship (sometimes known as the British Open) 5 times, as well as Gus Jackson and Mick Ryan.\n\nBetween the years of 1890 and 1903 golf was played in Royal Park, Melbourne, but without a proper golf course. It wasn't until 1903 that a group of golf enthusiasts met at the Parkville Hotel to discuss forming a club. For a nominal rent, sufficient land for an 18-hole course was obtained from the Royal Park Trustees and the Royal Park Golf Course was built and maintained by volunteers and club members.\n\nMembership numbers had fallen so low by 1911 that members could not afford the upkeep on the 18-hole course and it was reduced to 9 holes. But that didn't stop the junior pennant team winning all its matches 8 years later in 1919 to win the flag.\n\nThe members made small improvements to the course, with approval from the Royal Park Trustees. In 1934 control of Royal Park changed from the Trustees to the Melbourne City Council (City of Melbourne). Immediate improvements to the golf course included mowing of the fairways and bunkers and mounds being added to the course layout.\n\nRoyal Park has been the mother club for many notable golfers who went on to make their mark in the golfing world. These include:\n\n\nThe clubhouse, built on land leased from the Victorian Railways Department from 1906 onwards, was renovated and maintained by club members until 1970 when it was destroyed by fire. Permission to rebuild the clubhouse proved difficult with the condition of occupancy offered by the Council being rejected by club members, so after talks with the Keilor Golf Club the club disbanded and the two clubs merged into the Tullamarine Country Club.\n\nThe council took over the running of the course from March 1971, and in the mid-1980s hired Peter Thomson's firm of Golf Course Architects to improve the course layout.\n\nThe Club reformed in 1974 with an 18-hole competition played on Saturdays and a 9-hole competition on Sundays. This was reversed in 1976 and by 1989 competitions days were Sundays only. Members were allowed to use part of the restaurant built by council, to be used as a clubhouse. By 2002 a Saturday 9-hole competition was reintroduced and renovations to pro-shop and clubhouse were undertaken by council, including the addition of a verandah. Membership numbers at the end of 2002 were close to 80, including juniors and 3 women, one being the first committee member in the hundred-year history of the club.\n\nThe Club celebrated its 100th year in 2003 with a Centenary Weekend of Golf tournament, with Peter Thomson returning to the Club to present prizes to Club winners. Peter also wrote the foreword to the book of the Club's history, written by Club member and first female committee member.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293180", "title": "Gananoque Blockhouse", "text": "Gananoque Blockhouse\n\nGananoque Blockhouse was a fortification located near present-day Gananoque, Ontario. Within a month of the Raid on Gananoque construction of a blockhouse was started, with completion in 1813. It had an octagonal log parapet containing five guns. The blockhouse was abandoned after the War of 1812 and given to a private landowner.\n\nThe blockhouse was quickly repaired in the 1837–38 Patriot War when there were fears American militia forces were planning to attack. The Gananoque Blockhouse stood until 1852.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293184", "title": "Positif (magazine)", "text": "Positif (magazine)\n\nPositif is a French film magazine, founded in 1952 by Bernard Chardère in Lyon. It is one of two major French-language film magazines, created several months after \"Les Cahiers du cinéma\". The magazine is headquartered in Paris and is published monthly. \n\nTraditionally, \"Positif\" has served as a counterpoint to \"Les\" \"Cahiers du cinéma\", focusing on film themes and scripts, in contrast to politics and aesthetics. In the 1950s, \"Positif\" was associated with the non-Communist left (while \"Les Cahiers du cinéma\" originally held political affiliations with the right). Today, \"Positif\" is a neutral publication run by volunteers.\n\nThe magazine was edited by Eric Losfeld from 1959. After publishing an article about Orson Welles in 1963, Michel Ciment became a member of the magazine's editorial committee. In 1966, he was promoted to editor in chief, a post he continues to occupy today. \n\n\"Positif\" has been printed by different publishers throughout the years and is currently published by Actes Sud in collaboration with the Institut Lumière.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293192", "title": "Yoshifumi Kondō", "text": "Yoshifumi Kondō\n\nKondō died of aortic dissection – alternately aneurysm – in 1998. His death seems to be the main reason for Hayao Miyazaki's first announcement of retirement in 1998, although Miyazaki later returned to Studio Ghibli.\n\nKondō was born in Gosen, Niigata Prefecture, Japan on March 31, 1950. He entered Niigata Prefectural Muramatsu High School in April, 1965, where he was a member of the art club. His senpai was the future manga artist Kimio Yanagisawa. In April, 1968, he moved to Tokyo after graduating from high school, where he entered Tokyo Design College's animation department. On October 1, 1968, he began working at A Production (formerly Shin'ei Dōga), participating in the production of such shows as \"Kyojin no Hoshi\" and \"Lupin III\". Kondo moved to Nippon Animation in June 1978, participating in the production of such shows as \"Future Boy Conan\" and \"Anne of Green Gables\".\n\nIn 1978, he co-authored a textbook for beginning animators titled \"Animation Book\" (アニメーションの本 \"Animēshon no Hon\"). He moved to Telecom Animation Film on December 16, 1980, where he worked as the character designer for \"Sherlock Hound\". On March 16, 1985, Kondō resigned from his position at Telecom Animation Film, and was hospitalized from June through August for a type of pneumonia (自然気胸 \"shizen kikyō\"). He became a contract worker for Nippon Animation afterwards and moved to Studio Ghibli in January, 1987. In 1995, he made his directorial debut with the film \"Whisper of the Heart\". On January 21, 1998, he died suddenly of an aortic dissection in the Tachikawa City Hospital in Tokyo at age 47. Doctors said that the aneurysm had been brought on by overwork.\n\nListed in chronological order.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293201", "title": "Petrochemical industry", "text": "Petrochemical industry\n\nThe petrochemical industry is concerned with the production and trade of petrochemicals. It directly interfaces with the petroleum industry, especially the downstream sector. A major part is constituted by the plastics (polymer) industry.\n\nThe top ten global petrochemical companies based on the 2008 revenues – excludes state-owned companies:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293206", "title": "Persian ratsnake", "text": "Persian ratsnake\n\nThe Persian ratsnake (\"Zamenis persicus\") is a species of medium-sized nonvenomous snake in the family Colubridae. The species is endemic to Western Asia.\n\n\"Z. persicus\" is found in temperate northwestern Iran and Azerbaijan, in the area near the Caspian Sea.\n\nAdults of \"Z. persicus\" are from up to in total length (including tail), and usually jet black or grey with white markings along the lateral portion of the forebody. Males seem to grow larger than females.\n\n\"Z. persicus\" has habits very similar to \"Z. situla\" and for many years it was considered a subspecies of \"Elaphe longissima\". It was granted full species status in 1984 (Nilson and ).\n\nThe Persian ratsnake is principally regarded as a terrestrial species, spending most of its time in the leaf litter; however, it is also an agile climber and will mount low brush.\n\nThe diet of \"Z. persicus\", like that of most colubrids, consists primarily of small mammals, but it may also eat other small reptiles and amphibians.\n\nSexually mature female Persian ratsnakes lay clutches of 4-8 eggs, which hatch after 45–55 days of incubation.\n\nFor \"Z. persicus\", a hibernation period of 2–3 months is recommended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293209", "title": "Greg Dyer", "text": "Greg Dyer\n\nGregory Charles Dyer (born 16 March 1959) is a former New South Wales and Australian wicketkeeper. Dyer played in six Tests and 23 ODIs from 1986 to 1988, including playing in the victorious 1987 World Cup Final. He toured India in 1986 as a back-up keeper.\n\nDyer replaced Tim Zoehrer for only a few Tests as his international career was cut short by the emergence of Ian Healy, along with a controversial incident in a Test match against New Zealand in 1987-88. Dyer claimed to have \"caught\" New Zealand batsman Andrew Jones who was duly given out, although television replays showed the ball had touched the ground before being caught by Dyer. He was subsequently dropped from the team two matches later and retired from first-class cricket shortly thereafter.\n\nHe shares an Australian One Day International 7th-wicket partnership record with Steve Waugh.\n\nIn 2011, Dyer became the president of the Australian Cricketers Association.\n\nDyer played for NSW and Australian Under 19 sides, and for NSW colts. He became New South Wales' preferred back up keeper for Steve Rixon when Rixon was injured or was busy on international duty. Notably, Dyer played several games in 1984-85 when NSW won the Sheffield Shield.\n\nWhen Rixon signed to tour in South Africa, Dyer became New South Wales' first choice wicketkeeper. He was a crucial part of the side which won the Shield again in 1985-86.\n\nAustralia's wicketkeeper over the 1985-86 summer was Wayne Phillips, but his form dropped away and Tim Zoehrer was appointed in his place. Dyer was unofficially announced next in line when selected as a reserve keeper on the 1986 tour to India.\n\nDyer performed strongly in tour games but Zoehrer was first choice keeper for the three test matches.\n\nHe played in some one day games, making his ODI debut in the third game. In the fourth ODI he came to the wicket when Australia was 6-136 and he and Steve Waugh put on a 102 run stand off 76 balls. He played in the 5th and 6th ODI.\n\nDyer also scored a century against Delhi in a tour game.\n\nDyer made his test debut during the third test of the 1986-87 Ashes when Zoehrer was injured. Dyer broke his nose during the game but kept playing. He was not required to bat in the game, which was a run-heavy draw.\n\nZoehrer's aggressive on field behaviour over the summer was causing media controversy and Dyer was increasingly spoken of as a more viable option. After the 1987 tour to Sharjah, Zoehrer was omitted from the squad to tour India for the World Cup; he was replaced by Dyer.\n\nDyer was a key part of the Australian team which won the 1987 World Cup.\n\nFollowing this triumph, Dyer was appointed captain of NSW for the 1987-88 season.\n\nDyer began the 1987-88 summer as Australia's first choice keeper as they took on New Zealand. In the first test, Dyer took six catches and scored 8 runs with the bat, as Australia earned a then-rare victory. In the second test, a draw, Dyer scored 60.\n\nIn the third test, New Zealand were 1-119 when Dyer claimed a catch off Andrew Jones from the bowling of Craig McDermott. TV replays showed that Dyer had fumbled the ball. This decision later proved extremely costly for New Zealand because Australia only just narrowly escaped with a draw in the game. (Dyer scored 21 and 4 in the bat.)\n\n\"Dyer has to live with his conscience for the rest of his life — no way can I blame the umpires,\" said New Zealand's cricket manager.\n\nDyer later made a statement saying:\nI have not commented earlier because I was in the middle of a Test match and was trying to concentrate on it and also because I, and the Australian team management, felt it would have been inappropriate to comment on umpiring decisions... Given that the ball initially hit my left glove and ended in my right glove, I made a gesture of query to the umpires. However, I honestly believed at the time of the incident, as did my captain and my teammates, that the ball had not touched the ground. One angle of slow motion TV replay apparently indicates that the ball had in fact touched the ground. In the circumstances I can understand Andrew Jones being upset, but I would like Andrew, along with all other interested parties, to know that I acted in good faith.\nAlan Border said, \"I had no doubt whatsoever it was taken and I got a shock later when I saw the replays. Greg was very upset.\"\n\nDyer kept his spot in the side for the one-off Bicentennial Test between Australia and England in February 1988. Dyer took three catches and scored a duck in a drawn game.\n\nHis last test for Australia was the one-off test against Sri Lanka. Dyer took six catches and scored 38 in a comfortable Australian win.\n\nNew South Wales finished third at the end of the season under Dyer's leadership. In March 1988, Dyer was dropped from the Australian side to tour Pakistan that winter in favour of Ian Healy. This was considered a shock selection at the time because Healy was relatively inexperienced at first class level.\n\nHe was reappointed captain of NSW for the 1988-89 summer. He was sacked mid season, replaced as wicketkeeper by Phil Emery and as captain by Geoff Lawson.\n"}
{"id": "2293226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293226", "title": "Tom Ketchum", "text": "Tom Ketchum\n\nTom Edward Ketchum (October 31, 1863 – April 26, 1901), known as Black Jack, was a cowboy who later turned to a life of crime. He was executed in 1901 for attempted train robbery.\n\nTom Ketchum was born in San Saba County, Texas. He left Texas in 1890, possibly after committing a crime. He worked as a cowboy in the Pecos River Valley of New Mexico, where by 1894, his older brother, Sam Ketchum, had joined him. Black Jack and a group of others were named as the robbers of an Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway train that was en route to Deming, New Mexico Territory, in 1892 with a large payroll aboard. The gang supposedly robbed the train just outside Nutt, New Mexico Territory, a water station twenty miles north of Deming. Black Jack and his gang would often visit the ranch of Herb Bassett, near Brown's Park, Colorado, who was known to have done business with several outlaws of the day, having supplied them with beef and fresh horses. Herb Bassett was the father of female outlaws Josie Bassett and Ann Bassett, who were girlfriends to several members of Butch Cassidy's Wild Bunch gang. One of Ann Bassett's boyfriends and future Wild Bunch gang member, Ben Kilpatrick, began riding with Black Jack's gang about that time. Outlaw \"Bronco Bill\" Walters, later noted for the legend of his \"hidden loot\" near Solomonville, Arizona, is also believed to have begun riding with the gang at this time.\n\nThe second major crime attributed to Tom was the murder of a neighbor, John N. \"Jap\" Powers, in Tom Green County, Texas, on December 12, 1895. However, information at the Sutton Historical Society in Texas, says that Will Carver and Sam Ketchum were the ones actually accused of killing Powers in Knickerbocker. Fearing the law, they closed their joint saloon and gambling venture in San Angelo, and hit the outlaw trail. Within six months, Mrs. Powers and her lover, J. E. Wright, were arrested for the murder, but it was too late for Carver and the Ketchums.\nBy late 1895, outlaw Harvey \"Kid Curry\" Logan and his brother Lonnie Curry were members of Black Jack's gang. However, in early 1896, a dispute concerning their share of robbery loot prompted the Currys to leave the gang.\n\nIt is alleged that Ketchum was involved with the February 1, 1896, disappearance and presumed murders of Albert Jennings Fountain and his son Henry Fountain of Las Cruces, New Mexico. In early June 1896, after working for the famed Bell Ranch in New Mexico, Tom and Sam Ketchum, and possibly others, robbed a combined store and post office at Liberty, New Mexico, northwest of present-day Tucumcari. According to contemporary accounts, the Ketchums rode into Liberty on June 12 and purchased supplies. That evening, a thunderstorm began, and they returned to the store, owned by Morris and Levi Herzstein, who invited them to take shelter.\n\nReturning the next morning to open his store, Levi Herzstein found that both the store and post office had been burglarized. After gathering a posse, Herzstein set out on the outlaws' trail. The posse, composed of just four men, took the two outlaws by surprise in the Plaza Largo arroyo, where a shootout immediately began. Seconds later both Levi Herzstein and Hermenejildo Gallegos lay dead. Seeing his comrades fall, Anastacio Borgue turned his horse and rode out of the arroyo. Placido Gurulé, the fourth member of the posse, also survived to give an account. Gurulé said he had been struck by a .30-30 bullet that knocked him off his horse. He landed on the ground with a blow that knocked the wind out of him. He lay in a semiconscious state as Black Jack Ketchum emptied his rifle into the bodies of Levi Herzstein and Hermenejildo Gallegos. Tom and Sam Ketchum were never tried for the killings at the Plaza Largo arroyo, but Morris Herzstein reportedly was present in Clayton, New Mexico Territory to witness the hanging of Black Jack Ketchum in 1901.\n\nMorris Herzstein moved to Clayton shortly after the killing in Liberty, and finally into the Texas Panhandle area. This is memorialized by the inscription on a shoe brush: \"Herzstein's Clayton, New Mexico -- Dalhart, Texas. If it's from Herzstein's it's correct.\" Morris was the father of Albert Herzstein, who became one of the founders of Big 3 Industries in Houston, and is the man who helped the museum in Clayton to become a reality years later.\n\nFollowing this event, Thomas Ketchum joined other outlaws of the Hole in the Wall Gang and continued a life of crime, focusing on train robberies, although when not robbing trains they worked for several ranches in New Mexico and Texas. Several other notable outlaws operated out of Hole In The Wall, which was a hideout for numerous outlaw gangs which operated separately. The famous Wild Bunch gang, led by Butch Cassidy and Elzy Lay, operated out of there. One Wild Bunch gang member, Kid Curry, along with his brother Lonny Curry, had previously ridden with Black Jack Ketchum and his gang. He and Ketchum did not like each other, and Ketchum avoided Curry as much as possible. Kid Curry would kill nine lawmen over the course of the next eight years.\n\nDuring this time, Tom Ketchum was once identified mistakenly as \"Black Jack\" Christian, another outlaw, and that became his nickname as well. Three of the train robberies that the gang committed were near the same location, between Folsom and Des Moines, New Mexico Territory. This was at the point where the old Fort Union wagon road crossed the Colorado and Southern Rail Road tracks near Twin Mountain.\n\nOn September 3, 1897, they committed their first robbery at Twin Mountain. Then, on July 11, 1899, the gang, without Black Jack, robbed the train again at Twin Mountain. After the robbery, Sam and several unknown gang members, in addition to Wild Bunch gang members Will Carver and William Ellsworth \"Elza\" Lay, headed for the mountains southwest of Raton, New Mexico Territory. The next day, a posse consisting of Sheriff Ed Farr of Huerfano County, Colorado, Special Agent W.H. Reno of the Colorado & Southern Railroad, and five deputies found their trail and tracked them into Turkey Creek Canyon near Cimarron, New Mexico. There, the posse engaged them in a gun battle. Sam Ketchum and two deputies were wounded seriously, and the gang escaped.\n\nSam Ketchum's wounds slowed the intended escape, and they made it only a short distance from the initial shootout. Several members of the posse cornered the Ketchum gang a few days later, still in the same area of the Territory. Deputy W. H. Love and Sheriff Ed Farr engaged the outlaws in another gun battle, resulting in both Love and Farr being killed, while the posse wounded at least two unknown members of the gang. Sam Ketchum escaped, but was found a few days later by Special Agent Reno at the home of a rancher, where he was arrested.\n\nSam Ketchum was taken to the Santa Fe Territorial Prison, where he died from his gunshot wounds. He was buried in the Odd Fellows rest Cemetery, now the Fairview Cemetery on Cerrillos Rd. in Santa Fe.\n\n\"Elzy\" or \"Elza\" (William Ellsworth) Lay was born November 25, 1868, Mt Pleasant, Ohio. Lay had come out west to Denver, and became an outlaw after mistakenly believing he had killed a man. Jailed for life after the killing of Sheriff Farr after the Folsom robbery, he was released in 1906. He returned to Alma, New Mexico Territory and lived there for two years. He stayed with Louis and Walter Jones, who in 1904 had built a large merchandise store at Alma. Elzy died aged 65 in Los Angeles, on November 10, 1934.\n\nOn August 16, 1899, Tom Ketchum, supposedly knowing nothing of the July 11 hold-up which ended in the death of his brother Sam, single-handedly attempted to rob the same train again at the same place and in the same way that he and Sam and others had robbed it just a few weeks earlier. The train conductor, Frank Harrington, saw Tom approaching the moving train. He recognized him, grabbed a shotgun, and shot Tom in the arm, knocking him off his horse. The train continued, and the next day a posse came out and found Tom beside the tracks, badly wounded. He was transported to medical facilities at Trinidad, Colorado, and his right arm had to be amputated. He was nursed back to health and then sent to Clayton, New Mexico Territory, for trial.\n\nAt the trial, Ketchum was convicted and sentenced to death. He was the only person ever hanged in Union County, New Mexico Territory (now Union County, New Mexico). He was also the only person who suffered capital punishment for the offense of \"felonious assault upon a railway train\" in New Mexico Territory (which did not become a state until 1912). Later, the law was found to be unconstitutional.\n\nKetchum was executed by hanging in Clayton. Nobody in Clayton had any experience in conducting hangings; the rope was too long, and since Ketchum had gained a significant amount of weight during his time in jail, he was decapitated when he dropped through the trap door.\n\nHis last words were reported by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" as: \"Good-bye. Please dig my grave very deep. All right; hurry up.\"\n\nA popular postcard was made showing the body. Afterwards his head was sewn back onto the body for viewing, and he was interred at the Clayton Cemetery.\n\nWestern actor Jack Elam portrayed Ketchum in an episode of the 1954–55 syndicated television series \"Stories of the Century.\"\n\nHoward Duff played Ketchum in the 1957 American Western film, \"Blackjack Ketchum, Desperado\".\n\nRhodes Reason played Ketchum in a 1959 episode of the American Western television series \"Frontier Doctor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293230", "title": "Ross Taylor", "text": "Ross Taylor\n\nLuteru Ross Poutoa Lote Taylor (born 8 March 1984) is an international cricketer and former captain of the New Zealand national team. Batting predominantly at number four, he is the leading run-scorer for New Zealand in Test and ODI cricket.\n\nOn 21 February 2020, Taylor played in his 100th Test match for New Zealand, in the first Test against India. Taylor also became the first cricketer to play in 100 matches in all three formats of international cricket.\n\nTaylor is of part-Samoan descent, his mother being from the Samoa village of Saoluafata, and also has family connections to Fasito'o-Uta and his father from New Zealand. Taylor was educated at Wairarapa College and Palmerston North Boys High School and was a hockey player before shifting his focus to cricket. Taylor married his wife Victoria on 25 June 2011. They have three children.\n\nTaylor previously captained the New Zealand Under-19 side in youth internationals. Taylor has a highest List A score of 132* in the State Shield domestic one-day competition in 2003–04, and a first class best of 290 against Australia in the 2015–16 Trans-Tasman Trophy Test series.\n\nTaylor was picked up by the Royal Challengers Bangalore in the 2008 Indian Premier League auction. An innings of note was a destructive 81* off 33 balls against the Kolkata Knight Riders in 2009. He was bumper hit in Royal Challengers Bangalore, he was loved for his powerful leg side shots. He had won many hearts of Royal Challengers Bangalore fans while playing for them.\n\nIn the 2011 auction, Taylor was sold to the Rajasthan Royals for .\n\nHe departed the Rajasthan Royals to join the Delhi Daredevils for the season of 2012.\n\nHe was traded from Delhi Daredevils where he played a season to Pune Warriors India for Ashish Nehra in 2013.\n\nHis domestic team in New Zealand is the Central Stags, in 2009/10 he played for the Victorian Bushrangers in the KFC Twenty20 Big Bash as one of two overseas players (the other being Dwayne Bravo from the West Indies). In the 2009-10 HRV Cup Final against the Auckland Aces, Taylor scored a match-winning 80 off 30 balls, and in a partnership with Kieran Noema-Barnett they scored 133 runs from 53 balls bowled. Taylor also hit Michael Bates for 27 in one over, including three consecutive sixes. In total Taylor hit eight sixes and five fours for the Stags. In 2010 he played for Durham in the Friends Provident T20 tournament, his most substantial contribution being a brutal 80 not out from only 33 balls including 3 fours and 9 sixes.\n\nTaylor also played for Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League (IPL) and for his domestic team, the Central Districts Stags. Taylor scored a match-winning innings of 81 from just 33 balls for Royal Challengers (RCB) against Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) to seal an improbable victory for his team in 2009.\n\nHe has one of the highest strike-rates as an RCB batsman and known to be a 'finisher'. After RCB's win over Delhi Daredevils at Champions League Twenty20 2009, captain Anil Kumble said that Taylor was a \"murderer\" of spinners, referring to his explosive innings of 65. In 38 balls, Taylor had scored six 4s and four 6s, and was declared Man of the Match.\n\nTaylor has also played English cricket for Norwich and Coltishall Wanderers in Norfolk. He was their key player and he was consistent in scoring runs.\nIn 2016 and 2017, he played for Sussex and Nottinghamshire in 2018.\n\nHe has joined Middlesex for the 2019 Royal London One-day Cup competition.\n\nHe made his debut for the New Zealand team in international cricket on 1 March 2006, in a one-day match against the West Indies. He became the second male player of Samoan heritage to play for New Zealand after Murphy Su'a. He scored only 15 runs in the match, which New Zealand won the match by 91 runs.\n\nTaylor is a clean striker of the ball, particularly any ball through leg side, and a useful off-break bowler. Taylor scored his maiden one day century in front of a delighted crowd in Napier, playing against Sri Lanka on 28 December 2006. The innings included 12 fours and 6 sixes. Unluckily for him, New Zealand were comprehensively beaten in that game, by a blistering knock by Sanath Jayasuriya. He also suffered dehydration and required a short hospital trip during the second innings. Taylor hit 84 against Australia in their opening game in the 2006–07 Commonwealth Bank Series, but lost the match at the end. He has also established one of the most potent no.3-no.4 top order partnership with Kane Williamson since the latter made his debut. However, they were also involved in 12 run outs across all forms of international cricket as of 26 January 2015 when they are both at the crease.\n\nTaylor scored his second century in his ODI career on 18 February 2007 against Australia. He scored 117, the 2nd highest score by a New Zealander against Australia at that time. He scored his maiden Test century in March 2008 at Hamilton in the first Test of the 2007–08 series against England and went on to be the leading run scorer for the series.\n\nTaylor scored what was then a Test match career-best of 154* against England at Old Trafford in May 2008, a brilliant innings including 5 sixes and 17 fours. His third Test century, an innings of 151 runs off 204 balls, came against India at Napier in March 2009. His fourth Test century, in the next Test, was a 107 which delayed India's victory long enough to force a draw.\n\nTaylor captained New Zealand for the first time in an ODI against Australia in Napier on 3 March 2010, when Daniel Vettori dropped out of the side less than 30 minutes before the start with a neck ache. Taylor top-scored with 70 and New Zealand won by two wickets with four balls to spare. Taylor was also awarded the Man of the Match and donated the $NZ 500 prize to the Lansdowne Cricket Club in Masterton.\n\nTaylor has served as the national captain for all formats.\n\nHe made his then highest ODI score of 131* which came off 124 balls against Pakistan on 8 March 2011 at the ICC Cricket World Cup. His innings included seven (7) sixes and eight (8) fours and contributed to New Zealand making 127 runs in the final 9 overs of the game for their highest total ever against Pakistan (302) in World Cup. With this century, Taylor became only the fourth batsman in history of the game that scored an ODI century in a birthday, after Vinod Kambli, Sachin Tendulkar, and Sanath Jayasuriya.\n\nIn a match against Australia at Hamilton in March 2010, Taylor made the fastest Test century ever by a New Zealander, bringing up his hundred off only 81 balls.\n\nTaylor scored centuries in all three tests in the 2013/14 series against the West Indies. In the first Test, Taylor made his first Test match double-century and highest test score of unbeaten 217 in a composed and classy innings.\n\nTaylor's 12th ODI century against Pakistan at Dubai coincides with the 100th century for the Black Caps.\n\nFor his performances in the 2012–13 and 2013–14 seasons, he won the Sir Richard Hadlee Medal.\n\nFor his performances in 2014, he was named as 12th man in the ICC Test Team of the Year 2014.\n\nFor his performances in 2015, he was named in the World ODI XI by ICC. He was also named in the Test XI of the year 2015 by Cricbuzz.\n\nThe best Test innings of his life came during the second test of Trans-Tasman Trophy in 2015–16 season in Australia. He scored his second double hundred and became the highest score by a New Zealand batsman in away Tests and in Australian soil as well. With this feat, he also became the first Kiwi batsman to score a Test double-hundred against Australia and the 2nd fastest among his countrymen to reach 5,000 Test career runs (in 120 innings). During the inning, his partnership with Kane Williamson of 265-run for the third wicket, which was New Zealand's highest of all time against Australia for any wicket. Taylor was dismissed for 290 runs with 43 fours.\n\nIn December 2016, after the Test against Pakistan at Hamilton, Taylor underwent surgery to remove a pterygium on his left eye. He was out of action for several weeks, thus missing the Chappell-Hadlee Trophy series in Australia.\n\nTaylor scored his 17th ODI century during the second ODI against South Africa at Hagley Oval. With this, he became the highest ODI century maker for New Zealand, beating 16 ODI centuries by Nathan Astle. In this match, Taylor also became New Zealand's quickest batsman to reach 6000 runs in ODI as well. New Zealand finally won the match by 6 runs. Ross Taylor also became only the sixth player in ODI history to score centuries against all test playing nations and first from New Zealand.\n\nTaylor scored a century in first ODI against England in a man of the match performance for his team and became the third New Zealander to score 7000 ODI runs. In the 4th ODI, he probably played the best innings of his career as he made an unbeaten 181 off 147 balls in a successful run chase of 336 runs. His 181* is the 2nd highest ODI score for a no.4 batsman as well 4th highest score for an individual while chasing. In that match, he also passed Nathan Astle to become New Zealand's second top scorer in ODIs. Although, New Zealand lost the series, he was the top run getter with 304 runs in that 5-match series.\n\nFor his performances in 2018, he was named in the World ODI XI by ICC and Cricinfo.\n\nOn 28 January 2019, Taylor became the third New Zealand batsman to complete 1000 runs in ODIs against India, he achieved this feat when he was batting on 14* and went on to score 93 (106).\n\nIn April 2019, he was named in New Zealand's squad for the 2019 Cricket World Cup. On 5 June 2019, in New Zealand's match against Bangladesh, Taylor played in his 400th international match for New Zealand in which he scored a match-winning 82. He also became the 2nd batsman to score 8000 ODI runs for New Zealand, after Stephen Fleming, as well as outscoring him in the same match to become New Zealand's top scorer in ODIs. He followed it with 48 off 52 against Afghanistan in another successful run-chase.\n\nIn the game against West Indies, he provided stability scoring 69 after his team had lost both of the openers in the first over itself. He scored runs of 30 and 28 in losses against Australia and England, respectively. In the tournament's first semi-final, he top scored for New Zealand with 74 runs as they reached the World Cup final for second consecutive time. He could only make 15 runs, before being wrongly given LBW off Mark Wood's bowling, in the final as New Zealand lost it on boundary count.\n\nDuring India's tour of New Zealand he scored 2 half-centuries in T20I series, in the 1st T20I he scored 54 off 27 and in 5th T20I he scored 53 off 47. During the same tour he also scored a century and half-century in the Odi series, in the 1st ODI he scored 109* off 84 and awarded Man of the Match and in 2nd ODI he scored 73* off 74 for his performance he was awarded Man of the Series.\n\nOn 21 February 2020, Taylor became the first player ever to play 100 matches in each format of the game T20I, ODI and Tests during the first Test match against India, and became the fourth New Zealand player to play 100 Test matches after Stephen Fleming, Daniel Vettori and Brendon McCullum and 66th overall.\n\nIn his 100th Test Taylor scored 44 off 71 in first innings and didn't bat in second innings, which New Zealand won by 10 Wickets which marked 100 Test victories for them.\n\nTaylor has scored 40 centuries in international cricket, 19 in Tests and 21 in ODIs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293238", "title": "Daniel Flynn (cricketer)", "text": "Daniel Flynn (cricketer)\n\nDaniel Raymond Flynn (born 16 April 1985) is a New Zealand former cricketer who played for Northern Districts and has also represented the New Zealand international side. In April 2020, Flynn announced his retirement from cricket.\n\nHe has captained the New Zealand Under-19 side in Youth ODIs. He was educated at Tauranga Boys' College and was in the 1st XI from 1999 to 2002, being captain in his last two years.\n\nDaniel is a resident of Tauranga, which is in the Bay of Plenty, New Zealand. This falls into the catchment area of the Northern Districts Cricket Association. He has played two seasons at Barnards Green Cricket Club in Worcestershire, England. Daniel holds the league record for runs scored in the Worcestershire League with a highest score of 184. In March 2011 Flynn joined Dunfermline Knights, Scotland, to play for the 2011 season.\n\nIn June 2018, he was awarded a contract with Northern Districts for the 2018–19 season. In November 2019, during the 2019–20 Plunket Shield season, Flynn played in his 100th first-class match.\n\nOn 6 February 2008, Flynn took the place of the injured Jacob Oram for the second international Twenty20 against England, having impressed on 30 January, hitting 149 in a domestic match. New Zealand fell to a second defeat in the Twenty20 series, however, with Flynn surviving only two deliveries, making one run, before being dismissed by Graeme Swann. He then replaced an out-of-form Peter Fulton for the final One Day International on 23 February 2008. Flynn then accompanied the New Zealand team to England and, on 15 May 2008 made his test debut.\n\nOn 23 May, whilst batting at number 6 for New Zealand, against England, Flynn was hit in the grille by a rising ball from James Anderson. Flynn retired hurt and lost a tooth. It was also stated on TMS that more teeth were loosened and removed by a dentist later that day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293245", "title": "Serria Tawan", "text": "Serria Tawan\n\nSerria Tawan (born September 4, 1978) is an African-American model, actress, and published author.\n\nShe was chosen as \"Playboy\"'s Playmate of the Month in November, 2002 and has appeared in numerous \"Playboy\" videos. She guest-starred on a special Playmates vs. Bachelors edition of \"Family Feud\".\n\nShe has published a book with two other playmates titled \"The Bunny Book: How To Walk, Talk, Tease, and Please Like a Playboy Bunny\".\n"}
{"id": "2293250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293250", "title": "List of M*A*S*H novels", "text": "List of M*A*S*H novels\n\nThe M*A*S*H book series includes the original novel that inspired the movie and then the TV series. The first, \"\", was co-authored by H. Richard Hornberger (himself a former military surgeon) and W. C. Heinz (a former World War II war correspondent); it was published in 1968 under the pen name Richard Hooker. It told the story of a U.S. Mobile Army Surgical Hospital in Korea during the Korean War. In 1972, Hornberger (writing again as Hooker) published the sequel \"M*A*S*H Goes to Maine\", covering the lives of the surgeons after they returned home from the war.\n\nAfter the success of the \"M*A*S*H\" TV series, a long series of \"M*A*S*H Goes to ______\" novels appeared, beginning with \"M*A*S*H Goes to New Orleans\" in 1974. Although credited to Hooker and William E. Butterworth, they were essentially written by Butterworth alone. The sequel novels added many additional characters, mostly satiric caricatures of public figures from the 1970s: for instance, operatic tenor Luciano Pavarotti is parodied in the form of a singer named \"Korsky-Rimsakov\", and news anchor Dan Rather becomes the egotistical \"Don Rhotten\". The tone of the Butterworth novels is also markedly different from Hooker's original books, being much more broadly comical, less darkly satirical, and unrealistic.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the \"Butterworth\" series with \"M*A*S*H Goes to Montreal\" (1977), a final \"Hooker\" novel was published, \"M*A*S*H Mania\", which ignored the events and inconsistencies of the intervening novels and picked up where \"M*A*S*H Goes to Maine\" left off, depicting the original characters in middle age.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293251", "title": "S.C.A.R.S. (video game)", "text": "S.C.A.R.S. (video game)\n\nS.C.A.R.S. (standing for \"Super Computer Animal Racing Simulator\", although unmentioned) is a racing video game developed by Vivid Image and published by Ubi Soft for PlayStation, Nintendo 64, and Microsoft Windows.\n\n\"IGN\" rated the PS1 version in 1998, saying (out of 10) 8.0 for presentation, 9.0 for graphics, 8.0 for sound, 7.0 for gameplay, 6.0 for lasting appeal, and an overall score of 6.5 out of 10.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the PlayStation version of the game, rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"For all its faults, \"S.C.A.R.S.\" isn't terrible, and it is one of the few PlayStation games to allow four players to race in 3D on a split screen. If you have a Multitap, this is almost a worthy purchase. Without a Multitap, it's a colorful racer, but not much else.\"\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Nintendo 64 version of the game, rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"One of the best of the \"Mario Kart\" clones, \"S.C.A.R.S.\" does nearly everything right, surpassing both the graphics and the control of the PlayStation version. The game is challenging and addicting without ever annoying the player to the point of frustration.\"\n\n\"The Sports Gaming Network\" reviewed the game in 1999, rating it (out of 100) the Graphics 84, Sound 58, Interface 72, Gameplay 80, Difficulty 88, and overall, 76. It claimed that the graphics were sharp and colourful, the sound being boring and 'dead', the gameplay being somewhat eclectic with future setting and weaponry and cartoon-ish graphics.\n\n\"Computer & Video Games\" rated the Windows version in 2001, giving it an overall score of 4.9 out of 10, claiming that the weapons in the game are cool but a bit annoying.\n"}
{"id": "2293257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293257", "title": "Bank paper", "text": "Bank paper\n\nBank paper is a thin strong writing paper of less than 50g/m. It is commonly used for typewriting and correspondence.\n\nThe term is also used for securities that are issued by banks, instead of governments. See also commercial paper, securities issued by corporations.\n"}
{"id": "2293258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293258", "title": "Zuid Haffel", "text": "Zuid Haffel\n\nZuid Haffel (South Haffel) is a polder and village in the northwest of the Netherlands. It is located on the island of Texel, North Holland. Texel is also the municipality of the place.\n\nZuid Haffel is one of the oldest polders on the island of Texel. Around the end of the 13th century, the area was surrounded by dykes. In 1350, Jan van Henegouwen gave his permission to create a dyke between Tjarkshorn and the Lyorts road. These names are of Frisian origin. The areas to be drained were already part of the polder Zuid Haffel. Around 1500, the municipality was named Zuidhaffelt.\n\nThe road running through the municipality was named Burenweg (neighbor's road) and later Zuidhaffelderweg. Nearby is a farm named Zuidhaffel, which lies on de Waterweg, built in the 16th century. This state monument was intended to be turned into a museum, but this plan was dropped. Instead, in 1969, the farm was restored.\n\nGoogle Earth shows no clear settlement at that location, but the intersection of the roads Zuid Haffel and Waterweg is at 53° 02' 19.5\" North latitude, 4° 48' 28.5\" East longitude (Source: Google Earth)\n"}
{"id": "2293261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293261", "title": "Sonamos Pese A Todo", "text": "Sonamos Pese A Todo\n\nSonamos Pese A Todo, the debut album of Les Luthiers, released in September, 1971. It was recorded in late 1970 at ION Studios in Buenos Aires, and it featured Les Luthiers as a quintet, with some guest musicians and an orchestra for some numbers. The album was done before they collectively credited their works to everybody in the group, so individual authorship is included. Ernesto Acher wasn't a member of Les Luthiers when they recorded the project, but he was instrumental in getting the album released.\n\n\n\nWith exception of 'Concerto Grosso...' and 'Presentación', all the numbers had been performed by Les Luthiers long before the recordings took place. Carlos Núñez Cortés acted as musical conductor and Marcos Mundstock wrote all the introductory texts. Carlos López Puccio (who would be later a member of the group) was a guest musician on this record.\n"}
{"id": "2293264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293264", "title": "Round-the-world ticket", "text": "Round-the-world ticket\n\nA round-the-world ticket (also known as round-the-world fare or RTW ticket in short) is a product that enables travellers to fly around the world for a relatively low price. RTW tickets have existed for some time and in the past were generally offered through marketing agreements between airlines on several continents. Now, they are almost universally offered by airline alliances such as SkyTeam, Star Alliance and Oneworld, or else by specialist travel agencies that will spend time helping customize a trip to the consumer's needs. Prices vary but are generally in the range of 2,500–6,000 USD for an economy class ticket and 5,000–14,000 USD for business class. Sometimes, depending on airline and stops, it can be as low as 1171 GBP (~ 1829.57 USD). An alternative for a round-the-world ticket is a continent pass.\n\nRound-the-world tickets are priced according to travel class, origin of travel, number of continents, mileage (usually between 30,000 and 60,000 km), and sometimes season of travel. The traveller benefits from the large and optimized network of the airline alliance and can often participate in the alliance's frequent flyer programs, although round-the-world tickets are usually subject to restrictions. The start and end of the journey almost always have to be located in the same country and exactly one crossing each of the Atlantic and Pacific must be included in the itinerary. The number of stops is usually restricted to 5–16, and backtracking between continents (especially Europe/Asia) is often restricted. The dates and journey do not have to be planned, but may be changed en route at a local office of any airline in the alliance (although a change of destinations often results in an additional fee, and if the next flight is left open-dated the booking can be dropped by the airlines).\n\nIt is possible to piece together a round-the-world route by combining one-way tickets on various airlines without resorting to alliances. In addition, discounts often apply to some long- and short-haul legs. It can be useful to consult with travel agents who specialize in round-the-world itineraries to compare fares and itineraries. These can be found in major cities that are transit hubs — San Francisco, London, New York, Bangkok, etc. — and many of them also provide services online. The overall booking process can vary from a few days to weeks based upon itinerary, budget, and other considerations. Travel agents may get parts of tickets issued by contacts in other countries, and often use pre-arranged contractual agreements with various airlines. Low-cost carriers often only have tickets which do not include other airlines. It is important to have long waiting time between such flights, preferably a hotel night, which gives the chance to see one more city. Otherwise a flight cancellation might destroy the entire itinerary.\n"}
{"id": "2293268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293268", "title": "Korea (disambiguation)", "text": "Korea (disambiguation)\n\nKorea is a region in East Asia consisting of the Korean Peninsula and nearby islands, politically divided between:\n\nKorea may also refer to:\n\n\n\nKorea may also be an alternative spelling of:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293271", "title": "Philip Habib", "text": "Philip Habib\n\nPhilip Charles Habib (February 25, 1920 – May 25, 1992) was an American career diplomat. Called one of the \"pre-eminent career diplomats in American post-war history\", he was best known for his work as Ronald Reagan's special envoy to the Middle East 1981–83. In that role he averted an Israel-Syria war and an Israel-PLO war in 1981, then negotiated a peaceful end to Israel's 1982 siege of Beirut. In 1986 he was instrumental in ending Ferdinand Marcos's attempt to steal the 1986 presidential election in the Philippines. As U.S. special envoy to Central America in 1986–87, he helped Costa Rican president Oscar Arias shape and sell the peace plan that led to the end of the region's civil wars. He had come out of retirement to take each of those assignments. During his 30-year career as a Foreign Service Officer, he had mostly specialized in Asia. In 1968, he was instrumental in halting the escalation of U.S. involvement in Vietnam. After his death, \"The New York Times\" described him as \"the outstanding professional diplomat of his generation in the United States.\"\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York, Habib was raised in a predominantly Jewish neighborhood of its Bensonhurst section by Lebanese Maronite Catholic parents. His father ran a grocery store. Habib graduated from New Utrecht High School in Brooklyn and worked as a shipping clerk before starting his undergraduate study in forestry out west at the University of Idaho in Moscow. As a college student on the Palouse, he was well-regarded by his peers and was an accomplished poker player. After graduating in 1942 from the UI's College of Forestry (now Natural Resources), he served in the U.S. Army during World War II and attained the rank of captain. Discharged from the service in 1946, Habib continued his education via the G.I. Bill in a doctoral program in agricultural economics at the University of California in Berkeley, and earned a Ph.D. in 1952.\n\nIn 1947, recruiters for the United States Foreign Service visited the Berkeley campus. They were particularly interested in candidates who did not fit the then-current mold of Ivy League blueblood WASPs. Though he had never given diplomacy a moment's thought, he enjoyed taking tests for intellectual challenge. He took the Foreign Service exam and scored in the top 10% nationally.\n\nBeginning in 1949, his foreign service career took him to Canada, New Zealand, South Korea (twice), and South Vietnam. He held the State Department position of Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 1967–1969 and was chief of staff for the U.S. delegation to the Paris Peace Talks from 1968 to 1971. Habib acquired increasingly important posts, serving as Ambassador to South Korea (1971–1974), Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs (1974–1976), and Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs (1976–1978). When South Korean opposition leader Kim Dae-jung was kidnapped in 1973 while Habib was U.S. ambassador to South Korea, Habib's discreet but firm intervention saved Kim's life. Kim later became the first opposition leader in South Korea to become president and also won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2000 for his reconciliation efforts with North Korea.\n\nA massive heart attack forced Habib to resign as Under Secretary, the top post for a career Foreign Service officer, in 1978. In 1981, President Ronald Reagan called him out of retirement to serve as special envoy to the Middle East. Habib negotiated a peace that allowed the PLO to evacuate from the besieged city of Beirut. In 1982, for his efforts he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom—the highest official honor given to a U.S. citizen by the U.S. government.\nHe was also nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by Senator Charles H. Percy, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.\n\nEarly in 1986, Reagan sent Habib to the Philippines to convince President Ferdinand Marcos to step down. In March 1986, Reagan appointed him as a special envoy to Central America with the intention of furthering U.S. interests in the conflict in Nicaragua. Administration hard-liners intended to use his fame and stature to advance a military solution, namely further funding of the Contras.\n\nDeciding that the Contadora Plan had run its course, Óscar Arias, the newly elected president of Costa Rica, drew up a plan that focused on democratization. While he viewed the Arias plan as riddled with loopholes, Habib worked to help revise it. \"Phillip Habib became my ambassador to the rest of the Central American presidents,\" said Arias.\n\nOn August 7, 1987, the five Central American presidents, much to the shock of the rest of the world, agreed in principle to the Arias plan. Because further negotiating would require Habib to meet directly with Nicaragua's president, Daniel Ortega, President Reagan forbade him to travel. Believing he no longer had the confidence of the president, Habib resigned.\n\nWhile on vacation in France in 1992, Habib suffered a cardiac arrhythmia in Puligny-Montrachet and died on May 25 at age 72.\n\nFormer Secretary of State George Shultz spoke at his funeral in Belmont, California, and characterized Habib as \"...a man who really made a difference.\" He was buried nearby at the Golden Gate National Cemetery in San Bruno, just south of San Francisco. Speakers at his memorial service in Washington at the National Cathedral the following week included two former Secretaries of State, Henry Kissinger and Cyrus Vance, and a future one, former colleague Lawrence Eagleburger.\n\nAt the time of his death, Habib was one of the University of Idaho's most famous and respected graduates; he co-chaired the university's centennial fund-raising campaign several years earlier, as well as several class reunions. He moderated its Borah Symposium, an annual foreign affairs conference, in 1986, and received the university's highest honors for alumni in 1969, 1974, and 1983.\n\nJohn Boykin's 2014 e-book \"One Brief Miracle: The Diplomat, the Zealot, and the Wild Blundering Siege\" told the story of how Habib negotiated a peaceful end to Israel's 1982 siege of Beirut. It was an updated, abridged version of his 2002 hardback edition, \"Cursed Is the Peacemaker: The American Diplomat Versus the Israeli General, Beirut 1982.\"\n\nIn 2006, Habib was featured on a United States postage stamp, one of a block of six featuring prominent diplomats. In 2013, the city of Junieh, Lebanon, unveiled a bust of Habib among other \"national heroes\" in Friendship Square.\n\nWarren Zevon wrote the song \"The Envoy\", from his 1982 album of the same name, in honor of Habib.\n\nHabib House, the Seoul residence of the United States Ambassador to Korea, is named for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293275", "title": "Special Combat Aggressive Reactionary System", "text": "Special Combat Aggressive Reactionary System\n\nSpecial Combat Aggressive Reactionary Systems (SCARS) is an American combat fighting system created by Jerry L. Peterson.\n\nSCARS is based on sciences of psychology, physiology, physical movement as well as research on the nervous system. SCARS was developed by Peterson after serving two tours in the US Army 173rd Airborne Brigade during the Vietnam War. It was debuted in 1987, and began to be taught to various military, law enforcement, and security units, such as the Arizona State police. Currently, SCARS is taught through private seminars, larger scale contracts, online training and DVDs. It contains no defensive actions, as all checks against the enemy's kicks or punches are delivered as strikes to vulnerable nerves.\n\nThe program is based upon the idea that every human body reacts in the same way to specific injuries, and the program puts together various strikes to specific nerves, bones, and organs in order to debilitate an aggressive individual. The goal is to produce an \"autokinematic reaction\", creating a spinal reflex that happens in all humans. For example, if struck with kinetic force above the solar plexus, the upper body will react moving backwards. If struck below the solar plexus in the same way with kinetic force the body will buckle or the head will come forward. This reaction has nothing to do with pain, although it may hurt after the spinal reflex. It has everything to do with your spine reacting to protect your body. The three main elements of SCARS are geometry, physiology, and physics, and avoids the spiritual aspect that is prevalent in many martial arts. It focuses on immediate threat elimination and does not include an element of spiritual development.\n\nSCARS was initially presented to the Department of the Navy in 1988. SCARS Institute of Combat Sciences has developed training courses for the US Army and Air Force, as well as foreign governments and various law enforcement agencies. For the first seven years the fighting system remained exclusively known to and practiced by government personnel. The program was taught via seminars, government contracts, and also the SCARS Institute of Combative Sciences, once known as \"the most expensive school in the world\".\n\nThe US Navy developed a training manual for teaching SCARS to members of the Navy and SEALs. It states in its introduction that it was used as \"an educational system dealing primarily with the thought process in high risk areas of combat\" and meant to \"increase an individual's decision making skills in high stress areas of conflict\".\n\nIn 1993 the company produced video programming to teach its techniques to the general public. Live seminars are also available to the public in which are taught reliable hand to hand, and hand to weapons combat techniques over the span of three days. The remainder of the Navy program was not released to the public in the videos or otherwise. The videos were first distributed in 1993 as the most expensive collection of defense videos ever produced; however, they sold a large number of copies, and grossed $1 million in the first nine months. In 1999 a SCARS TV program was scripted and cast, though it was not produced. Blake Peterson also published the book \"Attention! Teachers, Students and Parents! Survive the Unsurvivable! - What Science Tells Us About Fear, Self-Defense, School Shootings and Why Guns in Schools Might Not Be the Best Solution\" in 2013, using SCARS as the basis for teaching supervisory figures how to deal with the increasing gun violence in US schools.\n\nCancellation of some SCARS courses was approved on April 17, 1998 by the Naval Special Warfare Commander, G.M. Moy, Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations. Former Navy SEALs Jocko Willink and Leif Babin claim the system was ineffective, though they never actually went through the program. Currently, the Navy Special Warfare is transitioning into MMA inspired combat training. However, Lieutenant Commander, John D. Porter of the United States Navy states in his thesis, in reference to the SCARS program, that \"the offensive mindset is still taught today.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293286", "title": "Claude Michel", "text": "Claude Michel\n\nClaude Michel (December 20, 1738 – March 29, 1814), known as Clodion, was a French sculptor in the Rococo style, especially noted for his works in terracotta.\n\nHe was born in Nancy to Anne Adam and Thomas Michel, an undistinguished sculptor. Anne was the sister of sculptors Lambert-Sigisbert Adam and Francois Gaspard Adam. In Nancy and probably in Lille he spent the earlier years of his life. In 1755 he came to Paris and entered the workshop of his maternal uncle Lambert-Sigisbert Adam, an established sculptor. He remained four years in this workshop, and on his death became a pupil of Jean-Baptiste Pigalle. In 1759 he obtained the grand prize for sculpture at the Académie Royale. In 1761 he obtained the first silver medal for studies from models. In 1762 he went to Rome, where his activity was considerable between 1767 and 1771.\n\nCatherine II of Russia was eager to secure his presence in St Petersburg, but he returned to Paris. Among his patrons, which were very numerous, were the chapter of Rouen, the states of Languedoc, and the Direction generale. His works were frequently exhibited at the Salon. In 1782 he married Catherine Flore, a daughter of the sculptor Augustin Pajou, who subsequently obtained a divorce from him. The agitation caused by the French Revolution drove Clodion in 1792 to Nancy, where he remained until 1798, his energies being spent in the decoration of houses.\n\nAmong Clodion's works are a statue of Montesquieu, a Dying Cleopatra, and a chimneypiece at present in the Victoria and Albert Museum, (London). Another known sculpture is called \"\"The Intoxication of Wine.\"\" One of his last groups represented Homer as a beggar being driven away by fishermen (1810). Clodion died in Paris, on the eve of the invasion of Paris by the forces of the Sixth Coalition.\n\nAmong the public collections holding works by Claude Michel are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293287", "title": "Maybe It's Me (TV series)", "text": "Maybe It's Me (TV series)\n\nMaybe It's Me is an American sitcom television series that aired on The WB network. It first aired on October 5, 2001, and ended on May 3, 2002. The series was created and executive produced by Suzanne Martin, a former writer of \"Frasier\" and \"Ellen\".\n\nThe series was centered on the life of teenager Molly Stage (Reagan Dale Neis) and her eccentric and often-embarrassing family, including her parents (insanely frugal mom, played by Julia Sweeney, and soccer-obsessed dad, played by Fred Willard), her two older brothers, her little twin sisters, and her grandparents.\n\nOver the course of the series, Molly dealt with many situations in which her family embarrassed her on numerous occasions. Not alone in her perils, she had her best friend Mia (Vicki Davis) by her side who had a crush on Grant (Patrick Levis), Molly's older brother who is a born-again Christian. Her oldest, self-absorbed brother Rick (Andrew W. Walker) constantly got into trouble.\n\nDuring the network's upfront presentation that season, the show was originally titled Maybe I'm Adopted, but following negative feedback, the show was re-titled. The show was unique in that it featured pop-up graphics on the screen, a concept originally proposed by Stan Rogow for another Disney-produced comedy series, \"Lizzie McGuire\".\n\n\n\n 3. ^https://www.lukeford.net/profiles/profiles/stan_rogow.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "2293290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293290", "title": "Music of Jharkhand", "text": "Music of Jharkhand\n\nJharkhand's music tradition consists of various folk and tribal forms, is known for its diversity. People of Jharkhand are very fond of music and dance.\n\nJhumair is one of the major folk forms of Jharkhand. Jhumair in Jharkhand share a lot with the Jhumair forms of the Purulia and the Bankura districts of West Bengal and also some of the neighboring states of Bihar. Jhumair is typically a folk performance, performed to the accompaniment of traditional instruments like Madal, Nagara. They are performed on harvest season and festivals and usually deals with the theme of love and romance. Domkach is another folk music which performed in wedding. It accompanied by musical instruments such as Nagara, Dhak and Shahnai.\nI\n"}
{"id": "2293294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293294", "title": "Cantata Laxatón", "text": "Cantata Laxatón\n\nCantata Laxatón is the second album by Les Luthiers, released in August 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293296", "title": "MacGregor Point Provincial Park", "text": "MacGregor Point Provincial Park\n\nMacGregor Point Provincial Park is a park located on Lake Huron, off of Bruce Road 33 near Port Elgin, Ontario, Canada.\n\nThe varied habitat found within the park includes a seven-kilometre stretch of coast, coastal wetlands, forests, and dunes. Although the beaches in the park can be used for swimming, better beaches can be found at Port Elgin or nearby Inverhuron Provincial Park. Recreational activities include hiking, cycling, canoeing, and kayaking. Some carnivorous plants grow in the park. Rare dwarf lake iris and the elusive spotted turtle appear in the spring. Migrating birds, including the black-crowned night heron and the great egret, have been spotted as well.\n\nThe park is an all-season destination for camping, hiking, swimming, wildlife and bird watching. In winter, visitors can camp in yurts, cross-country ski, hike, or go skating.\n\nYurt camping is available in this park in the Birch Boulevard section of Algonquin Campground along with regular electrical sites that are available year-round.\n\nAt the end of May and beginning of June, the Huron Fringe Birding Festival is held in the park.\n\nThis provincial park was created in 1975 after nearby Inverhuron Provincial Park was initially closed. The majority of the facilities in the park were developed over the last half of the 1970s including the visitor center, which is due for expansion in the near future. The full list of facilities is as follows: Camping, Electrical Campsites, Flush Toilets, Laundry, Showers, Day Use Area, Group Camping, Playground, Park Store, Visitor Centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293300", "title": "Kirit Shelat", "text": "Kirit Shelat\n\nKirit Nanubhai Shelat (born 1946) is an Indian public administrator. He worked for the government of Gujarat, India as head of various government departments and public undertakings.. After retirement, he associated with various NGOs and Trusts.\n\nShelat earned a PhD in public administration. \n\nHe designed and implemented large-scale projects for poor families, farmers, and micro entrepreneurs and remote rural areas. He contributed to the development of Gujarat. He developed guidelines for micro-level planning with focus on individual poor family and village development plan. He was responsible for the \"cluster development approach\" for small industries and \"Step up project for rural micro level Entrepreneurs\". \n\nHe developed micro level production plan modules for individual farmers and helped restructure the agriculture sector. He introduced a new extension approach of meeting with farmers at their doorstep prior to monsoon by a team led by an agriculture scientist. He introduced scientific agriculture based on soil health and moisture analysis and providing a soil health card to every Gujarati farmer. Gujarati agriculture grew at 11% per annum through 2015.\n\nHe is a founding member of International School for Public Leadership and Executive Chairman of National Council for Climate Change Sustainable Development and Public Leadership (NCCSD) and Chairman of the Sub Group – \"Enhancing Preparedness for Climate Change\". He organized the Indian Planning Commission for the 12th Five Year Plan.\n\nHe retired from the Indian Administrative Service. He worked on the formulation and implementation of policies for agricultural, rural and Industrial development in Gujarat. \n\nHe is author of books related Rural and Agricultural Development and Mitigation of Global Warming and Public Leadership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293302", "title": "Les Luthiers (volumen 3)", "text": "Les Luthiers (volumen 3)\n\nLes Luthiers – (volumen 3), album released in October, 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293304", "title": "Les Luthiers (volumen 4)", "text": "Les Luthiers (volumen 4)\n\nThe fourth album of Les Luthiers, released in November 1976. From now on, there are no individual credits for the songwriters, although it's been confirmed later that both 'Teresa y el oso' and 'Doctor Bob Gordon...' were composed by Ernesto Acher, with script (on the former) by Marcos Mundstock. 'Serenata Mariachi' originated from Lopez Puccio and Maronna, and then it was revised lyrically by Mundstock and musically by Acher. As for 'Mi aventura por la India' and 'La yegua mia', actual authorship has never been officially confirmed, and the public's relied on educated guesses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293305", "title": "Frankfurt Airport long-distance station", "text": "Frankfurt Airport long-distance station\n\nFrankfurt am Main Airport long-distance station () is a railway station at Frankfurt Airport in Frankfurt, Germany. It is served by long-distance trains, mostly ICE services running on the Cologne–Frankfurt high-speed rail line. It is the largest railway station serving an airport in Germany with about 23,000 passengers each day. The station is served by 210 long-distance trains daily, of which 185 are Intercity-Expresses. It and Limburg Süd Station are the only railway stations in Germany that are served exclusively by long-distance trains.\n\nThe station was opened in 1999 as part of the first part of the Cologne–Frankfurt high-speed line; the great majority of the high-speed line opened in 2002. It is 660 m long and 45 m high. It features a large dome containing a lounge area and a ticket hall, and is connected to the airport by a skyway that crosses the Autobahn 3. The Squaire, a one-billion-euro complex containing office space, hotels, convention centres and other facilities, has been built above the station. Nearby is Frankfurt Airport regional station which is located beneath Terminal 1 of the airport and which provides local S-Bahn services to Frankfurt, Wiesbaden and Mainz.\n\nThe station is located between the Frankfurter Kreuz Tunnel—which runs under the Frankfurter Kreuz, an important autobahn interchange in the east, connecting toward Frankfurt Central Station and Mannheim, and Kelsterbacher Spange (Kelsterbach Link) Tunnel in the west, the beginning of the high-speed section of the new line.\n\nThe 660-metre-long and up to 55-metre-wide station building was designed by BRT Architects (Bothe, Richter, Teherani). After nearly four years of construction, it was opened in 1999. The entire station is glazed on the outside and appears to be open. The upper deck is at a height of 12.5 metres and is composed of a 30 centimetres thick reinforced concrete slab with an area of about 34,000 square metres. The slab is supported by steel beams, which transfer their loads on to 4.5 metre thick trusses. These span across the railway station with a maximum span of about 50 metres and are 15 metres apart. The trusses are designed to support a building that is up to eight storeys high. The maximum load capacity of the reinforced concrete slab is 700 kilograms per square metre.\n\nUntil early 2007, the station was located in the middle of a large trench covered only by the biaxially curved glass dome. This has a maximum height of 15 metres, a length of 135 metres and a width of 40 metres.\n\nThe station has two island platforms, which are each served by two tracks. The platform tracks are numbered \"Gleis 4\" (long-distance 4) to \"Gleis 7\", continuing on from platforms 1 to 3 of the existing regional station opened in 1972. Trains scheduled to use platform tracks 6 and 7 run toward Mainz and Cologne, while platforms 4 and 5 are used for services toward Frankfurt Central Station, Frankfurt South station or the Mannheim–Frankfurt railway toward Mannheim. The only scheduled services stopping at the long-distance station are long-distance trains.\n\nThe long-distance station is located about 200 metres from Terminal 1, between the Autobahn 3 and the Bundesstraße 43, which both run parallel to it on either side of it. A 200 metres long and up to 80 metres wide walkway was constructed to connect the station building to Terminal 1. This supports footpaths and moving walkways, check-in counters, baggage screening and various shops.\n\nOn the mezzanine, between the platform and distribution level, there are among other things, a Deutsche Bahn lounge for first class passengers and frequent travellers. This can also be reached by lift directly from the 6/7 platform.\n\nAs part of the planning for the Cologne-Frankfurt high-speed line, ways of connecting high-speed trains on the line to the airport were investigated. Originally, the regional station was to be expanded as part of the new line project with a fourth track. Despite the high cost of the reconstruction of the existing station it was forecast that the capacity would not be sufficient in the medium term. Another proposal considered was to build an additional station in the existing building. Although a feasibility study found that would have had positive returns, this option was rejected due to its high cost. The board of the former Deutsche Bundesbahn decided in April 1990 to build an above ground long-distance station. If there was sufficient traffic demand, the new station would also serve regional traffic from the south.\n\nThe establishment of a new station between the A 3 and B 43 was examined for its economic justification for long-distance traffic as well as for the regional traffic towards Mannheim. Two options were examined for connections from the airport station to the new line. In addition to the realised route along the A3 via Mönchhof, a route running north towards the Mainz–Kelsterbach–Frankfurt line through the southern outskirts of Kelsterbach was examined. A connection with the Mainz-Frankfurt line was provided in both cases. Deutsche Bundesbahn classified the (unrealised) Klaraberg route as favourable for operations. The Mönchhof option had lower costs and lower environmental impact on Kelsterbach. The establishment of connecting curves between the new line and the line to Mainz would reduce the operational drawbacks of the Mönchhof option.\n\nThe planning approval process for the airport station and the section to Frankfurter Kreuz autobahn interchange, collectively called \"section 36\", was initiated in April 1994 as the first of around 50 planning approval processes for the new line.\n\nThe project was jointly implemented by Deutsche Bahn and \"Flughafen Frankfurt/Main AG\" (Frankfurt/Main Airport Company, FAG, now Fraport). Construction work on the line began in December 1995. In September 1996, Deutsche Bahn awarded the first contracts for the construction of the station and its associated tracks. The top deck of the station was designed to support a building complex, although its nature had not been determined.\n\nThe groundbreaking ceremony was held on 1 October 1997. Among the guests were the Minister of Transport, Matthias Wissmann, the Hessian Premier Hans Eichel, Frankfurt's mayor, Petra Roth, Deutsche Bahn CEO, Johannes Ludewig and the chairman of FAG, Wilhelm Bender.\n\nAbout 300 employees were employed on the site. 400,000 m³ of soil was excavated and 100,000 m³ of concrete and 2.5 km of bored piles were installed for construction (including two kilometres of the line).\n\nConstruction costs amounted to €225 million, including €44.5 million for the roof structure. The federal government share was €97.5 million. FAG provided DM 257 million (as of 1998) for the check-in building, including the roof. The construction costs were DM 30 million above the original estimates. The causes of increase were unforeseen difficulties during construction, a fire and subsequent improvements in the level of services provided.\n\nFAG donated the land and financed the development of all the infrastructure except for the immediate station area. Its costs incurred for the development of the terminal and the connections to the station together amounted to DM 170 million. Construction costs associated with the planned subsequent development amount of €87 million. The cost of the immediate station area amounting to DM 153 million were funded by the federal government (two thirds) and Deutsche Bahn (one third).\n\nAt the end of November 1998, the first service operated as a works train with invited guests from Zeppelinheim station through the tunnel to the Frankfurt Airport long-distance station.\n\nAfter several weeks of trial operation, the station was formally opened on 27 May 1999. Federal Transport Minister Franz Müntefering, Deutsche Bahn CEO, Johannes Ludewig and FAG Chairman Wilhelm Bender and other invited guests rode in an ICE T into the station. Lord Mayor, Petra Roth and the Hessian Minister of Transport, Dieter Posch attended the ceremony.\n\nThe first regular scheduled train ran from the train station on 30 May 1999 as Intercity 537 (\"Moritzburg\") at 05:37 AM. Deutsche Bahn initially forecast five million passengers per year. After completion of the high-speed line to Cologne in 2002, this figure was expected to rise to nine million passengers annually. This corresponded to a quadrupling of the ridership previously measured at the regional station. A study from the 1990s expected that, in 2002, an additional 919,000 passengers would travel by train to the airport rather than by car or taxi and around 1.3 million arriving passengers would use rail instead of short-haul flights to the airport.\n\nAt the opening of the station there were initially two Intercity-Express and two Intercity services, each running every one or two hours through the new station. Initially 83 services operated through the station between 5:00 AM and 0:30 AM daily. Before the commissioning of the station had been completed, its opening was delayed by a major fire in the check-in area in November 1998.\n\nThe opening of the station quadrupled the capacity of the airport to handle long-distance trains, while the relocation of long-distance traffic to the long-distance station doubled capacity in the regional station for S-Bahn and regional traffic.\n\nFollowing the opening of long-distance station, the three-track station opened in 1972 (now the regional station) has only been used by regional and S-Bahn traffic. Between 1985 and 1999, the regional station had been used by Intercity and later by Intercity-Express services. Until December 2010 some long-distance trains used the regional station at night, when the long-distance station was closed. The long-distance station is now also open at night, so scheduled long-distance trains no longer stop at the regional station. The Cologne-Frankfurt high-speed line opened in August 2002, three years after the line between the Raunheim curve and the Frankfurt Cross tunnel through the new station.\n\nIn the spring of 2000, around 14,000 passengers per day were counted. In the first year of operation it was used by approximately 9,000 passengers per day. In 2008, about 22,500 used the station each day. Passenger forecasts in mid-1998 estimated that after the scheduled start of the new line, assumed to be in May 2001, there would be more than 30,000 incoming and outgoing ICE passengers per day. It was predicted that in the early 2000s about 30 percent of passengers would arrive at and leave the airport by rail. Prior to the opening of the station this rate (at the old station) was 14 percent.\n\nAfter the opening of the station the removal of the glass dome in favour of further development was discussed on and off. This option was rejected for reasons of fire safety. The DM 14 million dome had already been integrated into the original plans for the building complex.\n\nIn 2003, the design of the building was awarded a special prize in the Renault Traffic Design Awards.\n\nOn 1 March 2007, the foundation stone was laid for a controversial project called \"Frankfurt Airrail Centre\" to be built on a slab over the station. Meanwhile, the nine-storey complex with more than eight hectares of office space, 550–700 hotel rooms, restaurants and shops, which had been built at a cost around €660 million, was renamed \"the Squaire\" (a portmanteau word derived from the English words \"square\" and \"air\"). The glass dome has been retained in the centre and on each side is the foyer of the hotel and the connection to the office wing. The opening was originally scheduled for autumn 2009, but was delayed until early 2011. The complex was completed in the spring of 2011.\n\nIn 20 applicants had applied in 1998 to build the development at the station. After a pre-qualification phase a short list of seven investor groups were eventually invited to apply carry it out. In March 1999, an international selection committee chose two companies to finally develop the project: \"e-Pfa-Immobilienmanagement\" (Wiesbaden) and \"TERCON Immobilien Projektentwicklungs GmbH\" (Munich). A feasibility study for the project estimated that the centre would create 3,400–4,000 new jobs.\n\nCurrently the station is served by thirteen Intercity-Express lines and three Intercity lines.\n\nIn 2009, 16 percent of passengers at Frankfurt Airport travelled by Intercity-Express.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293310", "title": "National Democratic Party (Northern Ireland)", "text": "National Democratic Party (Northern Ireland)\n\nThe National Democratic Party (NDP) was an Irish nationalist political party in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe organisation's origins lay in National Unity, a political study group founded in 1959. It failed to unite nationalists as it had hoped, and so it worked with Gerry Quigley, Secretary of the Irish National Teachers' Organisation, to call a conference of all nationalists.\n\nThe conference was held on 19 April 1964 in Maghery. It was well attended, although Nationalist Party leader Eddie McAteer rejected his invitation, and other Nationalist MPs were reluctant to accept criticisms raised of them. The conference founded the National Political Front, with Anne McFadden as its secretary.\n\nThe National Political Front aimed to develop policy for the Nationalist Party and any other sympathetic politicians, and to play a role in selecting future nationalist candidates. Despite this, the Nationalist Party chose to organise its own convention to choose a candidate for Fermanagh and South Tyrone at the 1964 general election.\n\nIn the run-up to the election, McAteer wrote to leaders of other opposition parties to discuss forming a united opposition, and this produced talks with the Republican Labour Party. They released a joint programme entitled \"39 Points\", largely based on the demands of the National Political Front. However, the relationship between the Front and the Nationalists again soured before the end of 1964. As a result, some politicians resigned from the Nationalist Party, including John Hume.\n\nIn February 1965, the National Political Front founded a new organisation, the National Party, at a conference in Belfast. Prominent Nationalist Party members McAteer and Gerry Lennon attended as observers. This new group was chaired by Quigley, and aimed to organise supporters of a united Ireland in urban areas, to link with reinvigorated Nationalist Party groups in rural areas. Indeed, they pointedly did not organise in areas which already had a Nationalist MP. In particular, they called on the Nationalist Party to adopt a constituency based structure with a party conference and agreed party programme.\n\nBy June 1965, the Nationalist Party had taken no action on the issues raised by the National Party. The new group decided to maintain the pressure, and renamed itself the \"National Democratic Party\". Nationalist Senator Paddy McGill was concerned that the NDP would try to take over the Nationalist Party. McAteer decided to aim for a close relationship with the new group, noting that they shared the \"39 Points\" programme.\n\nClosely associated with the new party was the National Democrats ginger group. This had the same aims as the NDP and was chaired by Ciaran McKeown.\n\nAt the 1965 Northern Ireland general election, former Independent Labour Group politician John Joseph Brennan won the constituency of Belfast Central, without facing any opposition. Among the party's candidates were future MPs Eddie McGrady and Alasdair McDonnell.\n\nThe next few years saw the start of The Troubles, and great radicalisation among Irish nationalists. Brennan lost his seat in 1969. Hume founded the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), bringing together independent nationalist politicians elected in 1969 and some representatives of existing parties. A large number of NDP members left to join the SDLP - making up 80% of its first 400 members. Facing a massive drop in membership, the NDP dissolved itself in October 1970, passing a resolution that all members should join the SDLP. These members included political strategist Ben Caraher, who was to greatly influence the approach of the early SDLP.\n\nThe National Democratic Party had no connection to the National Democrats that fielded a candidate in the East Londonderry constituency in the 1997 general election, which was a UK-wide breakaway from the British National Front.\n"}
{"id": "2293322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293322", "title": "BTR-70", "text": "BTR-70\n\nThe BTR-70 is an eight-wheeled armored personnel carrier (/\"Bronetransporter\", or literally \"Armoured Transporter\") originally developed by the Soviet Union during the late 1960s under the manufacturing code GAZ-4905. On August 21, 1972, it was accepted into Soviet service and would later be widely exported. Large quantities were also produced under license in Romania as the \"TAB-77\".\n\nThe BTR-70 was developed as a potential successor for the earlier BTR-60 series of Soviet wheeled armored personnel carriers, specifically the \"BTR-60PB\", which it most closely resembled. It evolved out of an earlier, unsuccessful project known as the \"GAZ-50\" to design a new wheeled infantry fighting vehicle on the chassis and drive train of a BTR-60PB. It initially received the NATO reporting name \"BTR M1970\".\n\nIn 1971, the Soviet Armed Forces began investigating the possibility of an updated BTR-60PB redesigned to make the vehicle more compatible with the BMP-1 in terms of tactical training. This resulted in the development of a BTR-60PB prototype essentially converted into a wheeled infantry fighting vehicle, designated \"Obiekt 50\" or \"GAZ-50\". Despite retaining the original BTR-60PB chassis, the GAZ-50 incorporated several elements of the BMP's design, including similar seating arrangements in the passenger compartment. The revised internal layout reduced the number of passengers to nine. New hatches were also provided for debarking in the lower hull, between the second and third wheel stations. Other modifications included a slightly thicker hull, increased power-to-weight ratio, and additional firing ports. Another feature retained from the BTR-60 was the twin-engine arrangement, although in the \"GAZ-50\" torque produced by the right engine powered the first and third wheel stations, while the left engine powered the second and fourth. This alteration was to allow the vehicle to continue moving even if one engine failed. The prototype was armed with a turret resembling that of the BMP-1, incorporating the same 73mm 2A28 Grom low-pressure smoothbore cannon.\n\nThere was some debate as to the \"GAZ-50\"'s viability in its intended role; for example, projected manufacturing costs were high due to the incorporation of the BMP-1 turret and armament. Furthermore, while the prototype would allow motorized units to emulate the tactics of Soviet mechanized infantry, it simply did not offer the same protection, mobility, and firepower of the BMP. Most of the funding earmarked for the program was thus diverted into producing larger numbers of BMPs instead, as well as ensuring their wider introduction beyond Soviet tank divisions. A second GAZ-50 prototype was built, designated \"Obiekt 60\" mounting a 14.5mm machine gun in exactly the same turret as that carried by the BTR-60 series; this was accepted as a generic replacement for the BTR-60PB in motorized rifle regiments. In Soviet service, the new BTRs received the designation \"BTR-70\".\n\nCompared to the earlier BTR-60PB, relatively small numbers of BTR-70s were produced. The design was still regarded as suffering from some of the same disadvantages, such as the two flammable petrol engines and the poor means of entry and exit. These flaws became especially evident when the vehicle was tested in combat during the Soviet–Afghan War. As a result, in 1984 the Soviet Army took delivery of a new wheeled armored personnel carrier, the BTR-80, which was powered by a single 260 horsepower diesel engine and a simpler drive train. Production of the BTR-70 was terminated that year.\n\nThe Soviet Union only exported BTR-70s to four other states: Afghanistan, the German Democratic Republic (East Germany), Hungary, and Romania, which also purchased a license to manufacture the design locally. However, many have since been inherited by the armies of various post-Soviet republics or re-exported.\n\nThe BTR-70 is powered by two petrol engines. Early production vehicles used 115 hp GAZ-69B 6-cylinder engines, but most vehicles have now been retrofitted with the more powerful ZMZ-49-05 V-8 engines. The vehicle is fully amphibious, propelled when afloat by a single water jet mounted at the rear of the hull. To prepare the vehicle for water, the driver erects a trim vane and switches on the bilge pumps from within the vehicle.\n\nThe standard equipment includes a central tire-pressure regulation system that allows the driver to adjust the tire-pressure to suit the terrain being crossed. Also fitted is an R-123M radio set and an R-124 intercom. The driver's optical equipment consists of three TNPO-115 vision blocks and a TNP-B day vision device, which can be replaced by a TVNO-2B night vision device. The commander also has three TNPO-115s and either a TPKU-2B day sight or a TKN-1S night sight accompanied by an OU-3GA-2 infra-red search light. The turret is fitted with a PP-61AM (or 1PZ-2) periscopic sight for the gunner and the infantry group in the troop compartment is provided with TNP-B devices. The BTR-70 also has an FVU NBC filter system and a DK-3B detection device.\n\nThe armaments consist of a KPVT heavy machine gun with 500 rounds and a coaxial 7.62 mm PKT machine gun with 2,000 rounds. Also on board are two \"Igla\" or \"Strela-3\" MANPADS, and optionally two AGS-17 grenade launchers at the expense of two infantry men.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe BTR-70 first saw service during the Soviet–Afghan War. A very small quantity of BTR-70s were donated or sold to the People's Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola in the mid-1980s by an undisclosed country; these saw action during the Angolan Civil War. BTR-70s were deployed by the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in Bosnia-Herzegovina during the Yugoslav Wars.\n\nBTR-70s of the Armed Forces of Ukraine have been deployed in the War in Donbass, with some being captured by pro-Russian militias of the Donetsk People's Republic.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293331", "title": "Bond paper", "text": "Bond paper\n\nBond paper is a high-quality durable writing paper similar to bank paper but having a weight greater than 50 g/m. The most common weights are 60 g/m (16 lb), 75 g/m (20 lb) and 90 g/m (24 lb). The name comes from its having originally been made for documents such as government bonds. It is now used for letterheads and other stationery and as paper for electronic printers. Widely employed for graphic work involving pencil, pen and felt-tip marker, bond paper can sometimes contain rag fibre pulp, which produces a stronger, though rougher, sheet of paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293334", "title": "Sorano", "text": "Sorano\n\nSorano is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Grosseto, southern Tuscany (Italy).\n\nIt as an ancient medieval hill town hanging from a tuff stone over the Lente River.\n\nSorano was probably inhabited by Villanovan culture, but the first historical mentions are relative to the 3rd century BC, when it was an Etruscan city under the influence of the more populous nearby Sovana.\n\nDisappearing from history under the Roman domination, it is again known in 862 when a county was founded by Emperor Louis II, under the Aldobrandeschi suzerainty. The Aldobrandeschi were the most powerful feudataries of southern Tuscany for more than four centuries, disappearing in 1312 when Margherita, son of Ildibrandino, died without male heirs. His daughter Adelaide married to Romano di Gentile Orsini, who added the city to the family fiefs.\n\nThe county of Pitigliano-Sorano fought against the Republic of Siena, but was forced to accept its suzerainty from 1417. It regained a full independence in 1556, when the latter was annexed to the Duchy of Tuscany. The fortress, due to its strategic position, was frequently attacked; it was also the seat of fratricidal fights between the Orsini. In 1604, with the death of Alessandro di Bertoldo, it became part of the Grand Duchy of Tuscany.\n\nIt became part of the Kingdom of Italy in 1860.\n\n\nAnother castle is in the \"frazione\" of Sovana.\n\nThe municipality is formed by the municipal seat of Sorano and the villages (\"frazioni\") of Castell'Ottieri, Cerreto, Elmo, Montebuono, Montevitozzo, Montorio, San Giovanni delle Contee, San Quirico, San Valentino and Sovana.\n\nComedian Jack Benny mentions Sorano in a running gag on both the radio and television versions of \"The Jack Benny Program,\" in which Jack has written a song entitled “When You Say 'I Beg Your Pardon,' Then I’ll Come Back to You.” In the gag, each time Jack reaches the lyric “when the swallows at Sorano return to Capistrano,” the song is interrupted by a cast member or guest star questioning how a swallow could possibly fly all the way from Italy to California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293339", "title": "Mokujin", "text": "Mokujin\n\nMokujin (Japanese: 木人（もくじん）, lit. \"wood person\") is a fictional character in Namco Bandai Games' \"Tekken\" video game series. Mokujin first appeared in the 1997 video game \"Tekken 3\". Mokujin does not have his own fighting style. Instead, he mimics fighting styles from other characters, which varies from match to match.\n\nMokujin is a training dummy made from a 2,000-year-old tree. He comes alive in the presence of great evil and it was said that he would become the world's last resort when humanity is unable to deal with them. While he appears to be mute (his \"voice\" is the sounds of wood-clicks), he is able to communicate with the humans using telepathy. Due to his experience as a dummy, he is able to imitate any fighting style. In \"Tekken 3\", Mokujin is awakened when Ogre, the God of Fighting, was released. After Jin Kazama defeated Ogre in The King of Iron Fist Tournament 3, Mokujin grew lifeless once more, but he had a smile on his face. In \"Tekken 5\", with the awakening of another powerful evil entity (Jinpachi Mishima), Mokujin has come to life once more. After the defeat of Jinpachi Mishima, Mokujin again became lifeless. In \"Tekken 6\", Mokujin again comes to life when a being of great evil and the source of Devil Gene, Azazel awakened. Other than the main series, Mokujin appears in the non-canonical game \"Tekken Tag Tournament\" and its sequel \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\". He also appears as one of the unplayable penultimate bosses in free-to-play game \"Tekken Revolution\".\n\n first appearing in \"Tekken Tag Tournament\". Whereas Mokujin is constructed of wood, Tetsujin is constructed of iron. Both characters use the fighting styles of the other characters, and they both switch fighting styles between each round. While Mokujin's \"fighting style\" is referred as \"Mokujin-ken\", Tetsujin's is called \"Tetsujin-ken\", and similarly is the only sentence written in the movelist screen. He rarely appears in subsequent games, although a dummy resembling Tetsujin is used as training dummy for \"Tekken 5\"'s Practice mode and Tree can also be customized to look like Tetsujin in later installments. Tetsujin also appears as one of the unplayable penultimate bosses in free-to-play game \"Tekken Revolution\" and \"Tekken (Mobile)\".\n\n is a secret unplayable boss character in free-to-play game \"Tekken Revolution\". His design is likely based on an easter egg in the console version of \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", where meeting certain requirements would cause Tetsujin's normally silver color to turn gold. In \"Tekken Revolution\", he is basically Tetsujin made of gold wearing a crown, glasses, mustache, bow tie, and a cape. He is one of the Stage 7 penultimate bosses in Arcade mode, along with Mokujin, Tetsujin, Heihachi Mishima, and Jinpachi Mishima.\n\nMokujin appears in Namco x Capcom as a training dummy. In \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", Pac-Man fights using a small mech designed to resemble a Mokujin. Outside of the video games, Mokujin appears in the 2011 CGI film \"\" as the mascot of Kyoto International School Festival, which the main characters attend. Later, it is revealed that the Kyoto Temple hides a tomb of the ancient spirits of Mokujin, which takes form of the forest surrounding the temple. Heihachi exploits this to fight Devil Jin, though he fails and the spirit presumably vanishes. Mokujin also is referenced in the \"Ridge Racer\" series, as branding in signs and in the Kamata Fiera in \"Ridge Racer 7\". Mokujin also appears in \"Idea Factory's Trillion: God of Destruction\", as a training dummy capable of taking the form of the titular monster for training purposes. Mokujin makes a cameo appearance in Pokken Tournament in the background of one of the of game's fighting stages.\n\nA Mokujin-esque character also appears in Kyary Pamu Pamu's video \"Harajuku Iyahoi\".\n\nGaming Target ranked Mokujin seventh on the list of top 11 \"Tekken\" fighters. GamesRadar listed the character on its \"28 of the most favourite video game trees ever\", a compilation of answers for the question \"what is your favourite video game tree and why?\". 1UP.com mentioned him as one of the characters they wanted to see in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", adding Mokujin provides \"a challenge to expert players who want to prove they've mastered everyone in the game.\" \n\n\"Complex\" ranked the fact Mokujin having breasts in \"Tekken 6\" as the thirteenth \"Tekken\"s craziest moment, saying \"we haven't been this disturbed since we saw Howard the Duck with its naughty duck tits scene.\" In 2012, she was listed as one of the most \"ridiculous\" \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\" characters by \"Game Informer\", who stated, a \"training dummy\" can not have its own fighting style, and if it has it should be called \"Stand motionless and get the crap kicked out of you because you're a stupid training dummy.\" \"Computer and Video Games\" agreed with his \"Game Informer\" fellow, putting Mokujin in their list of \"\"Tekken\"s worst ever characters\", adding \"when humanity's best hope against a fire-breathing monster is made of wood and twigs, it's probably time to think about just buying a gun.\" GameDaily ranked Mokujin nineteenth on their \"Top 25 Most Bizarre Fighting Characters\". Mokujin was elected as the fifth \"PlayStation's scariest character\" by \"PlayStation Official Magazine\" because he can copy the enemies moves and change his gender.\n"}
{"id": "2293343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293343", "title": "Ramco Systems", "text": "Ramco Systems\n\nRamco Systems Limited (, , MSE–RSST) is a software and services provider based in India. Founded in 1992, it was initially part of Ramco Group but became an independent company in 1997. Ramco Systems provides Enterprise Resource Planning, Human Capital Management, Logistics and Aviation Maintenance & Engineering (M&E) and Maintenance Repair & Overhaul (MRO) software.\n\nThe company made a deal with Papillon Grand Canyon Helicopters to install Ramco Aviation Suite V5.8, for maintenance and engineering operations of its fleet. It will also provide services to another Paillon Grand Canyon entity, Grand Canyon Scenic Airlines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293349", "title": "Peter Mews", "text": "Peter Mews\n\nPeter Mews (25 March 1619 – 9 November 1706) was an English Royalist theologian and bishop.\n\nMews was born at Caundle Purse in Dorset, and was educated at the Merchant Taylors' School, London, and at St John's College, Oxford, of which he was scholar and fellow.\n\nWhen the Civil War broke out in 1642, Mews joined the Royalist army, and, having been made a captain, was taken prisoner at Naseby; but he was soon released and in 1648 sought refuge in Holland. He became friendly with King Charles I's secretary, Sir Edward Nicholas, and being skilful at disguising himself was very useful to the Royalists during the rule of Oliver Cromwell, undertaking two journeys to Scotland in 1653. In August of that year, his friend Nicholas applied to Mary, Princess Royal and Princess of Orange, to use her influence to get Mews a post as reader in philosophy at the Orange College of Breda, but had a reply from Hyde that the place called for a man \"that hath not bene a truant from his bookes\".\n\nBefore this Mews had been ordained. Taking the degree of DCL and regaining his fellowship at Oxford after the Restoration, he became Archdeacon of Huntingdon, vicar of St Mary's, Reading, and chaplain to the King; then, having obtained two other livings, he was made canon of Windsor, canon of St David's, and Archdeacon of Berkshire (1665–1672).\n\nIn 1667, when at Breda arranging peace between England and the Dutch Republic, he was chosen President of St John's College, Oxford, in succession to his father-in-law, Richard Baylie, afterwards becoming Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford and dean of Rochester. Appointed Bishop of Bath and Wells in 1672, Mews resigned his presidency in 1673, and in 1684 he was elected Bishop of Winchester, a position which this \"old, honest cavalier,\" as Thomas Hearne calls him, filled until his death. The bishop is buried in Winchester Cathedral.\n\nMews lent his carriage horses to pull the cannon at a critical moment during the battle of Sedgemoor, where he was wounded whilst accompanying the royal army. He was, however, in sympathy with the Seven Bishops, and was only prevented by illness from attending their meeting; and as visitor of Magdalen College, Oxford, he supported the fellows in their resistance to James II, admitted their nominee, John Hough, to the presidency, and restored the ejected fellows in October 1688.\n\nHe took the oaths to William III and Mary II in 1689. In the absence of Henry Compton, Bishop of London, Mews took the chief part at the consecration of John Tillotson as Archbishop of Canterbury in 1691.\n\nA superb portrait is displayed in the Great Hall of the 15th century manor house, Athelhampton Hall, known as Athelhampton House, just a few miles outside Dorchester in Dorset.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293356", "title": "Ben Foster (footballer)", "text": "Ben Foster (footballer)\n\nBen Anthony Foster (born 3 April 1983) is an English professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for club Watford and the England national team.\n\nFoster began his professional career in 2001 with Stoke City, having joined from Racing Club Warwick. However, he never made an appearance for Stoke, and spent time on loan with Bristol City, Tiverton Town, Stafford Rangers, Kidderminster Harriers and Wrexham. He switched permanently to Manchester United in July 2005, but again struggled to break into the first team, and he spent two successive seasons on loan to Watford from August 2005 until the end of the 2006–07 season. Having played just 23 times for Manchester United (although he also played in the League Cup-winning teams of 2009 and 2010), Foster switched to Birmingham City in May 2010. An ever-present in the league for Birmingham, Foster was also part of the Birmingham team that won the 2011 League Cup; he made a total of 43 appearances in that season. Following Birmingham's relegation to the Championship at the end of the season, Foster was loaned to West Bromwich Albion, and moved there permanently in June 2012. Foster returned to Watford in July 2018.\n\nInternationally, Foster made his international debut for England in February 2007 against Spain. Although he announced his retirement from international football in May 2011, he returned in February 2013, and was selected in England's squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup\n\nBorn in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, Foster started his football career as a youngster at Racing Club Warwick of the Southern League Division One West. He became their first-choice goalkeeper in December 2000, and in April 2001 he turned professional with Division Two club Stoke City after being spotted by scout Colin Dobson. He signed a one-year contract with an option for a further two years; the \"five-figure\" fee was undisclosed, and RC Warwick would benefit from the inclusion of a sell-on clause. During his time at Stoke, Foster had loan spells at Bristol City, Tiverton Town, Stafford Rangers, Kidderminster Harriers and Wrexham. Foster sustained a cruciate ligament injury in June 2003 while playing tennis with his brother, which sidelined him for a period of six months. After his recovery, Foster was awarded the number 14 shirt and received his maiden call up to the Potters' first team for a First Division match versus Wimbledon on 17 January 2004. He remained on the bench for the 1–0 victory and was an unused substitute on a further six occasions during the remainder of the 2003–04 season. Foster was called into the first team squad for four matches during the 2004–05 season.\n\nWhile playing for Wrexham on loan from Stoke, Foster was spotted by Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson, who was watching his son, Darren, in the 2005 Football League Trophy Final. United had been struggling for several years to replace former goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel, and Ferguson decided to move for the young Foster, making a bid of £1 million for the player. Stoke agreed a deal with United on 15 July 2005, and the transfer was completed on 19 July.\n\nNot ready for first team action, Foster was sent on a season-long loan to Watford on 1 August 2005, with the expectation of a second loan the season after. Watford manager Aidy Boothroyd claimed that \"he's better than current Manchester United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar\" and claimed Foster would be \"the best goalkeeper in the world\". Manchester United manager Ferguson suggested that Foster would succeed Van der Sar as first-choice keeper at United and eventually replace Paul Robinson as \"England's next goalkeeper\". Foster helped Watford reach the Premier League by beating Leeds United 3–0 in the Championship play-off final.\n\nHe re-signed for Watford on a second season-long loan on 10 August 2006 after Manchester United secured the services of Poland international goalkeeper Tomasz Kuszczak on loan from West Bromwich Albion. Foster's performances during Watford's Premier League campaign earnt him the club's Player of the Season award. Aidy Boothroyd expressed his desire to keep Foster at Watford for a third season on a number of occasions during the 2006–07 season, but his hopes were dashed in January 2007 when Alex Ferguson announced his intention to bring Foster back to Old Trafford at the end of the season.\n\nIn June 2007, it was announced that Foster would undergo surgery on a cruciate ligament injury in his right knee, forcing him to miss the start of the 2007–08 season. He returned to light training towards the end of 2007, setting a February 2008 target for his return. He made a comeback in a reserve match against Middlesbrough on 6 March 2008, before making his debut for the Manchester United first team on 15 March 2008. With Edwin van der Sar injured and Tomasz Kuszczak suspended for a red card against Portsmouth in the FA Cup Sixth Round the previous Saturday, Alex Ferguson had to shelve plans to ship Foster out on loan again, and the young goalkeeper was promoted to the No. 1 jersey for the away match against Derby County. United won the match 1–0, with Foster making two crucial saves en route to keeping a clean sheet. Although he was impressed with Foster's performance in the match against Derby, Ferguson did not start him for the following match against Bolton Wanderers, opting for the returning Kuszczak.\n\nAfter being selected as a substitute for Manchester United's opening match of the 2008–09 Champions League against Villarreal on 17 September 2008, Foster then played for the reserves against Blackburn Rovers the following day. During the match, he fell awkwardly and suffered a twisted ankle, putting him out of contention for six to eight weeks. Fortunately for Foster, his recovery time was quicker than was first estimated and he returned to reserve team action on 14 October 2008, playing the full 90 minutes in a 2–1 win over Oldham Athletic reserves. Foster then made his first Champions League appearance – his second for the Manchester United first team – on 5 November 2008, in a 1–1 away draw to Celtic.\n\nFoster was originally selected in Manchester United's squad for the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup, but after suffering a broken finger in training the day before the squad was due to depart for Japan, he was replaced by Ben Amos. On 1 March 2009, Alex Ferguson named Foster in goal for the 2009 League Cup Final at Wembley Stadium. After keeping a clean sheet in normal time, Foster then made a save from Tottenham's Jamie O'Hara in the consequent penalty shoot-out. This, combined with a miss from David Bentley, gave United a 4–1 win in the shootout and the 2009 League Cup title. After the match, Foster was given the Alan Hardaker Trophy for his man of the match performance.\n\nIt was revealed after the match that Foster had used an iPod to help with his preparations in the penalty shootout, prompting discussion about the use of technology in the match.\n\nFoster was rewarded for his performance by being made United's second-choice goalkeeper for the remainder of the season, starting three more matches when Alex Ferguson chose to rest Edwin van der Sar ahead of important matches. However, he had been attempting to play with a ruptured ligament in his right thumb, which became aggravated, necessitating surgery which ruled him out of United's title run-in, the Champions League Final against Barcelona and England's 2010 World Cup qualifiers in June. Following speculation that United were in the market for a new goalkeeper to replace the soon-to-retire Edwin van der Sar, Foster signed a new four-year contract with the club. Alex Ferguson commented that Manchester United \"genuinely see him [Foster] as a successor to Edwin van der Sar\".\n\nWith Van der Sar injured for the first two months of the 2009–10 season, Foster was given the opportunity to nail down the number one shirt in the 2009 FA Community Shield defeat to Chelsea, where his mistakes led to two Chelsea goals and made no saves in the penalty shootout. Foster continued to play in the League, starting with the opening day victory over Birmingham City. In wins against Arsenal and Manchester City, Foster received heavy criticism for massive errors that led to opposition goals. Manager Alex Ferguson stated that he believes in Foster's abilities and potential; however, eight days later, Foster was again criticised for a mistake which led to a Sunderland goal in a 2–2 draw, and left out of the England squad the next day with bruised ribs. However, following Robert Green's red card in the match against Ukraine and consequent suspension, Foster was given the all-clear by doctors and recalled to the England squad for the match against Belarus on 14 October. Foster played only twice more in 2009 for Manchester United after the Sunderland match: a League Cup win against Championship team Barnsley, and a Champions League tie versus Beşiktaş, with Manchester United's progress from the group already secured. He was displaced from the first team in Van der Sar's absence by Tomasz Kuszczak, and on occasion, reserve goalkeeper Ben Amos took Foster's place on the substitutes bench. Foster started his first match for three months against West Ham in February 2010, keeping a clean sheet in a 3–0 victory.\n\nAfter accepting that in order to play regularly he needed to leave Manchester, whether on loan or permanently, Foster signed a three-year contract with Premier League club Birmingham City on 19 May 2010. The fee was not disclosed, though media speculation suggested an initial fee of £4 million, potentially rising to £6 million with add-ons. The club were seeking a replacement for Foster's fellow England international goalkeeper Joe Hart, who had returned to Manchester City after a successful 2009–10 season on loan at Birmingham. Foster made his Birmingham debut on the opening day of the 2010–11 season in a 2–2 draw away to Sunderland. On his home debut the following week against Blackburn Rovers, he saved a penalty from Morten Gamst Pedersen as Birmingham won the match 2–1.\n\nCriticised for an error in England's 2–1 defeat to France, Foster produced a man-of-the-match performance on his return to League duty on 20 November as Birmingham beat reigning champions Chelsea 1–0. Though Chelsea had 32 shots at goal, Foster made a series of excellent saves, including one described by BBC Sport as \"staggering\" to deny Didier Drogba's \"fierce close-range downward header\". Foster made a \"horrendous blunder\" in the televised League Cup semi-final, allowing a soft shot from Carlton Cole slip underneath him, which gave West Ham United a 2–1 lead after the first leg. However, he made up for this with a display in the final that earned him the Alan Hardaker Trophy for the second time in three years, as Birmingham defeated Arsenal 2–1 to claim their first major trophy in 48 years.\n\nDespite Birmingham's City League Cup Final win, they were relegated to The Championship on the final day of the 2010–11 Premier League season.\n\nBecause of his \"series of inspirational performances\", Foster was named Birmingham's Player of the Season and Players' Player of the Season for 2010–11.\n\nFoster joined Premier League club West Bromwich Albion on 29 July 2011, changing places with Albion goalkeeper Boaz Myhill, both players signing a loan deal for the whole of the 2011–12 season. Foster played in 37 of their 38 league matches, only missing the final match of the season with a minor groin strain. He kept 10 league clean sheets, equalling West Brom's Premier League clean sheets record, as the club finished in 10th place, their highest league finish in 30 years. At the end of the season, Foster was given the supporters' player of the year and the players' player of the year awards.\n\nOn 29 June 2012, Foster signed permanently with West Brom for an undisclosed fee, widely reported to be £4 million. He signed a three-year contract with an option for a further two years in the club's favour. Foster continued to perform impressively in his second season with the club, keeping 7 clean sheets in 30 league matches, and helping to guide West Brom to their record high Premier League position of 8th for the 2012–13 season. A highlight of that season was saving a Steven Gerrard penalty against Liverpool at Anfield. The score was 0–0 at the time and West Brom went on to win 2–0. Despite missing 4 months of the following season through injury, Foster went on to win both fans player, and player's player of the year awards for the second time in three years after a series of impressive performances throughout the 2013–14 season. Foster's impressive form for the club saw him called up to the 2014 England world cup squad, becoming the first West Bromwich Albion player to represent England in a world cup squad since Jeff Astle in 1970.\n\nAfter an impressive 2016–17 season, Foster was nominated for the Football Writers' Association Footballer of the Year award. He was also the West Brom supporters' club player of the season.\n\nAfter West Brom's relegation to the Championship, Foster re-signed for Premier League club Watford on 5 July 2018 on a two-year contract, with the option of an additional year, for an undisclosed fee.\n\nOn 26 May 2006, Foster was named on the stand-by list for England's 2006 World Cup squad, because of Robert Green's injury in a \"B\" international against Belarus. After Foster re-signed on loan for Watford, he was called up to Steve McClaren's first England squad as one of three goalkeepers for the friendly against Greece. Since his first call-up but prior to his injury, Foster was named in every England squad, and made his England debut in the 1–0 defeat against Spain on 7 February 2007.\n\nAfter not playing for England for two years and never being called to the first team, he was finally selected by Fabio Capello after his performance at the League Cup final and was a second-half substitute against Slovakia in a 4–0 victory to earn his second cap.\n\nInconsistent performances in Manchester United's first fixtures of the 2009–10 season, as well as bruised ribs, meant that Foster was left out of Capello's initial squad for their final two World Cup qualifiers. However, after Robert Green was sent off in the match against Ukraine on 10 October, Foster was recalled in his place for the following match against Belarus. It had been expected that David James would take Green's place in the starting line-up, but James was injured in the warm-up and Foster was given his third England cap instead. England won the match 3–0, with Foster making a one-handed save from Syarhey Amelyanchuk in the 63rd minute. Foster won his fourth cap against Brazil, where he played the whole match in a 1–0 loss on 14 November 2009, the friendly match was played in Qatar, with forward Nilmar scoring the only goal of the match from a header in the 47th minute. He was overlooked for England's 2010 World Cup squad, Joe Hart being preferred for the third goalkeeping spot.\n\nFoster stated in a 2020 interview that he found Capello difficult to work with, not only as a manager but also as a person. Foster had been training with England for a friendly match when his pregnant wife went into labour. Capello initially refused to allow Foster to leave for his child's birth, before reluctantly allowing it only after Foster pleaded with him. Three hours after his child's birth, Capello called Foster and urged him to return to the training camp immediately, promising Foster that he would play the second half of the upcoming match. Ultimately, Foster was not brought on in the second half and played no role in the match; Capello offered no acknowledgement or explanation to Foster. Shortly after, in May 2011, Foster announced that he would be making himself unavailable for international selection for an indefinite period. He intended to \"prolong [his] club career for as long as possible\" by allowing his body \"a proper rest period between games\" to reduce \"niggling\" injuries. It was not until February 2013 - after Capello had been succeeded by Roy Hodgson - that he made himself available for selection again. In the next international break, he was called up to the England squad for World Cup qualifiers against San Marino and Montenegro. On 29 May 2013 Foster represented England in a friendly fixture against the Republic of Ireland.\n\nFoster was selected in the final 23 for England's 2014 World Cup squad, and played in the 2–2 draw with Ecuador in preparation for the tournament. With England unable to advance to the last 16, he played the whole 90 minutes of the last group match against Costa Rica, and kept a clean sheet in the 0–0 draw in Belo Horizonte.\n\nFoster lives with his wife and two children in Tiddington, Warwickshire. Foster designed their house himself, with particular focus on the kitchen, having trained as a chef in Leamington Spa before he began his football career.\n\nWrexham\n\nWatford\n\nManchester United\n\nBirmingham City\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2293357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293357", "title": "Swedish–Norwegian War (1814)", "text": "Swedish–Norwegian War (1814)\n\nThe Swedish–Norwegian War, also known as the Campaign against Norway (), War with Sweden 1814 (), or the Norwegian War of Independence, was a war fought between Sweden and Norway in the summer of 1814. The war was a Swedish victory and led to Norway being forced into the United Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway, a union with Sweden under the Swedish king Charles XIII but with Norway having its own constitution and parliament.\n\nAs early as in 1812, prior to the Napoleonic invasion of Russia, the Swedish Crown Prince Charles John had entered into an agreement with Tsar Alexander I that Russia would support a Swedish attack on Norway in order to force Denmark-Norway to cede its northern part to Sweden. The Swedish attack against Norway was postponed, however, due to the fluid state of the conflict between Napoleon and the Sixth Coalition. The Swedish army and, incidentally, Bernadotte's skills as a general, were urgently needed against France in Central Europe. On 18 May 1813 Swedish troops re-occupied Swedish Pomerania and deployed against Napoleon's forces as a result of treaties between Charles John, on the behalf of Sweden, and the United Kingdom and Prussia, which ceded Norway to Sweden for is participation in the war becoming effective after France and its allies (which included Denmark-Norway) were defeated. \n\nIn early December 1813 Charles John led an invasion of Denmark with his Allied Army of the North that included Swedes, Russians and North Germans. The Danes were outnumbered and were unable to mount a coherent defense against Bernadotte's battle-hardened army. Within a few days the Danes were forced out of Holstein and into the Jutland proper. By December 14 Bernadotte agreed to an armistice and peace talks began in Kiel on the basis of the cession of Norway to Sweden in return for Swedish Pomerania, additional territory in North Germany, specifics to be decided at the general peace conference following the cessation of hostilities between the Sixth Coalition and Imperial France, as well as 1,000,000 Riksdalers. The Danish position was hopeless and by early January 1814 the Danish King reconciled himself to the necessity of losing Norway\n\nBy the Treaty of Kiel, signed on 13 January 1814, King Frederik VI of Denmark-Norway had to cede Norway to the King of Sweden. However, this treaty was not accepted by the Norwegians who refused to be bartered about like so many chattels. Elements of the Danish Government also covertly supported Norway's determination to not be incorporated into Sweden. Ultimately, Denmark would pay a catastrophic price for its intrigues, as Bernadotte viewed this support, no matter how covert, as perfidy and a violation of the Treaty of Kiel, and this would later be reflected in the final peace crafted at the Congress of Vienna wherein the provisions to award Swedish Pomerania, along with various additional Northern German territory, as well as 1,000,000 Riksdalers to Denmark as compensation for its loss of Norway, were voided.\n\nPrince Christian Frederick of Denmark, heir presumptive to the thrones of Denmark and Norway and Governor-general of Norway, took the lead in the insurrection, and he called for a constitutional assembly. This adopted the liberal constitution of 17 May, which also elected Christian Frederick as the king of an independent Norway.\n\nAs the head of the new state, Christian Frederick desperately tried to gain support from the United Kingdom, or any of the other major powers within the Sixth Coalition, in order to maintain Norway's independence. However, the foreign diplomats gave no hope for any outside support to the Norwegians.\n\nThe Norwegian Army mustered 30,000 men, and it had taken up positions away from the border with Sweden, in the fear of being outflanked. The Norwegian navy had few vessels, and most of them were stationed at the islands of Hvaler, close to Sweden.\n\nThe Swedish Army consisted of 45,000 men, experienced and well-equipped soldiers. The Swedish Navy had a number of large vessels and a capacity for moving and landing troops as well as assistance from the British Royal Navy.\n\n\nThe hostilities opened on 26 July with a swift Swedish naval attack against the Norwegian gunboats at Hvaler. The Norwegian army was evacuated and the vessels managed to escape, but they did not take part in the rest of the war. The main Swedish offensive came across the border at Halden, bypassing and surrounding the fortress of Fredriksten, and then continuing north, while a second force of 6,000 soldiers landed at Kråkerøy outside of Fredrikstad. This town surrendered the next day. This was the start of a pincer movement around the main part of the Norwegian army at Rakkestad.\n\nOn the front towards Kongsvinger the forces were more evenly matched, and the Norwegian army eventually stopped the Swedish advance at Lier on 2 August, and won another victory at Matrand on 5 August. On 3 August, King Christian Frederick reached the front at Østfold and was persuaded to change his strategy and use the 6,000 men stationed at Rakkestad in a counterattack against the Swedes. The order to counterattack was given on the 5th of August, but the order was recalled a few hours later. The Norwegian forces therefore withdrew over the Glomma river at Langnes in Askim. The last major battle of the war was fought on 9 August at the bridgehead at Langnes, where the Swedish forces once more were driven back. Sweden then attempted to outflank the Norwegian line, and successfully did so during the battle of Kjølberg Bridge on the 14th of August. The Swedes then had a clear path to Kristiania, the Norwegian capital. In addition, the British blockade of Norway gradually worsened the Norwegians' situation, making food shortages common everywhere. The proximity of Swedish armies and the British blockade eventually made the Norwegians' situation unsustainable.\n\nAlthough the Norwegian Army had won at Langnes, it was nevertheless clear to both the Norwegian and Swedish military authorities that a defeat was inevitable. Even as they had managed to deliver several minor offensive blows to the Swedes, thus applying pressure on the Swedes to accept Norway as a sovereign nation, it was considered impossible to try to stop the Swedes in the long run. The Swedish offer of negotiations was therefore accepted as the war had put a heavy strain on the Norwegian finances. Every day of delay in securing Norway by the Swedes brought uncertainty to them regarding the outcome, so both parties were interested in a quick end to the war.\n\nFor the ordinary Norwegian soldier the war had seemed ill-prepared and ill-fought. The allegations of the loss were against Christian Frederick and the Norwegian general Haxthausen; the latter was accused of treason. For the Norwegian government it probably had been more of a matter of getting the best possible bargaining position, as without the support of major powers Norway's independence was impossible to secure. But by agreeing to talks following the victory at Langnes they were in a situation where they could avoid an unconditional surrender.\n\nOn 10 August, Bernadotte presented a proposal for a cease-fire. The proposal included a major concession—Bernadotte, on behalf of the Swedish government, accepted the Eidsvoll constitution. In doing so, he tacitly gave up any claims that Norway would be merely a Swedish province. Negotiations started in Moss, Norway on 10 August 1814, and after a few days of hard negotiations, a cease fire agreement, called the Convention of Moss, was signed on 14 August 1814. King Christian Frederick was forced to abdicate, but Norway remained nominally independent within a personal union with Sweden, under the Swedish king. Its Constitution was upheld with only such amendments as were required to allow it to enter into the union, and the two united kingdoms retained separate institutions, except for the King and the foreign service and policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293367", "title": "Albert Lasker", "text": "Albert Lasker\n\nAlbert Davis Lasker (May 1, 1880 – May 30, 1952) was an American businessman who played a major role in shaping modern advertising. He was raised in Galveston, Texas, where his father was the president of several banks. Moving to Chicago, he became a partner in the advertising firm of Lord & Thomas. He created and produced many successful ad campaigns. He made new use of radio, changing popular culture and appealing to consumers' psychology. A Republican, he designed new ways to advertise election campaigns, especially the Warren Harding campaign of 1920, and became a philanthropist.\n\nLasker was born on May 1, 1880 in Freiburg, Germany, the son of Nettie Heidenheimer Davis and Morris Lasker. His family was Jewish. Morris had emigrated from Prussia in 1840, while Lasker's mother was an American citizen. They lived in Galveston, Texas, but Morris had moved Nettie to Germany during her pregnancy for better medical care. The family returned to Galveston within six months, and Lasker spent the rest of his childhood in Texas.\n\nLasker started working as a newspaper reporter while he was still a teenager. He assisted the successful Congressional campaign of the Republican Robert Hawley in 1896. Although Texas politics had been dominated by the Democratic Party since shortly after Reconstruction, in this election, many voters split between the Democrats and the Populist Party, and Hawley won with less than 50% of the votes.\n\nIn 1898 his father, who disapproved of journalism, persuaded Lasker to move to Chicago to try an advertising position at Lord & Thomas. After he worked as an office boy for a year, one of the agency's salesmen left, and Lasker acquired his territory. During this time, Lasker created his first campaign. He hired a friend, Eugene Katz, to write the copy for a series of Wilson Ear Drum Company ads. They featured a photograph of a man cupping his ear. George Wilson, president of the Ear Drum company, adopted the ads and his sales increased.\n\nWhen Lord retired in 1903, Lasker purchased his share and became a partner. He purchased the firm in 1912 at the age of 32.\n\nChicago, along with New York, was the center of the nation's advertising industry. Lasker, known as the \"father of modern advertising,\" made Chicago his base 1898–1942. As head of the Lord and Thomas agency, Lasker devised a copywriting technique that appealed directly to the psychology of the consumer. Women seldom smoked cigarettes; he told them if they smoked Lucky Strikes they could stay slender. Lasker's use of radio, particularly with his campaigns for Palmolive soap, Pepsodent toothpaste, Kotex products, and Lucky Strike cigarettes, not only revolutionized the advertising industry but also significantly changed popular culture.\n\nLasker had an inquiring mind about what advertising was and how it worked. In 1904 he met John E. Kennedy, a former Canadian mounted policeman who had entered advertising. Lasker believed that advertising was news, but Kennedy said, \"[N]ews is a technique of presentation, but advertising is a very simple thing. I can give it to you in three words, it is 'salesmanship in print'\".\n\nThe pair used this concept with the 1900 Washer Co. (later Whirlpool). Their campaign was so successful that, within four months of running the first ad, they attracted additional clients and their \"advertising spend\" went from $15,000 a year to $30,000 a month. Within six months, their firm was one of the three or four largest advertising agencies in the nation.\n\nIn 1908 Lasker recruited Claude C. Hopkins to the firm, specifically to work on the Van Camp Packaging Company (Van Camp's) account. The relationship lasted for 17 years. Lasker helped create America's infatuation with orange juice. Lord & Thomas acquired the Sunkist Growers, Incorporated account in 1908, when Lasker was 28. The citrus industry was in a slump, and California growers were producing so many oranges that they were cutting down trees in order to limit supply. Lasker created campaigns that not only encouraged consumers to eat oranges, but also to drink orange juice. He was able to increase consumption enough so that the growers stopped chopping down their groves.\n\nAmong Lasker's pioneering contributions was the introduction into public schools of classes that explained to young girls about puberty and menstruation (done to promote Kotex tampons). He is also credited as the creator of the soap opera genre, and using radio and television as media driven by advertising.\n\nLasker was an early owner of the Chicago Cubs baseball team. He acquired an interest in the team in 1916 and soon purchased majority control. He originated the Lasker Plan, a report that recommended baseball's governing authority be reformed. This led to the creation of the office of the Commissioner of Baseball. Lasker, along with his business partner Charles Weeghman, are credited with moving the Cubs into the club's current home, Wrigley Field. In 1925, he sold the team to one of his minor partners, William Wrigley Jr.\n\nLasker became the second-largest shareholder in the Pepsodent company, which had become an L&T client in 1916. It was sold to Lever Brothers in 1944.\n\nAfter developing a private estate, Mill Road Farm, in Lake Forest, Illinois, Lasker had a golf course built on it. The \"National Golf Review\" in 1939 rated the Lasker Golf Course as No. 23 on its list of \"Top 100 Courses in the World.\" Following the Great Depression, Lasker donated the entire property to the University of Chicago.\n\nLasker continued to be active in the Republican Party, and showed the party how to use modern advertising techniques to sell their candidates. He was a key advisor in the 1920 Harding campaign, which resulted in one of the largest landslides in history, as Warren G. Harding appealed for votes in newsreels, billboards and newspaper ads and aimed advertising at women who had recently achieved the right to vote.\n\nOn June 9, 1921 President Harding's appointment of Lasker as chairman of the United States Shipping Board was confirmed by the US Senate. Lasker took the job on the condition that he would serve no more than two years. At the time, he was only the third man of Jewish descent to have been appointed to such a high post in the federal government. Lasker inherited a large mess, with over 2,300 ships under Shipping Board control losing money every day. A full quarter of the fleet were wooden hulled, and by this time were obsolete. He disposed of useless ships at an average price of $30 a ton, incurring criticism from Congress for \"throwing our ships away\".\n\nHis accomplishments included the refitting of the \"SS Leviathan\" for passenger service, as well as originating ship-to-shore telephone services. Lasker, who had no previous experience in the shipping business before his appointment, true to his word, ended his service in office on July 1, 1923.\n\nAfter 30 years as its chief executive, Lasker sold the firm to three senior executives. It became Foote, Cone & Belding in 1942.\n\nLasker married thrice. In 1902, he married Flora Warner. The couple had three children before her death in 1934: Mary Lasker Block (born 1904). Edward Lasker (born 1912), and Frances Lasker Brody (born 1916). In 1938, he married actress Doris Kenyon but the marriage ended in divorce a year later. Lasker — and especially his third wife Mary Lasker (married 1940) — were nationally prominent philanthropists. They played major roles in promoting and expanding the National Institutes of Health, helping its budget expand from $2.4 million in 1945 to $5.5 billion in 1985. They founded and endowed the Lasker Award, which has recognized the work of many leading scientists and researchers.\n\nOn May 30, 1952, Lasker died in New York at the age of 72. He was interred in a private mausoleum at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow.\n\nThe book \"The Man Who Sold America\" posits that Lasker had Bipolar II disorder, which affected his personal and work life. Lasker operated at a high energy level. He was frequently expansive, irritable, highly verbal, intensely creative, and insomniac—all symptoms of a condition that today would be called hypomania. He never ascended to the level of mania that is generally associated with manic depression, or—again in today's vocabulary—a bipolar I disorder, although he sometimes behaved erratically, especially under the influence of alcohol. Most likely, he was afflicted by a bipolar II disorder. Recent research suggests that there is an increased risk of bipolar II disorder among people whose family members suffer from the disorder. Eduard Lasker, Albert's uncle, seems to have had depressive episodes. Morris, too, may have experienced depressions: his rollercoaster financial affairs may have had their root, in part, in some sort of affective illness. Finally, the diagnosis is supported by Lasker's age when the apparent ailment overtook him. Bipolar I—the affective state that is accompanied by wild, manic excess—usually first manifests itself in the teenage years, while the more subtle, hypomanic form of the illness often stays masked until the mid- or late twenties. Lasker was stricken at age twenty-seven.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293369", "title": "Michael Hogan (Canadian actor)", "text": "Michael Hogan (Canadian actor)\n\nMichael Hogan (born 1949) is a Canadian actor known for his roles as Colonel Saul Tigh in the 2004 \"Battlestar Galactica\" series, Billy in \"The Peanut Butter Solution\", the voice of Armando-Owen Bailey in the \"Mass Effect\" series and villainous werewolf hunter Gerard Argent in \"Teen Wolf\".\n\nHogan was born in Kirkland Lake, Ontario in 1949, raised in North Bay, Ontario and studied at National Theatre School of Canada.\n\nHogan began his career in 1978 and has starred in numerous TV shows, plays, radio dramas and operas. He got his start in plays at the Shaw Festival.\n\nHogan starred as Colonel Saul Tigh, Executive Officer of the Battlestar \"Galactica\" on the Sci Fi Channel television program \"Battlestar Galactica\".\n\nAmong his prior television work is his role as Tony Logozzo in \"Cold Squad\", Hogan also starred in the 1985 children's film \"The Peanut Butter Solution\".\n\nHogan won the Genie Award for Best Supporting Actor, for \"Solitaire\" (1991). He had been nominated in that category the previous year for \"Diplomatic Immunity\". Hogan was nominated for the Gemini, for Best Actor in a Dramatic Program or Miniseries, for the 2003 telefilm \"Betrayed\".\n\nHe made his film debut in the Peter Fonda trucker picture \"High-Ballin'\" (1978). He and his wife soon became a popular television couple, as the stars of the 1983 Canadian series \"Vanderberg\" and the 1986 Canadian-German series \"The Little Vampire\". Hogan has also starred on the hit Canadian police series \"Cold Squad\". His movies include \"Road to Saddle River\", \"Clearcut\", \"Stella\", \"Cowboys Don't Cry\" and \"The Cutting Edge\" and the telefilms \"Dead Man's Gun\", \"Shadow Lake\", \"Scorn\", \"Shadow Realm\" and \"Nights Below Station Street\", for which he received the Manitoba Motion Picture Industry Association's Blizzard Award for Best Leading Actor.\n\nHe has guested on such series as \"Millennium\", \"The Outer Limits\", \"Cold Squad\", \"Andromeda\", \"The L Word\", \"Psych\", \"Dollhouse\", \"Numb3rs\", and in the two-hour premiere of \"Monk\". He plays Myka's father on the SyFy series \"Warehouse 13\".\n\nHogan has also lent his voice to the video game industry, providing the voice of Captain Armando-Owen Bailey in the RPG, \"Mass Effect 2\", as well as the opening character, Doc Mitchell, in \"\". Hogan also voiced the character General Tullius in the RPG, \"\".\nHe appeared in the dark tale \"Red Riding Hood\" (2011). Most recently, he reprised his role as Commander Bailey in \"Mass Effect 3\", and lent his voice as Samael in the American release of the Korean MMORPG, \"TERA\".\n\nHe also had a recurring role on the hit MTV show \"Teen Wolf\" as Gerard Argent, the werewolf-hunting grandfather of Allison Argent and the latest nemesis of main protagonist, Scott McCall. Hogan guest starred as Scott, Brady Kelly's father, in the third season of the acclaimed sitcom \"Husbands\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2293371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293371", "title": "Bibbiena", "text": "Bibbiena\n\nBibbiena is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Arezzo, Tuscany (Italy), the largest town in the valley of Casentino. It is located from Florence, from Arezzo, from Siena, and from the Sanctuary of La Verna.\n\nThe town is on top of a hill at an elevation of .\n\nBibbiena was originally an important Etruscan town that eventually evolved into a Medieval castle- portions of which, in the form of the \"Torre dei Tarlati\" and the \"Porta dei Fabbri\" still exist.\n\nMain sights\n\n\nThe religious buildings include: \n\nThe town holds its yearly \"Rievocazione della Mea\" festival on the last Sunday of Carnival and Shrove Tuesday as well as a similar celebration in the summer with parades in historical costume and a show in the main square.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293375", "title": "T'Keyah Crystal Keymáh", "text": "T'Keyah Crystal Keymáh\n\nT'Keyah Crystal Keymáh (born Crystal Walker; October 13, 1962) is an American actress and singer. In addition to her status as an original cast member of the Fox sketch comedy series \"In Living Color\" (1990–1994), she is also known for her roles as Erica Lucas on the CBS sitcom \"Cosby\" (1996–2000), and as Tanya Baxter on the Disney Channel sitcom \"That's So Raven\" (2003–2005).\n\nKeymáh was born Crystal Walker in 1962, in Chicago. Since the age of three, she has enjoyed entertaining her family – singing, dancing, and reciting original poems and stories. She wrote her first play and her first song in elementary school. She performed with Ali LeRoi and Lance Crouther in the Mary Wong Comedy Group in high school, before she enrolled in Florida A&M University (FAMU) at the School of Business and Industry. Her brother is Commander of the DC US Army National Guard, Major General William J. Walker.\n\nDuring college and after graduating from FAMU, Keymáh taught theater, dance, and mime. She has also done many theater performances, and produced and directed films.\n\nOne of the original cast members of Fox Television's Emmy winning variety show, \"In Living Color\", for five seasons Keymáh played a number of characters, including Cryssy, the central character of her self written signature piece, \"In Black World\". She also sang and danced on the show.\n\nAfter \"In Living Color\", she played contractor Scotti Decker in \"On Our Own\"; played comedy show writer Denise Everett in \"The Show\"; and provided the voices for Roz, Shavonne, Aki, Mrs. LaSalle, and many others in \"Waynehead\".\nFor four years, Keymáh was a series regular on \"Cosby\", where she played flight attendant-lawyer-pastry chef-teacher Erica Lucas Hall. Following \"Cosby\", she appeared for three seasons on the Disney series \"That's So Raven\" as Raven's mother, Tanya Baxter. In season four her character was written out of the plot so that Keymáh could care for her ailing grandmother.\n\nKeymáh co-wrote and co-starred in a two-person stage show with music, called \"Sellout!?!\", with fellow FAMU alumnus Bryan C. Jones, who was also one of the many guests to appear in her hit variety show \"T'Keyah Live!\" They did the first workshop presentation of \"Sellout!?!\" at FAMU..\n\nKeymáh performed a solo stage work titled \"Don't Get Me Started!\" She sang, performed impressions, and talked about the prison industrial complex as well as conspiracy theories. She rewrote pointedly political lyrics to songs by Nina Simone and Eartha Kitt. She debuted the show in 2011 at The Black Academy of Art & Letters (TBAAL) in Dallas, Texas.\n\n\"T'Keyah Live!\" is a variety show and is Keymáh's third self-produced theatrical show. It includes witty repartee, musical numbers, endearing characters, audience participation, impressions, video presentations, jokes and guests. She has performed the show across the U.S. since 1999 with a number of different guest performers, including Todd Bridges, T. C. Carson, Ralph Harris, Dawnn Lewis, and Karen Malina White.\n\n\"Some of My Best Friends\" is a series of monologues in verse and prose embodied by a dozen diverse but somehow connected characters. In this humorous, tear jerking, thought-provoking theatrical production, Keymáh champions societal issues that are as relevant today as they were when the show debuted to sold out crowds at Chicago's South Shore Cultural Center in 1991. Overcoming obstacles, the devastation of AIDS, the search for love, race relations, and teen promiscuity are just some of the topics explored. The show was chiefly penned by Keymáh but includes pieces written by or in collaboration with Ali LeRoi, Harry Lennix, and poet Angela Jackson (And All These Roads Be Luminous: Poems Selected and New); and includes a dance choreographed by Maurice Hines. About her work in this show critics have said: \"Keymáh is a Charismatic Actress... Chameleonic and Effervescent\" – Los Angeles Times;\"...Beyond Superlatives; She's Phenomenal!\" – Earl Calloway, Chicago Defender; \"Much More Than Comedy\"- Lisa M. Pancia, New York Vignette; \"...a Delightful, Multitalented Performer whose ability to create believable characters on stage is a Wonder to Behold\"- Nat Colley, Los Angeles Reader; \"Keymáh is Magnificent\" – Linda Armstrong, Amsterdam News;\"...Keymáh's Poignant, Detailed Portrayals are Never Less Than Magnificent\"- Randy Trabitz, Los Angeles Weekly. The show garnered an AUDELCO Award nomination for Best Solo Performer, an NAACP Theatre Award nomination for Best Writing, and NAACP Theatre Awards for Best Performance and Best Play.\n\nKeymáh is an avid gardener and a vegetarian, as well as an active, Golden Life Member of Delta Sigma Theta sorority. She was initiated into the Beta Alpha chapter at Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University.\n\nKeymáh self-published two books: \"Some of My Best Friends: A Collection of Characters\", the book version of the stage show she performed for ten years, and \"Natural Woman / Natural Hair: A Hair Journey – Hairstyles and Hairstories from the Front with Simple, Step-by-Step Instructions on Taking Care of your Natural Hair\", an instructional hair care manual with anecdotes about her experiences with Afro-textured hair. She also contributed essays for \"The HBCU Experience Book,\" \"Dining with the Ancestors,\" and \"The Burden.\"\n\nAssociated Black Charities operates a donor-advised Keymah Cultural Fund, which provides tickets to youth groups to attend theatrical performances and funds artistic groups that serve or comprise teens and children.\n\nThere is a theater scholarship named for Keymáh at her alma mater, Florida A&M University.\n\nThere is a medical scholarship named for her at Meharry Medical College.\n\nT'Keyah Crystal Keymáh served as a K–8 substitute teacher for the Chicago Board of Education for 4 years. She has presented her \"Tools of the Trade\" actors preparation workshops at theatre festivals and other events in the United States, and she has lectured abroad. In the fall of 2017, Keymáh served as Florida A&M University's first ever W.K. Kellogg Foundation Artist-in-Residence in the College of Social Sciences, Arts, and Humanities Theatre department. Her residency included directing Pearl Cleage's \"The Nacirema Society Requests Your Presence at a Celebration of Their First 100 Years\", teaching an Acting for the Camera course, and providing industry workshops and mentoring students.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293376", "title": "Covurlui", "text": "Covurlui\n\nThe Covurlui Plain is located in Galați County, Romania, having an altitude varying between 60 and 200 metres. Its name is derived from the river Covurlui and has a Cuman origin. Before World War II, Covurlui was the name of a county, but it was merged with Tecuci County to form the current Galați County.\n"}
{"id": "2293378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293378", "title": "Victoria, Newport", "text": "Victoria, Newport\n\nVictoria is both an electoral district (ward) and community (parish) of the city of Newport.\n\nThe ward is bounded by the River Usk to the west and south, Newport Bridge, Clarence Place, Church Road and Christchurch Road to the north, Victoria Avenue, Wharf Road (as far as the railway bridge), a section of the Great Western Main Line as far as (but not including) Soho Street, Telford Street and Lilleshall Street to the east. The area is governed by the Newport City Council.\n\nThe ward includes the district of Maindee, as well as the home of Newport Rugby Club and the annual Maindee Festival.\n\nThe district of Victoria, Maindee in particular, is home to a large Asian population. Many people are of Pakistani and Bangladeshi origin and there are now a slowly increasing number of Kurdish refugees.\n"}
{"id": "2293381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293381", "title": "Cetona", "text": "Cetona\n\nCetona is a town and \"comune\" in the southern part province of Siena, Tuscany, in an area where Umbria and Lazio meet.\n\nThe geographical elevation is between and the of Monte Cetona itself, at the base of which the town is situated at around .\n\nSome of the oldest human settlements of central Italy were discovered at the base of Monte Cetona, such as the early neo-Paleolithic \"Gosto cave\" (40–80th century BC) and \"Lattaia cave\" (9–10th century BC). The \"Belverde\" park hosts 25 prehistoric and Bronze Age caves, such as the \"San Francesco cave\". There are several sites of Etruscan finds.\n\nThe town of Cetona developed on the hillside around the \"rocca\" fortress, containing a square tower (about 900 AD) and an inner fortress wall. It became known as the \"Scitonia\" castle. In the first mention of the \"comune\", at the end of the 11th century, Pope Gregory VII granted feudal rights to a member of his family, the Aldobrandeschi. The family's heirs sold the rights, and in the 14th century, Cetona was alternatingly ruled by Siena and Orvieto (until 1354), and, after a brief rule by Perugia, was annexed by Siena. An outer wall was built, containing two round towers (1458). Grand Duke Cosimo I de' Medici of Tuscany sold Cetona in 1556, to the marchese Chiappino Vitelli (1519–75), who made the fortress into a private residence, and built the piazza below it, today named \"Piazza Garibaldi\". His descendants also erected \"Palazzo Vitelli\" in the late 17th century. Cetona was connected to Sarteano (1772–1840), and annexed to Italy in 1861.\n\nThe place name of \"Cetona\" or \"Citonia\" (local variation) probably comes from the Latin word \"caedita\", \"felled, deforested\" with regard to a deforested and cultivated place. An early Christian baptistery, now a parish church, mentioned in documents as \"baptisterium Sancti Johannis de Queneto\" or \"de Queteno\", may have been named in reference to the Chieteno stream that flows just south of Cetona.\n\nArcheological finds are on display in \"Museo Civico per la Preistoria del Monte Cetona\" (in Town), which also administers the \"Parco Archeologico Naturalistico del Monte Cetona\" (three km towards Monte Cetona). The \"Rocca\" is still privately owned; the other significant hill is occupied by \"Palazzo a Parco Terrosi\" (1750), owned by Valentino.\n\nChurches in Cetona are the \"Chiesa di San Michele Arcangelo\" (built 1155) and the \"Chiesa la Collegiata della San Trinita\" church (1475), as well as the \"Convento di San Francesco\" (since 1212) and \"Convento di Santa Maria a Belverde\" (frescoes by Cola Petruccioli of Orvieto).\n\nCetona today is traditionally agricultural (vine, olive), but increasingly basing its economy on agritourism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293384", "title": "New House, County Durham", "text": "New House, County Durham\n\nNew House, or Newhouse, is a hamlet in County Durham, England. It lies on the north side of the River Wear, opposite Ireshopeburn, and is linked to the A689 Weardale valley road by Coronation Bridge (built in 1840).\n\nThe building known as New House belonged to the Beaumonts, proprietors of the W.B. lead mining company, although it is no longer in the possession of the family following the end of mining in Weardale. This is probably the origin of the name since the other properties in the hamlet are contemporary with the Beaumont house, or built later.\n\nThe 7-bay house is from the 17th century, with alterations in the 18th and 19th. It was designated as Grade II* listed in 1967, and is now three dwellings.\n"}
{"id": "2293385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293385", "title": "Estonia national rugby league team", "text": "Estonia national rugby league team\n\nThe Estonia national rugby league team represents Estonia in the sport of rugby league football. Estonia started competing in international rugby league in 2005. They have competed in several tournaments, including the Central Europe Development Tri-Nations and the European Bowl.\n\nEstonia is currently ranked 22nd in the RLIF World Rankings, just behind Latvia and ahead of South Africa.\n\nAs part of the RLEF development plan, Estonia has participated in fourth tier competitions with other developing nations. Estonia have had very limited success in international competition, failing to register a single win.\n\nThe year 2006 saw the inaugural entrance of the Estonia into international competition. They played in the Central Europe Development Tri-Nations against Germany and Austria. Both of Estonia's games were high scoring, but they lost both matches.\n\nCentral Europe Development Tri-Nations\nIn 2008 Estonia them entered the RLEF European Bowl. This tournament was originally scheduled to be contested among Estonia, Latvia and Ukraine. However, Ukraine was unable to play in the competition, so it became a two game test series, with Latvia taking both matches.\n\nEuropean Bowl\n\nThe 2009 European Bowl was again scheduled to include Estonia, Latvia and Ukraine. Ukraine was able to compete this time, and dominated the competition. The game that assured the Ukrainians the championship was an 86–0 victory over Estonia.\n\nEuropean Bowl\n\n"}
{"id": "2293393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293393", "title": "List of Defenders members", "text": "List of Defenders members\n\nThe Defenders are a loosely organized team of fictional characters mostly, but not solely, superheroes in the Marvel Universe. For much of their history, there was no official membership. Thus, the Defenders had a reputation as being a \"non-team\", a term which was coined in the pages of the comic. All could be considered Defenders. The following list attempts to make sense of their membership but may not be complete.\n\nThese characters helped form the team in \"Marvel Features\" #1 (December 1971).\n\nThe team had managed to keep its existence a secret from the general public until a television documentary film by supporting character Dollar Bill announced it to the world. Dollar made a special mention to the currently open membership for the team. Consequently, in \"Defenders\" #62 (August 1978), the currently active members were joined by a large number of former associates and new recruits. The majority of the latter served for a single mission before quitting in \"Defenders\" #64 (October 1978).\n\nTaking advantage of the newfound notoriety of the team, a number of supervillains formed their own rival group of so-called Defenders in \"Defenders\" #63 (September 1978). They soon came to conflict with their heroic counterparts and consequently disbanded in \"Defenders\" #64 (October 1978).\n\nIn \"Defenders\" #125 (November 1983) the team was reorganized into a more formal organization, somewhat modeled after the Avengers. By this time, several former members had severed ties with the team.\n\nBy the time of \"Defenders\" #152 (February 1986), Moondragon had fallen under the control of the Dragon of the Moon. The Dragon led her to attack the Defenders. During the battle, the physical forms of Andromeda, Gargoyle, Interloper, Manslaughter, Moondragon, and Valkyrie were destroyed. Candace Southern retired. Angel, Beast, and Iceman were joined by Cyclops and Marvel Girl in forming X-Factor.\n\nGargoyle and Moondragon were later able to gain new corporeal forms. However the other four remained disembodied spirits until \"Doctor Strange, Sorcerer Supreme\" vol 3 #3–4 (March–April 1989). There they managed to gain temporary but recurring spiritual possession over the bodies of four residents of Swansea, Wales, United Kingdom. These four unknowingly acted as their representatives in forming a successor group of the Defenders.\n\n\nDebuting in \"Dr. Strange\" (vol. 3) #50 (February 1993) the Secret Defenders were another successor group to the team. They were very loosely organized, consisting of a leader and the various associates recruited for a mission at hand. They would disband again after each mission. Several \"members\" were former Defenders. Others had no previous connection to the team. Some served for a single mission while others were recurring members.\n\nFrom \"Secret Defenders\" #12-14 (February and April), the title of characters was an organized group of super-villains that was in the quest of finding and obtaining the Oracle of Ancient Knowledge. They apparently disbanded after the successful mission.\n\n\nBy \"Secret Defenders\" #15 (May 1994), Doctor Strange's duties and circumstances required him elsewhere. He retired after naming Doctor Druid as his replacement. The latter would serve as leader until the group disbanded in \"Secret Defenders\" #25 (March 1995).\n\nBefore and during the initial few months of publication of \"Secret Defenders\", an advertisement that Marvel used depicted a team consisting of Doctor Strange, Ghost Rider, John Blaze, Maverick, and Wolverine, a team which never existed in the comics. Neither John Blaze nor Maverick were ever part of a Secret Defenders team in any published story.\n\nIn \"Defenders\" (vol. 2) #1 (March 2001), four former Defenders were forced to regroup to help Nighthawk and Hellcat in a battle against Yandroth. He was defeated but cursed them to gather every time planet Earth faces a threat. This continued until \"Defenders\" (vol. 2) #12 (February 2002). Four members of the team formed The Order. This group attempted to conquer the world in order to protect it. Its activities were featured in \"The Order\" #1-6 (April–September 2002). The group disbanded again after Gaia lifted Yandroth's curse which was associated with her.\n\nThis incarnation of the Defenders was divided among two rival groups. \nThe Order (Doctor Strange, the Hulk, Namor the Sub-Mariner, and the Silver Surfer) and the Defenders (Hellcat, Nighthawk, and Valkyrie). The three decided to recruit the so-called \"female analogs\" of their former teammates. They would serve until both teams disbanded.\n\nKyle Richmond requested an Initiative version of the Defenders from Tony Stark, intending to fill the ranks with previous Defenders including Gargoyle, Hellcat, and Devil Slayer. However, Stark assembled an entirely different team in hopes of the Defenders maintaining a stable roster for once. The team was officially disbanded after its first mission was deemed a failure.\n\nAfter the Initiative team disbands, Richmond attempts to continue by hiring registered mercenaries to replace the teammates that Stark had assigned to him. After he was forced to retire from his superhero career, he privately assembles and supports a version of the Defenders based on an encounter with a future version of that team. This team is later forcibly disbanded by H.A.M.M.E.R. \nThis incarnation of the Defenders was formed during the \"Fear Itself\" storyline in order to liberate Atlantis from Attuma (in the form of Nerkodd: Breaker of Oceans).\n\nThe Defenders came together again when it comes to keeping the Concordance Engine from falling into the wrong hands.\n\nA new, street-level team calling themselves the Defenders form to stop crime. This team is based on the Netflix version of the team.\n\nMembers of \"The Defenders\" appear in the Marvel Cinematic Universe television series \"Marvel's The Defenders\". Each of the Defenders listed below have an individual series all leading up to the miniseries\n"}
{"id": "2293394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293394", "title": "Mount Myohyang", "text": "Mount Myohyang\n\nThe Mount Myohyang (Hangul: 묘향산 - \"\"Mysterious Fragrant Mountain\"\") is a mountain in North Korea. It is named after the mystic shapes and fragrances found in the area. It is a sacred site as, according to legend, it was the home of King Tangun, forefather of the Korean people.\n\nMyohyang is a North Korean tourist attraction and visited by many national tourists. There are several hiking routes on the mountain. Apart from the view, tourists are attracted by the Pohyon temple, built in the 11th century, the Sangwon hermitage, the Kumgang hermitage, and the Habiro hermitage. The Ryongmun cavern is open to the public.\n\nAt Myohyang-san is the International Friendship Exhibition centre, dubbed the world's biggest treasure-house. On exhibit are presents received by North Korean leaders over the years. One building stores the presents given to Kim Il-sung, while a smaller one holds those given to his son Kim Jong-il.\n\nThe Hyangsan Hotel caters to luxury visitors, while the Chongchon Hotel is second-class.\n\nMuch of the mountain is covered by mixed broadleaf and coniferous forest and protected in a national park. Some has been identified by BirdLife International as an Important Bird Area (IBA).\n\nIn 2009 UNESCO designated Mount Myohyang a world biosphere reserve, citing its cultural significance as well as the spectacular cliffs providing habitat for 30 endemic plant species, 16 plant species that are threatened globally and 12 endangered animal species.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293397", "title": "Post-tribulation rapture", "text": "Post-tribulation rapture\n\nIn Christian eschatology, the post-tribulation rapture doctrine is the belief in a combined resurrection and rapture of all believers coming after the Great Tribulation.\n\nThe post-tribulation rapture position believes that there is a resurrection of both dead and living believers in Jesus Christ at the end of the age (or the \"end time\"). Post-tribulationists believe that Christians will remain on the Earth throughout the 7-year tribulation period which includes the last three and a half years, which some call the \"Great Tribulation\". The distinguishing feature of the post-tribulation view is that it believes the rapture will occur after a 7-year tribulation period and not before as in the pre-tribulation view.\n\nThis period starts with the appearing of the abomination of desolation (Matthew 24:15) and ends at the Battle of Armageddon (Revelation 16:12-16). Believers in Jesus Christ will be taken up (or raptured) to meet Christ in the air at the Second Coming of Christ immediately after the Great Tribulation, just before the Battle of Armageddon and then return with him as Christ descends to the Earth, to usher in the Millennium—the 1,000-year reign of Christ on Earth. This is usually understood as being in line with historic premillennialism.\n\nEvidence for a post-tribulation rapture includes Revelation 20:4-5, which describes the resurrection of tribulation martyrs after the Second Advent in the previous chapter. Verse 5 says \"This is the first resurrection.\" The resurrection of believers at the rapture is \"the first resurrection\" therefore the rapture must be post-tribulational.\n\nWalvoord rebuts this view by noting that the resurrection of Jesus was the first resurrection. \"... how can the rapture of the church, whether presented in the pretribulational of posttribulational point of view, be 'first' in the sense of being first in time? It is rather that the term first is used in contrast to the final resurrection mentioned in Revelation 20, the resurrection of the wicked. The resurrection of all the righteous [pre and post trib] is first, not in the sense of number one, but in the sense of being before the final resurrection. ... The argument [of post-tribulationists] is therefore without merit as it is built on the wrong meaning of this word first.\"\n\nFor additional references, see also the parallel passages from Mark 13:24-27 and Luke 21:20-28. While the passages in Luke 21 parallels Matthew and Mark, it offers a couple of interesting clarifications. This passage in Luke offers interesting references to some of the major events which are greatly elaborated on in the Book of Revelation. Reading all three books of the Bible in parallel, it would appear that Luke elaborates on the \"abomination of desolation\" describing Jerusalem being surrounded by the armies of the world and of Jerusalem's imminent destruction (Luke 21:20).\n\nPaul's statement \"the dead in Christ will rise first\" (1 Thessalonians 4:16) can be seen as having its fulfillment (according to a literalist reading of the letter of the biblical text) only after the end of the tribulation (Revelation chapters 6–19) after Satan has been bound (Revelation 20:1-3), and at the beginning of the millennial reign, when\nAnother account which lends support to the idea of a post-tribulation rapture is in 2 Peter 3:10-13, where the idea of \"The Day of the Lord\" coming as a \"thief in the night\" comes from. This idea of imminence, according to the post-tribulation view, only applies to the wicked and the spiritually unprepared people that are still alive before the return of Christ. Therefore, only God's elect will fully have a clear understanding of the timing of the second coming, and Christ's coming will not catch the believers by surprise, but only those who are spiritually ignorant regarding the truth. In the passage of 2 Peter 3:10-13, Christ's return is equated with the \"elements being melted\", and \"the earth also and the works therein shall be burned up\". Two opposing views, pre-tribulationism and mid-tribulationism, see the rapture and the Second Coming (or Greek, \"parousia\") of Christ as separate events; while in post-tribulationism the two events are identical or simultaneous.\n\nAnother key difference between the pre-, mid-, and post-tribulationism is the number of times that Jesus Christ must return. Although it is not directly referenced, in both the pre- and mid-tribulation raptures, Christ must then return a third time, at the end of the tribulation period.\n\nThe belief is that God's elect from all ages will be translated from mortal bodies into immortal glorified bodies at the second coming of Christ and that this will be at the end of the age. This event, it is believed, will come at the conclusion of what is termed the 70th week of Daniel, the final seven years of this present age. This view was held by the early Church Fathers and has been held by Christians since that time. The doctrine of the post-tribulation rapture is today held by a growing number of evangelical Christians. For post-tribulationists concerned about the recent decline of Christian faith, doctrine, and morals in the western church, an important reason to advance the post-tribulation rapture doctrine relates to the importance of preparation of believers for \"witness under trial\".\n\nAnother idea is that following the Great Tribulation, the False Prophet, or the \"beast out of the earth\" and the Antichrist or the \"beast out of the sea\" will be condemned upon Jesus Christ's return, and all those who endured or died for Christ's return will be raptured to heaven and, following the Millennium, Satan will be condemned and the remaining dead believers will be raised and raptured into the new heaven.\n\nPost-tribulationists broadly base their doctrine on the complementary concepts that a two-phase pre-tribulation rapture is never mentioned explicitly in the Bible, and that the \"whole counsel of Scripture\" seems to clearly teach that the resurrection and rapture of the Church will be the result of the visible, physical second coming of Jesus Christ to Earth and that Christians are to look and watch for that event.\n\nContrasting opinion maintains that the passages are not talking about the same event despite some similarities because of details that are absent between the two passages and that the rapture event was a \"mystery\" until it was revealed in First Corinthians which the Thessalonian recipients would have been unaware.\n\nPost-tribulationists respond to the opposing views of pre-tribulationists in a variety of ways. Some post-tribulationalists see the rapture and the second coming of Christ as part of one main event. Support for this claim is found in 2 Thessalonians 2:1-3 in part because of the way Paul introduces his topic, \"\"Now concerning\" the coming of our Lord and our gathering together with him.\" This was an ancient way of introducing your topic of discussion and later Paul refers back to the two nouns at least twice as \"the Day of the Lord\" or \"that day.\" Thus, \"the coming\" and \"gathering\" seem to be two ways of referring to one event, \"the day of the Lord.\"\n\nIt seems impractical for Paul to go to great lengths describing the coming of the Antichrist (and the falling away) to the Thessalonians in order to calm them down that the day of Christ's reign on earth had not happened yet if they were not going to be there for it as maintained by the pre-tribulational position. He would be more comforting by reminding them that they wouldn't be present for it than to precisely detail his recognition and say \"Don't let anyone deceive you in any way, for that day will not come until the rebellion occurs and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the man doomed to destruction\".\n\nThe most common passage used in defending a pre-tribulational position is . This passage alone does not mention where the gathered ones finally end up but that those who are alive will be caught up to meet Christ in the air and always be with the Lord. Rather it mentions the dead rising, Christ's coming, angels, the trumpet of God along with the gathering of the elect and all of these participants are present in , which is clearly a second coming passage even agreed to by pre-tribulationalists. The author, the Apostle Paul says the rapture will occur \"at the \"last\" trumpet\". To be consistent with this trumpet call must occur after the tribulation. In the same way, mentions the \"first\" resurrection \"after\" the second coming in . By definition, there can be no trumpet call after the last one, and no resurrection before the first.\n\nLinguistic support for a one-event second coming are in the words \"meet\" and \"coming\" in . The \"meet\" in and in (a second coming parable) refers to the custom of people going out to meet a dignitary as he was approaching their city before he got there, and accompanying or welcoming him back to where they came from. This is also the usage in of those going out to meet Paul as he headed toward them in Rome. Also, the Greek term \"parousia\" has the idea of a grand dignitary making his arrival to a certain location. The rest of the passage supports this grand arrival with his coming being heralded with trumpet, angels, and a surging 'city' of gathered believers going out to meet him. Who more grand than the Lord Jesus Christ at his coming to reign on earth? This passage lends more weight to the post-tribulational position.\n\nAnother strength for this position is Paul saying when the church would receive rest for its suffering. It would take place at the revealing of Jesus Christ with fire and judgment and at this time those who were afflicting the church at Thessalonica would be repaid for such treatment. No mention is made of a pre-tribulational removal but that rest comes at his coming and so does judgment.\n\nA passage much debated regarding the timing of the rapture is , which speaks of the Philadelphian church being \"kept from the hour of trial which is about to come upon the whole earth to test those who dwell on the earth.\" The debate centers around the phrase \"kept from\" which could be taken to mean \"physical removal from\" (Pre-trib) or \"preservation from or in the midst of\" (Post-trib). However, the verse denotes that the testing is for \"those who dwell on the earth.\" This is a common phrase referring to unbelievers. Later in Revelation, on at least 3 occasions, the saints are \"sealed\" and kept out of harm's way when God pours out specific judgments which only affect his unbelieving enemies.\n\nJohn highlights the idea that Christians are preserved by God through tribulation rather than removed:\nThis passage is one of the most blunt verses, showing that Jesus himself did not want the Christians taken out of the world in order to protect them from evil but had the intention of preservation in the midst of it. This is a place where pre-tribulationism lacks linguistic favor because this verse and are the only places where the exact phrase \"tereo ek\" translated from Greek into \"keep from\" are found and that by the same author, the disciple John.\n\nThe pretribulational argument that there are 'two phases' to Christ's coming (a rapture and a later second advent) runs into difficulties with , which nearly equates Christ's ascension to heaven with his second coming. Logically, the second coming cannot have two phases if the ascension only had one. This eliminates two phases of his coming with a 7-year interval. Likewise, heaven must \"receive\" or contain Jesus \"until the period of restoration of all things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient time\". Most scholars see this \"restoration of all things\" as the one-thousand year reign of Christ on earth (as prophesied in the Old Testament) which begins just after the second advent. If Christ is to remain in heaven until this coming rule of his according to these verses (see also Hebrews 9:27,28), it would seem the next main prophetic event would be the second coming rather than him coming 7 years prior to get the church, bring them back to heaven, and then leaving heaven for earth again as the pre-tribulational rapture position indicates.\n\nPre-tribulational usage of can also be counterbalanced. In this eschatological scenario, explains what happens to the people that are \"taken\": the eagles gather together at their [dead] bodies. Do they eat them? \"Taken\" may also have the idea of judgment and that is referring to the unmistakable visual nature of the second coming. Even the disciples are warned not to believe reports that Christ has come if they have not seen it \"for just as the lightning, when it flashes out of one part of the sky, shines to the other part of the sky, so will the Son of Man be in His day. Many take the fact that vultures hovering over a dead body is clearly visible from a great distance away to mean that the second coming will be clearly visible and will not be hidden. It seems that can be compared to , which reads that the fowls are invited to a feast—on the flesh of men, small and great, at the Lord's coming.\n\nThe parable in explains that the unsaved (\"tares\") are destroyed \"first\" before the saved (wheat) are addressed. This parable describes what the kingdom of heaven is like and it uses agricultural metaphor to explain that believers and unbelievers will remain together until the harvest. When is the harvest? Well, when Jesus explains the parable. he says the harvest is the \"end of the age\" in verse 39. At that time he sends his angels to destroy the tares while the wheat (believers) remain and shine forth as the sun in his father's kingdom. This seems to fit better with the rapture and the second coming being one event rather than a time gap of 7 years.\n\n, speaks of the \"Day of the Lord\" and that \"On that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives\" This exactly parallels the angel's statement in , \"that as He left so shall He return.\" Tying this with , we see all the living and dead Christians are gathered to Jesus at that time. Going back to we read, \"Then the LORD my God will come, and all the holy ones with him.\" This inexorably links the return of Jesus to the glorification and \"rapture\" of Christians to him.\n\nIn Jesus says to the faithful at Thyatira, \"Nevertheless what you have, hold fast until I come.\" In other words, 'hold onto the truth of the Christian faith and its obedience amidst the false teaching of Jezebel and her sins, until My coming again.' Pre-trib commentators agree this could be talking about the second coming of Christ (John MacArthur, Robert L. Thomas). Would Jesus say hold on to the faith until I come again if they were not going to be there when he returned, but would have already been raptured? Expositor's Bible Commentary also makes this assertion.\n\nThey are to be patient amidst persecution until when? Until the coming (\"parousia\") of the Lord. Parousia is well known to mean \"presence\" and refers to his second coming many times in the New Testament. The farming analogy seems to indicate that the farmer is aware of the coming rains just as the believer is aware of coming end time events. For example, Jesus warned \"when you see these things begin to take place [end time signs in the sun, moon, and stars / world chaos], straighten up and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.\" This manner of expectancy is objected to on the grounds that it destroys the idea of Christ's rapture of the church being imminent, or able to occur at any moment. But imminent probably doesn't mean 'at any moment' in the New Testament. Many New Testament passages implicitly rule out an \"any second\" imminency (Matthew 24:45-51...25:5,19;Luke 19:11-27;John 21:18-19...Acts 9:15...). At the very least apostles Peter and Paul could not have believed in this kind of imminency because Peter was told by Jesus what manner of death he was to die and that it would take place many years later. Jesus said, \"Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were younger, you used to gird yourself, and walk wherever you wished; but when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands [be crucified], and someone else will gird you, and bring you where you do not wish to go.\" Could Peter think the rapture was at any moment with this enduring prediction by Jesus? Also, it was told of Paul that he would bear Christ's name \"before the Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel\" and that God would \"show him how much he is to suffer for My name's sake.\" Does an any-moment rapture fit with such a massive missionary plan revealed by God for Paul's life which took decades to complete? Jesus encouraged the first disciples and all Christians, to look for certain events which would indicate his coming was \"at the doors.\" This coupled with other passages like , seems to indicate moral watchfulness, waiting in expectancy, and sobriety (\"be sober\") and that the wrath of that day will overtake those in darkness (unbelievers) like a thief \"but you, brethren, are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you like a thief.\" Thus a different concept of imminency emerges.\n\nJesus, speaking chronologically in the Olivet Discourse regarding end time events, goes from the escalation of troubling times beginning in the 1st century and the present age (highlighting the destruction of Jerusalem by Rome in A.D. 70) to the time of tribulation and then to his second coming without any mention of a prior removal of the church 7 or 3.5 years before it. One author sees Jesus as advocating a \"delay\" between the destruction of Jerusalem and his second advent. On the contrary, he states that \"immediately after the tribulation of those days…they [the world] shall see the son of Man coming…and He shall send His angels, and they shall gather His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.\" Therefore, Jesus seems to put the rapture just before his second coming or on his way to earth. The phrase \"gathering together\" describes the rapture in using the noun form of the same Greek word.\n\nPaul says: \"we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord, shall not precede those who have fallen asleep.\" Then he points out that the Lord's coming with angels and the trumpet call will invite those already dead in Christ to rise from the dead before the ones on earth participate in the event. Then Paul states: \"Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord.\" Some commentators note that because Paul used the plural \"\"we\"\" when referring to those who \"are alive and remain\" indicates that Paul believed that he and all believers on earth might witness and be a part of the second coming of Christ from earth. This would indicate that he would be on earth just prior to the coming of the Lord and the rapture. This is also the usage when he speaks of the same event saying: \"Listen, I will tell you a mystery! We will not all die, but we will all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed.\" This passage adds the fact that believers will receive glorified bodies which is missing from the Thessalonian passage].\" If believers were raptured before the tribulation then why would Paul use \"we\" and consider himself with all Christians to possibly be those who would be \"alive and remaining [on earth] until the coming of the Lord?\" They wouldn't be alive and remaining on the earth at His coming in a pre-tribulational scenario but would already be with Jesus in clouds along with the other believers who had died in Christ.\n\nOpposing doctrines include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293402", "title": "Metro Conference", "text": "Metro Conference\n\nThe Metropolitan Collegiate Athletic Conference, popularly known as the Metro Conference, was an NCAA Division I athletics conference, so named because its six charter members were all in urban metropolitan areas, though its later members did not follow that pattern. The conference was centered in the Upper South with some strength in the Deep South. The conference never sponsored football, although most of its members throughout its history had Division I-A football programs (from 1983–91, all Metro schools had independent football programs). In 1995, it merged with the Great Midwest Conference to form Conference USA. The merger was driven mainly by football, as several Metro Conference members had been successfully lured to larger conferences that sponsored the sport.\n\nThe conference was popularly known as the \"Metro 6\" during its first season, then as the \"Metro 7\" during the rest of the 1970s and early 1980s. For most of its existence, it was considered a \"major\" conference.\n\nThe Metro Conference was founded in 1975 with institutions that were located in urban metropolitan areas. The charter members were the University of Cincinnati, Georgia Institute of Technology, the University of Louisville, Memphis State University (now the University of Memphis), Saint Louis University and Tulane University. Florida State University joined in 1976, while the University of South Carolina turned down an invitation in hopes of rejoining the Atlantic Coast Conference.\n\nIn 1978, Georgia Tech left the Metro for the Atlantic Coast Conference, effective on July 1, 1979; and Virginia Tech replaced its spot in 1979. In 1982, Saint Louis left to join the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, now known as the Horizon League; while the University of Southern Mississippi replaced its spot in that same year. The University of South Carolina later joined in 1983. In 1985, West Virginia University was in talks to replace Tulane, which had suspended their men’s basketball program due to a points shaving scandal. Ultimately, West Virginia officials decided to remain in the Atlantic 10 Conference.\n\nIn 1991, Florida State joined the ACC, and then South Carolina joined the Southeastern Conference. However, South Carolina re-joined the Metro for 1993 and 1994 men's soccer seasons in that sport only, because the SEC did not (and still does not) offer the sport for men (four schools were required to sponsor a sport; the SEC had just three, now two). Charter members Cincinnati and Memphis State also left the Metro in 1991 to become charter members of the Great Midwest. To replace them, three of the stronger non-football schools from the Sun Belt Conference (the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, the University of South Florida and Virginia Commonwealth University) shifted to the Metro.\n\nIn 1993, the Metro and Great Midwest conferences began reunification talks that led to the creation of C-USA. However, the Virginia schools filed a lawsuit in order to prevent the merger from happening, which ultimately failed. VCU joined the Colonial Athletic Association. Virginia Tech (who was banking on an invitation to join the Big East Conference) was left out of Conference USA, and joined the Atlantic 10 Conference (it later joined the Big East in 2000 and is now in the Atlantic Coast Conference since 2004). It was joined by Great Midwest member Dayton, who was intrigued by the prospect of playing against regional rival Xavier.\n\nInitially, South Carolina was not permitted to participate in Conference USA for men's soccer, although it was admitted ten years later, also bringing along Kentucky, the only other men's soccer school in the SEC (coincidentally, Tulane was a longtime SEC member from 1932 until 1966).\n\nThe Metro Conference also had studies into a new \"Super conference\" in 1990. The study was conducted by Raycom Sports. The conference would have included members of the Metro, Atlantic 10, and Big East conferences, but it was not clear if the conference would become a football-sponsoring conference as many of its members did in fact sponsor football but were either independents or belonged to other conferences. The original study plan also included Penn State.\n\n\nNF - Non-football school at the time but has since added football, first year of play listed.<br>\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> - Southern Mississippi remains in the reunified Conference USA for all sports.<br>\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> - School was charter member of Conference USA, but has since left for another conference. South Florida and Memphis are now members of the American Athletic Conference.\n<br>\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> - School left Conference USA, but has since returned. Charlotte was one of C-USA's charter members but left in 2005 to join Saint Louis in the Atlantic 10 Conference. After announcing football to begin play in 2013, Charlotte rejoined C-USA in all sports except football, which underwent a two-year transitional membership. The school began football play in 2015 but was only conditionally eligible for postseason play that year.\n\n\"NOTES\"\n"}
{"id": "2293412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293412", "title": "Cecil Pugh", "text": "Cecil Pugh\n\nHerbert Cecil Pugh, GC, MA (2 November 1898 – 5 July 1941), usually called Cecil Pugh, was a Congregational Church minister and is the only clergyman to have received the George Cross. He was a South African who served in the First World War as a South African Army medical orderly and in the Second World War as a Royal Air Force chaplain. Pugh died in 1941 by remaining aboard a sinking troop ship to minister to trapped and wounded military personnel.\n\nPugh was the second of seven children of Harry Walter and Jane (Douglas) Pugh. He was born in 1898 in Johannesburg and attended Jeppe High School for Boys. In the First World War in 1917–19 he was a medical orderly in France with the South African Field Ambulance.\n\nAfter the war Pugh went to England, studied at Mansfield College, Oxford 1920–24 and became a Congregational clergyman. He was in civilian ministry at Camberley Congregational Church 1924–27 and then at Christ Church, Friern Barnet, Middlesex 1927–39. Pugh married Amy Lilian Tarrant and they had three children: sons Geoffrey and Alastair and daughter Fiona.\n\nWhen the Second World War broke out in 1939 Pugh became an RAF Chaplain, with the rank of Squadron Leader. He served at RAF Bridgnorth in Shropshire until 1941, when he was then posted to Takoradi on the Gold Coast. His passage to Takoradi was to be \"via\" a voyage on the troop ship to Freetown, Sierra Leone.\n\n\"Anselm\" was a cargo and passenger liner that had been converted into a troop ship by designating her passenger accommodation as officers' quarters and turning her holds into accommodation for other ranks. She had capacity for about 500 troops but on this occasion was heavily overloaded with about 1,200 British Army, Royal Marines and RAF personnel. There were 175 RAF personnel, on their way to serve in the North African Campaign.\n\nOn 5 July the torpedoed \"Anselm\" about 300 miles north of the Azores. The explosion caused extensive damage below decks, where collapsed overheads and wrecked ladders injured or trapped many of the men in one of the converted holds. One survivor states that officers got away in boats from \"Anselm\"s stern without waiting to help their men. Pugh, however, remained aboard, tending the wounded and helping to launch lifeboats and liferafts.\n\nAs \"Anselm\"s bow settled lower in the water, Pugh turned his attention to his fellow-airmen injured and trapped in one of the converted holds. He told some Royal Marines to lower him on a rope into the hold, insisting \"Where my men are, I have to be\". The Marines tried to dissuade him, but Pugh insisted \"My love of God is greater than my fear of death\" so they did as he insisted. Once in the hold he knelt to pray with the trapped men, with seawater already up to his shoulders.\n\n\"Anselm\" sank 22 minutes after she was hit. Pugh was not seen again.\n\nPugh's actions profoundly affected some of the 1,060 survivors. One at first thought his self-sacrifice had been \"silly\", but then recognised his bravery as an example. Other airmen and soldiers praised Pugh's \"bravery\" and \"sacrifice\".\n\n\"Anselm\"s survivors went on to serve in the North African and Italian campaigns. As they returned to Britain after the war, their recollections of Pugh started to appear in the \"News of the World\" and the \"Daily Express\". In 1947 his bravery was honoured with the George Cross, which King George VI presented to his widow Amy Pugh and Alastair Pugh, one of his sons, at Buckingham Palace.\n\nAt RAF Bridgnorth Pugh's example continued to be remembered until the station closed in 1963.\n\nPugh's George Cross citation states:\n\nThe Reverend H. C. Pugh, after seeing service in this country, was posted to Takoradi and embarked on H.M.T. \"Anselm\", carrying over 1,300 passengers; for West Africa at the end of June, 1941. She was torpedoed in the Atlantic in the early hours of the 5 July 1941. One torpedo hit a hold on Deck C, destroying the normal means of escape. Mr. Pugh came up on deck in a dressing gown and gave all the help he could. He seemed to be everywhere at once, doing his best to comfort the injured, helping with the boats and rafts (two of these were rendered unserviceable as a result of the explosion) and visiting the different lower sections where men were quartered.\n\nWhen he learned that a number of injured airmen were trapped in the damaged hold, he insisted on being lowered into it with a rope. Everyone demurred because the hold was below the water line and already the decks were awash and to go down was to go to certain death. He simply explained that he must be where his men were. The deck level was already caving in and the hold was three parts full of water so that, when he knelt to pray, the water reached his shoulders. Within a few minutes the ship plunged and sank and Mr. Pugh was never seen again. He had every opportunity of saving his own life but, without regard for his own safety and in the best tradition of the Service and of a Christian minister, he gave up his life for others.\"\n\nA photograph of Pugh, alongside his GC citation, is displayed at the Armed Forces Chaplaincy Centre, Amport House.\n\nA blue plaque on a house in East Castle Street, Bridgnorth, notes his residence there during his ministry at RAF Bridgnorth and his honour.\n\nAn inscription in the chapel of Mansfield College, Oxford commemorates alumni killed in the Second World War, including Pugh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293419", "title": "Monty Python's Previous Record", "text": "Monty Python's Previous Record\n\nMonty Python's Previous Record is the third album by Monty Python. Released in 1972, it marked the group's first collaborations with regular sound engineer Andre Jacquemin as well as musician Neil Innes, who had previously appeared with future members of the Python team on \"Do Not Adjust Your Set\". The album contains many sketches from the third series of \"Flying Circus\", one (Fish Licence) from the second as well as an abridged version of \"The Tale of Happy Valley\" from the second German show. The album was released midway through the broadcast of Series 3, whose sketches featured on the album were all from its first half, with the exception of \"Dennis Moore\" which aired a month later and therefore made its debut here. The oldest sketch on the album, Eric Idle's \"Radio Quiz Game\", dates back to \"I'm Sorry I'll Read That Again\" where it was performed by Graeme Garden - Idle having subsequently performed the sketch himself on two editions of Do Not Adjust Your Set. The rest of the material was specially written for the album.\n\nAmong the proposed ideas for the record were a 'B' side consisting of four concentric tracks, all starting at different places on the first groove, so that the listener could get any of one of four different versions of the 'B' side\". When this proved impossible, a three-sided 'B' side was attempted. But as Jacquemin later explained, \"That's why you hear 'and now a massage from the Swedish Prime Minister' three times on it. Each groove was going to start with that, but unfortunately, the three grooves ran into each other towards the centre of the record. In the end, we cut all the bits together for a standard, single-groove side.\" A year later, a less ambitious version of the same idea, with just two concentric tracks, would be used on the next Monty Python LP, \"The Monty Python Matching Tie and Handkerchief\".\n\nThe cover design, by Terry Gilliam, pictured an elongated arm which wrapped around both sides of the sleeve. Its hand can be seen trying to catch a six-breasted woman with butterfly wings. The inner sleeve pictured the covers of sixteen fictional albums on one side, with the other containing the album credits and lyrics to the \"Yangtse Song\".\n\nThe original British vinyl release included a separate 33rpm 7\" flexi-disc entitled \"Teach Yourself Heath\", housed in a sleeve featuring a picture of then Prime Minister Edward Heath.\n\nThe album was trailed three weeks earlier on 17 November 1972 by the 7\" single Eric The Half-A-Bee/Yangtse Song (CB.200), credited to \"Monty Python With Niel (sic) Innes\". These were alternate mono mixes of two tracks which would appear in stereo on the album. The latter song had an added karaoke section with additional linking from Michael Palin.\n\n\"Summarize Proust Competition\" was recorded but cut from the album, although a reference to the Proust Song remains on the album's inner sleeve. The track was released five years later on the \"Instant Record Collection\" compilation. Another cut sketch, \"Bells\", eventually found its way onto 1980's \"Contractual Obligation Album\".\n\nAs with the previous record, initial UK pressings had a unique label. Both sides featured the \"Mad Hatter\" Charisma design, with the first side listed as \"'A' side and half 'B' side\" (in reference to the album's single release) and a list of contents by \"a Harley Street Dentist\". The second side was listed as \"This side\" and contained a series of teeth-cleaning instructions. Later pressings were issued with the standard Charisma label, omitting the dentally-themed text. The US version, released in 1973, had the \"Harley Street Dentist\" material from the UK A-side label switched to Side B, with the A side eschewing the teeth-cleaning instructions of the UK version in favour of a red label containing the actual track listing for both sides. This, too, was different from the UK version, removing the tracks \"How To Do It\" and \"Radio Quiz Game\" from Side 1 and placing them on Side 2.\nThe album reached No.39 in the UK album chart.\n\nThe track \"Wonderful World of Sound\" features the earliest known citation of the phrase \"something for the weekend\", a euphemistic reference to condoms used by barbers when offering them to their clientele.\nThe bonus tracks on the 2006 CD reissue feature many previously unreleased out-takes from the album's sessions, with newly added music and sound effects, alongside outtakes from the 1980 \"Contractual Obligation Album\" sessions and 1971 promos for \"Monty Python's Big Red Book\".\n\nThe 2014 vinyl reissue by Virgin Records Limited contains the UK version of the album and does not include any bonus tracks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following is the list of musical works included on the album. They comprise a mixture of Studio G library music, self-penned Python songs and specially composed music by Neil Innes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293428", "title": "George John Dasch", "text": "George John Dasch\n\nGeorge John Dasch (February 7, 1903 – 1992) was a German agent who landed on American soil during World War II. He helped to destroy Nazi Germany’s espionage program in the United States by defecting to the American cause, but was tried and convicted of treason and espionage.\n\nGeorge John Dasch was born in Speyer, Germany. He entered a Roman Catholic seminary at the age of 13 to study for the priesthood. However, he was expelled the following year. Lying about his age, he enlisted in the Imperial German Army and served in Belgium during the final months of World War I. In 1923, he entered the United States illegally through a port in Philadelphia by ship as a stowaway then stayed in New York City. For four years, he drifted among several New York restaurants with one season spent at a hotel in Miami Beach. In 1927, Dasch enlisted as a private in the U.S. Army Air Corps. He was assigned to the 5th Composite Group of Newton field in Honolulu and served with the 72nd Bombardment Squadron, but after a year, he purchased himself out of the Army, receiving an honorable discharge. He then worked as a waiter in San Francisco, Sacramento, Los Angeles, and back in New York City. In 1930, he married Rose Marie Guille, an American citizen. \n\nDasch reenlisted in the US Army in 1936. Dasch was stationed at Ft. Ontario in Oswego New York. George Dasch served with the 1st Infantry Division, 28th regiment, L Company. While stationed at Fort Ontario Dasch met a young local girl by the name of Charlotte Holliday. George Dasch and Charlotte Holliday were married in Oswego at St. Paul's Lutheran Church in the parsonage in March 1936. According to City and church records George married Charlotte Holliday using the alias of George Henry Aldasch to hide his bigamy. (Illegal marriage). As George was still married to Rosemarie Guille at that time. George resided with his new wife Charlotte Aldasch at her father Jay Holliday's home located at 11 Murray St in Oswego NY while serving at Fort Ontario. On October 20, 1937 George and Charlotte had a son named Howard Elliot Aldasch. Their son was born at their residence of 11 Murray St in Oswego New York. After the birth of their son Howard, the marriage became tumultuous. Some time in 1938 George Dasch left the US Army abandoning his wife and son. Dasch returned to Germany in 1938. Charlotte Aldasch would eventually learn the real identity of her husband in 1942 when Dasch turned himself in to the FBI. Horrified by this turn of events and fearing for their son's safety, Charlotte sent their son Howard Aldasch to live anonymously with distant relations in rural Madison New York. Dasch's last communication with his wife Charlotte and his son Howard was via a lawyer and military officer in 1955. At that time Dasch was trying to regain entry back into the United States which was denied by FBI Chief J Edgar Hoover.\n\nDasch and the others were trained for espionage activities in a German High Command school on an estate at Quenz Lake, near Berlin, Germany.\n\nThe agents received three weeks of intensive sabotage training and were instructed in the manufacture and use of explosives, incendiary material and various forms of mechanical, chemical, and electrical delayed timing devices. Considerable time was spent developing complete background \"histories\" they were to use in the United States. They were encouraged to converse in English and to read American newspapers and magazines so no suspicion would be aroused if they were interrogated while in the United States.\n\nOn May 26, 1942, Dasch and his team (Ernest Peter Burger, Heinrich Harm Heink, and Richard Quirin) left by submarine from Lorient, France. They landed on Long Island, New York shortly after midnight on June 12. They were wearing German Navy uniforms to avoid being shot as spies if captured during the landing. Once ashore, they changed to civilian clothes and buried their uniforms and other equipment. Early that morning, John C. Cullen, a Coast Guardsman from the station in Amagansett, New York spotted Dasch and three others posing as fisherman off the coast of Long Island with a raft. He saw that the men were armed and also noticed a submerged submarine. The men offered him a $260 bribe to keep quiet. He took the bribe, but alerted his superiors. By the time an armed patrol returned to the site, the Germans had taken the Long Island Rail Road train from the Amagansett station into Manhattan, New York City, where they checked in and stayed at a hotel. A search of the beach revealed concealed explosives, timers, blasting caps, incendiary devices, cigarettes, and the military uniforms.\n\nIt was realized that German agents had landed on American soil. President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) director J. Edgar Hoover were immediately alerted, and the FBI conducted a massive manhunt. Hoover ordered that all information be kept secret to avoid public panic and to prevent the spies from knowing they had been discovered. However, the FBI did not know exactly where the Germans were going.\n\nGeorge John Dasch was by now unhappy with the Nazi regime. He eventually talked to one of his compatriots, a naturalized American citizen named Ernst Peter Burger, about defecting to the United States. Their plan was to surrender immediately to the FBI. Dasch ordered Burger to stay and keep an eye on the German agents. On June 15, Dasch called the FBI office in New York from a pay-telephone on Manhattan's Upper West Side to convey the information to Director Hoover. When the FBI agent did not believe his story, Dasch hung up and took a train to Washington D.C. Four days later and booked in at the Mayflower Hotel. He then went to the FBI headquarters asking to speak to Hoover. Dasch tried to tell the truth to the FBI officials, but they did not believe his story. While Dasch was at FBI headquarters, the FBI sent agents to his hotel room, where they found $82,500 in cash (worth more than $1 million in 2017 dollars). Dasch was arrested and interrogated for eight days. He disclosed the locations of the other men in the sabotage operation including Burger. He revealed that the goals of the sabotage program had been to disrupt war industries and launch a wave of terror by planting explosives in railway stations, department stores, and public places. Armed with the information Dasch provided, the FBI arrested Burger and six other German agents within the following week. The FBI withheld the true circumstances of their arrest prior to the trial of the eight men, including the fact that they did not actually consummate their plans of sabotage.\n\nDasch, Ernst Peter Burger, and six others – Edward John Kerling, Heinrich Harm Heinck, Richard Quirin, Werner Thiel, Hermann Otto Neubauer, and Herbert Hans Haupt (who had landed in Florida to meet with Dasch and Burger) – were tried by a military commission appointed by President Roosevelt on July 8, 1942 and convicted of sabotage and sentenced to death. FBI Director Hoover and Attorney General Biddle appealed to President Roosevelt, who commuted the sentence to life imprisonment for Burger, and thirty years for Dasch. The others were executed in the electric chair in Washington D.C Jail on 8 August 1942.\n\nIn 1948, President Harry S. Truman had both Burger and Dasch released and deported to Germany. They were not welcomed back because they were regarded as traitors who had caused the death of their comrades. Although they had been promised pardons by Hoover in exchange for their cooperation, both men died without ever receiving them. Dasch wrote an account of his involvement with Operation Pastorius (“Eight Spies Against America,” Publisher: R.M. McBride Co., 1959. Library of Congress catalog # 59-13612). He died in 1992 at the age of 89 in Ludwigshafen.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2293432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293432", "title": "Crary Ice Rise", "text": "Crary Ice Rise\n\nCrary Ice Rise is an Antarctic ice rise in the south-central part of the Ross Ice Shelf. At 82°56'S, it is the southernmost ice rise. The feature was investigated by the USARP Ross Ice Shelf Project in the 1970s. The name came into use among USARP workers and honors Albert P. Crary (1911–87), American geophysicist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293441", "title": "Laodice II", "text": "Laodice II\n\nLaodice II (; lived in the 3rd century BC), was the wife of Seleucus II Callinicus. According to the express statement of Polybius, she was the sister of Andromachus. Laodice II bore Seleucus II Seleucus III Ceraunus and Antiochus III the Great.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293446", "title": "Kellie Magnus", "text": "Kellie Magnus\n\nKellie Magnus (born 10 December 1970, in Kingston, Jamaica) is a Caribbean author and journalist. She currently works as the Country Lead for the Jamaican branch of Fight For Peace.\n\nMagnus received her undergraduate degree from Harvard University and an MBA in Entertainment and Media Management from Columbia University. In addition to writing and publishing children's books she writes feature articles on Caribbean entertainment and media. Publications for which she has written include \"The Daily News\" (New York City), \"The Jamaica Weekly Gleaner\" (New York City), \"Caribbean Beat\" (BWIA In-flight magazine), and \"The Ticket\" (Trinidad).\n\nHer most recent work was a series of children's books and parents' manuals that was part of a multimedia program called \"Max and Friends\" and that was specially designed for children with autism and related developmental disabilities. Magnus has self-published her Little Lion series of children's books, including a book called \"Little Lion Goes to School\", and is currently working on a series of Caribbean children's books. She is a member of JAMPACT: Jamaica Impact Inc. and serves on the board of directors of the Harlem Youth Soccer Association. Currently, she is serving as the vice-president of the Book Industry Association of Jamaica. She also serves on the board of the Early Childhood Commission in Jamaica and owns the small publishing company Jackmandora.\n\nIn 2014, Magnus was a featured author at the NGC Bocas Lit Fest.\n"}
{"id": "2293464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293464", "title": "St Julians, Newport", "text": "St Julians, Newport\n\nSt Julians () is an electoral district (ward) and coterminous community of the City of Newport, South Wales.\n\nThe ward is bounded by the River Usk to the west and north, The Moorings, Badminton Road, Reynolds Close, Rembrandt Way, Constable Drive, Heather Road, Kelly Road, Merlin Crescent, Avalon Drive, across St Julian's Road and Norfolk Road to the east, Christchurch Road, Church Road, Clarence Place and Newport Bridge to the south. The ward includes the districts of Barnardtown, Riverside, and most of St. Julians (the rest being in Beechwood ward). The area is governed by the Newport City Council.\n\nThe Anglican parish church for St Julian's is dedicated to the martyred Saints of Julius and Aaron and sits mid-way along Heather Road and the Roman Catholic church on Beaufort Road is dedicated to St Julius. St Julian's Methodist Church is situated at the junction of Caerleon Road with St Julian's Avenue; St Julian's Baptist Church is in Beaufort Road. The roads in the post-war St Julian's estate are named after famous painters, where as the older inter-war estate streets are named after the members of the Firbank family who owned the land from 1869-1926. St Julian's itself is named after Saint Julius of Caerleon, the Roman martyr.\n\nSt Julians has two primary schools, namely Glan Usk Primary School (formerly Durham Road Infant School and Durham Road Junior School) and St Julians Primary School.\n\nGlan Usk Primary School opened in January 2010, after receiving £9.7m in funding from the Welsh Government. The development is however controversial as it is situated on a former 1930s and 1960s industrial site at the Glebelands in the western part of St Julians. The new school also provides nursery school places, following the closure of Rockfield Nursery.\n\nSt Julian's secondary school draws its pupils mainly from Eveswell, Glan Usk, Maindee, and St Julian’s Primary Schools.\n\nBuilt in 1480 on the site of a chapel that housed the mortal remains of Saint Julius, the house and estate was established by Sir George Herbert (c1462-1504). It was owned and lived in by the Herbert family until about 1720 when the Tudor mansion was downsized to a farmhouse and parts of the estate became derelict. St. Julian's was then passed onto the Duke of Beaufort who leased the farmhouse out in the early 19th century. In 1869, the estate was purchased at a Newport auction by Joseph Firbank (1819-1886), a railway contractor from Durham, for £38,000. In 1880 he rebuilds St. Julian's into a Victorian farmhouse, retaining the Tudor porch and the crucifix layout. He also builds a grander and more modern mansion south of Caerleon Road adjacent to Llanllecha Farm, called (Upper) St. Julians while the original house becomes Lower or Old St. Julians. This is then leased out again to farm tenants from 1892. In 1933, Upper St. Julian's is demolished for a new housing development on Heather Road and following the Second World War the older house is converted into a motor garage. The land surrounding the house has by this point been sold off and built on, leaving St. Julian's to become completely derelict by the 1970s. It was eventually demolished in 1980 and Marina Court is now situated on the site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293468", "title": "Regions of Romania (disambiguation)", "text": "Regions of Romania (disambiguation)\n\nThe regions of Romania can refer to the:\n"}
{"id": "2293477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293477", "title": "Live at Drury Lane", "text": "Live at Drury Lane\n\nMonty Python Live at Drury Lane is a live album released by Monty Python in 1974. It was recorded on the final night of their four-week run at the Drury Lane Theatre in London earlier that year and edited onto disc with new studio linking material by Eric Idle and Michael Palin. The majority of the sketches are from \"Flying Circus\" and vary slightly from their television counterparts, although \"Cocktail Bar\" was written for the third series but not used. The team also revived sketches from \"At Last The 1948 Show\", including \"Secret Service\", \"Wrestling\" and \"Four Yorkshiremen\" - the latter on its way to being adopted as a Python standard. Neil Innes provided the musical interludes, while Eric Idle's then wife Lyn Ashley replaced regular Python actress Carol Cleveland in supporting roles.\n\nAs with its predecessor, the second side of the original UK vinyl release had a cryptic message by George Peckham etched onto the runout groove, which read \"\". This message was missing from the second pressings, the label of which added the musical titles used on the album (notably for the many songs referenced in \"Election Special\").\n\nTo promote the album's release, a double-sided 33rpm Flexi disc was issued free with the 25 May 1974 edition of New Musical Express entitled \"Monty Python's Tiny Black Round Thing\" which contained an extended version of \"Election Special\" and \"Lumberjack Song\" with new linking material from Michael Palin.\n\nThe album was the group's most successful to date, reaching No.19 in the UK charts.\n\nThe album was released in Canada in 1975 (distributed by GRT of Canada Ltd. 9211-4) but was not issued in the US until 1994, when it was included in the box set \"The Instant Monty Python CD Collection\". Until then, the only live Python album released in the US had been \"Monty Python Live at City Center\", released in 1976.\n\nThe album's cover was designed by Terry Gilliam's assistant Katy Hepburn (misspelled as \"Hebbern\" on the back cover). Three decades later, it made a surprise appearance in Gilliam's 2005 film \"Tideland\", where it can be seen at the front of a box of LPs.\n\nThe performance featured Eric Idle muttering \"Breakaway!\" during the \"Nudge, Nudge\" sketch (Idle was advertising the Breakaway chocolate bar at this time), which resulted in an unexpectedly strong laugh from the audience. This moment was removed from subsequent compilations.\n\nAlthough originally released in stereo, the 2006 special edition CD has the whole album mixed into mono. This is the only one of the 2006 reissues to contain no new material, with the exception of an interview placed at the end of the disc.\n\n\n\nAn interview is added to the 2006 special edition\n\n\n\nThe following is the list of musical works included on the album. They comprise a mixture of Studio G, Keith Prowse and De Wolfe library music, self-penned Python and Neil Innes songs and short extracts of famous songs referenced in \"Election Special\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2293483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293483", "title": "Supporterklubben Änglarna", "text": "Supporterklubben Änglarna\n\nSupporterklubben Änglarna (\"Supporters' association the Angels\"), often called only Änglarna, is the official supporters' association of the Swedish football club IFK Göteborg, from Gothenburg. Änglarna is not attached to the club, and is controlled and organised by people not hired by the club. It is a non-profit-making association which was started in 1969, although the year of foundation is often set as 1973, when the association really became active. It has around 3,500 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293487", "title": "Kuwolsan", "text": "Kuwolsan\n\nKuwŏlsan, or Mount Kuwol, is a mountain in South Hwanghae, North Korea. The mountain takes its name from the ninth month of the lunar calendar, because it is considered particularly attractive in that month. The mountain is a major summer resort in North Korea, attracting many domestic tourists. \n\nKuwolsan is home to the Sansong Revolutionary Site, the 9th century Woljong Temple and the stupas, as well as the 4th century Anak Tomb No. 3.\n\nThe highest peak of the mountain - the highest point in the short Kuwol range - is 954 m above sea level. There are several scenic routes through the mountain area. Natural attractions include rock formations, waterfalls and natural pools. Much of the mountain is covered by mixed broadleaf and coniferous forest and protected in an 18,000 ha national park. Some 1100 ha has been identified by BirdLife International as an Important Bird Area (IBA).\n\n"}
{"id": "2293488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293488", "title": "Cilegon", "text": "Cilegon\n\nCilegon is a major coastal industrial city in Banten province, Indonesia, covering 175.51 km. It is located on the island of Java. The city has a Census population of 374,464 in 2010; the official intercensal estimated population was 416,464 for 2014. Among the factories located in Cilegon are Krakatau Steel Company, a vital company in Indonesia, which produces steel for industrial (domestic and foreign) needs, and Asahimas Chemical Company. The other name for Cilegon is \"Steel City\" since the city is the largest steel producer in Southeast Asia, about 6 million tons of steel produced each year in the Industrial Area Krakatau Steel, Cilegon. Additionally Cilegon is one of the vital state objects. This is because in this town there is a wide range of other vital objects such as the Merak Harbour, Krakatau Steel Industrial Zone (including the PT. Krakatau Steel Tbk, Asahimas, Siemens, KS - POSCO joint venture, Chandra Asri, and Pertamina), PLTU Suralaya, Power plant Krakatau, Krakatau Tirta Industrial Water Treatment Plant, The Sunda Strait Bridge Construction (Lot Plan) & Sunda Strait Industrial Zones.\n\nCilegon is located on the most northwest coast of Java island, at the mouth of the Cilegon River on Ciwandan Bay, which is an inlet of the Sunda Strait.\n\nThe City of Cilegon is divided into eight districts (\"kecamatan\"), listed below with their populations at the 2010 Census:\n\n\nCilegon has a hot and humid climate on the boundary between tropical monsoon (\"Am\") and savanna (\"Aw\") according to the Köppen climate classification system. Despite being located relatively close to the equator, the city has distinct wet and dry seasons. The wet season in Cilegon covers the majority of the year, running from November through June. The remaining four months forms the city’s dry season. Located in the most western part of Java, Cilegon’s wet season rainfall peak is January with average monthly rainfall of , and its dry season low point is July with a monthly average of .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293491", "title": "Montefioralle", "text": "Montefioralle\n\nMontefioralle is a village in Tuscany, a \"frazione\" of the \"comune\" of Greve in Chianti. It is sometimes claimed to be the birthplace of Amerigo Vespucci.\n\nThe village lies about a mile west of Greve.\n\nTown and village were an important stronghold during the wars between Florence and Siena. In 1250 it became the headquarters of the League of the Greve Valley. The town was once endowed with two sets of walls. It had an octagonal shape with four gates. With the fall of the Sienese Republic, Montefioralle lost its prior importance and most of its inhabitants moved to Greve in Chianti.\n\nThe central church is currently undergoing renovations.\n\nA house in the circular main street of Montefioralle is pointed out as the birthplace of Amerigo Vespucci. The doorway is identified by the wasp (\"vespa\") and V of the Vespucci family.\n"}
{"id": "2293497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293497", "title": "The Album of the Soundtrack of the Trailer of the Film of Monty Python and the Holy Grail", "text": "The Album of the Soundtrack of the Trailer of the Film of Monty Python and the Holy Grail\n\nThe Album of the Soundtrack of the Trailer of the Film of Monty Python and the Holy Grail is the first film soundtrack album by Monty Python, released in 1975. It features selected scenes from \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\" interspersed with a large volume of new studio material, much of which centers on a spoof screening of the film at the Classic Silbury Hill Theatre. Also among the new items is the \"Marilyn Monroe\" sketch, which Graham Chapman co-wrote with Douglas Adams - the pair having recently collaborated on the fourth series of \"Monty Python\". \n\nThe album is billed as the \"Executive Version\" as a joke on popular \"special editions\" of albums that contained extra tracks unavailable on earlier versions. Naturally, no other version of this album existed in the original release. On the A-side of the original UK vinyl release, the engraved text by George Peckham around the label reads: \"\", while on the B-side it reads: \"\".\n\nThe album reached No.45 in the UK album charts.\n\nA CD reissue in 1997 contains extended versions of two sketches, \"Arrival At Castle\" and \"French Taunter\". This CD reissue also contains \"The Bridge of Death\". These additions are not available on any other version of the album.\n\nIn 2006 a special edition was released containing three bonus tracks, consisting of two demos of unused Neil Innes songs and an audio extract of a documentary from the film's DVD release. This version of the CD does not contain \"The Bridge of Death\" or the two extended sketches.\n\nAlso in 2006, yet another CD reissue was included in \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail: The Extraordinarily Deluxe DVD Edition\". The bonus features disc had instructions on how to play the record. This CD does not contain \"The Bridge of Death\", the bonus tracks, or the two extended versions.\n\n\n\n\nThe following is the list of musical works included on the album. They comprise a mixture of De Wolfe library music, self-penned Python songs and specially composed music by Neil Innes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293506", "title": "Anna Netrebko", "text": "Anna Netrebko\n\nAnna Yuryevna Netrebko (; born 18 September 1971) is a Russian-Austrian operatic soprano. She became known for her rendition of lyric and coloratura soprano roles, most notably Donna Anna in Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\" and Violetta in Verdi's \"La traviata\", and proceeded into heavier 19th-century romantic roles, such as Leonora in \"Il trovatore\" and the role of Lady Macbeth in \"Macbeth\". Since 2016, she has turned her focus to Verismo repertoire. She was noticed globally after playing Donna Anna at the 2002 Salzburg Festival and then appeared on leading stages, including the Mariinsky Theatre, where she began her career.\n\nShe has received multiple awards and honors and has substantial discography made primarily under Deutsche Grammophon.\n\nShe holds dual Russian and Austrian citizenship and resides in Vienna and New York City.\n\nNetrebko was born in Krasnodar, in a family of Kuban Cossack background. While a student at the Saint Petersburg Conservatory, Netrebko worked as a janitor at Saint Petersburg's Mariinsky Theatre. Later when she auditioned for the theatre, conductor Valery Gergiev, recognizing her from her prior work, subsequently became her vocal mentor.\n\nUnder Gergiev's guidance, in 1994, Netrebko made her operatic stage debut at the Mariinsky at age 22 as Susanna in \"The Marriage of Figaro\" despite initially being billed as Barbarina. She went on to sing many prominent roles with the company, including Amina in \"La sonnambula\", Pamina in \"The Magic Flute\", Rosina in \"The Barber of Seville\", and Lucia in \"Lucia di Lammermoor\". She also sang the Queen of the Night in \"The Magic Flute\" with the Riga Independent Opera Avangarda Akadēmija under conductor David Milnes. In autumn 1995, at the age of 24, Netrebko made her American debut as Lyudmila in Glinka's \"Ruslan and Lyudmila\" at the San Francisco Opera. Following this successful performance, she was enrolled in the Merola Opera Program the next year and then became a frequent guest singer in San Francisco, performing roles including Adina in \"L'elisir d'amore\", Louisa in \"Betrothal in a Monastery\", Ilia in \"Idomeneo\", Musetta in \"La bohème\", Marfa in \"The Tsar's Bride\", Zerlina in \"Don Giovanni\". In October 1999, Netrebko performed Gilda in \"Rigoletto\" at the Washington National Opera.\n\nIn 2002, Netrebko made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera as Natasha in the Met premiere of Prokofiev's \"War and Peace\". In the same year, she sang her first Donna Anna at the Salzburg Festival's production of \"Don Giovanni\", conducted by Nikolaus Harnoncourt.\n\nIn 2003, Netrebko performed as Violetta in Verdi's \"La traviata\" in Munich, the title role in \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" at the Los Angeles Opera, and Donna Anna at the Covent Garden Royal Opera House. Her second album, \"Sempre Libera\", was released the following year. She later appeared as Violetta in \"La traviata\" at the Salzburg Festival, conducted by Carlo Rizzi and in 2008 she performed the same role at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden to triumphant acclaim on the opening night, opposite Jonas Kaufmann and Dmitri Hvorostovsky in performances conducted by Maurizio Benini. However, she cancelled three subsequent performances due to suffering a bronchial condition. This was the second time she had cancelled her performances at the Royal Opera House, having withdrawn from some performances of \"Don Giovanni\" the previous summer due to illness.\n\nOn 30 May 2007, Netrebko made her Carnegie Hall debut with Dmitri Hvorostovsky and the Orchestra of St. Luke's, which was originally scheduled on 2 March 2006 but she postponed due to not feeling artistically ready. She appeared at the Last Night of the Proms on 8 September of that year where she performed excerpts from \"La sonnambula\" and \"Giuditta\", and the \"Lied\" \"Morgen!\" by Richard Strauss with Joshua Bell. In the fall of 2007 she reprised her role as Juliette in \"Roméo et Juliette\" at the Metropolitan Opera.\n\nIn May 2008, she made a much-awaited Paris Opera debut in Bellini's \"I Capuleti e i Montecchi\" at the Opéra Bastille, with Joyce DiDonato as Romeo. In her first performance after her maternity leave, Netrebko sang Lucia in \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" when it opened at the Mariinsky Theatre in Saint Petersburg on 14 January 2009, in a production from the Scottish Opera led by John Doyle. She then sang the same role in January and February 2009 at the Metropolitan Opera. Netrebko appeared as Giulietta in \"I Capuleti e i Montecchi\" at the Royal Opera House in Spring 2009, and as Violetta in \"La traviata\" in June 2009 at the San Francisco Opera.\n\nIn October and November 2010, she sang the role of Norina in \"Don Pasquale\" at New York's Metropolitan Opera House under conductor James Levine. The matinee performance on 13 November was broadcast nationwide by PBS. On 2 April 2011, she sang the title role of Gaetano Donizetti's \"Anna Bolena\" at the Vienna State Opera for a sold-out premiere there, and the repeat performance on 5 April 2011 was broadcast live to cinemas around the world. On 7 December 2011, she opened the new season at La Scala in Milan, making her house debut, as Donna Anna in \"Don Giovanni\". She has the distinction of being invited to appear in three consecutive opening night new productions at the Metropolitan Opera: \"Anna Bolena\" in 2011, \"L'elisir d'amore\" in 2012, and \"Eugene Onegin\" in 2013. Her performance as Lady Macbeth in the Metropolitan's 2014 fall season's production of \"Macbeth\", a revival of Adrian Noble's 2007 production, drew critical praise and demonstrated her voice is still expanding in range and volume. She continued her expansion into heavier Verdi roles at the Met the following year, singing the role of Leonora in \"Il trovatore\" to acclaim from both critics and audiences.\n\nIn December 2014, she posed alongside Oleg Tsaryov with a flag of Novorossiya, a self-proclaimed confederation in Ukraine, and gave a ₽1,000,000 cheque to Tsarov saying she was donating to the Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre. Tsarov is one of the individuals sanctioned by the European Union for his role in the 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine. Netrebko said in a statement \"I want to make clear, however, that this donation is not a political act\".\n\nIn April 2016, Netrebko announced her withdrawal from productions of Bellini's \"Norma\" at the Royal Opera House's 2016/17 season and the Metropolitan Opera's 2017/18 season due to the change in her voice. The vacancies were filled respectively by Sonya Yoncheva and Sondra Radvanovsky.\n\nShe made several role debuts in 2017, including the title role of \"Adriana Lecouvreur\" at Mariinsky Theatre in June, the title role of \"Aida\" at Salzburg Festival in August, and Maddalena in \"Andrea Chénier\" at La Scala in December. In 2018, she debuted as Tosca at the Metropolitan Opera in April and performed at the Summer Night Concert Schönbrunn on 31 May.\n\nNetrebko made a cameo appearance as herself in the 2004 film \"\".\n\nShe was invited as a guest performer in the 2004, 2007, and 2019 Vienna Opera Ball.\n\nIn December 2007 Netrebko was invited to honor Martin Scorsese at the 30th Annual Kennedy Center Honors, performing the aria \"O mio babbino caro\".\n\nShe participated in the gala concert inaugurating the Mariinsky Theatre Second Stage on 2 May 2013. She was invited to perform the Olympic Anthem, in Russian, at the 2014 Winter Olympics opening ceremony.\n\nShe performed in both gala concerts at the Red Square on 13 June and at the Bolshoi Theatre on 14 July, respectively commemorating the opening and closing of the 2018 FIFA World Cup. On 8 September 2018 she took part in the inauguration gala concert of Zaryadye Concert Hall in Moscow, which was streamed on Medici.tv. She was featured in the opening ceremony of 2019 European Games in Minsk on 21 June and inaugurated the first concert season of the Congress Hall at the Yekaterinburg Expo on 30 August 2019.\n\nNetrebko serves as an honorary director of the Russian Children's Welfare Society and has featured in several editions of \"Petroushka Ball\", the major fund raiser of the charity. In 2007, she was announced to be an ambassador for SOS Children's Villages in Austria, and a sponsor for the Tomilino village in Russia. In May 2012, she and her then-partner Erwin Schrott jointly founded the charitable foundation \"Anna Netrebko and Erwin Schrott 4 Kids\", aiming to promote education, art, culture and youth welfare.\n\nShe is an ambassador of Chopard, having attended several of its occasions and publicly worn its designs.\n\nIn March 2006, Netrebko applied to become an Austrian citizen, receiving her citizenship in late July. According to an interview in the Austrian weekly news, she will live in Vienna and Salzburg. Netrebko cites the cumbersome and humiliating process of obtaining visas as a Russian citizen for her many performances abroad as the main reason for obtaining Austrian citizenship.\n\nNetrebko started a relationship with Italian bass-baritone Simone Alberghini when they met each other during performances of \"Rigoletto\" at the Washington National Opera in 1999. She announced their engagement but did not consider marrying due to a busy schedule. In May 2007 their relationship was confirmed as ended.\n\nIn December 2007 Netrebko became engaged to Uruguayan bass-baritone Erwin Schrott, whom she first met during a collaboration in 2003. In April 2008, she announced their marriage, but their wedding never in fact took place. Their son, officially named Tiago Aruã, was born on 5 September 2008 in Vienna and is an Austrian citizen. On 25 November 2013, the couple announced their separation, after several months of largely separate lives. Tiago, who is mildly autistic, lives exclusively with her.\n\nIn February 2014, during rehearsals for a staging of \"Manon Lescaut\" in Rome, Netrebko began a relationship with Azerbaijani tenor , her co-star in that opera. Five months later, the couple announced their engagement. They married on 29 December 2015, at the Palais Coburg in Vienna with 180 guests in attendance, including Plácido Domingo. Netrebko has an apartment in the Upper West Side of Manhattan, overlooking the Hudson River.\n\nNetrebko is a close friend of Austrian fashion designer Irina Vitjaz, and has worn several of her designs.\n\nIn 2004, Netrebko was awarded the State Prize of the Russian Federation.\n\n\"Time\" magazine placed her on its Time 100 list in 2007. She won the 2007 Singer of the Year and the 2008 Female Artist of Year in the Classical Brit Awards. She was identified by the journal \"Musical America\" as \"a genuine superstar for the 21st century\" and was named Musician of the Year for 2008. In February 2008, she was named People's Artist of Russia. She was included in the list of Young Global Leaders 2010 issued by World Economic Forum. Netrebko was one of the recipients of Leading Ladies Award 2012 awarded by \"Madonna\" magazine. She received another Leading Ladies Award in the category of Culture in 2016. She was named one of the Beautiful People in 2013 by \"Paper\". She was presented an Opera News Award in April 2016.\n\nNetrebko won the \"Female Singer of the Year\" (\"Sängerin des Jahres\") in the 2014 and 2016 Echo Klassik Award. In February 2017, the Austrian government named her Kammersängerin. She won the Best Female Singer in the 2017 International Opera Awards. Asteroid 31104 Annanetrebko was named in her honor. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 31 January 2018 (). She was awarded the \"World Star\" of the BraVo International Professional Music Awards 2018. In May 2018, she received the Order of Friendship from the Azerbaijani president. On 26 October 2018, the Metropolitan Opera Guild honored her on its annual luncheon. In 2020 she was awarded the Swedish Polar Music Prize and the Victoire d'honneur in the Victoires de la musique classique.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293510", "title": "Development regions of Romania", "text": "Development regions of Romania\n\nThe development regions of Romania (Romanian \"Regiunile de dezvoltare ale României\") refer to the eight regional divisions created in Romania in 1998 in order to better co-ordinate regional development as Romania progressed towards accession to the European Union. The development regions correspond to NUTS II-level divisions in European Union member states. Despite becoming increasingly significant in regional development projects, Romania's development regions do not actually have an administrative status and do not have a legislative or executive council or government. Rather, they serve a function for allocating European Union PHARE funds for regional development, as well as for collection of regional statistics. They also co-ordinate a range of regional development projects and became members of the Committee of the Regions when Romania joined the EU on January 1, 2007.\n\nThere are 8 development regions in Romania, which (with the exception of București-Ilfov) are named by their geographical position in the country:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293511", "title": "Open-jaw ticket", "text": "Open-jaw ticket\n\nAn open-jaw ticket is an airline return ticket where the destination and/or the origin are not the same in both directions.\n\nThere are three types:\n\n\nUsing different airports in the same city is not considered an open-jaw, so a passenger on a London to JFK trip who returned from Newark would still be a simple round trip as both airports are considered to be in New York.\n\nThe open gaps between the cities show on the itinerary as ARNK, the same code that shows on an airline or agency's Global Distribution System. The term (pronounced arunk) means \"arrival unknown\".\n\nThe reason for this is that airline reservation systems (and major GDSs) require the segments following on sequentially, so arriving at one city, and then departing from another, will cause the system to return an error message. The ARNK field tells the system that this is intentional, and also allows for the ticketing system to blank the unused coupons of a ticket.\n\nA typical destination open-jaw would look like this on an itinerary, with the ARNK on the second segment to show that it is not being flown on that ticket. \n\n\nIn some cases, this type of arrangement is needed for boat cruises that do not return to the departure city. In other cases, the traveller wishes to explore between two points and using alternative transport (e.g. buses, trains, ferries or flights on another ticket). For example, a traveller might fly from London to Bangkok, travel around Thailand by public transport and fly back home to London from Phuket. Another example would be a traveller flying from New York City to London, travelling around different countries in Europe by taking buses / trains or low-cost carrier flights, then returning from Vilnius. Open-jaw tickets are a flexible and relatively inexpensive way of flying as they are priced as a round-trip ticket, in most cases less expensive than purchasing two one-way flights between the destinations visited.\n\nAnother market commonly traveled under an open-jaw itinerary is the one of local one-way tours. Take, for example, a tour of Florida, where a traveler flying into Jacksonville, Orlando, or Miami rents a car or joins a bus tour at their arrival airport, and returns the car or ends the tour in the town from which they will be flying home.\n\nSome routing restrictions can apply to open-jaw tickets. The most common restriction is that the open-jaw segments must be shorter than the flown segments. In some circumstances, the destination and return origin must be in the same IATA region, or may be restricted to the same country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293515", "title": "Cantabri", "text": "Cantabri\n\nThe Cantabri (, \"Kantabroi\") or Ancient Cantabrians, were a pre-Roman people, probably Celtic or pre-Celtic European, and large tribal federation that lived in the northern coastal region of ancient Iberia in the second half of the first millennium BC. These peoples and their territories were incorporated into the Roman Province of Hispania Tarraconensis in the year 19 BC, following the Cantabrian Wars.\n\"\" is a Latinized form of a local name, presumably meaning \"Highlanders\" and deriving from the reconstructed root *\"cant\"- (\"mountain\") in Ancient Ligurian.\n\nCantabria, the land of the Cantabri, originally comprised much of the highlands of the northern Spanish Atlantic coast, including the whole of modern Cantabria province, eastern Asturias, nearby mountainous regions of Castile and León, the northern of province of Palencia and province of Burgos and northeast of province of León. Following the Roman conquest, this area was, however, much reduced, making up only Cantabria and eastern Asturias.\n\nThe ancestors of the Cantabri were thought by the Romans to have migrated to the Iberian Peninsula around the 4th Century BC, and were said by them to be more mixed than most peninsular Celtic peoples, their eleven or so tribes, assessed by Roman writers according to their names, were supposed to have included Gallic, Celtiberian, Indo-Aryan, Aquitanian, and Ligurian origins.\n\nA detailed analysis of place-names in ancient Cantabria shows a strong Celtic element along with an almost equally strong \"Para-Celtic\" element (both Indo-European) and thus disproves the idea of a substantial pre-Indo-European or Basque presence in the region. This supports the earlier view that Untermann considered the most plausible, coinciding with archaeological evidence put forward by Ruiz-Gálvez in 1998, that the Celtic settlement of the Iberian Peninsula was made by people who arrived via the Atlantic Ocean in an area between Brittany and the mouth of the River Garonne, finally settling along the Galician and Cantabrian coast.\n\nRegarded as savage and untamable mountaineers, the Cantabri long defied the Roman legions and made a name for themselves for their independent spirit and freedom. Indeed, Cantabri warriors were regarded as being tough and fiercest fighters, suitable for mercenary employment, but prone to banditry. The earliest references to them are found in the texts of ancient historians such as Livy and Polybius, who mention Cantabrian mercenaries in Carthaginian service fighting at the Battle of the Metaurus in 207 BC, and Silius, who talks about a chieftan named Larus recruited by Mago and a Cantabrian contingent in Hannibal's army. Another author, Cornelius Nepos, claims that the Cantabrian tribes first submitted to Rome upon Cato the Elder’s campaigns in Celtiberia in 195 BC. In any case, such was their reputation that when a battered Roman army under consul Gaius Hostilius Mancinus was besieging Numantia in 137 BC, the rumor of the approach of a large combined Cantabri-Vaccaei relief force was enough to cause the rout of 20,000 panic-stricken Roman legionaries, forcing Mancinus to surrender under humiliating peace terms.\nBy the 1st century BC they comprised eleven or so tribes—, , Camarici or Tamarici, Concani, Coniaci or Conisci, Morecani, Noegi, Orgenomesci, Plentuisii, Salaeni, Vadinienses, and Vellici or Velliques—gathered into a tribal confederacy with the town of \"Aracillum\" (Castro de Espina del Gallego, Sierra del Escudo – Cantabria), located at the strategic Besaya river valley, as their political seat. Other important Cantabrian strongholds included \"Villeca/Vellica\" ( – Palencia), \"Bergida\" (Castro de – Palencia) and \"Amaya/Amaia\" ( – Burgos). In early 1st century BC, the Cantabri began to play a double game by lending their services to individual Roman generals on occasion but, at same time, supported rebellions within Roman Spanish provinces and carried out raids in times of unrest. This opportunistic policy led them to side with Pompey during the final phase of the Sertorian Wars (82–72 BC), and they continued to follow the Pompeian cause until the defeat of his generals Afranius and Petreius at the battle of \"Ilerda\" (Lérida) in 49 BC. Prior to that, the Cantabri had unsuccessfully intervened in the Gallic Wars by sending in 56 BC an army to help the Aquitani tribes of south-eastern Gaul against Publius Crassus, the son of Marcus Crassus serving under Julius Caesar.\n\nUnder the leadership of the chieftain Corocotta, the Cantabri’s own predatory raids on the Vaccaei, Turmodigi and Autrigones whose rich territories they coveted, according to Florus, coupled with their backing of a Vaccaei anti-Roman revolt in 29 BC, ultimately led to the outbreak of the First Cantabrian Wars, which resulted in their conquest and partial annihilation by Emperor Augustus. The remaining Cantabrian population and their tribal lands were absorbed into the newly created Transduriana Province.\n\nNevertheless, the harsh measures devised by Augustus and implemented by his general Marcus Vispanius Agrippa to pacify the province in the aftermath of the campaign only contributed to further instability in Cantabria. Near-constant tribal uprisings (including a serious slave revolt in 20 BC that quickly spread to neighboring Asturias) and guerrilla warfare continued to plague the Cantabrian lands until the early 1st century AD, when the region was granted a form of local self-rule upon being included in the new Hispania Tarraconensis province.\n\nAlthough the Romans founded colonies and established military garrisons at \"Castra Legio Pisoraca\" (camp of \"Legio IIII Macedonica\" – Palencia), \"Octaviolca\" (near Valdeolea – Cantabria) and \"Iuliobriga\" (Retortillo – Reinosa), Cantabria never became fully romanized and its people preserved many aspects of Celtic language, religion and culture well into the Roman period. The Cantabri did not lose their warrior skills either, providing auxiliary troops (\"Auxilia\") to the Roman Imperial army for decades and these troops participated in Emperor Claudius' invasion of Britain in AD 43–60.\n\nThe Cantabri re-emerged, as did their neighbors the Astures, amid the chaos of the Migration Period of the late 4th century. Thenceforward the Cantabri started to be Christianized and were violently crushed by the Visigoths in the 6th century. However, Cantabria and the Cantabri are heard of many decades later in the context of the Visigoth wars against the Vascones (late 7th century). They only became fully Latinized in their language and culture after the Muslim Conquest of Iberia in the 8th century.\n\nAccording to Pliny the Elder Cantabria also contained gold, silver, tin, lead and iron mines, as well as magnetite and amber, but little is known about them; Strabo also mentions salt extraction in mines, such as the ones existent around Cabezón de la Sal.\nOne of his most famous and strange customs was the couvade, when, after the birth of a child, the mother had to get up and the father go to bed, to be cared for by the mother.\n\nLiterary and epigraphic evidence confirms that, like their Gallaeci and Astures neighbors, the Cantabri were polytheistic, worshipping a vast and complex pantheon of male and female Indo-European deities in sacred oak or pine woods, mountains, water-courses and small rural sanctuaries.\n\nDruidism does not appear to have been practiced by the Cantabri, though there is enough evidence for the existence of an organized priestly class who performed elaborated rites, which included ritual steam baths, festive dances, oracles, divination, human and animal sacrifices. In this respect, Strabo mentions that the peoples of the north-west sacrificed horses to an unnamed God of War, and both Horace and Silius Italicus added that the Concani had the custom of drinking the horse’s blood at the ceremony.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293517", "title": "Patna, East Ayrshire", "text": "Patna, East Ayrshire\n\nPatna is a village in East Ayrshire, Scotland, straddling the traditional districts of Carrick and Kyle.\n\nIt was established in 1802 by William Fullarton to provide housing for workers on the coalfields of his estate. Fullarton's father had worked as an employee of the British East India Company, and the town is named after the city of Patna in the Bihar province of India.\nPatna lies southeast of Ayr on the A713 to Castle Douglas at its junction with the road to Kirkmichael just north of Dalmellington. Patna lies between the villages of Polnessan and Waterside, and the River Doon flows through it.\n\nPatna Primary School is a non-denominational school. St Xavier's Primary School, a Catholic primary school, was formerly in Waterside but has been moved into Patna Primary School, and is attended by pupils from Dalmellington, Bellsbank and Maybole. A secondary school, Doon Academy, is located in the nearby village of Dalmellington.\n\nPatna has a small library and fitness gym, a community centre, a health centre, some shops, a football field, a bar “The Wheatsheaf Inn”, access to numerous country walks, an orange and masonic lodge and a golf club (although the golf course is now closed). The River Doon is popular with local anglers. There are two bridges within the village, used as vehicle and pedestrian crossing points over the River Doon. These bridges are known locally as the 'ol brig' and 'new brig'.\n\nThe village was served until 1964 by Patna railway station. The platforms have been demolished and nothing remains of the station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293518", "title": "Atok", "text": "Atok\n\nAtok may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293520", "title": "Bakun", "text": "Bakun\n\nBakun may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2293522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293522", "title": "Bokod", "text": "Bokod\n\nBokod can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293525", "title": "Kabayan (radio program)", "text": "Kabayan (radio program)\n\nKabayan (KApangyarihan ng mamamayan, BAlita at talakaYAN; lit. \"Power of the People, News and Discussion\") is the longest-running radio program hosted by Noli de Castro. The program airs every Mondays to Fridays from 6:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. on TeleRadyo.\n\n\n\nSince 1986, Kabayan (Kapangyarihan ng Mamamayan, Balita at Talakayan) is the longest-running radio program hosted by Noli de Castro. This allowed to place a timeslot after DZMM Balita (renamed Radyo Patrol Balita) which focused on issues related to the political and social situation in the Philippines. In February 2001, the last episodes of Kabayan (Kapangyarihan ng Mamamayan, Balita at Talakayan) aired. At the time, it was DZMM’s top-rating radio program anchored by Noli de Castro. The show had to end its run in order to allow de Castro to run for the Senate. Replacement programs such as \"Todo Balita\" took over this slot. On July 12, 2010, Kabayan returned to DZMM with de Castro as its current host. In January 2020, the program updated its OBB and title card on DZMM TeleRadyo, in preparation for the 10th anniversary celebration of the program's return to air.\n\nThe program is combined with \"Radyo Patrol Balita: Alas Siyete\" at 7:00 a.m. with Ted Failon. His program ends with the program's signature closing song, \"What a Wonderful World\" by Louis Armstrong and Kenny G. The ending song was updated since January 2019, which are random old songs chosen by Kabayan. However, it was reverted into the original song after a while.\n\nIn some occasions, when de Castro would not appear on his program, an alternate anchorman such as Gerry Baja, Johnson Manabat, or Ricky Rosales will host the program. The \"Radyo Patrol Balita: Alas Siyete\" portion, which runs from 7:00 a.m. to 7:30 a.m., will be hosted by Failon and an alternate anchorman.\n\nFrom March 18, 2020 to May 1, 2020, \"Kabayan\" and \"Radyo Patrol Balita Alas-Siyete\" were simulcasted on ABS-CBN from 6 to 8 a.m., temporarily replacing Umagang Kay Ganda as provisional programming, due to the coronavirus pandemic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293528", "title": "Monty Python Live at City Center", "text": "Monty Python Live at City Center\n\nMonty Python Live at City Center is a US-only live album by Monty Python, recorded at the New York City Center in April 1976 and rush released by Arista records the following month. In order to get the album out in the shops quickly, the recordings were made early on in the run where some of the performances were affected by faulty microphones. The team were joined onstage by regular actress Carol Cleveland and musician Neil Innes, who also performed in some sketches. \n\nThe album was not released in the UK, due to its similarity to \"Live at Drury Lane\". As with that album, Michael Palin provided new linking material.\n\nA CD version was later released in 1997.\n\n\n\n\"Monty Python Live at City Center\" was also broadcast on the \"King Biscuit Flower Hour\" radio show on 9 May 1976, with an introduction by John Cleese and Dave Herman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293533", "title": "Sablan", "text": "Sablan\n\nSablan is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293535", "title": "List of IFK Göteborg records and statistics", "text": "List of IFK Göteborg records and statistics\n\nThis article is about the records and statistics of the football section of IFK Göteborg. For the statistics of other sections, see IFK Göteborg (sports club).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293543", "title": "Unlimited atonement", "text": "Unlimited atonement\n\nUnlimited atonement (sometimes called general atonement or universal atonement) is a doctrine in Protestant Christianity that is normally associated with Amyraldians and non-Calvinist Christians. The doctrine states that Jesus died as a propitiation for the benefit of mankind without exception. It is a doctrine distinct from other elements of the Calvinist acronym TULIP and is contrary to the Calvinist doctrine of limited atonement.\n\nA doctrinal issue that divides Christians is the question of the extent of the atonement. This question typically goes as follows: \"Did Christ bear the sins of the elect alone on the cross, or did his death expiate the sins of all human beings?\" Those who take this view read scriptures such as ; ; ; ; to say that the Bible teaches \"unlimited\" atonement.\n\nIn response to the Remonstrants' Five articles of Remonstrance, the Synod of Dort published the Canons of Dort which included limited atonement.\n\nOne of the stronger, more vocal proponents of Unlimited atonement was John Wesley. Jonathan Edwards also advocated unlimited atonement. George Whitefield opposed the view. The namesake of the Calvinist systematic theological viewpoint, John Calvin, seemingly expressed an unlimited atonement position in several passages from his published Commentaries.\n\nThe terms \"unlimited\", \"universal\", and \"general\" are somewhat of a misnomer and have been adopted primarily to distinguish this doctrine from a Calvinist understanding of \"limited\" atonement. More accurately, the call of the Gospel is \"universal\" and there are \"no limits\" on who can believe through faith, but the legal payment is still regarded as \"limited\" only to those that respond through faith in Jesus. Thus, it is not the same as the doctrine of universal salvation, which holds that all souls will ultimately be reconciled to God, irrespective of faith.\n\nThe following statements regarding what it states and what it does not state are subject to close scrutiny of which many distinguished theologians on both sides of this issue disagree.\n\n\n\nAmyraldism (commonly called \"four-point Calvinism\" holds to a view of Unlimited atonement that is very similar but not synonymous with the traditional Arminian understanding) teaches that God has provided Christ's atonement for all alike, but seeing that none would believe on their own, he then elects those whom he will bring to faith in Christ, thereby preserving the Calvinist doctrine of the unconditional election of individuals.\n\nUnlimited atonement has a number of important points in common with traditional formulations of limited atonement. Both positions affirm that:\n\n\"All quotes from the NKJV unless otherwise noted, emphasis added:\"\n\nThese are Scriptures commonly used by those who support Unlimited atonement:\n\nThese are Scriptures commonly used by those who deny Unlimited atonement:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293544", "title": "Hsien-Ko", "text": "Hsien-Ko\n\nHsien-Ko has since become one of the franchise's more popular characters, garnering positive fan and critical reception. She has also appeared on official \"Darkstalkers\" merchandise and as a playable character in several games outside the series.\n\nAccording to her \"\" backstory, Hsien-Ko and her twin sister, Mei-Ling, were born in 1730s China (Qing dynasty). Hsien-Ko was sixteen at a time when undead spirits arose and attacked a rural village. When their mother was killed in her attempt to save the village, the twins, both teenagers, fought to release her soul from the dark by using a forbidden spell called \"Igyo Tenshin no Jutsu.\" This in turn converted them into a jiāngshī (\"hopping corpse\"), a type of Chinese zombie. Mei-Ling is actually the \"fú\" (\"ward-paper\"), a parchment-like talisman that is attached to the front of Hsien-Ko's hat. While the conversion infused Hsien-Ko with magical powers, they are formidable enough that Mei-Ling's presence as the ward-paper is required to keep them in check. The twins' transformation results in them fighting as a Darkhunter as a combined single unit of mind and body. In Hsien-Ko's \"Darkstalkers' Revenge\" ending, the girls free their mother's soul, albeit at the cost of their own lives, but their mother, as a reward, enables them to be reborn as infants in a new life. In Hsien-Ko's \"Darkstalkers 3\" storyline, which makes no mention of the twins' mother, they discover that they are connected psychically after experiencing the same dream on the night of their sixteenth birthday, but the very next night they both suffer a nightmare and fall into a coma, which in turn sees their collective consciousness transported into Majigen. After awakening in this foreign territory, they find they have gained new powers simply from unleashing the power of an unspecified forbidden spell and team up to fight their way out of the realm.\n\nHsien-Ko has made several other appearances in crossover titles. She appears as a playable character in \"Namco × Capcom\", and is paired with Fong Ling from \"\" as a single unit, while in \"Project X Zone\" she is paired up with Frank West from \"Dead Rising\". Hsien-Ko is also playable in \"Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo\", \"Super Gem Fighter Mini Mix\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\" (where Hsien-Ko and Mei-Ling arrive to ask Doctor Strange to help them save their mother's soul), \"Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3\", \"Onimusha Soul\" (redesigned for a feudal Japan setting), and \"Street Fighter: Puzzle Spirits\".\n\nHsien-Ko has her own mobile game, \"Lei-Lei's Magical Hammer\", released in the West simply as \"Magical Hammer\" and later remade as \"Line Drop: Spirit Hunter Lei-Lei\". She was originally planned to be playable in \"Tatsunoko vs. Capcom\", but was dropped due to time constraints. She has also made cameo appearances: in some versions of \"Marvel Super Heroes\" where she can be summoned by Anita; in \"Capcom vs. SNK 2\" as a restaurant patron in the Shanghai stage; in \"Street Fighter Alpha 2\" as one of the party guests, along with her sister, in Ken's stage; and in \"Zombie Cafe\" in a guest appearance. Her guest appearances in collaboration events within assorted mobile games have included \"The Knights of Avalon\" and \"The Samurai Kingdom\".\n\nHsien-Ko (Lei-Lei) was chiefly created by \"Night Warriors: Darkstalkers' Revenge\" planners Haruo Murata and Noritaka Funamizu and graphically designed by Hitoshi Nishio, an artist responsible for the look of the new characters in the game. It was the first time Nishio has worked on a female character. In the beginning, Funamizu envisioned two human sisters who would have fought together, in a way similar to Morrigan Aensland's \"Astral Vision\" special move that makes Morrigan's double appear on other side of the screen and mirror her every move. That idea was abandoned due to the problems related to programming character control problems. Murata decided a lone Hsien-Ko would be too weak as a human being, and so he came up with the jiangshi idea \"but Lei-Lei can't control her powers alone, so she fights with her sister transformed into an ofuda.\" Nishio said: \"after drawing Lei-Lei’s graphics I watched a real Chinese jiangshi movie, and I got a little worried about how Lei-Lei would be able to move around with that ofuda covering her eyes. (laughs) That was why I made Lin-Lin the ofuda.\"\n\nHsien-Ko's arsenal for her comedic \"Anki Hou\" special attack (throwing various projectiles including swords, daggers, axes, sledgehammers, kunai, shuriken, boomerangs, fuse bombs, chains, weights, bonsai trees, bronze statues, and Chun Li's bracelets) was created as team members would propose to add more items. According to another planner/designer, Junichi Ohno, Hsien-Ko was too strong at first and had to be balanced. Composer Takayuki Iwaim experimented with Hsien-Ko stage's background music in a way that he though would match her character image while trying to \"remove some of the 'dark' image the first game had.\"\n\nIn the games, most of Hsien-Ko's powers \"involve floating on air and pulling an impossibly huge collection of deadly items out of their sleeves.\" According to \"Sega Saturn Magazine\", unlike the other \"Darkstalkers\" characters, Hsien-Ko \"is a mostly defensive character and hence spends most of the game blocking attacks and storing special gauges. She is excellent for countering moves and combos and a number of projectile attacks give her the edge in long range attacks.\" She is one of the characters that can dash past an opponent and get behind them. Though Mei-Ling has never been a playable character in any of the games, a special move in \"Darkstalkers 3\" involves her coming out to team up with Hsien-Ko.\n\nA cheat code in \"Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo\", where Hsien-Ko and the other characters appear in a super-deformed state, allows access to Mei-Ling as a playable. According to GamesRadar, the \"\" version of Hsien-Ko (an unlockable character capable of interacting with Chris Redfield) is \"an extremely unorthodox character with a number of strange moves and weird mobility.\" She was judged not good for beginners as her \"weird normal attacks and bizarre movement options\" and attacks are likely to confuse new players. The DLC Evil Twin Costume Pack includes Mei-Ling as an alternate skin for Hsien-Ko's model in \"Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3\".\n\nHsien-Ko and Mei-Ling make their first appearance in the second episode of the 1997 anime miniseries \"\". The twins travel Earth in an old T-bucket-style convertible with a trailer resembling a covered wagon attached. Their personalities, and speech patterns in the English dub of the program, differed considerably; Mei-Ling is the more sensible of the pair and speaks eloquently, whereas Hsien-Ko has a more childlike disposition, and her dialogue often contains modern colloquialisms or improper grammar (often saying \"don't\" in place of \"doesn't\"). She also appears in the 1995 American cartoon series that is loosely based on the games (in the episodes \"Ghost Hunter\" and \"Darkest Before Dawn\"), where Hsien-Ko's backstory was altered like those of several characters, in her case her transformation having resulted from her accidentally consuming a substance she mistook for rice that was hidden under a floorboard inside a hut.\n\nThe character appears in other \"Darkstalkers\" media, such as the comic and manga adaptations of \"Night Warriors: Darkstalkers' Revenge\" by Run Ishida; and Itou Mami's \"Maleficarum\", as well as in the 2004 card game \"Universal Fighting System\" by Jasco Games. Multiple Hsien-Ko figures and resin garage kits were released by various manufacturers, including FuRyu, among others. Capcom produced Hsien-Ko T-shirts and Banpresto released a series of mascot key chains. \n\nHsien-Ko was well received by Westen critics as one of the most remarkable characters in the series already filled with unusual characters, and have been noted as a popular fan favourite by many publications such as \"Complex\", Eurogamer, Hardcore Gaming 101, and Siliconera, as well as by individuals such as \"Hi Score Girl\" author Rensuke Oshikiri. Japanese arcade gaming magazine \"Gamest\" named Lei-Lei as the seventh best character of 1995, as well as 32nd in 1997. Also in 1997, Japanese \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" ranked her as the 35th best female character on the Sega Saturn.\n\nDescribed as \"scary but also sort of hilarious, a highly tactical fighter\" by GamesRadar and as \"one of the funniest characters around\" by \"EGM2\", Hsien-Ko was one of favorite female Asian video game characters of GameDaily's Robert Workman, who opined she \"definitely has good looks, despite her oversized hands,\" while WhatCulture ranked her as the 28th greatest female fighting game character of all time. In 2013, \"Retro Gamer\" chose her one of the 19 \"coolest fighters from the last 30 years\", declaring that fellow \"Darkstalkers\" characters \"Felicia, Demitri and B.B. Hood are equally well known, but Lei-Lei is a more unusual example of a popular character as she's so unorthodox and difficult to use effectively.\"\n\nJapanese singer and voice actress Rina Kondō used Lei-Lei as her nickname. The \"Skullgirls\" character Peacock's design was partially inspired by Hsien-Ko, and the game's first prototype around 1999 actually used her and Chun-Li sprites for testing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293546", "title": "Bob Sinclar", "text": "Bob Sinclar\n\nChristophe Le Friant (; born 10 May 1969), better known by his stage name Bob Sinclar (), is a French record producer, house music DJ, remixer and the owner of the record label Yellow Productions.\n\nChristophe Le Friant began DJing in the 1980s under the name Chris the French Kiss. During this time he was more influenced by hip-hop and jazz music and created music projects such as The Mighty Bop and Reminiscence Quartet, this one with an ensemble of musicians. Le Friant used the alias Desmond K in the Reminiscence Quartet.\n\nLe Friant adopted the new name of Bob Sinclar in 1998 (hero from the film \"Le Magnifique\"). He became known for popularising the \"French touch\" of house music with heavy use of sampled and filtered disco strings. He describes his musical style as inspired by \"peace, love, and house music\".\n\nIn the 2000s, Several of Sinclar's songs have become international hits, being particularly popular in Europe. Some of his most popular hits include \"Love Generation\" (2005, with Gary Pine) and \"World, Hold On (Children of the Sky)\" (2006, featuring Steve Edwards). In 2006, Bob Sinclar received the TMF Award Best Dance International (Belgium). In 2006, he released the song \"Rock This Party\" under the label Defected Records. In 2008, Bob Sinclar along with Steve Edwards released a song called \"Together\".\n\nIn the 2010s, Bob Sinclar became a very prolific music producer. In 2011, he released a song with the Italian vocalist Raffaella Carrà called \"Far l'amore\", a remixed version of Carrà's song \"A far l'amore comincia tu\". In 2013, he released a single called \"Summer Moonlight\". In 2015, he collaborated with Dawn Tallman for a track titled \"Feel the Vibe\". In 2016, he released the track \"Someone Who Needs Me\" under the label Spinnin' Records. Also with Spinnin' Records, he released a collaboration with Akon titled \"'Til the Sun Rise Up\". In June 2018, he released a single called \"I Believe\" that was very popular, particularly in Italy and Europe.\n\nBob Sinclar has produced dozens of official remixes over his long career, including remixes of songs by artists such as Jamiroquai, Moby, James Brown, Madonna, and Rihanna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293547", "title": "Pohyonsa", "text": "Pohyonsa\n\nPohyon-sa is a Korean Buddhist temple located in Hyangsan county in North Pyong'an Province, North Korea. It is located within the Myohyang Mountains. Founded under the Koryo dynasty at the start of the 11th century, the temple flourished as one of the greatest centers of Buddhism in the north of Korea, and became a renowned place of pilgrimage. Like most other temples in North Korea, the complex suffered extensive damage from US bombing during the Korean War. The temple is designated as National Treasure #40 in North Korea, with many of its component buildings and structures further declared as individual national treasures.\n\nPohyon Temple was founded under the Koryo dynasty in 1024 and named for the Buddhist deity Samantabhadra (known as Pohyon Posal in Korean).\n\nDuring the Imjin Wars, when Japanese warlord Toyotomi Hideyoshi ordered several attempted invasions of Korea, the temple became a stronghold for bands of warrior monks led by the great saint Sosan. At age 73, he led bands against the Japanese armies, even assisting recapture Pyongyang from the Japanese. He died at the temple in 1604. During the war, the temple was charged with protection the Chonju copy of the four Annals of the Yi Dynasty, which was secured in the nearby Puryong Hermitage. This copy was the only one to survive the war.\n\nIn 1951, at the start of the Korean War, the complex was bombed by US forces, who destroyed over half of its 24 pre-war buildings, including the main prayer hall. Several have since been reconstructed.\n\nPohyon temple features extensive grounds. While most of the important buildings are located along an axis centered on Taeung Hall, much of the center of the temple is taken up by a large lawn surrounded by various other halls and shrines.\n\nPohyon Temple was once entered through a series of three ceremonial gates, though visitors now enter through a gate at the temple's side. The outer gate, Jogye Gate (), was built in 1644 and houses to Deva statues; it is now closed to through traffic. Between this gate and Haetal Gate (, \"Gate of Nirvana\"), the temple's middle gate, is a long, tree-lined path lined with commemorative stele detailing the temple's history. Some of these still bear shrapnel scars from the Korean War. The inner gate of Pohyon Temple is Chonwang Gate , \"Gate of the Four Heavenly Kings\"), which contains statues of the Buddhist deities of the same name.\n\nDirectly through Chonwang Gate is Manse Pavilion (, \"Pavilion of Ten Thousand Years\"), a former meditation hall. Destroyed by American bombing in 1951, Manse Pavilion was reconstructed in 1979 out using concrete rather than its original wood. In front of the pavilion stands the nine-story Tabo Pagoda (, \"Pagoda of Many Treasures\"), erected in 1044 and designated National Treasure #7.\n\nThe main hall of the temple, Taeung Hall () was also destroyed during the Korean War by U.S. bombing; reconstructed in 1976, it stands as faithful replica of the 1765 original. In the courtyard between it and Manse Pavilion stands the 13-storey Sokka Pagoda (), erected in the 14th century and designated National Treasure #144.\n\nTo the right of Taeung Hall, and past a small garden, sits \"Kwanum Hall\" (). Named after the bodhisattva Avalokitesvara (known as Guanyin in Chinese), Kwanum Hall was built in 1449 and is the oldest building in the temple compound. It is designated as National Treasure #57. To the east of this hall is Ryongsan Hall ()\n\nIn the northeast corner of the temple is the walled Suchung Shrine (, \"Shrine of Rewarding Loyalty\"). Constructed in 1794, this small walled compound honors the priests who led bands of warrior monks to repel the Japanese invasions of 1592-1598. Inside, memorial services were once held for the great monk Sŏsan, who once resided in this temple and was instrumental in driving out the invasion forces of Toyotomi Hideyoshi. Inside the compound is a portrait hall, which contains paintings and relics related to three patriotic monks, and a Monument Pavilion, which houses a stele erected in 1796 to records Sŏsan's patriotic deeds. The compound is designated as National Treasure #143.\n\nSouth of the shrine, on the east side of the lawn, is the temple archive, also known as Changgyong Pavilion (). This is a modern structure, as the original library burned down during the US bombings of 1951. It houses a copy of the Tripitaka Koreana, a UNESCO-designated cultural relic; the original wooden printing blocks, however, are located at Haeinsa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293550", "title": "Neonomianism", "text": "Neonomianism\n\nNeonomianism () in Christian theology is the doctrine that the Gospel is a new law, the requirements of which humanity fulfills by faith and repentance, most often associated with the theology of Richard Baxter (1615–1691).\n\nRichard Baxter defended this view when he wrote,\n\nWilliam Styles defined Neonomianism as a doctrine associated with the theologian Daniel Williams, \"which held that God has receded from the demands of the Moral Law, and given up its original obligations—and that the Gospel is a New Law, but of milder requirements, in which Faith, Repentance, and sincere though imperfect Obedience, are substituted in the room of the perfect and perpetual Obedience required by the original Law.\" (William Styles, A Manual of Faith and Practice)\n\nIsaac Chauncy (1632–1712) was one of the leading opponents of neonomianism. He set forth his arguments against Williams in his book \"Neonomianism Unmask'd\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2293551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293551", "title": "Chiusi", "text": "Chiusi\n\nChiusi (Etruscan: \"Clevsin\"; Umbrian: \"Camars\"; Ancient Greek: \"Klysion\", \"Κλύσιον\"; Latin: \"Clusium\") is a town and \"comune\" in province of Siena, Tuscany, Italy.\n\nClusium (\"Clevsin\" in Etruscan) was one of the more powerful cities in the Etruscan League. Chiusi came under the influence of Rome in the 3rd century BC and was involved in the Social War.\n\nIn 540 AD it was occupied by the Ostrogoths and was later seat of a Lombard duchy. From the 11th century it was under the rule of the local bishop, and was later contended for by Orvieto and, from 1231, Siena, belonging to the latter until 1556, when it was annexed to the Grand duchy of Tuscany.\n\nThe lowlands around Chiusi house numerous trove of tombs for this civilization. The Etruscan Museum of Chiusi is one of the most important repositories of Etruscan remains in Italy.\n\nOther sights include:\n\nChiusi is served by a gate on the A1 Highway. It is also served by a station on the railway connecting Rome to Florence (Chiusi-Chianciano Terme).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293552", "title": "Monty Python's Life of Brian (album)", "text": "Monty Python's Life of Brian (album)\n\nMonty Python's Life of Brian is the second soundtrack album by Monty Python, released in 1979 alongside the film of the same name. It contains scenes from the film interrupted by linking sections performed by Eric Idle and Graham Chapman, who also acted as producers following an aborted attempt at a soundtrack album by Michael Palin. The album opens with a brief rendition of \"Hava Nagila\" on Scottish bagpipes, which had earlier been considered for use in a scene later cut from the film.\n\nIn common with the controversy surrounding the film, the album was banned in Ireland after Father Brian D'Arcy highlighted how it had worked its way through a loophole in the country's censorship laws, claiming \"Anybody who buys the record and finds it funny must have something wrong with their mentality\". Nevertheless, the album reached No.63 in the UK album chart.\n\nA 7\" single (K17495) Double A-side of Brian/Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life was released in the UK on 16 November 1979 to promote the album.\n\nIn 2006 a special edition CD added six bonus tracks comprising outtakes, demos and publicity material to the end of the album.\n\nPart of the studio linking material was later used in the 2012 animated film \"\".\n\nA limited edition picture disc of the album was released on 13 April 2019, as part of Record Store Day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293553", "title": "Submerged (2005 film)", "text": "Submerged (2005 film)\n\nSubmerged is a 2005 American action film written and directed by Anthony Hickox and starring Steven Seagal, William Hope, Vinnie Jones and Christine Adams. The film was released on direct-to-DVD in the United States on May 31, 2005.\n\nChris Cody (Steven Seagal) is a top-ranked mercenary who took part in an undercover operation to stop a major terrorist strike on U.S. soil; a strike that the UN refused to believe was about to happen. Cody had to break a number of laws in order to do the job, and he's in a military prison.\n\nAt the U.S. Embassy in Montevideo, Uruguay, Secret Service agents are briefing the ambassador on a terrorist base when they suddenly go haywire and kill her, and then themselves. Later, in Washington DC, intelligence analyst Dr. Chappell (Christine Adams) concludes that some sort of mind control device must have been used. A Delta Force commando team is sent to Uruguay to investigate, but they are quickly ambushed and captured. Taken to the terrorist base, they are brainwashed by Dr. Adrian Lehder (Nick Brimble), a scientist who heads a secret CIA experiment in mind control, programming soldiers to become virtually unstoppable killing machines when they're given the right commands.\n\nThe Navy recruits Cody and his talented crew to take Chappell and special agent Fletcher (William Hope) with them in an effort to destroy the facility and take down Lehder. Cody is promised that in exchange, he and his crew will be freed and cleared of the alleged misconduct that they were accused of and receive $100,000 each. Suspicious, Cody quickly jettisons Fletcher, who turns out to be in league with Lehder. Fletcher tips off Lehder, and they quickly abandon Lehder's facility, leaving behind a few American prisoners as Trojan horses.\n\nOne team of Cody’s men commandeers a submarine, while the others secure the base and rescue the prisoners. The team fights its way past a tank, destroys the base, and escapes on the sub. But they end up stuck on the sub with some of the mind-controlled soldiers. After fighting off the soldiers and escaping from the sub, Cody and his crew realize that they must race to bring down Lehder before the rest of his soldiers claim them all.\n\n\nDirector Anthony Hickox later said the script was \"brilliant... It started life as a full on horror and sci-fi. I just thought wouldn’t it be great if you were stuck at the bottom of the ocean with fucking aliens on your submarine! So that was the original idea, and we story boarded it and we designed the creatures; like these little, mini kind of crab insects that could go down the drains of the submarine so you’d never know when they were coming.\"\n\nThe lead character was supposed to be a bitter old drunken captain. Hickox described his project as \"\"The Thing\" in a submarine\" or \"\"The Thing\" meets \"Das Boot\"\".\n\n\"It was really interesting,\" said Hickox. \"And then Seagal came on board.”\n\nAccording to Hickox, Segal said he liked the script but three weeks before shooting was to start Segal called him and said “I don’t think this movie should be on a submarine”. He also wanted an opera scene and said \"I’ve decided I don’t like aliens and I don’t like monsters. I don’t want to be in a monster movie”.\n\nThe director said \"that’s why it ended up like it did. We had no clue what we were doing: no script, and the whole mind control thing in the final film was made up the last week before shooting! It was really insane. At that point, again I should have quit, but I needed the cash.”\n\nIt was made by Emmett/Furla Films, a wholly owned subsidiary of Family Room Entertainment Corporation.\n\nIt is set and filmed in Sofia, Bulgaria in 31 days from August 16 to September 16, 2004.\n\nAlison King said of working on the film: \"It was filmed in Bulgaria. He’s a member of the American military and I’m Dimita – the best field op in the business. I’m an action girl with a high pony-tail doing lots of stunts. The stunt guy had worked with Angelina Jolie on \"Tomb Raider\" and he showed me how to hang upside down from things, how to jump down into dams and how to strangle people with my knees. It was great fun.\"\n\nAt one stage the Uruguyan government reportedly considered legal action against the makers of the film for the depiction of their country as a corrupt dictatorship.\n\nVern, reviewing the film for Ain't It Cool News, called it \"one of the worst and least entertaining\" of Segal's films.\n\nDVD was released in Region 1 in the United States on May 31, 2005, and also Region 2 in the United Kingdom on 5 September 2005, it was distributed by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293559", "title": "Pratovecchio Stia", "text": "Pratovecchio Stia\n\nPratovecchio Stia is a \"comune\" in the province of Arezzo, Tuscany. It was formed by the merger of the two former \"comuni\" of Pratovecchio and Stia in 2014.\n\nDono di Paolo, father of the Florentine artist Paolo Uccello, was a barber-surgeon from Pratovecchio. Dono moved to Florence and became a citizen there in 1373.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2293561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293561", "title": "Ivana", "text": "Ivana\n\nIvana () is a feminine given name of Slavic origin that is also popular in southern Ireland, France, French-speaking Canada, the Mediterranean and Latin America. It is the feminine form of the name Ivan, which are both the Slavic cognates of the names Joanna and John. It may also be spelled as Ivanna.\n\nVariants Iva and Ivanka are diminutives derived from Ivana. The name day is celebrated on April 4. In Slovakia, the name day is celebrated on December 28. In Macedonia, the name day is celebrated on July 07 - also known as \"Ivanden\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293565", "title": "Mansfield and Pinxton Railway", "text": "Mansfield and Pinxton Railway\n\nThe Mansfield and Pinxton Railway was an early horse-drawn railway in the United Kingdom. It was completed in 1819, to make a transport link between Mansfield and the Cromford Canal at Pinxton. An important traffic was coal inward to Mansfield, as coal deposits near there were too deep to be extracted economically at the time; minerals, malt and other manufactures were exported from Mansfield. Collieries along the line of route were developed as time went on.\n\nFrom 1847 the Midland Railway developed a railway network in the locality of Mansfield, and purchased the M&PR, converting it to be suitable for locomotive use and incorporating it in its own network.\n\nIn the second half of the twentieth century, passenger and ordinary goods business in the Mansfield area declined substantially, leaving only a limited coal traffic via Codnor Park from 1970. The passenger service from Nottingham to Mansfield was revived under the marketing title The Robin Hood Line, opening to Mansfield in 1995, using the section of the original M&PR, as modified by the Midland Railway, from Kirkby to Mansfield. The mineral traffic flow from Codnor Park continues.\n\nThe canal age had resulted in a network that greatly reduced transport costs, but topography, in particular hilly terrain, left some localities deprived of the amenity. Mansfield had no canal; the nearest was the Pinxton basin of a branch of the Cromford canal, about 8 miles away. Mansfield’s industry was malting, and the manufacture of stockings and gloves, there were considerable limestone deposits, and sand particularly suited to moulding in cast iron manufacture. The lack of economical transport left Mansfield at a disadvantage in transporting its products to market. Pinxton was at the eastern edge of coal deposits at practicable depths at the time, so the coal consumed in Mansfield had to be brought in.\n\nBusiness interests in Mansfield saw the desirability of a railway connection to the town and promoted a line from the Pinxton basin of the Cromford Canal to Mansfield. The Mansfield and Pinxton Railway was authorised by Act of 16 June 1817. Unlike many tramway extensions to canals, it was authorised independently. Its declared purpose was to convey heavy minerals, chiefly coal, lead and limestone at first, to and from the Pinxton basin of the Cromford canal. Pinxton was at the eastern edge of coal deposits at practicable depths at the time, so the coal was to be brought into Mansfield. The hilly terrain predisposed against extension of the canal. The authorised capital was £22,800. Immediately after authorisation a meeting of the proprietors took place, indicating that businesspeople had already committed to funding the construction, and no general invitation to subscribe was required.\n\nJosias Jessop was the engineer of the project. Construction evidently proceeded rapidly, but there was a cost overrun. At a meeting held on 18 December 1818 it was said that an additional £7,600 was needed to complete the railway. \n\nThe line was opened on 13 April 1819, when \"the first load of coals was brought in to the Company's wharf [at Mansfield]... the coal was unloaded and taken to the market place where it was heaped up and set on fire.\" This was evidently a major event in the locality: crowds met the incoming train at the five-arch bridge \"where they met ten waggons laden with coal from the Pinxton colliery... the assemblage amounted to some thousands... Having arrived at the market-place about three o'clock, which, not withstanding the heavy rain falling at the time was thronged with people, the band struck up \"God Save the King\"... Nearly three hundred of the workmen who had been employed during the last three months on the road, then returned to partake of a dinner, provided for them by the proprietors, at different public houses in the town.\"\n\nThe Mansfield terminal was Portland Wharf, alongside White Bear Lane. Bullocks were used as the motive power at first, and later horses were substituted. The railway was to be operated as a toll road: tonnage rates were set; owners of land adjacent to the line were to establish wharfs (goods sidings) and the company could step in if they failed to do so.\n\nThe line was double track, miles long. From Mansfield to the summit level there was a rise of 89 ft; it then fell 181 feet to the Pinxton terminal. The summit was a little under half way from Mansfield. The track consisted of fish-bellied cast iron edge rails; the rails used a form of scarfed joints on stone block sleepers. The selection of edge rails was not without controversy: plate rails (where the wagon wheels are plain and the plate provides the flange for containment) have the advantage that the wagons can leave the track and be manoeuvred on an ordinary flat surface. Losing that advantage was only justified if edge rails enabled heavier loads to be hauled by a horse; there seemed to be a lack of objective evidence on that point.\n\nThe track gauge was 4 ft in. The Board of Trade Inspecting Officer visited on 25 September 1849, and his report mistakenly refers to a gauge of 4 ft 4 in.\n\nAt the first proprietors' meeting in April 1820 it was announced that the cost of building the railway had been £35,000, \"which had put the Company and its investors into debt\". The amount collected by tolls was £1,350, and a dividend of 3% was declared. \n\nIncome figures are available for the year 1833-4: gross income was £1,966 3s 9d; expenses were £485 13s 2d and a dividend of 9% was paid. Coal and coke were by far the dominant commodity carried. Repairing the rails proved more expensive than had been foreseen: the cost of repairs in the 1824/25 statement amounted to £204 18s. In 1834, it was decided that if any new rails were required they should be of wrought iron, not less than 12 feet long. Larger stone blocks were needed for the sleepers for these rails. They were to measure not less than 2 feet by 20 inches and 8 inches thick. The first order for the longer rails was for 200 yards. In 1836 one hundred and sixty rails were ordered.\n\nAlthough the Mansfield & Pinxton Railway was originally envisaged as an extension of the Cromford Canal, the canal company took little interest in the railway, and repeatedly declined to give discounted rates. Most of the traffic in later years was coal from pits alongside the lower part of the line to the industrial and domestic hearths of Mansfield. The quantity of stone conveyed was less than expected, mainly because of the expense of carrying it forward by canal. Nevertheless, one of Britain's most famous landmarks, the Palace of Westminster (the Houses of Parliament) was rebuilt during the mid-1830s using limestone transported over the Pinxton line. Mansfield dispatched its renowned moulding sand to local ironworks via the railway and received wagons of metal for its foundries. Bricks, lime, timber, slate and assorted agricultural produce made up the remaining traffic. Nevertheless coal outweighed the traffic volumes seven to one.\n\nWilliam Epperstone provided a passenger service from 1832; his vehicle left \"Wheatcroft & Co's. Railway Waggon Warehouse, Portland Wharf\" every Thursday at 3 pm, in addition to \"two or three waggons, every morning, at 6 or 7 o'clock, on the Railway to Pinxton, whence goods are forwarded to all parts of the Kingdom by land and water.\"\n\nThe Midland Railway was formed in May 1844; it acquired the rights to the Erewash Valley Railway; it opened that line from Long Eaton Junction to Codnor Park on 6 September 1847. The Midland Railway saw the importance of connecting to Mansfield, but two new companies were being promoted: the Boston, Newark & Sheffield Railway was to pass through Southwell and Mansfield, while the Nottingham, Mansfield & Midlands Junction Railway would incorporate the Mansfield & Pinxton line. These two organisations were so confident about their prospects that they jointly purchased the Mansfield & Pinxton company the following year. The Midland Railway had decided to build a line from Nottingham to Mansfield, using part of the Pinxton Railway, and Parliament favoured their plans, and an Act for the Nottingham Mansfield railway (initially connecting with the Mansfield & Pinxton north of Kirkby in Ashfield) was passed on 16 July 1846.\n\nThe Midland Railway got its Mansfield and Erewash Valley Extension Act on 9 July 1847. This sanctioned the acquisition of the tramway and its incorporation in a line between Codnor Park and Mansfield. Ownership of the Pinxton line remained a problem. The issue was finally resolved on 15 February 1848, when the Railway Commissioners issued a certificate, by the authority of which the Mansfield & Pinxton Railway was amalgamated with the Midland and immediately dissolved. The purchase of the Mansfield and Pinxton Tramway cost £21,066 13s. 4d.; Stretton considered that a comparatively small sum.\n\nThis gave the Midland Railway two routes to Mansfield: a new line from near Nottingham, via the Leen Valley, and the Erewash Valley line via Codnor Park. The tramway style of track of the Mansfield and Pinxton Railway needed to be completely renewed. It had been built with no concern for speed, and several sharp curves needed to be eased. The work progressed rapidly, and on 24 August 1849 a contractor's locomotive visited Mansfield, attracting considerable local attention. Midland Railway directors arrived by special train on 17 September, and the Board of Trade inspection took place on 25 September. The route between Kirkby and Mansfield section was found to be in good shape. but the Codnor Park line was missing several crossing gates and even some short lengths of track.\n\nMineral workings over the Codnor Park line (not requiring Board of Trade approval), and passenger services from Mansfield to Nottingham, commenced on 9 October 1849. There were four passenger journeys a day, taking 55 minutes. Mansfield trains from Nottingham followed the River Leen through Radford and Hucknall. Then there was an arduous four mile climb at 1 in 79 past Linby and Newstead to Kirkby Tunnel, 199 yards. The line continued to Kirkby, and a short distance north of there, the new line joined the route of the Pinxton railway past Sutton-in-Ashfield and across King's Mill viaduct to Mansfield. The distance from Nottingham to Mansfield was about 17 miles. There was a new terminal at Mansfield, attached to the original Mansfield and Pinxton warehouse. The Codnor Park-Mansfield railway climbed gently up the Erewash Valley to join the old tramway formation east of Pinxton basin.\n\nThe Mansfield line became the springboard for reaching areas north and east of the town, promoted by the expansion of coal working in those areas. Mansfield station was converted for through working in 1872, although actual through operation did not begin until 1875. Numerous other collieries directly on the former Mansfield and Pinxton line opened towards the end of the nineteenth century, as technological improvements enabled the exploitation of the deeper seams. Many branch lines connections to the M&PR route were made, and competing lines were opened too.\n\nExpansion of colliery activity continued in the twentieth century. The Midland Railway became a constituent of the new London, Midland and Scottish Railway in 1923, under the \"grouping\" of the railways, directed by the Railways Act 1921. In turn the LMS, with other companies, was nationalised in 1948, becoming part of British Railways.\n\nBy this time local passenger traffic (and the ordinary goods business) had been hard hit by road competition. Ordinary passenger services from Mansfield to Codnor Park and Pye Bridge had been withdrawn on 10 September 1951, although a workmen's service from Kirkby to Nottingham continued until 6 September 1965. On 12 October 1964 the Leen Valley passenger trains between Nottingham and Mansfield were withdrawn. On June 1975 all goods facilities at Mansfield were withdrawn, so that the local rail network was entirely dependent on coal traffic. The Midland Railway Leen Valley route had already been severed between Kirkby in Ashfield and Annesley on 11 October 1970.\n\nA body of opinion developed in favour of funding reinstatement of the Leen Valley services to Mansfield, and an authorising Act for the Newstead - Kirkby link was passed on 26 July 1990; the term 'Robin Hood Line' was adopted. A Nottingham - Newstead passenger service began on 17 May 1993. In 1994 work started on reinstating the link at Kirkby tunnel, and passenger services from Nottingham to Mansfield Woodhouse started operation on 20 November 1995; the service was later extended to Worksop.\n\nThe trains ran over the alignment of the Mansfield and Pinxton Railway as modified by the Midland Railway, between Kirkby and Mansfield. The line from Codnor Park is in use for mineral traffic, and uses the M&PR route from Pinxton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293569", "title": "United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians", "text": "United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians\n\nThe United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians in Oklahoma ( or , abbreviated United Keetoowah Band or UKB) is a federally recognized tribe of Cherokee Native Americans headquartered in Tahlequah, Oklahoma. According to the UKB website, its members are mostly descendants of \"Old Settlers\" or \"Western Cherokee,\" those Cherokee who migrated from the Southeast to present-day Arkansas and Oklahoma about 1817. Some reports estimate that Old Settlers began migrating west by 1800. This was before the forced relocation of Cherokee by the United States in the late 1830s under the Indian Removal Act. \n\nAlthough politically the UKB is not associated with the Trail of Tears, many of the members have direct ancestors who completed the journey in 1838/1839. Many UKB members are traditionalists and Baptists. \n\nToday the UKB has over 14,300 members, with 13,300 living within the state of Oklahoma. Joe Bunch is the current Chief.\n\nAssistant Chief is Jamie Thompson. Joyce Fourkiller-Hawk serves as the tribal Secretary and Ella Mae Worley is the tribe's Treasurer. Tribal officers hold four-year terms while tribal council members are elected to two-year terms. The election calendars parallel the United States' national election calendar (Mid-terms and Presidential).\n\nThe tribe owns and operates Keetoowah Construction in Tahlequah, and the Keetoowah Cherokee Treatment Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma. They have an arts and crafts gallery, showcasing members' work. \n\nThey own and operate the Keetoowah Cherokee Casino, with over 500 gaming machines, in Tahlequah. The UKB issue their own tribal vehicle tags. Their estimated annual economic impact is $267 million. They host an annual homecoming festival over the first weekend of October.\n\nThe word Keetoowah (\"Kituwa\") is the name of an ancient Cherokee mother town and earthwork mound in the eastern homeland of the Cherokee. Kituwah also is considered by the Cherokee to be their original name. The UKB's original land claims include all or parts of Alabama, the Carolinas, Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. Following the western movement of the Cherokee, UKB traditional territories include the above-mentioned states with the addition of Arkansas, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, and Texas.\n\nThe UKB members are composed primarily of descendants of the \"Old Settlers,\" Cherokee who settled in present-day Arkansas and Oklahoma around 1817. They were well established before most of the Cherokee were forcibly relocated by the United States government from the Southeast to Indian Territory in what became known as the 1838 Trail of Tears.\n\nBy the 1880s, all Cherokee people faced increased pressure by the US government for assimilation. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Cherokee and other Native American children were sent to Indian boarding schools away from home for their education: they were expected to speak only English, were generally prohibited from speaking their own languages, and were expected to adopt Christianity rather than practice native spirituality. The US federal government unilaterally closed and seized Cherokee and other Native American governmental and public institutions through the 1898 Curtis Act, the Dawes Act and the 1906 Five Civilized Tribes Act. Under this legislation, they broke up communal tribal holdings and allotted plots of land to individual households, intended to be developed according to the European-American model of subsistence farming.\n\nThe Dawes Commission was tasked to extinguish Native American land claims and break up tribal governments by allotting what was considered communal tribal lands. By assigning plots to individual households among the Five Civilized Tribes, they intended to encourage the European-American model of subsistence farming. Afterward the US government appointed certain Cherokee chiefs to administer tribal lands and holdings, rather than allowing the people to continue with their practice of hereditary chiefs.\n\nUnder the Curtis Act of 1898, the government of the Cherokee Nation was dissolved in 1906, in spite of the resistance of many of its members. The only remnant left was the office of the Principal Chief, held by William Charles Rogers. He had been deposed in 1905 by the National Council for cooperating in the tribe's dissolution. He was replaced with Frank J. Boudinot (who was also the leader of the Keetoowah Nighthawk Society). \n\nThe next year, the US government re-appointed Rogers and directed him to manage land sales. He held office until 1914. After that the US government did not appoint a chief and the position was dormant.\n\nPrior to World War II, the administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt worked to strengthen Native American tribes by encouraging them to reconstitute their governments and adopt an electoral process. Congress passed the Indian Reorganization Act (1934). The state legislature passed the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act (OIWA, 1936); both were considered part of the Indian New Deal to support tribes' reorganizing their governments. The Cherokee began to organize on their own terms. In the meantime, the President of the United States officially appointed Principal Chiefs for the Cherokee; these appointments were made through the Department of Interior's Bureau of Indian Affairs.\nThe UKB ratified their constitution and by-laws on October 3, 1950. The tribe was federally recognized in 1950 under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act. Early elected leaders of the UKB were Levi Gritts, followed by John Hitcher, and the Reverend Jim Pickup, who served in the post-World War II era.\n\nThe UKB have struggled to maintain use and education in the Cherokee language. As of 2018, only 101 people in the UKB were counted as being fluent, with most speakers either in the grandparent generation or older. In 2019, the Tri-Council of Cherokee tribes declared a state of emergency for the language due the threat of it going extinct, and called for the enhancement of revitalization programs.\n\nAfter the federal dissolution of the Old Cherokee Nation under the Dawes Commission and allotments, Native American land claims in Indian Territory were extinguished and Oklahoma was admitted as a state. Indians listed on the Dawes Commission rolls and other rolls were effectively left without political representation.\n\nIn the late 1940s, the United Keetoowah Band's claim to recognition as a tribe was probed according to criteria influenced by John Collier, who led the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and Felix S. Cohen. Writer D'Arcy McNickle argued that the Cherokee Nation no longer existed in any form except to sign over Indian lands. He suggested that the UKB be granted federal acknowledgment based on its authenticity and connection to the traditional ways, including maintenance of the language and ceremonies.\n\nAfter 1947, the UKB was the federally recognized organization by which all the Cherokee people received federal assistance and were dealt with on federal programs. The UKB was able to secure federal funds for the Cherokee Nation Complex, which today houses the government of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma (CNO), also federally recognized in the late 20th century. The UKB also started the Cherokee National Holiday, in conjunction with the Principal Chief's office. The Cherokee Nation Housing Authority was begun using UKB's federally recognized status.\n\nEven the casino enterprises, which have for decades given the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma a motive to try to destroy or \"de-recognize\" the UKB and its membership, emerged from precedent set by the cooperation of the UKB.\n\nThe Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma received approval of their constitution and federal recognition in 1975. The two nations pursued independent paths; the CNO had many more members and asserted political power in the region. The CNO evicted the UKB from the offices at the tribal complex in Tahlequah, which had originally been acquired through the United Keetoowah Band's government-to-government relationship with the United States.\n\nThe CNO administrations of Wilma Mankiller and Chad \"Corntassel\" Smith have had many conflicts with UKB leadership. Smith was a member of the UKB, but due to these issues, the tribe revoked his membership in 2005. \n\nThe United Keetoowah Band maintains a one-quarter-blood requirement for members. reIt quires all members to have verifiable Cherokee descent either from a person or people on the Dawes Roll or the UKB Base Roll of 1949.\n\nBeginning in the 1970s, the UKB made some people honorary, adopted and associate members, to recognize their services to the nation. This continued an older practice of Keetoowah adoption or naturalization of captives and friends dating to the 19th century. Former President Bill Clinton is a notable associate member. Given the problems in the 21st century of persons trying to gain benefits by claiming distant Cherokee or UKB ancestry, the tribe no longer practices honorary membership. \n\nWard Churchill, a former Professor of Ethnic Studies at the University of Colorado, had long claimed to be of Cherokee descent and made his reputation on promoting Native American issues and an activist Native American view. He was revealed to have no such ancestry. Then he claimed to be an honorary associate member in the UKB, but the tribe has rejected this claim as fraudulent. \n\nIn the late 20th century, several tribes began to develop gaming facilities on their own sovereign or trust lands, and in consultation with affected states. Such enterprises have raised revenues often used for development and welfare.\n\nThe State of Oklahoma has sued the UKB in federal court for operating what it describes as illegal gaming facilities, as they are not on Bureau of Indian Affairs-approved tribal trust lands. According to briefs submitted by the Cherokee Nation, the UKB own no tribal lands in federal trust. The lawsuit is pending in the federal courts in Oklahoma. It has been remanded to the National Indian Gaming Commission for review.\n\nDuring the State of Oklahoma lawsuit pertaining to the UKB's alleged illegal casino operations for a casino that the tribe has been operating for approximately 19 years, the UKB was accused of attempting to sue the Cherokee Nation. The Cherokee Nation said the UKB had sued to demand cession of tribal land allotments to them in order to build casinos. These lawsuits were dismissed.\n"}
{"id": "2293570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293570", "title": "Monty Python's Contractual Obligation Album", "text": "Monty Python's Contractual Obligation Album\n\nMonty Python's Contractual Obligation Album is the final studio album by Monty Python, released in 1980. As the title suggests, the album was put together to complete a contract with Charisma Records. Besides newly written songs and sketches, the sessions saw re-recordings of material that dated back to the 1960s pre-Python shows \"I'm Sorry I'll Read That Again\", \"The Frost Report\", \"At Last The 1948 Show\" and \"How To Irritate People\". One track, \"Bells\", dates from the sessions for \"Monty Python's Previous Record\", while further material was adapted from Eric Idle's post-Python series \"Rutland Weekend Television\". The group also reworked material written but discarded from early drafts of \"Life Of Brian\", as well as the initial scripts for what would eventually become \"The Meaning Of Life\". \n\nThe group had not recorded an all-studio album since \"Matching Tie and Handkerchief\" in 1973 and were initially unenthusiastic about returning to the recording studio. Fresh from co-producing the \"Life Of Brian\" soundtrack album, Eric Idle oversaw the sessions which resulted in over half the album consisting of songs. Beginning in January 1980, the group recorded reams of unused material during the sessions, much of which found its way on to the unreleased outtakes album \"Hastily Cobbled Together For A Fast Buck\", although some previously unheard material was included on the compilations \"The Final Rip Off\" (1987) and \"Monty Python Sings\" (1989). In 2006, further unreleased tracks were added to the special edition CDs of \"Another Monty Python Record\", \"Monty Python's Previous Record\", \"Matching Tie And Handkerchief\" and the \"Contractual Obligation\" album itself. In 2014, three further tracks were added to the expanded \"Monty Python Sings (Again)\".\n\nDue to the amount of cut material, the finished album features John Cleese on only three tracks (the reworkings of \"String\" and \"Bookshop\", plus a brief appearance at the start of \"Medical Love Song\") while Terry Gilliam does not feature at all. Gilliam's absence was noted on the album's Basil Pao-designed cover, which featured a plain inner sleeve on which Eric Idle wrote \"Can T.G. do a nice-eye catching cover to help it sell?\", to which Terry Jones replies \"Not really worth it\". The record label shown on the cover has a fake track-listing, with titles relating to the legal status of the contractual obligation. As with the \"Drury Lane\" album, the cover appears in a scene in Gilliam's 2005 film \"Tideland\", although it is only visible in the 2.35:1 aspect ratio version.\n\nThe actual record label of the original UK vinyl release had the standard Charisma design made up to look like parts had been torn off, onto which the first side had \"Side one\" scribbled on in pen, with \"The other side\" written on Side 2. The traditional George Peckham runout groove messages read \"\" on Side 1 and \"\" on Side 2.\nA 3 track 7\" single (CB 374) comprising I Like Chinese/I Bet You They Won't Play This Song on the Radio;Finland was released in the UK on 3 October 1980 to tie-in with the album.\n\nMichael Palin appeared on the BBC's \"Top Of The Pops\" to promote the album, helping to give the group their highest chart position, peaking at No.13 on the UK album chart. In this particular episode, Palin introduces the band Adam and the Ants who perform their hit song \"Dog Eat Dog\".\n\nThe 2006 special edition contains four bonus tracks consisting of contemporary promotional material and demo versions of two songs.\n\nTwo tracks on the album caused controversy when first released.\n\nThe lead track, \"Sit on My Face\" was sung to the tune of \"Sing as We Go\", a song made famous by Gracie Fields, and reportedly its inclusion led to legal threats against the Python team for copyright infringement over the melody. Nonetheless, the song was retained on the album and had already been lip-synched by Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones as the opening of the second half of \"Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl\", shortly before the album's release (the song opens the heavily edited 1982 film version). The concert film also features Terry Jones twice miming to \"Never Be Rude to an Arab\". In 2014, \"Sit on My Face\" was featured in the 2014 Monty Python performance reunion concert series, \"Monty Python Live (Mostly)\", expanded into a production number.\n\n\"Farewell to John Denver\", which contained a few bars of Eric Idle impersonating John Denver singing a parody of \"Annie's Song\", followed by the sound of the singer being strangled, was removed from subsequent pressings of the UK version on legal advice (reports differ as to whether it had to do with the licensing of \"Annie's Song\" or the depiction of the popular singer being murdered), and was replaced by an apology spoken by Terry Jones. In the U.S. there was no need to clear the John Denver parody, as parodies are covered under U.S. copyright law. Later CD releases of the album reinstated the John Denver track, but after Denver's death in a plane crash, the 2006 reissue reverted to Terry Jones' apology (the original \"Farewell To John Denver\" track can be found on the Arista CD \"The Monty Python Instant Record Collection\"). Original advance print advertising by Charisma Records included the tagline, \"Now A Major Lawsuit\".\n\nAs noted above, some pressings of \"Contractual Obligation Album\" omit the \"Farewell to John Denver\" track. The original UK vinyl pressing also contained an unintentionally out-of-sync mix on the song \"I'm So Worried\", which was subsequently corrected.\n\nThe original cassette version had an additional track due to Side 1 being several minutes shorter than side 2. At the end of Side 1 (about 0:45 after \"I'm So Worried\"), Michael Palin states that there will be a \"tiresome gap\" before the tape ends. Several minutes (about 4:52) of silence ensue, followed at the very end by Eric Idle stating that the gap was over and the tape may be turned to Side 2. The amended UK cassette release (with the John Denver section removed and \"I'm So Worried\" fixed) features an alternative message from Terry Jones at the end in place of the Michael Palin and Eric Idle messages.\n\nTwo tracks on the album were later released in expanded versions. \"Henry Kissinger\" featured an extra verse when it was included on the 1987 \"The Final Rip Off\" double compilation album, while the version of \"Medical Love Song\" on the 1989 \"Monty Python Sings\" compilation contains additional verses and a new arrangement by John Du Prez. \n\nRonnie Barker and Ronnie Corbett performed the original version of \"String\" on 27 April 1967 in \"The Frost Report\" episode \"The Frost Report on Advertising\". The original version of \"Bookshop\" from the 1 March 1967 episode of \"At Last the 1948 Show\" had John Cleese as the bookseller and Marty Feldman as the customer (the latter played by Graham Chapman on the \"Contractual Obligation\" version). Cleese had already resurrected the sketch on 8 May 1977 for the second Amnesty benefit concert \"An Evening Without Sir Bernard Miles\" (later re-titled as \"The Mermaid Frolics\" for TV broadcast and vinyl release), where Connie Booth played the customer against Cleese's bookseller. When Graham Chapman guested on NBC's variety show \"The Big Show\" in 1980, the 18 March edition featured a performance of the sketch, this time with Chapman switching roles as the bookseller playing against Joe Baker as the customer.\n\nSome material had previously been published in written form. The Eric Idle monologue \"Rock Notes\" originally appeared as part of the \"Rutland Stone\" section in the 1976 \"Rutland Weekend Television\" spin-off book, The Rutland Dirty Weekend Book. \"Martyrdom of St. Victor\" (originally \"St. Brian\") and the \"All Things Dull and Ugly\" lyrics were lifted from 1979's \"MONTYPYTHONSCRAPBOOK\".\n\nTwo bands drew their name from \"Toad the Wet Sprocket\", an imaginary group featured in \"Rock Notes\". The name had originally been featured in a parody of \"The Old Grey Whistle Test\" in episode 4 of the first series of \"Rutland Weekend Television\" in 1975. The first Toad the Wet Sprocket was a British heavy metal band of the 1970s, which released a few singles and appeared on the 1980 compilation album \"Metal for Muthas\". The second Toad the Wet Sprocket was a longer-lived American alternative band of the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJim Beach is credited as \"the lawyer the Pythons wronged\"\n\nThe following is the list of musical works included on the album. They comprise, for the most part, self-penned Python songs plus two pieces of library music from Ready Music Ltd.\n\n\nGrammy Awards\n"}
{"id": "2293571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293571", "title": "Historical regions of Romania", "text": "Historical regions of Romania\n\nThe historical regions of Romania are located in Central, Southeastern, and Eastern Europe. Romania came into being through the unification of two principalities, Wallachia and Moldavia in 1862. The new unitary state extended over further regions at various times during the late 19th and 20th centuries, including Dobruja in 1878, and Transylvania in 1918.\n\nThese regions are part of Romania today:\n\n\n\n\nWallachia, western Moldavia, and Dobruja are sometimes referred collectively as the Regat (\"The Kingdom\"), as they formed the Romanian \"Old\" Kingdom before World War I.\n\n\nBetween 1918-1920, during the Revolutions and interventions in Hungary, the Hungarian–Romanian War affected also part of these territories until the final resolution of state affairs by the Paris Peace Conference.\n\nThese regions and territories were part of Romania in the past:\n\nOthers:\n"}
{"id": "2293572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293572", "title": "Ashoknagar", "text": "Ashoknagar\n\nAshoknagar (also Ashok Nagar) is a city and a Municipality Council in Ashoknagar District in Madhya Pradesh state of central India. It is the administrative headquarters of Ashoknagar District. Earlier it was part of Guna district. Ashoknagar is well known for its Grain Mandi and \"Sharbati Gaihu\", a type of wheat. The nearest city Guna 45 km from the city. Ashoknagar was formerly known as Prachar. The railway line passes from the middle of the city. Ashoknagar has a railway station and Two Bus stations. Ashoknagar is connected to the main cities of Madhya Pradesh by road and railway.\n\nAshoknagar is located in the northern part of Madhya Pradesh, between the rivers Sindh and the Betwa. It comes under the northern part of Malwa plateau, though main part of its district lies in the Bundelkhand Plateau. The eastern and western boundaries of the district are well defined by the rivers. The Betwa flows along the eastern boundary separating it from Sagar District and Lalitpur District, India of Uttar Pradesh. The Sindh is the main river flowing along the western boundary. Chanderi, a part of Ashoknagar, is famous for its brocades and muslins, especially for its handwoven Chanderi sarees. Ashoknagar is situated on the Kota-Bina railway section of Western Central Railway. \nAshoknagar district has boundary to the border of UP in the east, about 87 km from Lalitpur in Uttar Pradesh. Ashoknagar is approximately 190 km away from the capital of the state Bhopal, 360 km from Indore, and about 250 km from Gwalior.\n\nIt is believed that Great Emperor Asoka, while on his trip to conquer Ujjain, had spent a night in Ashoknagar and hence the name.\n\nHistory of the town goes back around the ancient Indian Mahabharat, according to many early historians, Ashoknagar town was a part of Chedi Kingdom along with Chanderi.\n\nRather than this, In the 19th and early 20th century, the town being a part of Ishagarh District of Scindhiyas of Gwalior.\nIn the late 20th century, Ashoknagar was known as \"PACHHAR\". Later on it was renamed by MP government as Ashoknagar.\n\nThe female-to-male ratio in Ashoknagar stands at 900 females per 1000 males compared to the 2001 census figure of 879 per 1000. The average national female-to-male ratio in India is 940 per 1000 as per latest reports of Census 2011 Directorate.\n\nThe city lies in the Bundelkhand region and follows traditional Indian culture. Ashoknagar is famous for the Jain temple called Trikaal Choubeese, where the idols of past, present, and future Thirthankars, as described in the Jain religion, have been kept. The district is also famous for a small town called 'Chanderi', which is about 60 km from Ashoknagar. Chanderi was earlier, at the time of Mahabharata, known as \"Chendi\". Chendi Naresh Shishupal was its ruler, who was then killed by Lord Krishna In Chanderi, ancient sculptures have been discovered in large numbers. Thubonji Sidhdha Kshetra is another one of the pilgrim center for Jains. It is about 32 km from Ashoknagar. In the south, about 35 km from Ashoknagar, is the famous Karila Mata Mandir, which is known to be the birthplace of Luv and Kush, sons of Lord Rama and Sita Mata. A huge fair is organized every year on Rangpanchmi in which the Rai Dance is performed by the Bedni women. Tumen is also a famous historical pilgrim center situated at Triveni known for Mata Vindhyavasini temple. There are many more places of religious importance in the district of Ashoknagar.\n\nChanderi is a tehsil of the Ashoknagar district and is a famous historical & tourist palace. The main occupation of the people of Chanderi is handicraft. Chanderi sarees are famous all over the world. These are made by cotton and silk by hand through \"Khatka\". Khatka is a self made machine for preparing sarees. Another famous place in Ashoknagar district is Sri Anandpur, the world headquarters of the \"Sri Advaith Paramhansa Sect\". Disciples from across the globe visit Anandpur twice a year during Baisakhi and Guru Purnima to seek blessings from the gurus.\nKadwaya, a small village in the district is also famous for the ancient Shiv Mandir, Garhi and Mata Mandir.\n\nAshoknagar is situated at the average elevation of 507 metres(1640 ft) above sea level. It is in the plateau region and has an agricultural topography. The plateau is an extension of the Deccan Traps, formed between 60 and 68 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. In this region, the main classes of soil are black, brown and bhatori (stony) soil. The volcanic, clay-like soil of the region owes its black colour to the high iron content of the basalt from which it is formed. The soil requires less irrigation because of its high capacity for moisture retention. The other two soil types are lighter and have a higher proportion of sand. The year is popularly divided into three seasons: summer, the rains, and winter. Summer extends over the months of Chaitra to Jyestha (mid-March to mid-May). The average daily temperature during the summer months is 35 °C, which typically rises to around 46 °C on a few days. The rainy season starts with the first showers of Aashaadha (mid-June) and extends to the middle of Ashvin (September). Most of the rain falls during the southwest monsoon spell, and ranges from about 100 cm in the west to about 165 cm in the east. Ashoknagar and surrounding areas receive an average of 140 cm of rainfall a year. The growing period lasts from 90 to 150 days, during which the average daily temperature is below 30 °C, but seldom falls below 20 °C. Winter is the longest of the three seasons, extending for about five months (mid-Ashvin to Phalgun, i.e., October to mid-March). The average daily temperature ranges from 15 °C to 20 °C, though on some nights it can fall as low as 5 °C. Some cultivators believe that an occasional winter shower during the months of Pausha and Maagha—known as Mawta—is helpful to the early summer wheat and germ crops.[5]\n\nThe climate of Ashoknagar is sub-tropical. In summers, the temperature reaches 47 °C, while dropping to 4 °C in the winter. Rainfall is adequate and sometimes less.\n\nThere are a number of tourist spots in Ashoknagar Town, including:\nvindyvashni temple tumen\n\nAshoknagar district is 4th largest district on the basis of Jain population in India after Sagar, Tikamgarh, and Lalitpur.\nThe Seven Super designed Jain Temples lie in the center of the Town. These are:\n\n\nThere are four Temples of lord Hanumana lies at all four Outskirts of the main city.\nAlong with the above-mentioned locations, there are many other tourist spots in the outskirts of Ashoknagar.\n\nThe Chanderi Fort is situated on a hill 71 meters above the town. The fortified walls were constructed mainly by the Muslim rulers of Chanderi. The main entrance to the fort is through a series of three gates, the uppermost of which is known as Hawa Paur and the lowermost is called the Khuni Darwaja, or the \"gate of blood\". The peculiar name is derived from the fact that criminals were executed at this point by hurling them from the battlements above, breaking their bodies into pieces to the ground. Within the fort there are only two ruined buildings: the Hawa and Nau-Khanda Mahals built by Bundela Chiefs. A rest house on the northern ridge provides a view of the town below by the countryside.\n\nTo the southwest of Fort there is a curious gateway called \"katti-ghatti\" built through the hillside. It is 59 meters long, 12 meters broad and 24.6 meters high. In its center, the rock has been sculpted into the shape of a gate, with a pointed arch, and flanked by sloping towers.\n\nThe Kaushak Mahal of Chanderi is also known as Tawarikh-i-Ferishta. According to history, in 1445 AD Mehmood Shah Khilji of Malwa was passing through Chanderi, when he ordered a seven-storied palace to be built there, which came to be Kaushak Mahal . It is an imposing building of some grandeur, though standing in a half ruined condition. To the south, east and north of the Kaushak Mahal, well maintained palaces of Ramnagar, Panchamnagar and Singhpur are situated respectively. All were built by Bundela Chiefs of Chanderi in the 18th Century.\n\nShri Anandpur is a religious place, which is the part of Issagarh Tehsil, about 30 km from the district center of Ashoknagar. The institution is influenced by \"Advait Mat\". The founder of this institution was Shri Advait Anand Ji. He is also known as Maharaj Shri Paramhans Dayal Ji.\nThe place is surrounded with greenery. The Ashram is situated near Vindhyachal Mountain range and is the center of attraction for its glorious architecture and pollution free environment.\nThe development of Anandpur started away back in 1939 and continued till 1964. The institution was established as \" Shri Anandpur Trust\" on 22 April 1954 and this trust is running a charity hospital which is a main attraction point for the locals where they can get good medical facility free. Most of its development took place during Shri Padshahi Ji Maharaj IV & Shri Padshahi Ji Maharaj V.\nShri Anand Shanti Bhavan is the main part of the sacred place, is constructed with pure white marble. The pillar can be seen from a long distance away from the building.\nThe Satsang Bhavan is a huge place of Shri Anandpur. It is the centre of attraction for the devotees. In Shri Anandpur the facilities of Hospital, School, Post Office etc. are present too.\n\nKadwaya a small village of ISAGARH tehsil of district ashoknagar having number of temples. One of these temples has been constructed in the 10th century in Kachhapaghata style of architecture. It has garbha-griha (sanctum), antaral and mandapa.\nAnother old temple of Kadwaya is known as Chandal math. As per history, it was built to house Matta Mourya, members of Shaiva sect. \nDuring Akbar's reign Kadwaya was the headquarters of Gwalior's sarkar. Kadwaya is alSo the birthplace of pandit late ramvali sharma who served till death for the socio, political and economic development of the village. Besides this KADWAYA GADI(buried fort) is the site of world heritage.\nit is also famous for mata BIJASEN TEMPLE. it is said that one cures there defected eyes, by her blessings.\ntotal population of kadwaya is approx. 3000.\n\nIn Thubonji Sidhdha Kshetra, there are a group of 26 temples imparting the message of peace, nonviolence & non affection ness to pilgrims. This sacred place Thuvonji came to knowledge during the period of famous businessman Padashah. It is believed that when Padashah put his metal Tin here, it got converted into Silver. \nTemple No. 15 is the main among them known as big temple, with 28 feet high miraculous colossus of Lord Adinath in standing posture, installed by Vikram Samvat in 1672.\n\nAtishay – It is said that sound of various musical instruments is heard at the night as the gods from heaven come here for prayers & worships. It is also said that after the completion of this high colossus, initially devotees were unable to install it in the standing posture. At that night, Head of the Construction saw a dream that worshipping the colossus will only allow it to be installed in the standing posture, accordingly in the next morning colossus was worshipped and then Head of the Construction alone was able to place the high colossus in standing posture. The public present at that time saw this miracle with wonder.\n\nThere are number of Jain temples are also present in the Kshetra :\n\n\nOther temples are also worth being seen.\n\nMuseum – Some ancient idols are kept there, among them a standing 12 feet high idol.\n\nIn Ashoknagar, the occupation of the people is mostly agricultural. People are associated with grain merchandising. Textiles business is also very active. In recent times, Commodity Exchange Market has also grown along with logistic business.\nAshok Nagar is famous for its market which includes textiles, Automobiles, Utensils, Cement works, Groceries, Gold and Ornaments and almost all other things. \nIt is a business hub, people from all around the division come over here for the trade.\n\nAshoknagar has road and rail connections to the main cities of the state and nation. Ashoknagar railway station is the part of Kota-Bina railway section of West Central Railway. The nearest airports to Ashoknagar are Bhopal Airport and Gwalior Airport.\n\nThe roads inside the city are however quite wide, but are not in good paved condition.\nThus, during rainy seasons there is a chance of lot of accidents occurring.\nA major issue is of the dust on the city's roads, it is such that there is a great chance of spreading diseases like severe cough and a lot more dust causing diseases.\n\nAshoknagar is situated on the state highway 20 (SH 20) with local connections to Guna, SH 10 to Vidisha and Shivpuri and connections on to Indore, Bhopal and Gwalior. \nSH 20 as GUNA-ISHAGARH road towards north, is about 3 km inside the city, while SH 19 is about a single km at thobon/Chanderii road.\nRather than this, There are some shorter city roads are also has links to nearer villages and towns, such as Pachaadi Kheda Road, Mohri road, Aron road, Kolua road, Pawargarh road, Kabira road etc.\n\nAshoknagar is 44 km from the NH-3 Agra Bombay highway and one hour drive away from the NH-76.\n\nRailway Time Table\n"}
{"id": "2293573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293573", "title": "Ercüment Olgundeniz", "text": "Ercüment Olgundeniz\n\nErcüment Olgundeniz (born July 7, 1976 in Izmir) is a Turkish track and field athlete competing in the discus and occasionally shot put. The tall athlete at is a member of Enkaspor, where he is coached by Teodoru Agachi.\n\nHe took part at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. With his throw of 58.17 m, Olgundeniz ranked 28th and could not qualify for the finals. In 2005, he participated at the Mediterranean Games in Almería, and won the bronze medal with his performance of 59.16 m. He was ranked 44th in the world best list in 2004 with his personal record of 63.49 metres (Turkish record) set on July 4, 2004 in Istanbul.\n\nIn March 2007 in Yalta he improved the record to 64.34 metres. He competed at the 2007 World Championships, but finished last and did not reach the final.\n\nErcüment Olgundeniz won the silver medal at the 2009 Mediterranean Games held in Pescara, Italy.\n\nOn May 27, 2012, he improved his national record from 66.89 m set in 2011 to 67.50 m at the European Champion Clubs Cup held in Vila Real de Santo António, Portugal winning the silver medal.\n\nHe qualified for participation in the discus throw event at the 2012 Summer Olympics, but did not reach the final.\n\nAt the 2013 Mediterranean Games held in Mersin, Turkey, he became silver medalist in the discus event.\n"}
{"id": "2293587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293587", "title": "International Pharmaceutical Federation", "text": "International Pharmaceutical Federation\n\nThe International Pharmaceutical Federation or Fédération Internationale Pharmaceutique, abbreviated as FIP, is an international federation of national organisations that represent pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists. It was founded in 1912 and is based in The Hague in the Netherlands.\n\nThe International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP) is the global federation of national associations of pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists. It gathers 137 member organisations and represents three million practitioners and scientists around the world. It is a nongovernmental organisation (NGO) in official relations with the World Health Organization. The mission of FIP is to \"improve global health by advancing pharmacy practice and science to enable better discovery, development, access to and safe use of appropriate, cost-effective, quality medicines worldwide.\"\n\nThe Federation was founded on 25 September 1912 in The Hague, the Netherlands. It was the outcome of the series of international pharmaceutical congresses held in the nineteenth century, more specifically the congress held in Brussels in 1885. Following an initiative of the Royal Dutch Pharmaceutical Society in 1909, the 10th international pharmaceutical congress in 1910 in Brussels resolved to establish an international pharmaceutical federation in The Hague. The first president was Prof. Dr, Léopold of Itallie, professor at Leiden University. The first secretary-general was Dr. J.J. Hofman, pharmacist in The Hague.\n\nFIP consists of two boards: the Board of Pharmaceutical Practice and the Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences.\n\nThe FIP Board of Pharmaceutical Practice, which embodies pharmacists, has eight sections, each focusing on specific areas of pharmacy, developing and enhancing professional practice through shared experience. The Sections represent the following areas of pharmacy practice:\n\n\nThe Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences (BPS) is in place within FIP to provide a forum for pharmaceutical scientists to communicate, network, and further develop their expertise and knowledge in their areas of interest. This is accomplished through member participation in special interest groups that focus on specific aspects of pharmaceutical science and research. Targeted specifically to this group is the Pharmaceutical Sciences World Congress, which is held every 4 years in a different location around the world. The most recent was in Melbourne, Australia in 2014.\n\nSpecial interest groups have been formed on the following areas:\n\n\nRole of Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences\nThe role of this Board is to handle all scientific aspects of FIP's activities. To fulfill this task, the BPS has developed a strategic plan with a clear mission, namely to establish and maintain itself as the leading forum for representation of pharmaceutical science throughout the world. The main approaches to accomplish this mission are:\n\n\nThe Foundation's objectives are to promote the education of, and research by pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists within the general fields of design, manufacture, distribution and use of medicines for humans and/or animals. In order to achieve its objectives, the Foundation may undertake any of the following activities:\n\nMaking awards in recognition of excellence; \nMaking grants to support education or research; \nGranting Fellowships to permit a period of research at an approved institution;\nAwarding Scholarships to permit short periods of international travel in order to study the practice of pharmacy or pharmaceutical science in another country or in other countries; \nAll other charitable activities which do not conflict with the aforementioned objectives or the general objectives of the International Pharmaceutical Federation/Fédération Internationale Pharmaceutique (FIP).\n\nThe FIP Foundation for Education and Research was set up in 1993 with a programme of grants and awards. In addition to the Awards in Recognition of Excellence, the FIP Foundation also makes available FIP Development Grants to young pharmacists in training or research, FIP International Travel Scholarships and FIP Fellowships. In 1997 it introduced the Young Poster Presenter's Awards, which are given to a number of people who have submitted abstracts for the FIP Congress, which have been screened and approved by either the scientific or professional secretary.\n\nDonations and other forms of sponsorship are an essential ingredient to the success of the Awards programme and to the FIP Foundation and has set up a FIP Foundation Supporter's Club. It has developed a series of benefit, both individual and corporate, which will attract potential donors/sponsors. There are six categories - Ribbon, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum and Diamond.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293590", "title": "Monty Python's The Meaning of Life (album)", "text": "Monty Python's The Meaning of Life (album)\n\nMonty Python's The Meaning of Life is the third and final soundtrack album by Monty Python, released in 1983 alongside their last film. Billed as \"The only soundtrack album to be introduced by \"live\" fish! (apart from some copies of 'Shane')\", it consists of sketches and songs from the film, with a few links performed by Michael Palin and a brief appearance from Terry Gilliam.\n\nThe album features dialogue which didn't make it into the final cut of the film as well as additional sound effects to help with the audio medium. \"The Adventures of Martin Luther\" sequence is introduced but does not appear. The sketch itself was excised from the final cut of the film but was eventually reinstated 20 years later for the DVD \"Director's Cut\", although it did feature in the illustrated script book which accompanied the film's release. The film's songs are included in full, with \"Christmas In Heaven\" having a longer fade-out than appears in the film.\n\nThe original UK vinyl release had the traditional George Peckham messages etched on the runout grooves. The first side read: \"\", with the second reading \"\". The back cover did indeed contain a short list of spoof philosophy LPs, alongside a similarly comic profile of the Python team members.\n\nIn the UK the album was accompanied by a 7\" single (A 3495) on 27 June 1983 comprising Galaxy Song/Every Sperm Is Sacred, the latter song containing an extra instrumental section not featured in the film or album version. This was also available as a fish bowl-shaped picture disc.\n\nThe 2006 Special Edition includes bonus tracks which included demos, unused song ideas and radio promos.\n\n\n\n\nAl Campbell of AllMusic gave the album three and a half out of five stars and wrote that \"Unlike most comedy releases, the soundtrack of Monty Python's The Meaning of Life is an appealing audio souvenir that doesn't get stale after listening to it a few times.\" noting that \"[this is] because of the incredibly catchy and satirical songs from the film, which are all included\".\n"}
{"id": "2293594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293594", "title": "Automatic curb sender", "text": "Automatic curb sender\n\nThe automatic curb sender was a kind of telegraph key, invented by William Thomson, 1st Baron Kelvin for sending messages on a submarine communications cable, as the well-known Wheatstone transmitter sends them on a land line.\n\nIn both instruments, the signals are sent by means of a perforated ribbon of paper but the cable sender was the more complicated, because the cable signals are formed by both positive and negative currents, and not merely by a single current, whether positive or negative. Moreover, to curb the prolongation of the signals due to electromagnetic induction, each signal was made by two opposite currents in succession: a positive followed by a negative, or a negative followed by a positive. The \"aftercurrent\" had the effect of \"curbing\" its precursor.\n\nFor some time, it was the only instrument delicate enough to receive the signals transmitted through a long cable.\n\nThis self-acting cable key was brought out in 1876, and tried on the lines of the Eastern Telegraph Company.\n"}
{"id": "2293597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293597", "title": "George Dyson (composer)", "text": "George Dyson (composer)\n\nSir George Dyson KCVO (28 May 188328 September 1964) was an English musician and composer. After studying at the Royal College of Music (RCM) in London, and army service in the First World War, he was a schoolmaster and college lecturer. In 1938 he became director of the RCM, the first of its alumni to do so. As director he instituted financial and organisational reforms and steered the college through the difficult days of the Second World War.\n\nAs a composer Dyson wrote in a traditional idiom, reflecting the influence of his teachers at the RCM, Hubert Parry and Charles Villiers Stanford. His works were well known during his lifetime but underwent a period of neglect before being revived in the late 20th century.\n\nDyson was born in Halifax, Yorkshire, the eldest of the three children of John William Dyson, a blacksmith, and his wife, Alice, \"née\" Greenwood, a weaver. Dyson senior was also organist and choirmaster at a local church, and both parents were members of amateur choirs. They encouraged their son's musical talent, and at the age of 13 he was appointed as a church organist. Three years later he secured an FRCO (Fellowship of the Royal College of Organists), and in 1900 he won an open scholarship to the Royal College of Music (RCM) where he studied composition with Sir Charles Villiers Stanford. He supported himself during his years studying at the RCM by working as assistant organist at St Alfege Church, Greenwich.\n\nHe won the Arthur Sullivan prize for composition while still an RCM student, and in 1904 was awarded a Mendelssohn Scholarship, which enabled him to spend three years in Italy, Austria and Germany. He met leading musicians including Richard Strauss, whose style is believed to have influenced Dyson's early compositions. His symphonic poem \"Siena\" (1907) was considered by \"The Times\" to stand out from many works by other young composers, but the score has not survived.\n\nWhen he returned to Britain in 1907 Dyson was appointed director of music at the Royal Naval College, Osborne, on the recommendation of Sir Hubert Parry, director of the RCM. From there he moved to Marlborough College in 1911.\nOn the outbreak of the First World War in 1914 Dyson joined the Royal Fusiliers, becoming grenadier officer of the 99th infantry brigade. In that role he wrote a training pamphlet on grenade warfare for which he became well known. In 1916, incapacitated by shell-shock, he was invalided back to England. Parry recorded in his diary how shaken he was when he saw Dyson, \"a shadow of his former self\".\n\nIn November 1917 Dyson married Mildred Lucy Atkey (1880–1975), daughter of a London solicitor. They had a son, Freeman, who became a noted theoretical physicist and mathematician, and a daughter, Alice. In 1917 Dyson received the degree of DMus from the University of Oxford.\n\nAfter a long convalescence Dyson was commissioned as a major in the newly formed Royal Air Force (RAF), serving until 1920. In this capacity, organising RAF bands, he completed the short score of Henry Walford Davies's RAF March Past, adding a slow middle section and fully scoring the whole piece.\n\nIn 1920 Dyson's composing career advanced when his Three Rhapsodies for string quartet were chosen for publication under the Carnegie Trust's publication scheme. In 1921 he took up the posts of music master at Wellington College and professor of composition at the RCM. In 1924, while remaining at the RCM he switched schools, moving to Winchester. His biographer Lewis Foreman comments that it was during his dual tenure at the RCM and Winchester that \"the various strands of his mature career as a composer developed\".\n\nIn addition to teaching at the RCM and Winchester and directing the school's music, Dyson was conductor of an adult choral society, and a visiting lecturer at Liverpool and Glasgow universities; composing had to be fitted into what spare time he had. Works from this period include the cantata \"In Honour of the City\" (1928), described by \"The Musical Times\" as \"a virile fantasia for chorus and orchestra [which] illustrates memorably the composer's talent for diatonic melody of impressive eloquence, his predilection for enharmonic modulation contrived with apposite ingenuity, and his accomplished handling of orchestral subtleties.\" Foreman writes that the cantata was so successful that Dyson soon produced a more ambitious piece, \"The Canterbury Pilgrims\" (1931) \"a succession of evocative and colourful Chaucerian portraits … and probably his most famous score\".\n\nBritish choral festivals commissioned new works from Dyson. For the Three Choirs Festival he composed \"St Paul's Voyage to Melita\" (1933) and \"Nebuchadnezzar\" (1935) and for Leeds, \"The Blacksmiths\" (1934). Purely orchestral works included a Symphony in G (1937), which \"The Times\" praised for originality, underivative nature and avoidance of \"the freakishly obscure or the pompously grandiose\".\n\nFrom the early 1930s Dyson and others had been concerned about the future of amateur music making in Britain, which was under increasing pressure from the Great Depression and what Dyson called \"the invasions of mechanical music\" – the gramophone and the radio. With the aid of the Carnegie Trust Dyson co-founded the National Federation of Music Societies in 1935 as an umbrella organisation and financial bulwark for music groups and performing societies.\n\nIn 1938 Dyson was appointed director of the RCM on the retirement of Sir Hugh Allen; he took great pride in being the first former student of the RCM to become its director. He secured funding for the college from the University Grants Committee, and set up a pension scheme for the staff. He instituted an overhaul of the college's facilities, from rehearsal space down to lavatories, to provide a better working environment for the students. He also modernised the curriculum and examination system of the college. He held the strong view that with first-rate performances of music now easily and regularly available on radio and record, people now coming into the musical profession needed to attain the highest standards if they were to compete. His emphasis on technical excellence led to criticism; \"The Times\" said that he \"reversed the humanistic trend that had been the ideal of the college\".\n\nWhen the Second World War began in 1939 many educational and other organisations were evacuated from London to avoid the expected bombing. Dyson was adamant that the RCM should remain in its home in South Kensington. His decision had important consequences beyond the college, as other institutions followed suit, with the result that continuity of training was possible and standards were maintained. At the RCM, Malcolm Sargent took charge of the college orchestra, and Karl Geiringer, displaced by the Nazis from the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde in Vienna, joined the faculty.\n\nAfter the war, Dyson had to deal with a surge in demand for places at the college: students who had interrupted their studies to join the armed forces and the post-war generation of new applicants swelled the numbers of applicants, and Dyson and his board were obliged to make the requirements for entry more stringent. His emphasis on practical musicianship led him to cull the college's library and archives, disposing of many old books and manuscripts, to the outrage of some colleagues.\n\nDyson's encouragement of talent sometimes showed itself in a willingness to depart from normal practice when he felt it necessary. Although Colin Davis, as a clarinet student, was not allowed to take part in the conducting class because his pianistic skills were judged inadequate, Malcolm Arnold fared better: even though he decamped from the college, Dyson encouraged him to return and smoothed his path in doing so; for Julian Bream Dyson made special arrangements to enable him to pursue his guitar studies, not hitherto part of the college's curriculum.\n\nDyson received a knighthood in 1941 and was appointed Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO) in 1953. He held honorary degrees from the universities of Aberdeen and Leeds and honorary fellowships of the Royal Academy of Music and Imperial College London.\n\nIn 1952 Dyson retired from the RCM. He moved to Winchester, and enjoyed what Foreman describes as \"a remarkable Indian summer\" of composition, although by this time his music seemed old-fashioned to some listeners. His late works were published and performed, but did not, according to Foreman, \"have quite the immediate following\" of the music from earlier in his career.\n\nDyson died at his home in Winchester on 28 September 1964, aged 81.\n\nDyson said of himself as a composer, \"My reputation is that of a good technician … not markedly original. I am familiar with modern idioms but they are outside the vocabulary of what I want to say\". The music critic of \"The Times\" remarked that Dyson's works had a certain ambiguity, \"due probably to the fact that great musical skill was allied, exceptionally, with an extrovert temperament.\" The same writer observed that although everything Dyson wrote was well made, he never developed a personal idiom, \"nor engendered much emotional sap in his larger works\".\n\nDyson's biographer Paul Spicer writes that of the composer's works only \"The Canterbury Pilgrims\" and two sets of evening canticles in D and F are performed with any frequency. Dyson himself chose to include the following works in his \"Who's Who\" entry: \"In Honour of the City\", 1928; \"The Canterbury Pilgrims\", 1931; \"St Paul's Voyage\", 1933; \"The Blacksmiths\", 1934\"; \"Nebuchadnezzar\", 1935\"; Symphony, 1937; \"Quo Vadis\", 1939; Violin Concerto, 1942; \"Concerto da Camera\" and \"Concerto da Chiesa\" for Strings, 1949; \"Concerto Leggiero\" for Piano and Strings, 1951; \"Sweet Thames Run Softly\", 1954; \"Agincourt\", 1955; \"Hierusalem\", 1956; \"Let's go a-Maying\", 1958; and \"A Christmas Garland\", 1959.\n\nIn addition to those mentioned by the composer, the Dyson Trust lists the following compositions as available as at 2017: \"A Spring Garland\", \"Children's Suite\" for orchestra, Evening Service in C Minor, Evening Service in D, Morning Service in D, \"Prelude, Fantasy and Chaconne\" for cello and orchestra, \"Te Deum Laudamus\", and \"Three Rhapsodies\" for string quartet. The Trust has published a full list of works, totalling nine orchestral works, seven chamber works, thirteen pieces or sets of pieces for piano, four solo organ pieces, twenty works for chorus and orchestra, seventy-nine works for chorus with piano, or organ or unaccompanied, five hymns, six songs, and thirteen lost or destroyed works from the composer's early career.\n\nForeman writes that a revival of Dyson's music was started by Christopher Palmer, who published \"George Dyson: a Centenary Appreciation\" (1984) and \"Dyson's Delight\" (1989), a selection of Dyson's uncollected articles and talks on music, and also promoted the first modern recordings of Dyson's music. The Sir George Dyson Trust was established in 1998, with the declared aim of advancing public education in the understanding and appreciation of Dyson's music, and making available his manuscripts, writings, scores, drafts and memoranda for the encouragement of the study of his work.\nFreeman Dyson, who died aged 96 on 28 February 2020, was also a champion of his father's music.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293603", "title": "I Kissed Dating Goodbye", "text": "I Kissed Dating Goodbye\n\nI Kissed Dating Goodbye is a 1997 book by Joshua Harris. The book focuses on Harris' disenchantment with the contemporary secular dating scene, and offers ideas for improvement, alternative dating/courting practices, and a view that singleness need not be a burden nor characterized by what Harris describes as \"selfishness\".\n\nBy the late 2010s, Harris reconsidered his view that dating should be avoided, apologizing to those whose lives were negatively impacted by the book and directing the book's publisher to discontinue its publication.\n\nIn \"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\", Harris popularized the concept of \"courting\" as an alternative to mainstream dating. In so doing, he raised discussion regarding the appropriateness of his proposed solutions as well as the foundations on which he based his reasoning.\n\nAccording to Harris, people in dating relationships put up a façade in an attempt to appear to be what the other person wants, thus hampering the \"getting to know you\" part of dating. Harris said that it is more appropriate and healthier in the long run to participate in \"group dates\" in order to truly understand the way a particular person interacts with others; in a group setting, a person is less likely to be able to maintain a façade. Harris proposed a system of courtship that involved the parents of both parties to a greater degree than is usual in conventional dating. In an interview with Family Christian Stores, Harris indicated that \"people have taken the message of \"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\" and made it something legalistic – a set of rules. That's something that's beyond my control and it's disappointing at times...\"\n\nOn November 20, 2005, Harris gave a sermon entitled \"Courtship, Schmourtship: What Really Matters in Relationships\". In it, Harris encouraged single adults in his church to form friendships.\n\nThe book has been cited as an example of belief in 'benevolent sexism' and 'women as property' as well as promoting 'rape supportive messaging' and 'sexual purity teachings' that emphasize a 'hierarchical father-daughter relationship' and reduces the agency of adolescent girls. \n\nOther commentators have pointed to \"IKDG\" as an example of messaging addressed to conservative Christians that would make them less likely to engage in online dating. Yet others have suggested that the book promoted 'condemnation and shame' among young women in the True Love Waits movement. The book has been characterized as portraying ideal young Christian women as 'sexually passive, emotional, and patient' and discouraging young Christian men from forming relationships with women.\n\nChristian psychologists Henry Cloud and John Townsend suggest that avoiding dating in order to avoid suffering, as Harris advises, causes those who do so to forgo opportunities to mature, especially through learning how to create healthy boundaries.\n\nIn 2016, Harris appeared to be reconsidering the claims that he had made in the book and apologized to several who publicly communicated how the book had influenced them to stay single or had been used by adults to impose stringent rules on them. \n\nDuring a 2017 TED talk, Harris said his greatest regret about the book was him transferring his fears into the book. He said: \"Fear is never a good motive. Fear of messing up, fear of getting your heart broken, fear of hurting somebody else, fear of sex... There are clear things in statements in Scripture about our sexuality being expressed within the covenant of marriage. But that doesn't mean that dating is somehow wrong or a certain way of dating is the only way to do things. I think that's where people get into danger. We have God's word, but then it's so easy to add all this other stuff to protect people, to control people, to make sure that you don't get anywhere near that place where you could go off course. And I think that's where the problems arise.\"\n\nIn 2018, faith-based film company Exploration Films teamed with Harris to release a documentary entitled \"I Survived I Kissed Dating Goodbye\". That same year, Harris stated that he reconsidered his view that dating should be avoided, apologizing to those whose lives were negatively impacted by the book and directing the book's publisher to discontinue its publication.\n\nIn July 2019, Harris announced on Instagram that he and his wife, Shannon, were separating due to \"significant changes [that] have taken place in both of us\". Later that month, Harris announced that he was no longer a Christian. In August, Exploration Films announced they would halt distribution of \"I Survived\", citing a lack of transparency from Harris on his faith. The company returned the rights back to director Jessica van der Wyngaard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293604", "title": "Hermann Franz Moritz Kopp", "text": "Hermann Franz Moritz Kopp\n\nHermann Franz Moritz Kopp (30 October 1817 – 20 February 1892), German chemist, was born at Hanau, where his father, Johann Heinrich Kopp (1777–1858), a physician, was professor of chemistry, physics and natural history at the local lyceum.\n\nAfter attending the gymnasium of his native town, he studied at Marburg and Heidelberg, and then, attracted by the fame of Liebig, went in 1839 to Gießen, where he became a \"privatdozent\" in 1841, and professor of chemistry twelve years later. In 1864 he was called to Heidelberg in the same capacity, and he remained there till his death.\n\nKopp devoted himself especially to physico-chemical inquiries, and in the history of chemical theory his name is associated with several of the most important correlations of the physical properties of substances with their chemical constitution. Much of his work was concerned with specific volumes, the conception of which he set forth in a paper published when he was only twenty-two years of age; and the principles he established have formed the basis of subsequent investigations in that subject, although his results have in some cases undergone modification.\n\nAnother question to which he gave much attention was the connection of the boiling point of compounds, organic ones in particular, with their composition. In addition to these and other laborious researches, Kopp was a prolific writer. In 1843–1847 he published a comprehensive \"History of Chemistry\", in four volumes, to which three supplements were added in 1869–1875. \"The Development of Chemistry in Recent Times\" appeared in 1871–1874, and in 1886 he published a work in two volumes on \"Alchemy in Ancient and Modern Times\".\n\nKopp, in studying heat capacities, found \"that the molecular heat capacity of a solid compound is the sum of the atomic heat capacities of the elements composing it; the elements having atomic heat capacities lower than those required by the law of Dulong and Petit retain these lower values in their compounds.\"\n\nIn addition, Kopp wrote (1863) on theoretical and physical chemistry for the Graham-Otto \"Lehrbuch der Chemie\", and for many years assisted Liebig in editing the \"Annalen der Chemie\" and the \"Jahresbericht\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293607", "title": "Njabulo Ndebele", "text": "Njabulo Ndebele\n\nProfessor Njabulo Simakahle Ndebele (born 4 July 1948) is an academic and writer of fiction who is the former Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of Cape Town (UCT). On November 16, 2012 he was inaugurated as the Chancellor of the University of Johannesburg. He is currently the chairman of the Nelson Mandela Foundation.\n\nNdebele's father was Nimrod Njabulo Ndebele and his mother was Makhosazana Regina Tshabangu. He married Mpho Kathleen Malebo on 30 July 1971. They have one son and two daughters. Ndebele was awarded a Bachelor of Arts in English and Philosophy by the University of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland in 1973; a Master of Arts in English Literature by the University of Cambridge in 1975; and a Doctor of Philosophy in Creative Writing by the University of Denver in 1983. He also studied at Churchill College, University of Cambridge, where he was the first recipient of the South African Bursary.\n\nNjabulo Ndebele was Vice-Chancellor and Principal at the University of Cape Town from July 2000 to June 2008, following tenure as a scholar in residence at the Ford Foundation’s headquarters in New York. He joined the Foundation in September 1998, immediately after a five-year term of office as Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of the North in Sovenga, in the then Northern Province. Previously he served as Vice-Rector of the University of the Western Cape. Earlier positions include Chair of the Department of African Literature at the University of the Witwatersrand; and Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Dean, and Head of the English Department at the National University of Lesotho.\n\nAn established novelist, Ndebele published \"The Cry of Winnie Mandela\" in 2004 to critical acclaim. An earlier publication \"Fools and Other Stories\" won the Noma Award, Africa’s highest literary award for the best book published in Africa in 1984. His highly influential essays on South African literature and culture were published in a collection \"Rediscovery of the Ordinary\".\n\nNdebele served as President of the Congress of South African Writers for many years. As a public figure he is known for his incisive insights in commentaries on a range of public issues in South Africa.\n\nNdebele is also a key figure in South African higher education. He has served as Chair of the South African Universities Vice-Chancellors Association from 2002 to 2005, and served on the Executive Board of the Association of African Universities since 2001. He has done public service in South Africa in the areas of broadcasting policy, school curriculum in history, and more recently as chair of a government commission on the development and use of African languages as media of instruction in South African higher education. He served as President of the AAU from 2005 to 2009 and was Chair of the Southern African Regional Universities Association. He is also a Fellow of UCT.\n\nHe holds honorary doctorates from universities in the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Japan, South Africa and the United States. The University of Cambridge awarded him an Honorary Doctorate in Law in 2006, and he was made an honorary fellow of Churchill College in 2007. In 2008 the University of Michigan awarded him another Honorary Doctorate in Law.\n\n\nNjabulo Ndebele also contributed to \"Chimurenga\" magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293612", "title": "The Tingler", "text": "The Tingler\n\nThe Tingler is a 1959 American horror film produced and directed by William Castle. It is the third of five collaborations between Castle and writer Robb White, and stars Vincent Price, Darryl Hickman, Patricia Cutts, Pamela Lincoln, Philip Coolidge, and Judith Evelyn.\n\nThe film tells the story of a scientist who discovers a parasite in human beings, called a \"tingler\", which feeds on fear. The creature earned its name by making the spine of its host \"tingle\" when the host is frightened. In line with other Castle horror films, including \"Macabre\" (1958) and \"House on Haunted Hill\" (1959), Castle used gimmicks to sell the film. \"The Tingler\" remains most well known for a gimmick called \"Percepto!\", a vibrating device in some theater chairs which activated with the onscreen action.\n\n\"The Tingler\" received mixed reviews and is generally considered a camp cult film.\n\nA pathologist, Dr. Warren Chapin (Price), discovers that the tingling of the spine in states of extreme fear is due to the growth of a creature that every human being seems to have, called a \"tingler\", a parasite attached to the human spine. It curls up, feeds and grows stronger when its host is afraid, effectively crushing the person's spine if curled up long enough. The host can weaken the creature and stop its curling by screaming.\n\nMovie theater owner Oliver Higgins (Coolidge), who shows exclusively silent films, is an acquaintance of Dr. Chapin. Higgins's wife Martha (Evelyn), is deaf and mute, and therefore cannot scream. She dies of fright after weird, apparently supernatural events appear in her room. During her autopsy, Chapin removes a tingler from her spine.\n\nAfter they contain the tingler and return to Higgins' house, it is revealed that Higgins is the murderer; he frightened his wife to death knowing that she could not scream because she was mute. The centipede-like creature eventually breaks free from the container that held it and is released into Higgins' theater. The tingler latches onto a woman's leg, and she screams until it releases its grip. Chapin controls the situation by shutting off the lights and telling everyone in the theater to scream. When the tingler has left the showing room, they resume the movie and go to the projection room, where they find the tingler and capture it.\n\nGuessing that the only way to neutralize the tingler is to reinsert it inside Martha's body, Chapin does so. After he leaves, Higgins, who has admitted his guilt to Chapin, is alone in the room. As if by supernatural forces, the door slams shut and locks itself and the window closes, echoing what happened just before Martha was frightened to death. The tingler causes the body of Martha to rise from the bed, staring at her husband. Higgins is so terrified that he is unable to scream. The screen fades, and Dr. Chapin's voice says, \"Ladies and gentlemen, just a word of warning. If any of you are not convinced that you have a tingler of your own, the next time you are frightened in the dark ... don't scream\".\n\nIn a similar manner as Universal's \"Frankenstein\" (1931), Castle opened the film with an on-screen warning to the audience:\n\n\nThe financial success of \"House on Haunted Hill\" was reason enough for Columbia to produce \"The Tingler\". Price was on board again, with Hickman playing his assistant and newcomer Lincoln playing his sister-in-law. Cutts played Price's unfaithful wife Isabel.\n\nCastle convinced Hickman, who was Lincoln's real-life fiancé, to join the cast as her fiancé in the film. At first Hickman declined, but agreed after Castle convinced him it would help Lincoln's career. According to Hickman, Castle did such a good job of convincing him it would help Lincoln that he worked for no salary. Hickman, who was 5'10\", was required to wear lifts for the scenes with 6'4\" Vincent Price to offset the disparity of their heights.\n\nEvelyn was hired at the request of Price, who had worked with her on Broadway. She also received attention in another prominent \"non-speaking role\" as the suicidal \"Miss Lonelyhearts\" in Hitchcock's \"Rear Window\" (1954). Dal McKennon, the projectionist (uncredited in the film), had a successful career as the voice of many screen and TV characters, including \"Buzz Buzzard\" in the Woody Woodpecker cartoons and \"Gumby\" in the TV clay animation series. Jack Dusick, make-up artist for \"The Tingler\", was the father of singer/actress Michele Lee.\n\nWhite, the story author, was partly inspired by his encounter with a centipede while living in the British Virgin Islands.\n\nWhite had experimented with LSD at UCLA after hearing about it from Aldous Huxley and decided to work it into the script. It is the first depiction of LSD use in a major motion picture. At the time, the drug was legal. The title of the book that Vincent Price's character reads before taking LSD—\"Fright Effects Induced by Injection of Lysergic Acid LSD25\"—is printed on the back of the book, not the front. This was done for a better shot of the expositional title of the book, explaining the effects of LSD to the audience.\n\n\"The Tingler\" was Price's second and final film with Castle and the fifth performance that would ultimately brand him as \"The Master of Menace\".\n\nThe movie playing in the theater when the tingler escapes was the 1921 silent film \"Tol'able David\".\n\nA subplot of the film involves the fates of a movie theater specializing in silent films and its owners. According to Kevin Heffernan, this reflects the conditions of the movie theater industry in the late 1950s. There were many discount theaters trying to establish their own market niche by showing older films. For the owners of these small theaters, it was a thankless and poorly paid job, as described in the trade journals of this period. When Ollie describes at length the work load involved in cleaning the building, he echoes real-life complaints. This provides the motive for his murder, as he is trying to escape a hopeless life.\n\nAnother subplot involves dysfunctional married lives. Most prominent is that of Warren to Isabelle, who is clearly unfaithful to him. She stays out until the early hours of the morning and is seen giving her lover a farewell kiss. In another scene, Warren enters through the front door of his house and hears the back door slam. He then discovers two used glasses of wine and a forgotten tie clip. In an argument between them, she does not deny her unfaithfulness, but counters by accusing her husband of neglecting her. While spending so many hours in his laboratory, he has lost contact with living people, leaving her no choice but to seek human affection elsewhere. The marriage of Ollie and Martha is also an unhappy one. He claims that Martha would have killed him if she could.\n\nMartha is depicted as a woman with a whole range of obsessive and phobic traits. She even communicates in a neurotic pantomime. Tim Lucas has described her as a silent film character in a sound film. The idea of a terrified, mute woman was not fully original. According to Heffernan, it was probably inspired by \"The Spiral Staircase\" (1946).\n\nThe scene with the LSD trip offers a display of \"stylized and exaggerated performance\". The eyes of Warren shift from side to side, gazing suspiciously at his environment, while describing feelings of unease and apprehension. He loosens his tie, when he thinks himself unable to breathe. He opens a window while insisting that it is nailed shut. He sees a hanging skeleton as a moving figure, and describes the walls of the room as closing in on him. Finally he visibly struggles with the urge to scream, and succumbs to it.\n\nWilliam Castle was famous for his movie gimmicks, and \"The Tingler\" featured one of his best: \"Percepto!\". Previously, he had offered a $1,000 life insurance policy against \"Death by Fright\" for \"Macabre\" (1958) and sent a skeleton flying above the audiences' heads in the auditorium in \"House on Haunted Hill\" (1959).\n\n\"Percepto!\" was a gimmick where Castle attached electrical \"buzzers\" to the underside of some seats in theaters where \"The Tingler\" was screened. The buzzers were small surplus airplane wing deicing motors left from World War II. The cost of this equipment added $250,000 to the film's budget. It was used predominantly in larger theaters.\n\nDuring the climax of the film, \"The Tingler\" was unleashed in the movie theater, while the audience watched \"Tol'able David\" (1921), in which a young woman escapes the unwanted advances of her boyfriend and is targeted. In the real-life theater, a woman screamed and then pretended to faint; she was then taken away in a stretcher, all part of the show arranged by Castle. From the screen, the voice of Price mentioned the fainted lady and asked the rest of the audience to remain seated. The film-within-a-film resumed and was interrupted again. The projected film appeared to break as the silhouette of the tingler moved across the projection beam. The image of the film went dark, all lights in the auditorium (except fire exit signs) went off, and Price's voice warned the audience, \"Ladies and gentlemen, please \"do not\" panic. But scream! Scream for your lives! The tingler is loose in \"this\" theater!\" This cued the theater projectionist to activate the Percepto! buzzers, giving some audience members an unexpected jolt, followed by a highly visible physical reaction. The voices of scared patrons were heard from the screen, replaced by the voice of Price, who explained that the tingler was paralyzed and the danger was over. At this point, the film resumed its normal format, which was used for its epilogue.\n\nAn alternate warning was recorded for drive-in theaters; this warning advised the audience the tingler was loose in the drive-in. Castle's voice was substituted for Price's in this version.\n\nCastle's autobiography, \"Step Right Up!: I'm Gonna Scare the Pants off America\", erroneously stated that \"Percepto!\" delivered electric shocks to the theater seats.\n\nTwo Joe Dante films contain scenes which reference the \"Percepto!\" gimmick: \"\" (1990) and \"Matinee\" (1993).\n\nTo enhance the climax even more, Castle hired fake \"screamers and fainters\" planted in the audience. There were fake nurses stationed in the foyer and an ambulance outside of the theater. The \"fainters\" would be carried out on a gurney and whisked away in the ambulance, to return for the next showing.\n\nAlthough \"The Tingler\" was filmed in black-and-white, a short color sequence was spliced into the film. It showed a sink (in black-and-white) with bright-red \"blood\" flowing from the taps and a black-and-white Evelyn watching a bloody red hand rising from a bathtub, likewise filled with the bright red \"blood\". Castle used color film for the effect. The scene was accomplished by painting the set white, black and gray and applying gray makeup to the actress to simulate monochrome. Some claim that the scene is actually filmed black and white and that they only paint the \"blood\" red on the film. This claim remains unknown.\n\nReviews of \"The Tingler\" were mixed, though praised for its camp qualities, with \"Time Out London\" calling the plot \"ingeniously ludicrous\". Lyz Kingsley of \"And You Call Yourself a Scientist!\" pointed out that \"no film made before or after it quite matches it for its mix of the imaginative, the creepy, the funny, and the downright weird\".\n\n\"Slant Magazine\" said, \"Ludicrousness aside, \"Tingler\" is still one of the more confident Castle pictures: a well paced, at times intentionally, funny parody of 1950s domestication, with every couple in the story trying to off one another for a variety of amusingly convoluted reasons. Think \"Burn After Reading\" with dime store production values and a plastic spinal cord at its center.\"\n\n\"Dread Central\" called the film Castle's \"magnum opus\", while \"Nerdist\" singled out Price's performance, saying, \"Vincent Price is typically great and as always commits himself fully to the proceedings, even if it’s utterly absurd.\"\n\n\"Classic-Horror.com\" said \"the acting is fine, the direction is among Castle's best, and the script is semi-brilliant for the time\", and Harvey O'Brien of \"Harvey's Movie Review\" stated that \"for all its flaws, \"The Tingler\" is very watchable and has been put together with enough canniness to be enjoyable on its own terms\".\n\nNot all reviews were positive. Howard Thompson of \"The New York Times\" said, \"William Castle has been serving some of the worst, dullest little horror entries ever to snake into movie houses\".\n\nSony Pictures Home Entertainment released the film on DVD for its 40th anniversary in 1999. The film was later included on the \"William Castle Film Collection\" DVD set, released on October 20, 2009.\n\nScream Factory (under Sony license) released a Blu-ray edition of the film in August 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293614", "title": "Emil Kopp", "text": "Emil Kopp\n\nCharles-Émile Kopp (3 March 1817 – 30 November 1875), French chemist, was born at Wasselonne, Alsace.\n\nHe became in 1847 a professor of toxicology and chemistry at the École supérieure de Pharmacie at Strasbourg. Because of his participation in the demonstration on \"revolutionary day\" 13 June 1849, he was forced to leave France, subsequently settling in Switzerland. In 1849 he became a professor of physics and chemistry at Lausanne, and in 1852 a chemist to a Turkey red factory near Manchester. In 1855 he was granted amnesty and returned to France. In 1868 he was named a professor of technology at Turin (Regio Museo Industriale italiano), and finally, in 1871, a professor of technical chemistry at the Federal Polytechnic Institute Zurich, today the ETH Zurich. He died in Zurich.\n\nHe conducted experiments with arsenic acid as a discharge agent and filed patents for the employment of arsenic and phosphoric acids in discharge printing of fabrics. In 1844 he reportedly was the first to discover red phosphorus; his findings taking place prior to Anton Schrötter's discovery of the substance during the following year.\n\nWith Pompejus Bolley, he published \"\"Traité des matières colorantes artificielles dérivées du goudron de houille\"\" (1874, \"Treatise on artificial dyes derived from coal tar\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2293616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293616", "title": "George Dyson (science historian)", "text": "George Dyson (science historian)\n\nGeorge Dyson (born 26 March 1953) is an American non-fiction author and historian of technology whose publications broadly cover the evolution of technology in relation to the physical environment and the direction of society. He has written on a wide range of topics, including the history of computing, the development of algorithms and intelligence, communications systems, space exploration, and the design of watercraft.\n\nGeorge Dyson is the son of the theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson and mathematician Verena Huber-Dyson, the brother of technology analyst Esther Dyson, and the grandson of the British composer Sir George Dyson. Dyson's early life is described in Kenneth Brower's book \"The Starship and the Canoe.\" When he was sixteen he went to live in British Columbia to pursue his interest in kayaking.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1975, he lived in a treehouse at a height of 30 metres that he built from salvaged materials on the shore of Burrard Inlet. Dyson became a Canadian citizen and spent 20 years in British Columbia, designing kayaks, researching historic voyages and native peoples, and exploring the Inside Passage. He was, during this period, estranged from his father for some time.\n\nDyson's first book, \"Baidarka\", published in 1986, described his research on the history of the Aleut kayak, its evolution in the hands of Russian fur traders, and his adaptation of its design to modern materials. He is the author of \"Project Orion: The Atomic Spaceship 1957–1965\" and \"Darwin Among the Machines: The Evolution of Global Intelligence\", in which he expands upon the premise of Samuel Butler's 1863 article of the same name and suggests that the Internet is a living, sentient being. His 2012 book \"Turing's Cathedral\" has been described as \"a creation myth of the digital universe.\" It was a finalist for the Los Angeles Times 2012 Book Prize in the science and technology category and was chosen by University of California Berkeley's annual \"On the Same Page\" program for the academic year 2013–14.\n\nDyson is the founder/owner of Dyson, Baidarka & Company, a designer of Aleut-style skin kayaks; he is credited with the revival of the baidarka style of kayak.\n\nDyson was a visiting lecturer and research associate at Western Washington University's Fairhaven College and was Director's Visitor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, in 2002–03. He is a frequent contributor to the Edge Foundation.\n\nLauren is the daughter of Ann Yow-Dyson and George Dyson. He lives and works in Bellingham, Washington.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293640", "title": "Antipope John", "text": "Antipope John\n\nAntipope John may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293646", "title": "Endurance (1912 ship)", "text": "Endurance (1912 ship)\n\nEndurance was the three-masted barquentine in which Sir Ernest Shackleton and a crew of 27 men sailed for the Antarctic on the 1914–1917 Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition. She was launched in 1912 from Sandefjord in Norway; three years later, she was crushed by pack ice and sank in the Weddell Sea off Antarctica. All of her crew survived.\n\nDesigned by Ole Aanderud Larsen, \"Endurance\" was built at the Framnæs shipyard in Sandefjord, Norway, and fully completed on 17 December 1912. She was built under the supervision of master wood shipbuilder Christian Jacobsen, who was renowned for insisting that all men in his employment were not just skilled shipwrights but also be experienced in seafaring aboard whaling or sealing ships. Every detail of her construction had been scrupulously planned to ensure maximum durability: for example, every joint and fitting was cross-braced for maximum strength.\n\nThe ship was launched on 17 December 1912 and was initially christened \"Polaris\" (eponymous with Polaris, the North Star). She was long, with a beam, and measured 348 tons gross. Her original purpose to provide luxurious accommodation for small tourist and hunting parties in the Arctic as an ice-capable steam yacht. As launched she had 10 passenger cabins, a spacious dining saloon and galley (with accommodation for two cooks), a smoking room, a darkroom to allow passengers to develop photographs, electric lighting and even a small bathroom. \n\nThough her hull looked from the outside like that of any other vessel of a comparable size, it was not. She was designed for polar conditions with a very sturdy construction. Her keel members were four pieces of solid oak, one above the other, adding up to a thickness of , while its sides were between and thick, with twice as many frames as normal and the frames being of double thickness. She was built of planks of oak and Norwegian fir up to thick, sheathed in greenheart, an exceptionally strong and heavy wood. The bow, which would meet the ice head-on, had been given special attention. Each timber had been made from a single oak tree chosen for its shape so that its natural shape followed the curve of the ship's design. When put together, these pieces had a thickness of .\nOf her three masts, the forward one was square-rigged, while the after two carried fore and aft sails, like a schooner. As well as sails, \"Endurance\" had a coal-fired steam engine capable of speeds up to .\n\nBy the time of her launch in 1912, \"Endurance\" was perhaps the strongest wooden ship ever built, with the possible exception of \"Fram\", the vessel used by Fridtjof Nansen and later by Roald Amundsen. There was one major difference between the ships. \"Fram\" was bowl-bottomed, which meant that if the ice closed in against her, the ship would be squeezed up and out and not be subject to the pressure of the ice compressing around her. \"Endurance\", on the other hand, was designed with great inherent strength in her hull in order to resist collision with ice floes and to break through pack ice by ramming and crushing; she was therefore not intended to be frozen into heavy pack ice, and so was not designed to rise out of a crush. In such a situation she was dependent on the ultimate strength of her hull alone.\n\n\"Endurance\" was originally built for Adrien de Gerlache and Lars Christensen, who intended to use her for polar cruises for tourists to hunt polar bears. Financial problems led to Gerlache pulling out of their partnership, leaving Christensen unable to pay the Framnæs yard the final amounts to hand over and outfit the ship. For over a year Christensen attempted unsuccessfully to sell the ship, since her unique design as an ice-capable passenger-carrying ship, with relatively little space for stores and no cargo hold, made her useless to the whaling industry. Meanwhile, she was too big, slow and uncomfortable to be a private steam yacht. In the event, Christensen was happy to sell the ship to Ernest Shackleton for GB£11,600, which represented a significant loss to Christensen as it barely covered the outstanding payments to Framnæs, let alone the ship's total build costs. He is reported to have said he was happy to take the loss in order to further the plans of an explorer of Shackleton's stature. After Shackleton purchased the ship, she was rechristened \"Endurance\" after the Shackleton family motto, \"Fortitudine vincimus\" (\"By endurance we conquer\").\n\nShackleton had the ship relocated from Norway to London. She arrived at the Millwall Dock in the spring of 1914, where she was refitted and modified for expedition purposes. She was stripped of most of her luxurious accommodation and fittings. This included removing many of the passenger cabins to make room for space for stores and equipment, while the crew cabins on the lower deck were removed and converted into a cargo hold – the reduced crew of sailors that Shackleton would take on the expedition would make their quarters in the cramped forecastle. The darkroom remained in its original location ahead of the boiler. The refit also saw the ship repainted from her original white color to a more austere black, which was more visible amongst ice, and features such as gilt scrollwork on the bow and stern were painted over. Despite her change of name, she retained a large badge in the shape of a five-pointed star on her stern, which originally symbolized her name after the pole star.\n\nHer new equipment included four ship's boats. Two were transom-built rowing cutters purchased secondhand from the whaling industry. The third was a larger double-ended rowing whaleboat built for the expedition to specifications drawn up by Frank Worsley, \"Endurance\"s new captain. The fourth was a smaller motorboat. After her refit, \"Endurance\" made the short coastal journey to Plymouth.\n\nIn the previous 16 years, nearly two dozen wooden vessels had sailed to the icy seas of the far south. All had returned home but \"Aurora\". Lloyd's of London and the Indemnity Marine Assurance Company had underwritten her hull, machinery and equipment for £15,000. Just before she sailed, \"The Times\" had reported that \"Hitherto the insurance of vessels taking part in Antarctic exploration has ceased at the last port touched, and \"Endurance\" will be the first vessel to be insured in the ice zone.\" \"The Times\" praised \"Endurance\" as \"built specially for work in Polar seas\", adding that \"in an ice-coated sea there can be no turbulent waves which are the causes of so many disasters in warmer zones.\"\n\n\"Endurance\" sailed from Plymouth on 6 August 1914 and set course for Buenos Aires, Argentina, under Worsley's command. Shackleton remained in Britain, finalising the expedition's organization and attending to some last-minute fundraising. This was \"Endurance\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s first major voyage following its completion and amounted to a shakedown voyage. The trip across the Atlantic took more than two months. Built for the ice, her hull was considered by many of her crew too rounded for the open ocean. Shackleton took a steamer to Buenos Aires and caught up with his expedition a few days after \"Endurance\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s arrival.\n\nOn 26 October 1914, \"Endurance\" sailed from Buenos Aires to what would be her last port of call, the whaling station at Grytviken on the island of South Georgia, where she arrived on 5 November. She left Grytviken on 5 December 1914, heading for the southern regions of the Weddell Sea.\n\nTwo days after leaving South Georgia, \"Endurance\" encountered polar pack ice and progress slowed to a crawl. For weeks \"Endurance\" worked its way through the pack, averaging less than per day. By 15 January 1915, \"Endurance\" was within of her destination, Vahsel Bay. By the following morning, heavy pack ice was sighted and in the afternoon a gale developed. Under these conditions it was soon evident progress could not be made, and \"Endurance\" took shelter under the lee of a large grounded iceberg. During the next two days, \"Endurance\" moved back and forth under the sheltering protection of the berg.\n\nOn 18 January, the gale began to moderate and \"Endurance\" set the topsail with the engine at slow. The pack had blown away. Progress was made slowly until hours later \"Endurance\" encountered the pack once more. It was decided to move forward and work through the pack, and at 5:00 PM \"Endurance\" entered it. This ice was different from what had been encountered before, and the ship was soon amongst thick but soft brash ice, and became beset. The gale increased in intensity and kept blowing for another six days from a northerly direction towards land. By 24 January, the wind had completely compressed the ice in the Weddell Sea against the land, leaving \"Endurance\" icebound as far as the eye could see in every direction. All that could be done was to wait for a southerly gale to start pushing in the other direction, which would decompress and open the ice.\n\nIn the early morning of 24 January, a wide crack appeared in the ice ahead of the ship. Initially across, by mid-morning the break was over a quarter of a mile (0.4 km) wide, giving the men on the \"Endurance\" hope that the ice was breaking up. But the break never reached the ship itself, and despite three hours under full sail and full speed on the engine, the ship did not budge. Over the next days, the crew waited for the southerly gale to release the pressure on the ice, but while the wind backed to the hoped-for south/southwest direction, it remained light and erratic. Occasional breaks in the ice were spotted, but none reached the ship and all closed up within a few hours. Trials were made on January 27 with cutting and breaking the ice around the ship by manual labour but this proved futile.\n\nOn 14 February, an open channel of water opened up a quarter of a mile (0.4 km) ahead of the ship and dawn showed the \"Endurance\" was afloat in a pool of soft, young ice no more than thick, but the pool was surrounded by solid pack ice of in thickness, blocking the path to the open lead. A day's continual work by the crew saw them hack a clear channel long. This work continued through the following day (15 February) and, with steam raised, the \"Endurance\" was backed up within her pool as far as possible to allow the ship to ram her way through the channel. As the ship went astern for successive attempts, lines were attached from the bow to loosened blocks of ice, estimated to weigh 20 tons (18 tonnes), in order to clear the path. The pool proved too small for the ship to gain enough momentum to successfully ram her way clear and by the end of the day the ice began to freeze up again. By 3:00 PM, the \"Endurance\" had made of distance through the ice, with still to go to clear water. Shackleton decided that the consumption of coal and manpower, and the risk of damage to the ship, was too great and called a halt.\n\nAfter this frustration, \"Endurance\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s boilers were extinguished, committing the ship to drift with the ice until released naturally. On 17 February, the sun dipped below the horizon at midnight, showing the end of the Antarctic summer. On 24 February, regular watches on the ship were cancelled, with the \"Endurance\" now functioning as a shore station. The ship had slowly drifted south and at this point was within of the intended landing point at Vahsel Bay. But the icy terrain between the ship and the shore was too arduous to travel while carrying the materials and supplies needed for the overland expedition.\n\nBy March, navigational observation showed that the ship (and the mass of pack ice that contained it) was still moving, but now swinging towards the west-northwest and increasing in the speed of its drift, moving between the start of March and May 2, when the sun disappeared below the horizon and the dark Antarctic winter began. Still the men on the ship hoped for either a change in the weather which would break up the pack or that, by the spring, the warmer weather and the ship's northward drift would mean it was released.\n\nOn 14 July 1915, \"Endurance\" was swept by a southwest gale, with wind speeds of , a barometer reading of and temperatures falling to . The blizzard continued until 16 July. This broke up the pack ice into smaller, individual floes, each of which began to move semi-independently under the force of the weather, while also clearing water in the north of the Weddell Sea. This provided a long fetch for the south-setting wind to blow over and then for the broken ice to pile up against itself while individual parts moved in different directions. This caused regions of intense localised pressure in the ice field. The ice began \"working\", with sounds of breaking and colliding ice audible to those on the ship through the next day. Breaks in the ice were spotted but none approached the ice holding the \"Endurance\".\n\nDuring July the ship drifted a further to the north. On the morning of 1 August, a pressure wave passed through the floe holding the ship, lifting the 400-ton \"Endurance\" bodily upwards and heeling the ship sharply to its port side before it dropped into a pool of water, afloat again for the first time in nearly six months. The broken sections of floe closed in around the ship on all sides, jarring the \"Endurance\" forward, backwards and sideways in violent fashion against the other slabs of ice. After over a quarter of an hour, a force from astern pushed the ship's bow up onto the floe, lifting the hull out of the pressure and with a list of five degrees to her port side. A gale overnight further disturbed the floe, driving it against the starboard side of the hull and forcing a sheet of ice upwards at a 45-degree angle until it reached the level of the scuppers. Despite the ordeal of the past few days the ship remained undamaged.\n\nTwo pressure waves struck the ship on 29 August without incident. On the evening of 31 August, a slow-building pressure gripped the \"Endurance\", causing her hull and timbers to creak and shudder continuously. The ice around the ship moved and broke throughout the night, battering the port side of the hull. All was quiet again until the afternoon of 30 September, by which time there were signs of spring with ten hours of sunlight per day and occasional temperature readings above freezing. A large floe was swept against the \"Endurance\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s port bow and then gripped that side of the ship against the built-up ice and snow on her starboard beam. The ship's structure groaned and wracked under the strain. Carpenter Harry McNish noted that the solid oak beams supporting the upper deck were being visibly bent \"like a piece of cane\". On deck the ship's masts were whipping back and forth as their stepping points on the keel were distorted. Despite these disconcerting signs, Captain Frank Worsley noted that the strength of the ship's structure was causing the ice itself to break up as it piled against the hull – \"...just as it appears she can stand no more, the huge floe weighing possibly a million tons or more yields to our little ship by cracking across...and so relieves the pressure. The behaviour of our ship in the ice has been magnificent. Undoubtedly she is the finest little wooden vessel ever built...\" Despite this, the ship's decks were permanently buckled following this ordeal.\n\nBy October, temperatures of nearly were recorded and the ice showed further signs of opening up. The floe which had been jammed against the ship's starboard side since July broke up on 14 October, casting the \"Endurance\" afloat in a pool of open water for the first time in nine months.\n\nOn 16 October, Shackleton ordered steam to be raised so the ship could take advantage of any openings in the ice. It took nearly four hours for the boilers to be filled with freshwater melted from ice, and then a leak was discovered in one of the fittings and they had to be pumped out, repaired and then refilled. The following day a lead of open water was seen ahead of the ship. Only one boiler had been lit and there was insufficient steam to use the engine, so all the sails were set to try and force the ship into the loosening pack ice but without success.\n\nIn the late afternoon of 18 October, the ice closed in around the \"Endurance\" once again. In just five seconds the ship was canted over to port by 20 degrees, and the list continued until she rested at 30 degrees, with the port bulwark resting on the pack and the boats on that side nearly touching the ice as they hung in their davits. This put the ship in a seemingly safe position – instead of being pinched between two opposing masses of ice the \"Endurance\" had been pushed from starboard to port and further pressure from starboard would push her bodily upwards over the top of the port-side floe, which had actually collided with its counterpart under the ship's bilge. In any case, after four hours in this position, the ice drew apart and the ship returned to a level keel.\n\nThe ice was relatively still for the rest of the month. On 20 October, steam was raised again and the engines tested. On 22 October, the temperature dropped sharply from to and the wind veered from southwest to northeast. This caused the loosening pack to compress against the Antarctic coast once again. On 23 October, pressure ridges could be seen forming in the ice and moving near the ship. The next day a series of pressure waves struck the \"Endurance\", causing the ice around the ship to fracture into separate large pieces which were then tumbled and turned in all directions. The ship was shunted back and forth before being pinched against two floes on her starboard side, one at her bow and one at her stern, while on the port side a floe impacted amidships, setting up a huge bending force on the hull. Parts of the rigging were snapped under the strain.\n\nA large mass of ice slammed into the stern, tearing the sternpost away from the hull planking. Around the same time the bow planking was stove in, causing simultaneous flooding in the engine room and the forward hold. Despite using both the portable manual pumps and getting up steam to drive the main bilge pumps, the water level continued to rise. The main man-powered deck pumps did not work as their intakes had frozen and could only be restored by pouring buckets of boiling water onto the pump pipes from inside the coal bunkers and then playing a blowtorch over the intake valve. McNish constructed a cofferdam in the shaft tunnel to seal off the damaged stern area while the crew were arranged in spells of 15 minutes on, 15 minutes off on the main pump. After 28 hours of continuous work, the inflow of water had only been arrested – the ship was still badly flooded.\n\nOn 24 October, the damaged ship was wracked by further pressure waves. The port-side floe was pressed more heavily against the side, warping the keel along its length and causing near-continual creaks, groans, cracks and \"screams\" from the ship's timbers. The footplates in the engine room were pushed up and would no longer sit in place as the compartment was compressed. The planking of the ship's port side was bowing inwards by up to . At 10 PM, Shackleton ordered the ship's boats, stores and essential equipment to be moved onto the surrounding ice.\n\nIn the afternoon of 25 October, the pressure of the ice increased further. The main deck of the \"Endurance\" buckled upwards amidships and the beams sheared. As the ice moved against her stern, the aft part of the ship was lifted up and the damaged sternpost and the rudder were torn away. This angle caused all the water in the ship to run forward, collecting in the bow where it then began to freeze. The action of the ice in the stern and the excessive weight in the bow caused the ship to sink into the ice bow-first. Under its own pressure, the ice then broke over the forecastle and piled up onto the deck in the forward part of the ship, further weighing this end of the ship down. Through all of this, the pumping operations had continued, but by the end of the day Shackleton ordered this to stop and for the men to take to the ice.\n\nDuring the course of the next day, parties were sent back to the ship to recover more supplies and stores. They found that the entire port side of the \"Endurance\" had been driven inwards and compressed, and the ice had entirely filled the bow and stern sections. The ship's Blue Ensign was hoisted up her mizzen mast so that she would, in Shackleton's word's, \"go down with colours flying.\"\n\nAfter a failed attempt to man-haul the boats and stores overland on sledges, Shackleton realised the effort was much too intense and that the party would have to camp on the ice until it carried them to the north and broke up. More parties were sent back to the \"Endurance\", still with her masts and rigging intact and all but her bow above the ice, to salvage any remaining items. A large portion of provisions had been left on the submerged lower deck. The only way to retrieve them was to cut through the main deck, which was more than a foot thick in places and itself under three feet of water. Some crates and boxes floated up once a hole had been cut, while others were retrieved with a grapple. In total, nearly 3.5 tons of stores were recovered from the wrecked ship.\n\nThe party was still camped under from the remains of the \"Endurance\" on 8 November when Shackleton returned to the ship to consider further salvage. By now the ship had sunk a further into the ice and the upper deck was now almost level with the ice. The interior of the ship was almost full of compacted ice and snow, making further work impossible. The damage to the bow and stern, and the force of the ice against the port side, had caused a large portion of the hull on that side of the ship to break free of the rest of the ship and, under the force of the ice, be moved bodily inwards in a telescoping effect. In some places, the outer hull planks were now in line with the keel. A stash of empty fuel oil cans placed against the port side wall of the deckhouse had been pushed through the wall and then the cans and the wall had come to rest against its counterpart on the starboard side of the deckhouse. The row of five cabins that had been on the port side of the main deck above the engine room and their contents had been compressed into the space of a single cabin.\nOn 13 November, a new pressure wave swept through the pack ice. The forward topgallant mast and topmasts collapsed as the bow was finally crushed. These moments were recorded on film by expedition photographer Frank Hurley. The mainmast was split near its base and shortly afterwards the mainmast and the mizzen mast broke and collapsed together, with this also filmed by Hurley. The ensign was re-rigged on the tip of one of the foremast yardarms which, constrained by the rigging, was now hanging vertically from the remains of the foremast and was the highest point of the wreck.\n\nIn the late afternoon of 21 November, movement of the remaining wreckage was noticed as another pressure wave hit. Within the space of a minute, the stern of the \"Endurance\" was lifted clear of the ice as the floes moved together and then, as the pressure passed and they moved apart, the entire wreck fell into the ocean. By daylight the following day, the ice surrounding the spot where the \"Endurance\" had sank had moved together again, obliterating any trace of the wreck. Worsley fixed the position as 68° 38.5'S 52° 58'W.\n\nThe crew of \"Endurance\" on her final voyage was made up of the 28 men listed below:\n\nAll crew members were born and resident in England before the expedition, except for the following:\n\nPerce Blackborow was originally refused a post aboard the vessel due to his young age and inexperience, and instead decided to stowaway with help from his friend William Bakewell and Walter How. When his presence aboard the \"Endurance\" was discovered, Shackleton decided to make him a steward rather than leave him ashore at South Georgia. Blackborow eventually proved his worth, earning the Bronze Polar Medal, and the honour of becoming the first human being ever to set foot on Elephant Island. His name is also the matter of some debate—it is sometimes spelled Percy, or Blackboro, or in other ways.\n\nTo find crew for the \"Endurance\", Shackleton reportedly placed an advertisement in the London \"Times\", reading:\n\nWhen discussing the advertisement in the 1944 book \"Quit You like Men\", Carl Hopkins Elmore quoted Shackleton as saying that \"so overwhelming was the response to his appeal that it seemed as though all the men of Great Britain were determined to accompany him.\" Although the advertisement was listed in Julian Watkins' \"The 100 Greatest Advertisements: 1852-1958\", no trace has been found to date. Many sources have concluded that the story of Shackleton's advertisement is likely apocryphal. The crew did receive the recognition the advertisement promised; \"Time Magazine\" has deemed their voyage \"the most storied epic of survival\".\n\nAmerican journalist Alfred Lansing's book \"\", first published in 1959, described the ordeal that Shackleton and his men endured aboard the ship and quickly became a bestseller.\n\nTwo Antarctic patrol ships of the British Royal Navy have been named \"Endurance\" in honour of Shackleton's ship. The first , launched in May 1956 and awarded pennant number A171 sometime later, acted as an ice patrol and hydrographic survey ship until 1986. The second was bought from Norway in 1992 where she was named MV \"Polar Circle\". She suffered severe flooding in 2008 due to procedural errors during maintenance and, despite being returned to the UK, was not repaired prior to being scrapped in 2016.\n\nIn 1998, wreckage found at Stinker Point on the southwestern side of Elephant Island was incorrectly identified as flotsam from the ship. It instead was from the 1877 wreck of the Connecticut sealing ship \"Charles Shearer\". In 2001, wreck hunter David Mearns unsuccessfully planned an expedition to find the wreck of \"Endurance\". By 2003, two rival groups were making plans for an expedition to find the wreck, but no expedition was actually mounted.\n\nIn 2010, Mearns announced a new plan to search for the wreck. The plan is sponsored by the National Geographic Society but is subject to finding sponsorship for the balance of the US$10 million estimated cost. A 2013 study by Dr. Adrian Glover of the Natural History Museum, London suggests the Antarctic Circumpolar Current could preserve the wreck on the seabed by keeping wood-boring \"ship worms\" away. A Weddell Sea Expedition to locate and possibly photograph the wreck using long-range Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUV) was underway in the Antarctic summer of 2018–2019. This expedition failed when the researchers' AUV was lost to the ice as well. The wreck itself is speculated to rest on flat terrain at around 3,000 metres, undisturbed by massive sediment disposition and little to no erosion. According to Professor Julian Dowdeswell of the Scott Polar Research Institute, that due to the aforementioned conditions on the sea bed, there is speculation that the Endurance shouldn't be harmed and that it would be in the same state as it was when it sunk in the pack ice in 1915. He also noted that any future attempts at finding the Endurance would be \"add-ons\" to other main scientific expeditions to the area such as the one in 2019, which was launched with the intention to study the melting and retreat of the Larsen ice shelves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293657", "title": "Mark Jones", "text": "Mark Jones\n\nMark Jones may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293659", "title": "Institute of General Semantics", "text": "Institute of General Semantics\n\nThe Institute of General Semantics (IGS) is a not-for-profit corporation established in 1938 by Alfred Korzybski, to support research and publication on the topic of general semantics. The Institute publishes Korzybski's writings, including the seminal text \"Science & Sanity\", and books by other authors who have studied or taught general semantics, such as Robert Pula, Irving J. Lee, Wendell Johnson, and Stuart Chase. Every year since 1952, it has sponsored the Alfred Korzybski Memorial Lecture, with presenters from a broad range of disciplines, from science to medicine to entertainment, including names like actor Steve Allen, psychologist Albert Ellis, scientist and visionary R. Buckminster Fuller, linguist Allen Walker Read, and philosopher F. S. C. Northrop. The Institute offers periodic seminars, workshops and conferences and is headquartered in New York City.\n\nThe IGS is closely affiliated with GS groups around the globe, including the Australian General Semantics Society.\n\nThe Institute of General Semantics publishes:\n\n\nThe Alfred Korzybski Memorial Lecture (AKML) series was begun in 1952. It is an annual event sponsored by the Institute of General Semantics in honor of Alfred Korzybski. Each year the Institute invites some prominent scholar or otherwise notable individual to give the lecture. Lecturers have included inventor R. Buckminster Fuller, physicist James A. Van Allen, entertainer Steve Allen, Gregory Bateson, Neil Postman and Ashley Montagu. The only person to give the lecture more than once was surgeon Russell Meyers, in 1958 and 1985.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293660", "title": "Single-ended signaling", "text": "Single-ended signaling\n\nSingle-ended signaling is the simplest and most commonly used method of transmitting electrical signals over wires. One wire carries a varying voltage that represents the signal, while the other wire is connected to a reference voltage, usually ground.\n\nThe main alternative to single-ended signaling is called \"differential signaling\". There is also the historic alternative of ground return, rarely used today.\n\nSingle-ended signaling is less expensive to implement than differential, but it lacks the ability to reject noise caused by:\n\nThe main advantage of single-ended over differential signaling is that fewer wires are needed to transmit multiple signals. If there are \"n\" signals, then there are \"n\"+1 wires - one for each signal and one for ground. (differential signaling uses at least 2\"n\" wires.) A disadvantage of single-ended signaling is that the return currents for all the signals use the same conductor (even if separate ground wires are used, the grounds are inevitably connected together at each end), and this can sometimes cause interference (\"crosstalk\") between the signals.\n\nSingle-ended signaling is widely used, and can be seen in numerous common transmission standards, including:\nSome kinds of connectors, though more often used for balanced pairs, are sometimes used for single-ended operation:\n\nThe widely used RS-232 system is an example of single-ended signaling, which uses ±12 V to represent a signal, and anything less than ±3 V to represent the lack of a signal. The high voltage levels give the signals some immunity from noise, since few naturally occurring signals can create a voltage of such magnitude. They also have the advantage of requiring only one wire per signal. However, they also have a serious disadvantage: they cannot run at high speeds. The effects of capacitance and inductance, which filter out high-frequency signals, limit the speed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293662", "title": "Appayya Dikshita", "text": "Appayya Dikshita\n\nAppayya Dikshita (IAST \"\", often \"Dikshitar\"), 1520–1593 CE, was a performer of yajñas as well as an expositor and practitioner of the Advaita Vedanta school of Hindu philosophy but however, with a focus on Shiva or Shiva Advaita.\n\nAppayya Dikshitar was born as Vinayaka Subramanian in Adayapalam, near Arani in the Tiruvannamalai district, in the Krishna Paksha of the Kanya month of Pramateecha Varsha under the Uttara Proushthapada constellation of the Hindu calendar. His father’s name was Rangarajudhwari. Appaya had the name Vinayaka Subramanya after the Namakarana or naming ceremony took place. Acharya Dikshitar or Acchan Dikshitar was the younger brother of Appayya. Appayya studied the Hindu scriptures under his Guru, Rama Kavi. He completed the fourteen Vidyas while he was quite young.\n\nDikshitar travelled widely, entering into philosophical disputations and controversies in many centers of learning. He had the rare good fortune of being revered and patronized in his own life-time by kings of Vellore, Tanjore, Vijayanagara and Venkatagiri.\n\nDikshitar threw himself heart and soul into this mission for several years and often had to face grave personal danger, which he did with courage and faith. He preached, organised and wrote incessantly, enlisting the cooperation of several enlightened monarchs. He undertook frequent travels and challenged his adversaries to open disputation, as was the custom of those days. He brought to bear on his widespread activities, his resourceful personality and created an atmosphere of tolerance and goodwill, in the place of the prevailing antipathies and narrow-mindedness.\n\nIn addition to his poetic skills and achievements on the philosophical propagations and Saivite missionary work, Dikshitar was a great Siddha-yogi. One of his yogic experiments was as great as it was thrilling. In the later years of his life, he was subject to attacks of colic pain. He was convinced that it was due to his Prarabdha and past karma. Whenever he wanted to meditate deeply or worship the Almighty, he made a bundle of his towel and put it in front of him. By his yogic power he transferred his malady to the towel and sat in meditation. His disciples watched the towel jumping about the place. To them he explained later that he transferred his ailment which was in the form of an evil spirit to the cloth and then took it back soon after his meditation was over.\n\nAbout his mystic devotion, there is another story that is related to his work called \"Atmarpana-stuti\". In this small work of fifty stanzas he makes the inner self melt as it were by his exquisite mystic poetry. We can see here the profound maturity of true devotion to the Supreme. It reflects the inner mental state of \na great devotee, in whom the ego has become fully extinct. There is a traditional account of how this work came to be written. It appears once he wanted to test the maturity of his own devotion to the Lord. Hence he swallowed the juice of the `datura' fruit, which introduces intoxication, and told his disciples that they should write down whatever he says, during the stage when his consciousness was disturbed. In the stage of inebriation generally all suppressed ideas would find release and come out into the open. And in his case \nit was the Atmarpana-stuti that came out. It is therefore also called \"Unmatta-panchasati\".\n\nHe was well read in every branch of Sanskrit learning and wrote as many works, large and small. Only 60 of them are, however, extant now. These include works on Vedanta, Shiva Advaita, Mimamsa, Vyakarana, Kavya vyakhyana, Alankara, and devotional poetry. By conviction he was an advaitin and true worship of Lord Siva was the religion of his heart. Though the followers of the Siva-advaita school claim him as belonging to their school, it is not so easy to determine whether he was more inclined to Sivadavaita or advaita. Sivadvaita is very much akin to Vishishtadvaita of Ramanuja, except for the role of Vishnu being taken by Shiva.\n\nHe wrote the \"Chatur-mata-sara\" to illustrate the philosophical thoughts of the four prominent schools of interpretation of \"Brahma sutras\". The \"Naya-manjari\" deals with advaita, the \"Naya-mani-mala\" with \"Srikanta mata\", the \"Naya-mayukha-malika\" with Ramanuja's philosophy, and the \"Naya-muktavali\" with Madhva's philosophy.\n\nAmong the Vedantic works of Appayya Dikshitar, the Siddhanta-lesha-sangraha is most famous. In this elaborate and original treatise, he brings together in one place, all different dialectical thinking belonging to the advaitic school. Traditional students of Vedanta begin their study of Vedantic commentaries only after studying this Siddhanta Lesha sangraha. All the different views of different subschools of advaita, like those of `eka-jiva-vada', `nana-jiva-vada', `bimba-pratibimba vada' `sakshitva-vada' etc. are all discussed and the \ncontrary views properly explained in this work with Appayya Dikshitar's masterly touch.\n\nIt is a Vedantic work, an extremely readable commentary on the very difficult commentary called Kalpataru by an advaitic teacher named Amalananda. That Kalpataru is itself a commentary on \"Bhāmatī\" by Vācaspati Miśra, which in turn is the famous commentary on the \"Sutra-Bhashya\" of Adi Shankara. While the \"Parimala\" follows the advaitic approach, Dikshitar has written another commentary \"Sivaarka-mani-deepika\" on the Brahmasutras. But this is written from the point of view of Siva-visishtadvaita.. These two works – \"Sivaarka-mani-deepika\" and \"Parimala\" – are his magnum opus both in bulk and importance. Though both are commentaries on the Brahma sutra, \"Parimala\" aligns itself to the advaitic interpretation while the other work expounds the Sivadvaita philosophy of Srikanta Shivacharya. Dikshitar's patron, King Chinna Bomma Nayak of Vellore made endowments for the maintenance of a college of 500 scholars who studied \"Sivaarka maniDipika\" \nunder Sri Dikshitar himself, thus equipping themselves for the Saivite propaganda work, which had been organised with a view to stemming the tide of Vaishnavite attacks and encroachments.\n\nDikshitar graphically describes Shivadvaita and Advaita which are very close to each other as the highest steps. He makes it clear in his work that Srikantha-Bhashya on the Brahmasutra has been written in very close approximation to the trend of thought of Adi \nSankara in his own bhashya. Srikanta, according to Dikshitar, propagated his cult on the understanding that \"sagunopasana\" (Worship of name and form) is only the first step to \"nirgunopasana\" (Propitiation of the nameless and formless), and that it was the real intention of Srikanta that the final truth lies only in Advaita. Dikshitar's great dialectical skill is fully reflected in the work called 'Anandalahari chandrika', where he tries to narrow down the differences between the apparently divergent schools of thought.\n\nSpecial issue of \"Journal of Indian Philosophy\" (March 2016, edited by Christopher Minkowski):\n\nOther (scholarly journal articles):\n\nStill other:\n\n"}
{"id": "2293668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293668", "title": "Crime SuspenStories", "text": "Crime SuspenStories\n\nCrime SuspenStories was a bi-monthly anthology crime comic published by EC Comics in the early 1950s. The title first arrived on newsstands with its October/November 1950 issue and ceased publication with its February/March 1955 issue, producing a total of 27 issues. Years after its demise, the title was reprinted in its entirety, and four stories were adapted for television in the HBO's \"Tales From The Crypt\".\n\nEach issue contained four stories centering on a wide variety of criminal activities, and it differed from other crime comic books of the period because the content was strongly influenced both by \"film noir\" and the writers of short fiction for magazines. Issues three through 16 featured a guest appearance from \"The Haunt of Fear\"'s Old Witch.\n\nArtists included Al Feldstein, Johnny Craig, George Evans, Jack Kamen, Wally Wood, Graham Ingels, Harvey Kurtzman, Jack Davis, George Roussos, Sid Check, Al Williamson, Fred Peters, Joe Orlando, Will Elder, Reed Crandall, Bernard Krigstein and Frank Frazetta. The predominant writers for the title were publisher William Gaines, Feldstein, and Craig from 1950 to 1953, along with other writers such as Carl Wessler, Otto Binder and Jack Oleck.\n\nCraig was the lead artist for this title for the majority of its run, doing both the cover and the lead eight-page story. In 1954, Craig became editor of EC's \"The Vault of Horror\". Since Craig was the slowest artist at EC, his new responsibilities forced him to drop his work on \"Crime SuspenStories\". Evans, Crandall and Kamen assumed the cover and lead story responsibilities for the rest of the run. This was one of five titles cancelled by Gaines in 1954 due to the increasing controversy surrounding horror and crime comics and the subsequent unwillingness of distributors to ship his comic books.\n\nAs with the other EC comics edited by Feldstein, the stories in this comic were primarily based on Gaines reading a large number of suspense stories and using them to develop \"springboards\" from which he and Feldstein could launch new stories. James M. Cain, Cornell Woolrich, Jim Thompson and radio's \"Suspense\" were some of the influences on \"Crime SuspenStories\" scripts. Specific story influences that have been identified include the following:\n\n\nAfter their unauthorized adaptation of one of Ray Bradbury's stories in another magazine, Bradbury contacted EC about their plagiarism of his work. They reached an agreement for EC to do authorized versions of Bradbury's short fiction. These official adaptations include:\n\n\n\"Crime SuspenStories\" has been reprinted numerous times over the years. Ballantine Books reprinted selected stories in a series of paperback EC anthologies in 1964-66. The magazine was fully reprinted in a series of five black-and-white hardbacks by publisher Russ Cochran as part of \"The Complete EC Library\" in 1983. Between November 1992 and May 1999, Cochran (in association with Gemstone Publishing) reprinted the full 27 individual issues. This complete run was later rebound, with covers included, in a series of five softcover \"EC Annuals\". In 2008, Cochran and Gemstone began to publish hardcover, re-colored volumes of \"Crime SuspenStories\" as part of the \"EC Archives\" series. One volume (of a projected five) was published before Gemstone's financial troubles left the project in limbo. But the project may soon be revived under a new publisher. GC Press LLC, a boutique imprint established by Russ Cochran and Grant Geissman, announced in a press release dated September 1, 2011 that it is continuing the EC Archives series, with the first new releases scheduled for November 2011.\n\nFour stories were used in HBO's \"Tales From The Crypt\" television series: \"Two for the Show\" (issue 17), \"In the Groove\" (21), \"This'll Kill Ya\" (23) and \"Maniac at Large\" (27).\n\n"}
{"id": "2293669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293669", "title": "LeRoy Armstrong", "text": "LeRoy Armstrong\n\nThomas LeRoy Armstrong (born 1936 in Searsville, New Brunswick) is a Canadian businessman and politician. He was formerly the member of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick for the riding of Kings East.\n\nIn his youth he worked in the forestry, rail and grocery businesses before moving to Apohaqui, New Brunswick in 1965 and founding a trucking operation, which he merged into a larger operation in 1985 called Kingsco. Kingsco is still an active business of which Armstrong is a part.\n\nA Liberal, he was first elected to the legislature in the 1995 election but was defeated in the 1999 election which saw the Liberals lose 35 seats to the Progressive Conservatives.\n\nArmstrong was re-elected in 2003 and served for the duration of the 55th New Brunswick Legislative Assembly as opposition critic for agriculture\n\nArmstrong was defeated in his bid for re-election in the 2006 election.\n\nArmstrong currently serves as chairman of The Concerned Citizens Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293686", "title": "Metayage", "text": "Metayage\n\nThe metayage system is the cultivation of land for a proprietor by one who receives a proportion of the produce, as a kind of sharecropping. Another class of land tenancy in France is named , whereby the rent is paid annually in banknotes. A farm operating under \"métayage\" was known as a \"métairie\", the origin of some place names in areas where the system was used, such as Metairie, Louisiana. \n\nMétayage was available under Roman law, although it was not in widespread use. It proved useful after the emancipation of Roman slaves as the newly freed peasants had no land or cash (the same phenomenon happened in Brazil and the USA when slavery was banned).\n\nIn what is now northern Italy and southeastern France, the post Black Death population explosion of the late Middle Ages, combined with the relative lack of free land, made métayage an attractive system for both landowner and farmer. Once institutionalized, it continued into the 18th Century, although the base causes had been relieved by emigration to the New World..\n\nMétayage was used early in the Middle Ages in northern France and the Rhinelands, where burgeoning prosperity encouraged large-scale vineyard planting, similar to what the ancient Romans had accomplished using slave labor. The hyperinflation that followed the influx of Incan-American gold made Métayage preferable to cash tenancy and wage labour for both parties. Called \"complant\", a laborer (in French \"prendeur\", in Italian \"mezzadro\") would offer to plant and tend to an uncultivated parcel of land belonging to a land owner (in French \"bailleur\", in Italian \"concedente\"). The \"prendeur\" would have ownership of the vines and the \"bailleur\" would receive anywhere from a third to two-thirds of the vines' production in exchange for the use of his soil. This system was used extensively in planting the Champagne region. \"Bailleur\" was also used as the name for the proprietor under métayage. The contract still exists today in Switzerland.\n\nIn the eighteenth century c. 75% of leased lands in western, southern and central France were sharecropped. North of the Loire it was only common in Lorraine.\n\nIn Italy and France, respectively, it was called \"mezzadria\" and \"métayage\", or halving - the halving, that is, of the produce of the soil between landowner and land-holder. Halving didn't imply equal amounts of the produce but rather division according to agreement. The produce was divisible in certain definite proportions, which obviously must have varied with the varying fertility of the soil and other circumstances and did in practice vary so much that the landlord's share was sometimes as much as two-thirds, sometimes as little as one-third. Sometimes the landlord supplied all the stock, sometimes only part - the cattle and seed perhaps, while the farmer provided the implements; or perhaps only half the seed and half the cattle, the farmer finding the other halves. Thus the \"instrumentum fundi\" of Roman Law was combined within métayage. Taxes were also frequently divided, being paid wholly by one or the other, or jointly by both.\n\nIn the 18th Century, métayage agreements began to give way to agreements to share profits from the sale of the crops and to straight tenant farming, although the practice in its original form could still be found in isolated communities until the early 20th Century. By 1929, there were still 200,000 Métayers, farming 11% of French cultivated land (same % in 1892). It was most common in Landes and Allier (72% and 49% respectively). As the métayage practice changed, the term \"colonat partiaire\" began to be applied to the old practice of sharing-out the actual crop, while métayage was used for the sharing-out of the proceeds from the sale of the crops. \"Colonat partiaire\" was still practised in the French overseas departments, notably Réunion, until 2006 when it was abolished.\n\nIn France, there was also a system termed \"métayage par groupes\", which consisted of letting a sizeable farm not to one métayer but to an association of several who would work together for the general good under the supervision of either the landlord or his bailiff. This arrangement got past the difficulty of finding tenants having sufficient capital and labour to run the larger farms.\n\nIn France, since 1983, these métayage and similar farming contracts have been regulated by Livre IV of the Rural Code.\n\nThe system was once universal in certain provinces of Italy and France, and survived there in places until the end of the nineteenth century. Similar systems formerly existed in Portugal, Castile, and in Greece, and in the countries bordering on the Danube. It is tracked to this day in statistics of the European Commission. Métayage was used in French colonies, particularly after the demise of slavery. Also, because of its utility métayage spread to nearby British colonies such as Nevis, St. Lucia and Tobago. It still occurs in former French possessions, particularly in Madagascar. In the Congo the system is used in the vicinity of Kahuzi-Biéga National Park as a means to protect the natural environment. In Mexico the system is used in animal husbandry.\n\nThe term \"métayage\" is also applied to modern-day flexible cash leases at least in the nominally common law Canadian province of Ontario, and in 2006 in all of Canada, 13,030 farms occupying 2,316,566ha were counted by Statistics Canada. The same study of metayage found 2,489 farms covering 130,873ha in Ontario. The system was useful in Quebec for most agricultural properties at least as far back as the year 1800, and is still tracked statistically by value in Quebec as \"LOYER EN ESPÈCES ET À LA PART -- AGRICULTURE\". It appears to benefit from favourable tax treatment in Canada, where it is known as \"sharecropping\". In forestry metayage is the subject of a Government of Canada infosheet, and socio-economic report, and has been the subject in Quebec of recent scholarly research.\n\nBritish writers were unanimous in condemning the métayage system, until John Stuart Mill adopted a different tone. They judged it by its appearance in France, where under the \"ancien régime\" all direct taxes were paid by the métayer with the noble landowner being exempt. With the taxes being assessed according to the visible produce of the soil, they operated as penalties upon productiveness. Under this system, a métayer could fancy that his interest lay less in exerting himself to augment the total share to be divided between himself and his landlord and instead be encouraged to defraud the latter part of his rightful share. This was partly due to the métayer's relative state of destitution and with the fixed duration of his tenure - without which the metayage could not prosper. French metayers, in Arthur Young's time, were \"removable at pleasure, and obliged to conform in all things to the will of their landlords,\" and so in general they so remained.\n\nIn 1600, the landlord Olivier de Serres wrote 'Le théâtre de l'agriculture' which recommends Métayage as cash tenants took all the risks so would demand lower rent while hired labour was expensive to manage. Simonde de Sismondi expressed dissatisfaction in 1819 with the institution of métayage because it reinforced the poverty of the peasants and prevented any social or cultural development.\n\nYet even in France, although métayage and extreme rural poverty usually coincided, there were provinces where the contrary was the case, as it also was in Italy, especially on the plains of Lombardy. Métayage, in order to be in any measure worthy of commendation, must be a genuine partnership, one in which there is no sleeping partner, but in the affairs of which the landlord, as well as the tenant, takes an active part. Wherever this applied, the results of métayage appeared to be as eminently satisfactory, as they were decidedly the reverse wherever the landlords held themselves aloof.\n"}
